【Right Page】
and blood stagnate, or when the woman's menstruation has not yet stopped, the fluid of licentious fire becomes turbid, and the essence of true origin is also not pure. When these mutually agitate and form a fetus, that child will have congealed and stagnant qi and blood, and being constitutionally weak, when suffering from smallpox will manifest malignancy. If the reception of seasonal qi is deep, dense manifestations are common. This is called innate poison. Also, when in the mother's womb, if the mother is careful with food and drink, keeps her activities quiet, and the fetal qi remains calm, then the qi and blood will be robust, the reception of poison within the womb will be shallow, and even when developing smallpox in the future, it will be a favorable condition. If that mother constantly eats rich foods and indulges her desires freely, the child born will also have weak qi and blood with deep fetal poison, and even when developing smallpox in the future, many cases will be malignant. This is called postnatal qi. These two poisons are the root of smallpox, and when they receive and are affected by irregular seasonal qi, the three poisons melt together and manifest, like water flowing to moist

【Left Page】
places and fire adhering to dry places.

Explanation of Seasonal Qi
Examining various texts, at the time of male-female union, the poison of lustful fire lies hidden within the child's body, having no form, no sound, and no smell. When affected by abnormal heavenly seasonal qi, the internal and external poisons become agitated together, just as a magnet attracts iron and amber picks up dust. Therefore, attributing smallpox entirely to fetal poison would not be reasonable.

Explanation of Avoiding Massage During Smallpox
Meng Jikong says: From the onset of fever and eruption of smallpox, one should avoid massaging the head, face, entire body, hands and feet. If one carelessly performs massage, blood color will float and gather between skin and flesh, making both areas where smallpox has erupted and areas where it has not uniformly red, and also blood will