【Right Page】
This is a harsh matter, but it is not even mentioned in Shūnankō's "Kishinron" (Theory of Demons and Spirits). In my opinion, all deities detest impurity and defilement, so households with smallpox patients should make cleanliness their first priority.
Setting aside for now whether gods truly exist or not, since smallpox abhors impure air and defilement, if one believes that a deity resides in the patient's room, one will naturally be mindful of cleanliness, and thus the smallpox patient will not be infected by impure air or suffer defilement. Therefore, this is also good for the smallpox patient. Particularly, holding divine festivals and celebrations during illness brings comfort to the heart, so it is good to hold such festivals extensively. However, to rely solely on the deity while neglecting medical treatment is the height of foolishness.

　　Discussion of Ritual Practices
Although the offerings for household shrines and festival methods differ from region to region, generally speaking,

【Left Page】
Sacred ropes (shimenawa) are hung at the entrance of the house with paper streamers made of red paper hanging down, and the same is done at the entrance to the bedroom to ward off impure air and defilement. A household shrine is set up in the bedroom 《marginal note: some are decorated about one foot high, others are hung below the ceiling boards》
Red paper is laid out, and red-colored dolls such as shōjō (mythical creatures), Daruma, and monkey masks are placed, or sometimes auspicious dolls are decorated and placed. All of these use red colors and are meant for celebration. Also, sake bottles are decorated with red paper at the mouth, perpetual lamps are lit, and fish and sweets are offered 《marginal note: red rice cakes, red dumplings, red azuki bean rice, red sea bream, red rockfish, gurnard, thread-sail filefish, red sea bream, red gurnard and the like are offered》. All items offered are of red color. According to tradition, in China too, the proper color for smallpox is red, which is treasured, and red color is used for joyous occasions, so households with smallpox prefer red colors. This is no different in our country. Also, depending on the region, the offerings and decorations for household shrines...