【Right Page】
Regarding bowel movements: There are cases where there is no bowel movement at all, but one must not carelessly use purgatives. Incompetent doctors and ordinary households that carelessly use purgatives, thinking it is good to uniformly purge toxic qi, are acting foolishly. Smallpox may begin from qi deficiency, internal deficiency, or exterior deficiency. It may also begin from excess heat, exterior excess, or internal excess. According to the symptoms, what should be purged should be purged, and what should be supplemented should be supplemented. If one carelessly uses purgatives on patients with deficiency symptoms, there is a fear of killing people, so one must be cautious.

1. As mentioned before, regardless of the sparse/dense or mild/severe nature of smallpox, even so-called wonderful remedies or miraculous prescriptions for rare smallpox detoxification must not be used carelessly and should be applied with great caution. Also, cold raw foods should not be given; whatever is consumed should be well-cooked and thoroughly prepared.

1. When smallpox first appears after 2-3 days of initial fever, this is called "kenten" (commonly called "homise"). When smallpox appears on the soles of the feet after 3-4 days, this is called "shussei" (commonly called "tesoroi").

【Left Page】
It is good when the initially emerged smallpox first becomes plump and lustrous, and the later-emerged smallpox also gradually becomes plump. At this time, frequent urination is most favorable.

1. If during the first 2-3 days there is severe fever, dry mouth, hoarse voice, no bowel movement, difficult urination or blood-like substances in urine, or frequent dry retching, and if the eyes are severely red as if blood were poured in them or vermillion painted on them, and the facial color is also red or sometimes blue, or if there is delirious talking day and night with agitated and manic-like behavior, or pain in the lower back and abdomen making sleep difficult, or if the rash over the entire body is red-purple and in severe cases becomes charred black - in such cases it is good to urgently use appropriate medicine to purge the bowels. If treatment is delayed, it becomes difficult to save the patient.