【Right Page】
This is the case. When quack doctors see this slight improvement, they do not understand this principle and boast arrogantly, but suddenly various bad symptoms arise and changes come faster than turning one's palm. Sun Zi's theory also states that for smallpox patients with deficiency-cold conditions, criticizing and rejecting ginseng and aconite medicines and indiscriminately using cooling medicines or routine medicines can result in killing people. This has been a warning since ancient times. If the patient's family properly considers this principle without harboring doubts and persists in using ginseng and aconite medicines, there may still be a one-in-ten-thousand chance of救salvation. Doctors should also pay careful attention to clearly distinguish between deficiency and excess before using medicines.

1. On the seventh, eighth, and ninth days, when the stool becomes loose, the eruptions turn white and become flat and sunken with itching, this is a greatly malignant symptom. Major ginseng should be used abundantly. Generally at this time, even if the patient eats, drinks, and

【Left Page】
sleeps well, once the stool passes, if the facial swelling suddenly subsides, the eyes and nose open, and breathing becomes rapid, this is certainly what is called internal attack syndrome and is difficult to treat. One should quickly entrust treatment to a good doctor and use medicines that tonify qi and blood and regulate the spleen and stomach. At this point, those unskilled in medical treatment kill people using detoxifying, dispersing, cold-cooling, and purging medicines. This should be avoided. If tonifying and harmonizing medicines are not used quickly for this condition, it will be difficult to save the patient.

1. On the eighth and ninth days, when the head and face are fully filled with pus, the eruptions are yellow with moisture and luster, and when touched by hand feel neither wet nor sticky, like stroking sorghum grain, with good vitality, preferring to sleep quietly, taking milk, food, and medicine pleasantly, sleeping so well that parents and attendants feel somewhat worried - this is very auspicious. If the patient cannot sleep and is restless, the변 symptoms are unpredictable. Treatment should be entrusted to a good doctor.