【Right Page】
1. The ninth day is the end of the pustulation period, and it is considered good when the purulent matter around the mouth and both cheeks gradually dries and begins to form scabs. This is commonly called "becoming like dried rice." It is considered good when touching it feels rough and not sticky.

1. On the eighth and ninth days, those with dense eruptions whose purulent color suddenly dries and rapidly forms scabs are called "inverted scabbing." This is very inauspicious. One should quickly entrust treatment to a good doctor and request treatment. If delayed, it will be difficult to save the patient.

1. Those with dense eruptions experience throat pain and hoarseness from the fifth-sixth days to the seventh-eighth days, being unable to swallow food, drink, or medicinal decoctions. However, if by the ninth day the pain somewhat eases, the voice becomes clearer, and food, drink, and medicines pass through the throat more easily, this is the normal course of smallpox and there is nothing to fear. But if by the ninth day the pain becomes increasingly severe and no voice emerges at all, this is very inauspicious. At this point, if there is

【Left Page】
a foul odor in the mouth, it should definitely be recognized as ominous and adverse.

1. The tenth, eleventh, and twelfth days are called "scab formation" (commonly called scabbing). When the purulent color on the face gradually dries, and those with sparse eruptions resemble split red beans attached to the skin, this is considered good. Also, from the night of the ninth day to the tenth day, the purulent color should be充满 from the neck to both hands, and from the night of the tenth day to the night of the eleventh day, the purulent color should be satisfied from the waist to both feet. This is called following the proper timing and achieving success. At this time, it is good when the vital energy is refreshed, the patient eats and drinks well, sleeps peacefully, has normal bowel movements, and frequent urination. If at this time the high fever does not subside, thirst is severe, smallpox scabs do not form, breathing is rapid, and there is no sleep, this is very inauspicious. One should quickly entrust treatment to a good doctor and request treatment.

1. The twelfth day is called the "eye-opening period," when the eyes first open. Even for those with dense eruptions,