【Right Page】
even by the twelfth or thirteenth day, when the swelling of both eyelids subsides and the eyes open, this is considered good. If the eyes open once by the twelfth or thirteenth day but then close again by the seventeenth or eighteenth day, this is eye disease. One should quickly entrust treatment to a good doctor and request treatment. When treatment is delayed, many end up becoming blind. This is all due to the error of doctors not treating early enough. In general, eye diseases after smallpox are different from ordinary eye ailments, so do not carelessly use eye drops. Eye wash medicines are also not good. Ancient people also said not to request treatment from eye doctors for post-smallpox eye diseases. If eye drops are used carelessly, the pupils will be damaged and one becomes disabled. Therefore, common people should understand and remember this principle when post-smallpox eye disease occurs.

1. The three symptoms of swelling-toxicity, eye disease, and galloping gan after smallpox sometimes result from doctors' treatment errors. Also, using many medicines for symptoms called inverted scabbing and inverted collapse to save lives, resulting in swelling-toxicity, eye disease, and galloping gan,

【Left Page】
etc., is not the doctor's error. This involves first treating the severe disease to make it a mild disease, then achieving complete recovery.

1. Frequent and comfortable urination on the eleventh and twelfth days is very auspicious. At this point, facial swelling gradually decreases, both eyelids open, nursing and eating progressively improve day by day, thirst gradually subsides, and good sleep occurs - this is considered good.

1. The thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth days are called the scab-dropping period, when the pustule scabs gradually fall off. At this point, if even the slightest irregularity occurs, residual toxin transforms and causes great harm in many cases. If there is density and irregularity occurs, the smallpox scabs on the head, face, hands, and feet may resemble old pine bark, or some may look like chicken droppings smeared on, or some may look like being covered in earthworm ash, or some may look like shed snake skin