【Right Page】
The pain is unbearable. For this symptom too, red adzuki bean powder should be sprinkled abundantly on the bedding, clothing, and also on the festered and peeled areas, and the patient should be made to lie down. Ivory powder is also considered good. There are many other medicines, which should be sought from a doctor. Moreover, if the residual toxin becomes increasingly strong, it will develop what is called "nutritional erosive sores." There is also something called "smallpox leprosy." Both symptoms are difficult conditions, but if treated early, they can be cured.

1. Even after smallpox, no matter how many days have passed, if one is affected by wind and cold, the changes are incalculable. Sometimes fever develops and becomes convulsions. Ancient people called this "nine adversities for life." These should be known as errors where parents and attendants do not carefully observe the taboos. One must be cautious.

1. When smallpox appears and reaches the eleventh or twelfth day, if the symptoms of deficiency-cold have not yet been completely eliminated, but one tries to form scabs early by

【Left Page】
removing tonifying medicines and finally giving heat-clearing, detoxifying, and cooling purgative medicines, the toxin will attack inward and change to adverse symptoms, reaching a point where there is no salvation. One must be cautious.

1. Even though one gradually gains hope for survival after smallpox, originally smallpox sends toxin from inside to outside, and qi and blood cannot help but become exhausted. Therefore, the qi of the internal five organs and six bowels becomes deficient and depleted, and true qi becomes insufficient. For this reason, when even slightly affected by wind-cold or when food and drink do not maintain their normal state, a hundred kinds of variant symptoms will emerge. One should make taboos and nursing care the first priority. When one sleeps well and eats well here, qi and blood gradually return to normal, and the whole body becomes light and comfortable - this is considered good. Also, for those who have no obstructions in the eyes or nose and no concerns about disability, if taboos and nursing care are appropriate, complete recovery should be easy day by day. Or old disease roots