【Right Page】
　　　　　Each time one encounters wind-cold, smallpox scars appear in red-purple color, making women and others
　　　　　unsightly. Therefore, sake should be forbidden for one hundred days.
- White sake　　It has great heat properties and is toxic. Recently, there are those who brew and sell it in various places. This is
　　　　　made by turning glutinous rice into dried rice and soaking it in shōchū to produce it. Therefore,
　　　　　for those with deficiency-cold symptoms from smallpox, after six or seven days, for children who like sake,
　　　　　it should be warmed in a hot water bath and given little by little. Also, after ten days,
　　　　　it should be forbidden for one hundred days.
- Tofu　　It has a little toxicity. Children, wet nurses, and patients should not eat it raw. It should be mixed with salted miso
　　　　　and well-cooked before eating. It may be given throughout smallpox without harm.
　　　　　However, grilled tofu should be forbidden from nine days onward for one hundred days. Also, fried tofu

【Left Page】
　　　　　should be forbidden and not given during smallpox and for one hundred days after smallpox.
- Wheat gluten (fu)　　It has no toxicity. Both fresh fu and baked fu, these two types, may be given during and after smallpox.
　　　　　Throughout, it should be mixed with salted miso, cooked thoroughly, and given together with wet nurses
　　　　　without harm.
- Sweet sake (amazake)　　It has no toxicity. During and after smallpox, it should be warmed and given. It has the effect of warming the abdomen
　　　　　and nourishing the spleen and stomach. It is good to give it together with wet nurses. However,
　　　　　it should not be used greedily. If given carelessly during illness, it will cause dry retching.
- Tea　　　Both sencha (steeped tea) and matcha (powdered tea), these two types have the same efficacy. Also, for weak
　　　　　children, it should not be forced upon them. Even if one becomes thirsty during smallpox, only the clear broth from white rice porridge
　　　　　is good. If one prefers tea, it should be mixed with the clear broth from rice porridge.