【Right Page】
　　　　　Because they have this efficacy, they should not be carelessly given to patients with loose stools. Furthermore,
　　　　　during smallpox from the sixth to tenth day, they should not be given in large amounts.
- Adzuki beans　White cowpeas　Mung beans also have similar efficacies. They have the function of resolving heat,
　　　　　moving qi downward, and facilitating urination and defecation. Therefore, they should be used from the initial outbreak of smallpox
　　　　　for four to five days. From the sixth to tenth day, they should not be given. Also,
　　　　　after the tenth day, there is no harm. If there are cases where pus and fluid do not dry after smallpox,
　　　　　adzuki beans should be ground into fine powder and sprinkled on.
- Garden peas　Also called field beans or small peas. They should be cooked and eaten with salted miso.
　　　　　However, during smallpox from the fifth to twelfth day, they should not be given.
　　　　　After smallpox, they may be given to both children and wet nurses without harm. The young ones of this variety
【Left Page】
　　　　　should be given mixed with salted miso together with their pods. Also, those made into roasted beans
　　　　　should be forbidden for one hundred days.
- Barley　Wheat　Wheat flour　Buckwheat　Udon　Rice dumpling　Wheat dumpling　Millet　Sorghum　Glutinous millet
　　　　　Foxtail millet　Barnyard millet　The above twelve items are what people commonly use as food to
　　　　　sustain themselves against hunger. However, smallpox has degrees of severity, people have
　　　　　distinctions of wealth and poverty, and foods have preferences and prohibitions. Therefore,
　　　　　they should not be given carelessly. Wealthy families are careful morning and evening, prohibiting and not carelessly
　　　　　feeding them. Poor families do not prohibit them morning and evening and give them
　　　　　without trouble. However, children of poor families often become disabled after smallpox.
　　　　　Children of wealthy families have few disabled after smallpox. Using this to judge them