There is a rice field called the goddess field, referred to as Benten-men.

Funatama Shrine《Note: There is a painting, said to be by the brush of Tanshin. In ancient times, this place was a harbor where large ships entered port, hence this deity is worshipped》

An ancient bell　It is housed in Seiyōzan Zenshōji temple in Minato village, a Pure Land sect temple. It belongs to Zōjōji temple in Shiba. The founding priest is called Kakuyo Shōnin. There are an Kannon carved by Jikaku Daishi, an Enma-ō made by Tankei, and what is called the mirror image of Hōnen Shōnin.
Weight: fifty-two sen-me and more
Like bronze and of very ancient patina
Total length: three sun two bu, the backing plate of the sword
Bell size: three sun around, with one small stone inside each
Bell mouth: one sun eight bu, from sword tip to base: two sun three bu

【Illustration】
One sun three bu
Ring length nine bu
Width seven bu and more
Three bu
Five bu【End of illustration】

Gyōtoku Hachiman Shrine　Located in Hon-Gyōtoku 3-chōme, on the right side from the road. The bettō is concurrently managed by Jishōin temple at 1-chōme of the same place. It is the tutelary shrine of this area, and festival rites are performed every year on August 15th.

Shinmei Shrine　Located at 1-chōme of the same place, on the left side of the highway. It serves as the tutelary shrine of this area. The bettō belongs to the Shingon sect and is called Jishōin. September 16th of every year is designated as the day of festival rites. What is enshrined there is the transferring of soil from Ise Inner Shrine to enshrine both the Inner and Outer Imperial Grand Shrines. According to tradition, this shrine was originally located in a place called Nakasu across the river, but was later moved to this location. This place is also called Kinkai no Mori. In the 19th year of Keichō, year of the Wood Tiger, a monk called Kinkai Hōin established a temple here and named it Kongōin. Hence it is called Kinkai no Mori《Note: Kongōin is now abolished》

《Note: According to a book called "Kasai-shi," Gyōtoku became the place name because of the fame of a certain founding priest of Kongōin named Gyōtoku》

Kongōin abolished　Located south of this temple, it is called Ogyō Yashiki. This is precisely the former site of the aforementioned Kongōin. Kongōin is said to have belonged to Hōsenji temple at Mount Haguro in Ushū. In ancient times, a yamabushi named Gyōtoku of proven spiritual power lived here, and eventually this became the place name, according to tradition.

Kaigan-zan Tokuganji　In the side street of 1-chōme in the station town of Hon-Gyōtoku, on the Funabashi bypass