Man'yōshū (Collection of Ten Thousand Leaves)
"Because Tekona of Mama in Katsushika was there, even the waves do not disturb the depths of Mama"

Mama-no-tsukihashi (Mama Connecting Bridge) - This refers to the small bridge in the middle of the two bridges spanning the small stream south of the stone steps at the main gate of Kōbōji Temple. [According to some, in ancient times, planks were laid from both banks and connected with a central beam, hence the name "connecting bridge" (tsukihashi). This seems plausible.]

Man'yōshū
"The horse that would go to that maiden, and I too, would constantly cross the connecting bridge of Mama in Katsushika"

Shinchokusen Collection
"In Katsushika, crossing the connecting bridge unchanged from ancient times, not forgetting the spring mist" - Jien

Fūga Collection
"In the May rains, the waves crossing over - is it Katsushika where Katsumi hides at Mama's connecting bridge?" - Masatsune
"The sea breeze of Mama in Katsushika has blown - the evening waves cross the yoto connecting bridge" - Tomomura

Note: In Tomomura's waka poem, "yoto no tsukihashi" refers to a bridge over stagnant water, which is different from Yodo in Yamashiro Province.

"Here, when I was about to finish ferrying people across, my body remained the same connecting bridge" - Nichiren

Historic Site of Mama no Tekona - Located about one hundred paces east of the connecting bridge at the same place. It is said to be the site of Tekona's grave. In later generations, a shrine was built to enshrine her, called Tekona Myōjin. Women pray for safe childbirth, and those whose small children suffer from smallpox make vows and receive divine blessings. The festival day is September 9th. [According to tradition, on September 9th of the first year of Bunki (1501), this deity gave a divine revelation to Nichyo Shōnin, the seventh-generation restorer of Kōbōji Temple, and was therefore enshrined here. Although the Shundai Literary Collection's "Record of the Connecting Bridge" contains information about Tekona, that account is based only on local folklore and is insufficient as evidence.]

Kiyosuke's Ōgishō states: This was a servant girl who drew water from the well at Mama-no in Katsushika, Shimōsa Province in ancient times. She wore humble hemp clothing and drew water barefoot. Her appearance was so beautiful that she surpassed noble ladies a thousandfold. Standing like the full moon or like a blooming flower, people competed for her attention like summer insects drawn to fire, like ships entering a harbor. The woman, troubled by this attention and realizing that life is brief, threw herself into the harbor. [Omitted text]
Also composed as "Tekona of Mama in Katsushika." Mama Bay, Mama Connecting Bridge, Mama Inlet, Mama Well, Mama Field - all these places mentioned in poems refer to this location, etc.