[The illustration on the left page is misordered. It is the same as frame 14 of volume 19.]
[In this document, "Mama no I" (Mama Well) and "Illustration: Pear Garden" are missing before the left page]
[Supplementing Mama Well from the following source]

Mama Well (Mama no I) - Located at the same place, beside a grass hermitage called Reiboku-in at the northern mountain edge. It is said to be the well from which Tekona drew water. In medieval times, a sacred turtle appeared from this well, so it is also called Kame-i (Turtle Well).

[Illustration: Pear Garden supplemented from the following]
Pear Garden (Nashizono)
Located along the road from Mama to Hachiman. The flower blooming in the second month is so beautiful it seems to deceive the snow. Li Taibai's poem "pear blossoms white as fragrant snow" is quite fitting.

[Continuation of Mama Well from the left page]
《Small text》This Reiboku-in was established by a retainer of the Hōjō family, commonly called Suzuki Shuri. It is called Suzuki due to this person's founding. Also, beside this hermitage stands a stone pagoda of his ancestor Suzuki Ōmi-no-kami, which was also erected by the same person called Shuri.

Considering that in Kanbun 8 (1668), during the reconstruction of Tsurugaoka Hachiman Shrine in Kamakura, Sagami Province, the master craftsman was called Suzuki Shuri Nagatsune. If so, it would be a family of carpenters. Though this is recorded on the beam plaques of Tsurugaoka, it might be a different person. Further investigation is needed.

From the Man'yōshū:
"When I see the well of Mama in Katsushika, I think of Tekona who must have drawn water there standing calmly"

"At Katsushika, by Mama's well-curb, like its rim, I continue to long for the traces of undying thoughts" 《Kōmyō Mitsuji, Lay Priest Regent》

Katsushika Hachiman Shrine - Located in Hachiman village, more than one ri east of Mama. 《On the highway to Hitachi and Bōsō, it is a post station. The torii stands roadside.》The bettō (temple administrator) belongs to the Tendai sect and is called Hachiman-zan Hōsen-ji. The main hall enshrines Amida Nyorai, and the Niō gate has Kongō Misshaku statues on the left and right front, with Tamon and Daikoku deities placed in the rear. To the right of the shrine front stands a great ginkgo tree, which serves as the sacred tree. 《Small snakes constantly dwell in the hollow of this tree. Every year on August 15th during the festival, when music is performed, tens of thousands of small snakes appear on the branches. People see this as a marvel.》

One ancient bell 《During the Kansei era, this was found when digging up the roots of a dead tree. It measures over 3 shaku 7 sun in height, with "Ōei 21, year of the horse, third month, 21st day" carved beside the dragon head.》

《Considering that Ōei is about ninety-some years after the Genkō first year mentioned in bell inscriptions. Perhaps during the Ōei period, fearing the chaos of war, it was hidden and buried underground, with that year and date carved upon it.》