【Upper Right】
■ Shakyamuni at Birth (Tanjō no Shaka)

His father was King Śuddhodana (Jōbon-ō) of the Kingdom of Kapilavastu in central India (Central Tianzhu), and his mother was Queen Māyā (Maya Fujin). He was born in the thirtieth year of King Śuddhodana's reign, on the eighth day of the fourth month, at the hour of the Tiger (approximately 3–5 a.m.). He took seven steps in each of the four directions, then raised one hand toward the sky and lowered the other toward the earth, and proclaimed: "In the heavens above and the earth below, I alone am the World-Honored One." He was given the name Sarvārthasiddha (Sabba Shittastu). Details can be found in the "Fayuan Zhulin" and "Jigulüe," among other works.

【Lower Right】
■ Shakyamuni Leaving the Mountains (Shutsuzan no Shaka)

At nineteen years of age, on the eighth day of the second month, the prince departed the royal palace, traveled to Mount Dandaka (Dantoкusan), and underwent severe austerities and difficult practices for twelve years. At the age of thirty, at the Bodhi site (Bodhimanda) in the Kingdom of Magadha (Maggitha), seated upon the Diamond Throne (Vajrāsana), in the thirty-third year of King Zhao of Zhou, in the year of Wuyin (戊寅), on the eighth day of the twelfth month, at the moment when the morning star appeared, he suddenly attained great enlightenment and achieved perfect awakening (samyaksambodhi).

【Upper Left】
■ Shakyamuni at Perfect Enlightenment (Shōgaku no Shaka)

The Avatamsaka Sutra (Huayan) was preached over three times seven (twenty-one) days; the Āgama sutras over twelve years; the Vaipulya (Hōdō) and Prajñāpāramitā sutras over thirty years; the Lotus Sutra over eight years; and the Nirvana Sutra over one day and one night.
The "Blue Cliff Record" (Biyanlu) states: The venerable Shakyamuni, dwelling in the world for forty-nine years, convened three hundred and sixty assemblies, and opened and expounded the sudden teaching (tondō) and the provisional and true teachings (gonjistu). This is what is called the "teachings of one lifetime across the five periods" (ichidai jikyō).

【Text above illustration】
Seppō-in (Mudrā of Preaching the Dharma)

【Lower Left】
■ Shakyamuni at Nirvana (Nehan no Shaka)

At the age of eighty, on the bank of the Hiraññavati River (Baddai River) near the city of Kuśinagara (Kushina Castle), between the twin Śāla trees (Sala Sōju), at midnight on the fifteenth day of the second month, he entered Nirvana (Parinirvāṇa). This corresponds to the thirty-sixth year of King Mu of Zhou, the year of Rinjin (壬申).

【Note: The text in each upper section is written horizontally. The ■ symbol at the beginning represents a Sanskrit Siddham character. The text "Seppō-in" is also written horizontally.】