Twenty-Five Bodhisattvas

【Upper Right】
■Kannon Bodhisattva (Avalokiteśvara)

In Sanskrit, this bodhisattva is called "Avalokiteśvara" (阿縛盧枳多伊濕伐羅). In Chinese, it is rendered as "Guānzìzài" (観自在, "Perceiver of the World's Sounds"), as cited in the *Wengu* (Mohe Zhiguan). The alternate transliteration "Valokitesvara" (婆婁吉低稅) is cited in the *Ōjōyōshū*. This bodhisattva has a deep connection with Amitābha Buddha.

After the Dharma has perished, Avalokiteśvara will attain complete enlightenment and be given the title "Fukoukutoku Sanno Nyorai" (Universal Light of Merit Mountain King Tathāgata).

【Lower Right】
■Yakuō Bodhisattva (Bhaiṣajyarāja)

In Sanskrit, this bodhisattva is called "Akauṃ" (阿迦雲). This bodhisattva, through the power of great compassion [and medicine/Dharma], freely relieves all sentient beings from the suffering of illness caused by karmic deeds and bestows joy upon them. For this reason, he bears the name "Yakuō" (Medicine King).

It is also told that he burned his own body as an offering to the Buddha, and this burning continued for twelve hundred years without being extinguished. (As recorded in the sixteenth volume of the *Daichidoron* [Mahāprajñāpāramitā Śāstra])

【Upper Left】
■Daiseishi Bodhisattva (Mahāsthāmaprāpta)

In Sanskrit, this bodhisattva is called "Mahānāpat" (摩訶那鉢), translated as "Great Power Attained" (大勢至). The *Śūraṃgama Sūtra* states: "In my original causal practice, I entered the patience of non-arising through the mind of Buddha-recollection; now in this world, I gather in those who recite the Buddha's name and lead them back to the Pure Land."

The *Vimalakīrti Sūtra* refers to this bodhisattva as "obtaining great power."

【Lower Left】
■Yakujō Bodhisattva (Bhaiṣajyasamudgata)

During the time of the past Buddha Rurikōshō (Vaiḍūryaprabha), there was a monk called "Nichizō" (Sun Treasury). Because he listened to the Dharma teachings of a wealthy man called "Seishukukō" (Star-Constellation Light), he offered medicinal herbs such as hārītaka (訶梨勒) and various other medicines. Thus he came to have a younger brother known as "Yakuō" (Medicine King).

One called "Denkōmyō" (Electric Light Brilliance) offered the finest medicine of ghee (醍醐). Because of this, he came to be called "Yakujō" (Medicine Superior).