【Upper Right】
■Kokūzō Bodhisattva (虚空蔵菩薩, Ākāśagarbha Bodhisattva)

Because this bodhisattva embodies the dharma-body of the Five Dharmas and Five Buddhas, there is nothing within the vast expanse of the dharmadhātu (法界, the realm of phenomena) from which awakening cannot be attained. Just as the boundless sky is called a "storehouse" (藏, *zō*), so too the dharmadhātu of empty space knows no limits or fixed location. Likewise, the wisdom of this honored one's great compassion (*mahākaruṇā*) for the benefit of sentient beings is inexhaustible. The name of this bodhisattva is thus derived from the analogy of the limitless sky as a storehouse.

【Lower Right】
■Tokuzō Bodhisattva (徳蔵菩薩, Guṇagarbha Bodhisattva)

This bodhisattva-being (*sattva*) is a Great Being (*mahāsattva*) endowed with the vast merits of great compassion. In accordance with the countless needs and capacities of all living beings, this bodhisattva opens the millions of storehouses of merit and great compassion, guiding and leading all sentient beings. For this reason, the bodhisattva bears the name Tokuzō (Virtue Storehouse).

【Upper Left】
■Hōzō Bodhisattva (宝蔵菩薩, Ratnagarbha Bodhisattva)

"Treasure" (宝, *hō*) refers to all manner of precious gems and valuables, while "storehouse" (蔵, *zō*) carries the meaning of a treasury or repository. By way of analogy, just as the worldly blessings and precious treasures of the world are stored in a storehouse to provide for all manner of needs, so too this Great Being opens the great treasury of merit and compassion in accordance with the wishes and aspirations of all sentient beings, thereby saving and liberating them.

【Lower Left】
■Konzō Bodhisattva (金蔵菩薩, Suvarṇagarbha Bodhisattva)

Gold possesses an indestructible nature: it does not sink when placed in water, nor does it change its color when placed in fire. Through the merits of the *nembutsu* (称名, the recitation of the Buddha's name) cultivated during the causal stage of practice (*in'i*), this bodhisattva becomes one of the sacred assembly of the Western Pure Land, attaining the virtue and quality of gold's indestructible nature. For this reason, the bodhisattva is called Konzō (Gold Storehouse).