Zenkoji Nyorai (Amida Buddha of Zenkoji Temple)
The Ikkō Sanzon Nyorai (Trinity Buddha) of Zenkoji Temple was cast and created by the Elder Gakkai of Vaiśālī country in Central India, using 3,700 ryō of Jambu gold.
It was transmitted to our country from King Seimei of Baekje in the 13th year of Emperor Kinmei's reign (552 CE, Year of the Water Monkey), making it a treasure transmitted through three countries.

Inaba Yakushi (Medicine Buddha of Inaba)
Known as Inaba-dō Byōdōji Temple. The Medicine Buddha was the principal deity of the hospital within Jetavana Monastery in Central India. During Emperor Seiwa's reign, it manifested in fishing nets at Karura Bay in Inaba Province.
In the 5th year of Chōwa (1016 CE, Year of the Fire Dragon), it was obtained through the vow of Middle Counselor Yukihira. Because it was enshrined on a go board and halls were built, it is called Inaba-dō.

Saga Shaka Nyorai (Shakyamuni Buddha of Saga)
Monk Chōnen resided at Tōdaiji Temple and studied the Sanron school. In the autumn of Eikan's first year, he entered Song China to make pilgrimages to sacred sites and established Seizen-in. He modeled it after the five-shaku-tall Shakyamuni made of red sandalwood created by King Udayana. Upon his return to Japan, he received a divine revelation in a dream.
He returned protecting the original Buddha, but no one knew of it. In the 3rd year of Yongxi, he boarded the ship of Zheng Rende from Taizhou, returned to Japan in the 5th year of Chōwa, and died at the age of 67.

Tennoji Kōshin-zō (Kōshin Image of Tennoji)
In the 1st year of Taihō under Emperor Monmu (701 CE, Year of the Metal Monkey), on the 7th day of the 1st month at the hour of Kōshin, a heavenly child brought a Kōshin image to the民部僧都 (Minbu Sōzu) of Shitennōji Temple in Settsu Province, saying: "I am a messenger of Indra. Six times each year on Kōshin days, purify your body and mind, face south, and worship at the hour of Kōshin. You will gain the merit of three worlds, eliminate all disasters, and obtain good fortune." Then immediately ascended to heaven.