mountain, with a height of fifty-six jō. Iegusuku village and other villages have many rice fields, and the natives are quite prosperous, producing the five grains. ○Tonaki Island is located northwest of the above, with a circumference of one ri and six chō, and has many cattle. ○Awaguni Island (sometimes written as Awa Island) is located northeast of the above, with a circumference of two ri and twelve chō, and has many cycads and pigs. ○Izena Island is located west of the above, with a circumference of two and a half ri and a height of forty jō. Its subsidiary islands include Gushikawa to the north and Yanaha to the south, both small islands without human habitation. ○Iheya Island (also written as Iheya, called Yebi Mountain by the Chinese) is adjacent to the north of the above. With a circumference of four ri and twenty-six chō and a height of one hundred jō, it has Noho Island to the south as a dependency. Its products include rice of the finest quality, miscellaneous grains, cotton, banana fiber, sea urchins, hairy fish, oysters, etc. ○Bird Island (also called Black Island, called Sulfur Mountain by the Chinese) is a small island far out at sea north of Iheya. With a circumference of about two ri, it faces Toku Island to the east. It is named for its many exotic birds. It is a volcanic mountain of fifty-four jō height, with hot springs emerging. No vegetation grows on the island, and it produces much sulfur. Forty households are established to mine sulfur, with rice and grain sent from Okinawa annually. Two chiefs are stationed there, managed by Tomari magiri. It is said that the islanders' eyes are not clear due to being exposed to sulfurous fumes.

All the above islands are located northwest of Okinawa, and their languages also resemble Okinawan.

Southern Islands Located far southwest of the central islands, combining the three islands of Miyako, Ishigaki, and Iriomote with numerous small islands, totaling about twenty islands, collectively called Sakishima. Westerners call them the Majico Islands, which is a corruption of Miyako Island. ○In the sea between Okinawa and the Sakishima islands, there is a large hidden reef, about two ri square, called Yaebishe.

Miyako Island is located to the east of these islands, and together with six or seven nearby islands, forms Miyako