There is Kuroshima (Black Island) with a height of 214 jō. The above three islands are all small islands located in the coastal waters near Satsuma. {{Some call Tanegashima, Mageshima, Yakushima, Erabujima, Takeshima, Iōjima, and Kuroshima the Seven Islands of Satsuma}}

Seven Islands - Also belonging to Kawanabe County {{Some call them the Seven Tokara Islands}}
Kuchinoshima lies to the southwest of Erabujima. Height: 212 jō. To its south is Nakashima with a height of 328 jō. To its west is Gajashima {{also called Hebijima (Snake Island)}} at 182 jō. To its south is Tairashima at 98 jō. To its east is Suwanosejima, a volcanic island with a height of 260 jō. To its southwest is Akusekijima at 218 jō. Further south is Takarashima {{also called Tokarara}} with a mountain height of 88 jō. To its south lies Oshima, which marks the boundary between Satsuma and Ryukyu. The above seven islands are all located in the distant seas of Satsuma. The population does not reach ten thousand. However, Takarashima is somewhat large, while the rest are all small islands. They produce many goods: sulfur, pure sake, pottery, green-patterned paper, etc. They also produce grass mats (tatami covers), hence called the Seven Islands.

[Outside the frame, upper section] Among the Seven Islands, except for Takarashima, Akusekijima, and Gajashima, most are uninhabited. Particularly islands like Suwanosejima have in recent years collapsed and sunk, becoming submerged reefs. Generally, the seas around the Seven Islands have reefs everywhere, and both tides and winds are violent, making it the most treacherous area in the ocean. Ships from home and abroad frequently suffer the disaster of being wrecked.

Climate
Although the geographical position is close to the Tropic, receiving sea winds from all four directions and having high terrain, the climate is not very hot. Though there are occasional droughts, it is generally suitable for agriculture. Due to the natural climate and the residents' preference for cleanliness, it is suitable for human health. Moreover, there is no humidity from marshes and swamps, sea winds bring clean air, and sweep away the roots of diseases arising from the toxic vapors of decaying matter. In the first month, peach blossoms open and loquats ripen. In severe winter, there is no ice, and frost and snow are completely absent. Year-round, the mountains and fields are verdant, insects do not hibernate, mosquito nets are hung in all four seasons, sweet potatoes are planted, and while chrysanthemums still remain, plum blossoms already show signs of spring's return - it is flowers all year round. ○ In the nearby seas, there are many violent winds and mists. February has much fog, and autumn and winter have many north winds. Generally, the seas around Ryukyu are like those