[They taste good.] There are many fern species, with the large ones being like trees. The natives call matsutake mushrooms "chikura," and those produced in Gushikami are of good quality. Bōfū has roots like small radishes and is eaten pickled. Kusa-grass is used to manufacture grass mats. Rush grass is harvested for lamp wicks. Rohdea japonica is also called "omoto" by the natives. Orchid varieties are extremely numerous and exist in all four seasons. Chrysanthemums also have many varieties. Wild peony has an intense fragrance. The seeds are produced in Miyako. Houseleek is planted extensively on the walls of private homes to prevent fires. Seaweeds include nori, tengusa (for making tokoroten), wakame, and sea pine. Arame is found at Kudaka. Other various grasses are too numerous to enumerate. ○ Among trees, pine is most abundant. One variety spreads its branches from the roots and sprawls scattered on the ground. Chinese juniper also frequently spreads along the ground. There are hinoki cypress, camphor, banyan, maple, willow, pomegranate, Japanese pagoda tree, and ebony. Cedar is of the Fujian variety from the Qing dynasty. There are many palm trees. Paulownia has many varieties, but there are no coconut palms—this should be considered strange. There are citrus fruits, peaches, plums, and grapes. Plum trees were transplanted from the mainland; they have flowers but few fruits. Loquats are small and slightly elongated. There are jasmine, flowering crab apple, and hibiscus. Oak has dense and hard wood grain, making it good timber. Fukugi has leaves as large as those of fir trees, growing in opposite pairs, thick and glossy. The trunk grows straight up several jō in height. The leaves can be used to dye green, the flowers are small and yellow, and the fruits are like oranges and edible. Cycads are most numerous and are planted in virtually all gardens and roadsides. The roots are pounded in mortars to make flour for food. Japanese wax tree is also called oil tree, and oil can be extracted from it. Screw pine exists on all islands. The trunk is like that of a palm, and the leaves are long with thorns. The aerial roots are hard and sharp and can be used as fencing. The leaves can be made into mats, and the roots are pounded to make thread, or rope, or to weave cloth called "adan cloth." The fruits are like melons, hexagonal with thorns, and edible. There are many other trees that are local specialties. ○ Bamboo varieties are also extremely numerous, found throughout the islands