Around the time of Emperors Nijo and Takakura, the southern region had already rebelled and became what is now Ryukyu. Regarding Okinawa, during the reign of Empress Kōken, Kibi no Makibi and others drifted to Okonaha Island, which marks the beginning [of recorded contact]. Also, in Kūkai's Seiryō-shū, the characters "留求" appear, which is the beginning of the characters for Ryukyu. In Chinese historical records, the Sui shu's "Liuqiu" is the earliest. According to one theory, Zhu Kuan of the Sui dynasty saw the topography amidst the myriad waves and thought it resembled a dragon floating in water, so he first named it "Liuqiu" (flowing dragon). Another theory claims that when Tametomo floated on the sea and sought [land] following the currents, it was called "Liuqiu" (flowing seeking). These are all fabricated explanations. Although there are dozens of variant characters for Ryukyu in Japanese and Chinese texts, they are all phonetic equivalents. Therefore, it should be understood that China used the Sui dynasty's "Liuqiu" as the original name, changed it to "Liuqiu" during the Yuan, and fixed it as "Liuqiu" during the Ming. Our court used the ancient names "Southern Islands" and "Kikaigashima," and later adopted "Ryukyu." The characters for Ryukyu are sometimes used as a country name, sometimes as the name of Okinawa island alone, and sometimes as a general term for all the islands. Now, it would be appropriate to follow the imperial edict and call the general term for all islands "Ryukyu Domain," and call the name of the capital island "Okinawa." This would be exactly appropriate.

[Outside frame, top] Variant characters:
Liuqiu, Liuqiu, Liuqiu, Liuqiu, Liuqiu, Liuqiu, Longqiu, Liugui, Liuqiu, Liuchou

　　Historical Records
In primordial times, there were male and female deities called Amamiko. They first descended on the northernmost mountain of Ōshima, and eventually sought out land and arrived at this country. At that time, this island was very small and drifting in the waves. So they planted vegetation, formed the shape of a mountainous country, eventually distributed rice and grain seeds, transmitted agriculture, the two deities became husband and wife, [and had] three sons