"Even if fallen flowers could return to the treetops, gossamer threads cannot tie down and hold back youth."

Kanpei grew ever more sorrowful and was about to lay bare his heart and reveal the truth, wanting to tell the whole story in detail, but being mindful of others' eyes and ears, he endured unspeakable anguish.

The mother said, "Son-in-law, you should also earnestly speak of the sorrow of parting between you husband and wife. I only fear that you may be too attached to let go."

His beloved wife said, "Even though we part, since I am selling myself for my husband's sake, there is not a bit of sadness. Rather, I go with joy. It's just that not seeing father's face troubles me deeply."

The old woman said, "When your father-in-law returns, I'll tell him about you and immediately have him come to see you. When you go, be careful not to catch cold, don't neglect your moxa treatments, and show me your healthy appearance. Without even paper handkerchiefs or fans, how inconvenient it would be."

Bustling about frantically, taking care not to injure herself, until she got into the palanquin - how much effort of heart this took! About to bid farewell, she spoke again:

"What karma from a previous life does my daughter have? Compared to other people's daughters, she is not inferior in appearance, yet she must endure such suffering."

Gritting her teeth, tears falling like pearls, the daughter lay prostrate in the palanquin, only swallowing her voice, sobbing and weeping.

Pitiably, they lifted the palanquin and carried it up, and in just a few steps, ran off at a quick pace.

An ancient poem in the old style sings well:

"The chattering birds of Mount Huan, how sad their mournful cry! Four chicks grow feathers and, flapping their wings, first leave their roost. Wanting to go gather in the tall trees, the mother tells her daughter: 'Once you leave this place, meeting again will be difficult indeed.' Tears fall and wet the cold hearth, burning firewood for the morning meal. As the daughter prepares to board the palanquin, she courteously bids farewell to her mother. Not yet having repaid the debt of nurturing love - when will there be a chance for reciprocal care? Hearing this, the heart feels torn apart; wanting to speak, the voice chokes up. My daughter, there is nothing more to say - your heart I know myself. Even if I should die beneath the Yellow Springs, what eyes could meet again?" Human sentiment...