【Upper margin】Lost his lord's retainer because of his child

"My wish was that if it could not be fulfilled, I had already resolved to commit seppuku and die. Now, hearing of the incident of killing my father-in-law, and it being argued that this would bring shame to our late lord, I have no choice but to explain in detail for you two gentlemen to hear.

The night before, after meeting you, Yagoro-san, I parted from you on the road and was returning home. There truly was no light from stars or moon, heaven was dark and earth was black, when suddenly I heard rustling sounds from the valley and a deer came running out. At that moment I immediately used two rifle bullets and shot it down. When I ran straight up close to examine it, it was not a deer but a living person. I was startled and panicked, became limp, and there was no medicine to revive him. When I searched his pocket, there was only a purse containing money. Though I knew it was wrong, I thought heaven had given this to me, so I rushed straight to Yagoro-san, immediately handed over the money and returned home. Only when I heard about the household situation did I first learn that I had mistakenly killed my father-in-law, and the money was payment for selling the old woman. To have made such a mistake - this is the clumsiness of fate. Please have compassion for my situation," he said, shedding tears of blood and appealing his suffering.

Hearing this story, Yagoro stood up, lifted the corpse to examine it, and said to Goemon: "You should look as well. Though it appears to have been shot, it is actually a wound gouged out with a blade. Unfortunately, Kanpei made a mistake and committed suicide too hastily."

Kanpei and his old mother were simply astonished. Goemon suddenly remembered something and said to Yagoro: "Thinking about this matter, you may have overlooked it too, but when I passed by the mountainside just now, there was a corpse that had been shot. Looking closely, it was Ono Sadakuro. That greedy and vicious father Kyudayu had also given up on him and disowned this good-for-nothing, who had nowhere to take shelter and was just doing highway robbery. When you think about it carefully, it all fits together. Without any doubt, Kanpei's father-in-law was killed by that Sadakuro."

The mother said: "Such a..."