"...about the pleasures of the pleasure quarters?" Jutaro said: "I ask you, when do you plan to depart for Kamakura?"

Yuranosuke replied: "I did not expect you to ask me about such an important matter. I once heard a courtesan sing to a client:

　　Going to the Eastern Capital, news will be scarce, I wonder when I'll wave farewell and return

Like this song, I cannot bear to rouse myself to go to Kamakura. Gentlemen, please forgive my transgression - I am quite drunk."

The three men said in unison: "Even in drunkenness, one should not let it disturb one's true nature. If there is any obsessive delusion, we three will awaken you."

Heiemon, having heard this, came running out and said: "Wait, wait - do not act hastily. Please excuse my rudeness. I have just one humble request to make. I beg you all to wait a moment." Then he turned to Yuranosuke and said: "I am Teraoka Heiemon. I am overjoyed beyond measure to see your honored face."

Yuranosuke said: "I don't know which Teraoka Heiemon you are, but might you not be the foot soldier who previously went on an errand to the northern regions?"

Heiemon replied: "Exactly as you say. When I heard in the northern land that our lord had been harmed, I ran back without my feet touching the ground, but the castle had already been confiscated, the mansion seized, and the retainers had scattered in all directions. Hearing this, my resentment penetrated to the very marrow of my bones. Though I am but a foot soldier, regardless of high or low status, we all equally received our lord's benevolence. I wanted only to seek out Kono Moronao and cut him down with one stroke to avenge our lord's wrongful death. I went to Kamakura and disguised myself as a beggar, trying to find some connection to his comings and goings, but the enemy is well-guarded and there was no way to get close to him. I thought I might as well commit suicide, but then I remembered my stern father and loving mother back home, so I reluctantly returned. Heaven has allowed me to learn that you gentlemen are gathering comrades to undertake this great deed. When I heard this, my joy knew no bounds. I earnestly wish to be included among your band."

The three men heard this and rejoiced, saying: "Though it is difficult...

[Marginal note] This is not the time of Yu Rang, and disguising oneself as a beggar will not allow one to approach nobility - a tactical error.