"I understand your sincere heart, but I only wish to make a humble request to the leader. Relying on this conversation, I hurried here to accompany you. I was just about to bring up the matter of Kono Moronao's mansion."

Before Yuranosuke had finished listening, he interrupted and said: "You are a foot soldier, also called ashigaru (light-footed), but you are not light of foot but rather loose of tongue. You should not speak carelessly of great matters. Here it would be appropriate for you to act as a jester. Even someone like me, with a grudge as trivial as splitting a flea's head with an axe, is gathering forty-five comrades to discuss revenge. But strangely, I keep thinking of east and west, and worries about making a living arise. If we fail, our heads will roll. Even if we succeed, we must later commit seppuku and die. We must die in the east, we must die in the west. It's like a seriously ill person taking ginseng - even after recovery, one cannot repay the cost, the same as committing suicide.

Moreover, you are merely a foot soldier receiving no more than five pieces of gold and three koku of rice rations. For someone like me to say this shouldn't make you angry. Even with meager rice rations like a begging monk's alms, to risk one's life for revenge is like using a cleaver to kill a chicken - something Confucius would not approve of. I receive a stipend of 1,500 tan, and compared to you, even cutting down the enemy's head by the cartload would not balance out. So I've abandoned thoughts of revenge. Anywhere in today's world, it's enough just to have biwa players and singers making merry and entertaining."

Heiemon replied: "That doesn't sound like Yura-sama's words. Though I receive only three koku and you receive 1,500 tan, the lives bound to our lord's grace are exactly the same. How can we discuss the thickness or thinness of his benevolence? It's just that for distinguished gentlemen who act on behalf of our lord and a humble, lowly person like me to seek inclusion in the roster of comrades is far too presumptuous - like a monkey imitating human behavior. What is needed at the very least is..."