And thus he died. Sadakurō was overjoyed and quickly grabbed the money pouch. Groping about in the dark night, after a long time he encountered fifty ryō. Gratefully thanking heaven and earth, he placed it reverently on his head, then kicked the corpse's head down into the muddy water. Little did he know that the muddy water would splash back onto his own body. He only heard the sound of a wounded boar running out from behind him. Sadakurō hurriedly fled and hid to one side, but what he saw was:

　Bristling hair on its neck standing up toward heaven, bloody flesh at its snout flapping in the wind, eyes like a crescent moon
　Hooves like iron, tusks like soap pods, lips like a basin, shot by bullets yet still enraged,
　Bones shattered by lead shot but still not fallen, what hunter has already taken action,
　The villain by the roadside deliberately loses his soul,

That boar, with front and hind legs, kicked up muddy water and wild grass with such force that it shook the mountains and moved the fields, then ran off in one rush toward the front mountain. As Sadakurō looked around frantically in all directions, who could know that heaven would...

【Margin note】What follows is tasteless

Like eyes spinning like wheels, with a loud "thud" a ball of fire struck Sadakurō in the back. Before he could cry out in pain, he lost consciousness and died. How satisfying this was! That night, Kanpei had chased out a boar and hurriedly aimed his gun, getting close before firing. He thought he had shot and killed the boar, but it was a living person. When the man cried out "Agony!" once, he knew he had mistakenly taken a human life. Not knowing who it was, he hesitated to call out loudly asking for his name, thinking he might still be able to save and revive him. When he tried to lift him up, his hand touched a money pouch. Picking it up, he found it contained forty or fifty ryō of gold. Kanpei said, "This is a gift from heaven." Taking the money pouch and placing it reverently above his head, faster than the boar in a straight line, he flew away. Now, what will happen next? Listen to the explanation in the next installment.