Hatakeyama Saemon-no-kami Mochikuni, who had taken Buddhist vows under the name Tokuhon, was appointed Kanrei (Deputy Shogun).

In the tenth month, due to a dispute between the Kitabatake clan, the provincial governors (kokushi) of Ise, and the jinin (shrine servants/functionaries), the Kanrei Tokuhon dispatched Ino'o Sadamoto, Fuse Sadamoto, and Matsuda Ujihide to mediate a reconciliation. The Kitabatake of Ise were originally descendants of Chikafusa's son Akinobu, and thus had been adherents of the Southern Court; however, by this time they had already submitted to the warrior government (the Muromachi shogunate).

In the same month, as the image of Daishōkkan (Fujiwara no Kamatari) at Tōnomine (Tanzan Shrine) had cracked and split open, the Regent (Kampaku) Nijō Mochimoto submitted a votive declaration (kōbun). It has been transmitted since antiquity that whenever a great calamity befalls the nation, this shrine resounds with mysterious rumblings (meidō) and the enshrined image cracks and bursts.

In the same month, His Majesty the Emperor fell ill, and offerings (hōhei) were made to various shrines.

On the seventh day of the eleventh month, Minamoto no Yoshikatsu (Ashikaga Yoshikatsu) performed his coming-of-age ceremony (genpuku) at the Muromachi residence (mansion). The Regent Nijō Mochimoto was invited to perform the capping ritual (kakan). The role of hairdresser (rihats) was performed by Sanjō Chūjō Kimituna. Nine court nobles (gekkei/kugyō) took their seats, and numerous courtiers (unkaku/tenjōbito) performed their duties. The imperial envoy, Udaiben Toshihide, came and presented the cap (kōburi) and informal court robes (nōshi) as imperial gifts. Yoshikatsu was appointed Seii Taishōgun (Shogun/Generalissimo for Subduing the Barbarians), granted the rank of Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade (Shōgoi-no-ge), and additionally held the position of Sakon'e-no-chūjō (Middle Captain of the Left Imperial Guards). The following day, all officials went to offer their congratulations.