Only Kampaku (Imperial Regent) Kaneyoshi, being the incumbent regent, did not attend [the congratulatory gathering mentioned on the previous page]. On the twenty-ninth day, Yoshinari was appointed Seii Taishōgun (Shogun). The Geki official (Kanmu) brought the imperial edict (senji), which Ise-no-kami Sadachika received and presented, and the stipend gifts (rokubutsu) were conferred. On that day, the Yoshisho-hajime (the inaugural signing of auspicious documents) was held, and Katsumoto conducted this ceremony. In the eighth month, Yoshinari was appointed Sangi (Consultant of State), concurrently serving as Hidari-chūjō (Middle Captain of the Left Palace Guards). He was granted the junior fourth rank, lower grade (jushii-no-ge), and rode to the imperial palace in a carriage in court dress (ikan). Katsumoto attended in his retinue. In the eleventh month, Hatakeyama Tokuhon was reappointed as Kanrei (Deputy Shogun).

In the first month of the second year [of Hōtoku, 1450], Yoshinari was granted the junior third rank (jushami). In the third month, he was appointed Provisional Major Counselor (Gon Dainagon). In the fourth month, Kampaku Kaneyoshi resigned as Shōkoku (Chancellor/Daijō-daijin). In the fifth month, Tōin Sanehiro resigned as Naifu (Minister of the Center). The former Major Counselor of Nishisanjō, Kinmochi, was appointed Naifu. In the sixth month, Kinmochi resigned. The Major Counselor of Sanjō, Sanenaga, was appointed Naifu. In the same month, Yoshinari was granted the junior second rank (junii).

In the seventh month, Yoshinari visited the imperial palace, with court nobles attending in his retinue, and courtiers (ungaku) performed their duties. In the eighth month, at the Sekiten (Confucian memorial ceremony), the direct lecturer (chikkō) Nakahara Moromasu was granted an honorific letter (migyōsho) from Yoshinari and performed the role of first offering (shokon). Even up to this time, the regular biannual Sekiten ceremonies held in the second months of spring and autumn continued to be performed without fail.