【Right Page】
Number Four
【Illustration】
Temple Sub-complexes
Takuan Osho Mausoleum　Temple Sub-complexes
Tametomo Shrine
Kamakura Gongorō Shrine
South Gate
Temple Sub-complexes

【Left Page】
Founding Abbot Takuan Osho Mausoleum (Kaisan Takuan Oshō no Byō)
Located on a hill at the northwest corner of the abbot's quarters. Following the founding abbot's dying wish, no stone pagoda was erected; instead, only natural giant stones were placed. Several dozen stones, each about three to four feet high, are arranged standing in rows on the left and right. These are called Arhat Stones. It is said that the entire design of the mausoleum grounds was directed by Lord Kobori Enshū. Nearby stands a stone monument recording the abbot's deeds. This is called the Jiin Pagoda and is one of the Ten Scenic Spots of this temple. The inscription reads as follows:

Inscription and Preface for the Pagoda of Founding Abbot Takuan Osho
In ancient times, when Master Nanpo sailed south during the Shōgen era and entered the great Song country, visiting various masters everywhere, Master Kyodō served as abbot at Jōji temple. He went to study with him, achieved great enlightenment through Zen meditation, finally received the true seal of the dharma hall, returned to our country, and through the furnace and bellows of enlightened teaching, molded scholars throughout the realm. More than a thousand people entered his chamber, and fifteen people inherited his dharma. National Master Kōzen Daitō was one of them. The National Master entered the great furnace of ten thousand forgings, like pure gold showing no change of color, and after obtaining certification, spent twenty years raising the great dharma banner that shone brilliantly in the imperial court and mountains. From then on, lamp after lamp continued in succession, brightness never ending. Today, the one who kindles that flame and illuminates that transformation is Zen Master Takuan. The master's posthumous name was Pengming, which was his own designation. In later years he was called the Old Man of the Eastern Sea. He was born in the first year of Tenshō to the Taira clan in Izushi County, Tajima Province. In his youth, he received monastic training from Master Kisen Seidō of the local Sūkyō Zen temple. The Western Hall master gave him the dharma name Shūki, and he took the tonsure at age fourteen. He explored the depths of Buddhist texts and searched the mysteries of Confucian classics. Each time he heard the master's teachings, he had the desire for comprehensive inquiry, but the master passed away. When Master Dōho Chūkō of Ryūhōzan Daitoku Zen temple resided in the abbot's chamber at Sūkyō, just as the master was seeking instruction, Chūkō returned to Daitoku, and the master followed him there. He changed his name to Sōhō, and when Chūkō went to Zuigaku temple in Jiangzuo, the master also traveled east. After Chūkō's death, he returned to the home temple and sought instruction from National Master Daihō Enkan, also circulating among the various masters in the mountains and gaining much from their teachings and insights. The master was poor and had no resources for even a single bowl, but only persevered in dharma joy and Zen bliss. One morning, he traveled to Sennan and studied under Master Bunsai Seidō, learning the literary tradition. Bunsai was a leading figure of the Ōryū lineage and especially an elderly literary scholar. At the time of his death, he [gave the master] his collection of