【Right page illustration】
Yoriki Myōjin Shrine

【Left page】
When a fisherman was asked about the previous divine transmission, the fisherman replied respectfully. Whereupon Yoshiie Ason personally made offerings and prayed for victory in war. After the pacification of the rebellion in Ōu, on his return journey he again visited this shrine and dedicated his helmet. Therefore this place came to be called Kabuto-shima (Helmet Island).

【Marginal notes】In ancient times, the area from the foot of present-day Goten-yama to the vicinity of Nanboku-shuku was entirely sandbar, with only fishing houses scattered sparsely along the mountain shore. In later ages, a river flow formed between the sandbars, dividing them into north and south as they are today. At that time, this deity was divided into two shrines. One shrine has the cord of the aforementioned helmet as its sacred object, hence the name Himo-shima (Cord Island). It is also said to be named after the cord from Princess Tachibana's robe that drifted there.

Another theory holds that it was named for the resemblance of the narrow spit of land extending from the mountain foot into the sea to a cord, though none of these explanations are certain. One shrine was located at Sunosaki and was called Sunosaki Myōjin, but later came to be called Suno Myōjin, and eventually was mistakenly called Suwa Myōjin. This shrine has now been moved to become the guardian deity of Myōkoku-ji Temple. Besides this shrine, there are various shrines called Yoriki no Yashiro between Shinagawa and Kawasaki, with histories similar to what is related here.

Additionally, this area of Sunosaki has been a place for inspecting passing boats since ancient times, with watchtower posts established. Official notice boards from the Hōjō, Yamauchi Uesugi, and other families with various regulations were posted. Even now, some family in this area preserves these.

Kyōō-zan Honkō-ji Temple - Located in Minami Banba, it belongs to the Nichiren sect and serves as the head temple of the Kyoto Myōman-ji branch, being one of the three Edo temples. It is a Buddhist temple founded in the second year of Eitoku (1381), year of the metal dog, by Nii Gon-sōzu Nisshū Shōnin, who is honored as the founding patriarch. The restorer was Nichkyō Shōnin. The principal image is Shakyamuni Buddha, and the statue of sect founder Nichiren Daishi has an unknown creator. The image of Kishimojin (goddess of children) within the temple grounds is said to be made by Nichiren Daishi himself.