【Right page】
Grave of Founder Nisshū Shōnin
Built alongside the stupas of successive chief priests of this temple. Nisshū Shōnin was born on March 17th, Shōwa 3rd year, year of Wood Tiger (1314). Originally a monk of the Tendai sect and a disciple of Jihen Sōjō of Mount Hiei. He entered Tōkō-ji Temple at Mount Haguro in Aizu, Ōshū, and his virtue was widely known in all directions. He was called Genmyō Hōin, but later had a change of heart and realized that the establishment of a sect appropriate for the Final Dharma Age lay in the propagation of the Lotus Master (Nichiren). In Eitoku 1st year, year of Metal Rooster (1381), he abandoned his old sect and founded a new school, changing his name to Nisshū. In the summer of that year, he left Kantō and arrived in Kyoto. When his virtuous conduct reached the Emperor's ears, he was received at court and granted audience. Through the mediation of Takatsukasa Chūjō, he respectfully petitioned for the benefit of his religious sect. The Emperor was deeply moved and commanded Nijō Sesshō Minamoto no Yoshimitsu to devote sincere prayers for the perpetuation of the imperial throne. He was specially granted temple grounds and in July of the same year was appointed to the rank of Shōni-i Sōzu and received imperial permission to propagate his sect in the capital. That year he went to Kantō, and the following year arrived in this province and founded Honkō-ji Temple at this mound. In the 3rd year, Kinotō Boar (1383), he established Myōman-ji Temple in Kyoto and guided many people, greatly spreading the dharma teachings. After residing in Kyoto for several years, in Meitoku 3rd year, year of Water Monkey (1392), he again went to Kantō and entered Myōhō-ji Temple in Aizu, Ōshū, where he passed away on February 28th of the same year at age 79. The above is recorded in the Hokke Reijō-ki.

This temple was originally an ancient Shingon temple, but in Nisshū Shōnin's time, admiring the propagation of the Lotus Master, it converted to the present sect and became a Lotus Sutra temple. It is one of the six temples of essence and function founded by the master, and this temple is called "Chief of Function" for this reason. The six temples are: Myōhō-ji in Aizu, Ōshū; Genmyō-ji in Mitsuke, Enshū; Myōritsu-ji in Yoshimi of the same province; Honkō-ji in Kamakura, Sōshū; Myōman-ji in Kyoto; and this temple.

Around the Keian era, when the Shogun was hunting in this area, he rested at this temple and bestowed the name "Pine Temple." This was because there were many old pine trees in the temple grounds in ancient times.

Kumano-san Jōgyō Zanmai-ji - Located in the same place, it belongs to the Tendai sect under Tōei-zan. According to

【Left page】
tradition, this is the historic site where Jikaku Daishi practiced jōgyō zanmai in Kashō 1st year, year of Earth Dragon (848) during Emperor Ninmyō's reign, and he is considered the founder of this temple. The principal Buddha, Amida Nyorai, is also said to be carved by the same master.

Hōō-zan Tenmyōkoku-ji - Located south of Jōgyō-ji, on the right side of the highway. It follows Nichiren Daishi's propagation and is the head temple of Kyoto's Myōman-ji and one of the three principal temples of Edo.

Main Hall Nichiren Daishi Statue (A sacred Buddha bestowed by Tenmoku Shōnin, displayed for worship by all people on October 13th each year)
Five-story Pagoda (Said to be built during the Bun'an era)
Tahō Pagoda (According to the temple records, built by Nichikyō)
Suwa Myōjin Shrine (The guardian deity of this temple. This shrine enshrines the same god as the Yorigi Myōjin mentioned earlier, originally called "Suno-saki Myōjin" but later mistakenly transmitted as "Suno Myōjin" and then changed to Suwa Myōjin. Eventually the shrine was moved to this location and its origins were lost. Local tradition says that in ancient times the shrine's territory extended eighteen chō square toward the sea, though this is uncertain)

Niō Gate (Houses Kongō Misshaku Niō statues on left and right. Said to be carved by Unkei and possess miraculous powers. These Niō originally belonged to Sanno-gū at Momiji-yama. When Sanno-gū was relocated to Tōei-zan, the Niō were given to this temple)

Main Gate (The Tōkaidō Meisho-ki states: There is a Lotus temple called Myōkoku-ji. This temple's gate was constructed using the formal gate from Suruga Dainagon's residence. Kurishi (crushed stone) is quarried here and sold in Edo)

Whale Bell (The old bell was cast during the Bun'an era. It was recast in Kanei 18th year, and the names of those involved in the recasting and the year were engraved on the old bell's inscription)

Ancient Bell Inscription says:
Humbly considering that the manifestation of holy beings is like flowers scattering and binding with the wind, and the salvation through karmic connection is also similar...