【Right page】
Citing the precedent of boundary rights, the four boundaries of this place were established. There are also several other documents with official seals. Later, in the 18th year of Tenshō (1590), when the Great Lord (Tokugawa Ieyasu) entered this province, he stayed at this temple, and consequently later granted temple lands and bestowed a vermillion seal document. (This is said to be the beginning of granting vermillion seal documents to temples and shrines in Edo.) Also, in the 11th year of Kan'ei (1634), Ina Hanzaemon was appointed as magistrate to construct various halls, and Abbot Nichien was commanded to serve as the restoration founder. From this time, purple robes were permitted, making this a permanent regulation.

Uesugi Noritaka
　Addressed to: Concerning the Shibahara land at the edge of Minami-Shinagawa, Ebara District, Musashi Province
　Right, in response to the request for Buddhist land, Hachirō Saburō is permanently appointed. Therefore, the four boundary limits are:
　East and south: bordered by the main road; west: bordered by fields; north: bordered by Arai road with moat boundary
　Accordingly, bamboo and trees should be planted and maintained. Therefore, this document of appointment is as stated above.
　6th year of Eikyō, year of Wood-Ox, 5th month, 13th day
　　　　　To the Deputy Abbot of Myōkoku-ji

【Left page】
Donation: Concerning Myōkoku-ji temple land in Minami-Shinagawa, Ebara District, Musashi Province
　Right, regarding that land (seven or eight characters unclear here), south: bordered by Shiwa moat; west: bordered by the great road; north:
　bordered by pagoda precinct. Within that area, fields including Seiami's cultivated field of one tan, along with Shirō's donated land
　exists within the temple property. Besides this, Tsunekane's cultivable field of one tan, with east bordered by sea,
　south bordered by Kannon Hall fence, west bordered by the great road, north bordered by the great moat, for
　the spiritual benefit of Lord Chikōin of Kanazawa and for the spiritual benefit of Unkō of Minamikōji, these are
　permanently donated. Therefore, from generation to generation of descendants, there shall be no objection to this donated land.
　Accordingly, this document of donation is as stated above.
　10th year of Eikyō, year of Earth-Horse, 7th month, 18th day　　Noritaka (seal attached)

Ashikaga Mochiuji, Shōgun
Myōkoku-ji in Minami-Shinagawa, Ebara District, Musashi Province shall serve as a prayer temple, as stated above.
　2nd year of Kyōtoku, 5th month, 8th day　　　Junior Fourth Rank Lower (seal attached)
　　To the Deputy Abbot of this temple

Notice Board: Myōkoku-ji
　Right, at this temple, military forces, monks, and others who commit unlawful interference and violent acts
　are prohibited. If there are any violators, they shall be punished according to law, as stated above.
　4th year of Daiei, 1st month, 12th day　　　　Ujitsuna (seal attached)