【Right page】
《Small print: Other documents include certificates from Ujiyasu, Ujiaki and others, written judgments from former Kazusa-no-suke Sadakage, Nakatsukasa-no-shōyū Mochisuke, Seki Zensaemon, Danshō Saemon, Uekusa Shinjirō and others, joint written statements from Ōta Sukemasa, Ōkusa Kaga Nyūdō, Yamanaka Shuri-no-suke, Itō Uma-no-suke, Ishimaki Kageyu Saemon, Nanjō Hida Nyūdō and others, and written judgments from Tōyama Fusakage - several dozen documents in total. Every year around the twenty-eighth day of the sixth month during the insect-repelling season, these are shown to the public for veneration》

Kaishōzan Shinagawa-ji Temple - Located adjacent to the south of the same area. Called Fumon-in. Of the Shingon sect and belonging to Sanpō-in in Kyoto. The founding abbot was titled Gondaisōzu Kōson Hōin.

Main Hall - The principal deity is the Sacred Avalokiteśvara Bodhisattva《Small print: A sacred statue of sandalwood that emerged from the sea, said to be a personal devotional Buddha of Kōbō Daishi》
《Small print: Commonly called the Water-Moon Kannon. The swift benefits and miraculous responses of this sacred statue are said to be like the moon casting its reflection in water, hence this name》

Yakushi Hall《Small print: Located to the left of the middle gate. Enshrines statues of Yakushi Buddha and the Twelve Divine Generals. Created by Kōbō Daishi》
Bronze Jizō Statue《Small print: Located to the left upon entering the gate. Stones are piled to create a pedestal. Built by monk Shōgenbo in the 5th year of Hōei (1708), one of the Six Jizō of Edo》

According to the origin story of the principal deity, long ago when Kōbō Daishi was traveling and teaching in the eastern provinces, it was entrusted to a certain member of the Shinagawa clan who was the local military governor《Small print: This person has not yet been identified》, and was transmitted through that family until Sakyō-no-suke, who revered it《Small print: The name Sakyō-no-suke appears in the Kamakura Ōsōshi》. Much later, during the Ōei era, when the Kamakura kubō Ashikaga Sahyōe-gon-no-kami Mochiuji and Uesugi Zenshū went to war, all members of the Shinagawa clan were killed in battle. At that time, the principal deity was deeply hidden within a grass hut, and later when Ōta Sakingo Dōkan

【Left page】
ruled over the Shinagawa area, he deeply revered this principal deity and built a temple calling it Daien-ji. After that, the two Uesugi houses of the Kamakura kanrei fell into discord and the Kantō region was greatly disturbed. Consequently, many temples and shrines were destroyed. In the 9th year of Eiroku, when Odawara's Hōjō Ujimasa aided the Imagawa family in battle against Shingen, Shingen unexpectedly attacked from the north of Musashi, pursuing and capturing Edo and Shinagawa and burning down civilian houses. At this time, among Shingen's forces were two samurai named Takemori and Kagemura who burned the Shinagawa Kannon hall and stole the principal deity, returning to Kōshū. However, these men became greatly deranged, and there was a divine manifestation instructing that the principal deity should be returned to its original location. But since Musashi was enemy territory, they could not find the means to do so. They entrusted a wandering holy beggar to return it to its original location, but since the hall had also burned down, they sought out the remaining foundation stones and built only a makeshift grass hut to enshrine it. After many years had passed, in the first year of Jōō (1652), Hōin Kōson built the temple buildings and named it Kaishōzan Shinagawa-ji Fumon-in. From that time onward, the universal manifestation of