【Right page】
The priest Keison was the son of Matsudaira Inaba-no-kami Yasumoto. Around the time of the imperial entry into the domain during the Tensho period, he was summoned from Mikawa Province and granted this temple. Originally it was of the Rinzai sect, but from this time it was changed to the Soto sect as it is today.

The main hall's principal image is the Shark-headed Kannon.

The bell tower is located to the left in front of the main hall. In the 15th year of Genroku, this temple suffered a fire disaster and the ancient bell was damaged by fire. Therefore, in the 7th year of Hoei, it was recast and the ancient inscription was carved exactly as it had been.

Nantanbu Province, Great Japan, Kanto Region, Musashi Province, Ebara District, Shinagawa Village
Hodasan Kaian Zen Temple: Here the patrons from all directions repeatedly donated auspicious wealth, gathered copper and gold, and commissioned skilled craftsmen to cast Buddhist implements, hanging them high in the multi-story tower. How beautiful this magnificent great vessel, this resounding great sound! This is indeed the cause for seeing form and clarifying the mind, hearing sound and awakening to the Way. Therefore, we ring the bell and chant the verse of mutual remembrance.
May this bell's sound transcend the dharma realm, let all hear through the darkness of the iron enclosure, purify the dust and realize perfect penetration, and may all sentient beings achieve perfect enlightenment. Therefore, the old master of Kokei composed this inscription:
The Shima clan's furnace and bellows, the four seas and nine provinces, hung and raised in the present moment, the dharma sound with a thousand hooks
The sound penetrates the azure sky, the resonance pervades all dust particles, suddenly breaking through sleep and dreams, instantly awakening to true nature
Broadly saving all beings, universally forming good connections, the dharma wheel constantly turns, the Buddha-sun ever renewed
Hotoku 3rd year, Kinoto-Hitsuji, mid-summer, late third   Founder: Dōrin   Current abbot: Sonshōdai
Re-inscription
Hoei 7th year, mid-summer, early third

【Left page】
One cloud plate
Height: 1 shaku 4 sun 8 bu
Width: 1 shaku 2 sun 3 bu
Lotus flower size: 2 sun 4 bu
Front surface [Diagram of cloud plate front]
Back surface [Diagram of cloud plate back] ...22nd year, recorded by master craftsman Myō...

The stone pagoda of Hojo Sagami-no-kami Tokiyori Ason is located to the right in front of the main hall. On the monument face is carved "Saimyoji-dono Kakuryōbō Dōsō," and on the reverse "Kōchō 3rd year, Mizunoto-I, 11th month, 22nd day, Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Acting Sagami-no-kami Taira Marshal Tokiyori."

Upon examination, the Azuma Kagami records that on the 22nd day of the 11th month of Kōchō 3rd year, at the hour of the dog, the lay priest Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Acting Sagami-no-kami Taira Ason Tokiyori, age 37, died at the northern pavilion of Saimyoji. The temple called Zenkōji that now exists in Kamakura Yamanouchi is said to be the former site of ancient Saimyoji, according to the Kamakura-shi. The stone pagoda at this temple is probably a copy of that one. The form of the stone monument appears to be from a later period.

The stone pagoda of Nikaidō Dewa-no-kami is located on the hillside behind the main hall. From ancient times, the area in front of this temple's gate was the Kamakura Highway where there was a checkpoint. Therefore, from Lord Yoritomo through the Hojo family, officials from among the regents were appointed as guardians of the checkpoint, building residences in the Omori area and stationing officials there. Thus this Dewa-no-kami was also stationed in this area as guardian of Shinagawa during that time, so perhaps he made this temple his family temple.

Upon examination, there were three men with the title Nikaidō Dewa-no-kami. One was Saemon-no-jō Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Dewa-no-kami Yukiyoshi, lay priest Dōkū...