【Right page】
Upon investigation, the Kajiwara clan who founded this temple was likely Kajiwara Hyūga-no-kami, who was a retainer under the Odawara Hōjō clan. Around the second year of Eiroku (1559), he held dominion over the land of Arai-shuku within Rokugō district, as recorded in the Hōjō clan's domain registry. From this we can deduce that this place was Hyūga-no-kami's territory, and his residence was also likely located here. Local people have passed down through generations that the old site of his residence was either at Raifuku-ji temple or at Sunamizu (the site of Lord Matsudaira Tosa's villa).

Enmei Cherry (located in the garden in front of the main hall on the left side), Kajiwara Pine (at the same location, said to have been planted by Kajiwara clan members themselves), Kajiwara Mound (located in a field behind the temple. Cedar trees are planted on top of the mound. In the vicinity, there are other sites called Kajiwara Mounds among local farmers' properties, which are likely burial sites of clan members. Other stone pagodas of the clan are found at this temple).

Within the temple grounds there are several cherry trees, each of different varieties. During the flower season in the third month, many people come from far and near, drawn by the fragrance, to enjoy and appreciate the blossoms.

Sutra Burial Mound　Located about six chō west of Raifuku-ji temple. According to tradition, long ago the Right General Minamoto no Yoritomo copied Buddhist sutras and had them buried at this site. When the principal deity Jizō Bodhisattva of Raifuku-ji temple manifested at this location, he would recite sutras underground every night (hence the principal deity of Raifuku-ji is known to the world as the Sutra-Chanting Jizō).

Shōei-zan Saikō-ji Temple　Located about two chō south of the same place, said to have been founded in the ninth year of Kōan (1286). In ancient times it belonged to the Tendai sect and Eijun Risshi was the founding priest. Thereafter...

【Left page illustration】
Kōfuku-ji Temple

Kitchen/Living quarters
Main Hall
Prince (Taishi)
Birth Bath Well