【Right page】
(Marginal note: There is also [a well] called that, and the place name Ōi is also said to originate from this well. In the Azuma Kagami there are names such as Ōi Tarō Mitsunaga, the same Jirō Saneharu, the same Saburō and others, all of whom were probably people who came from this area)

Kashima Daimyōjin Shrine　Located about one chō southwest of the same place. According to the shrine records, this shrine relocated and enshrined the deity from Kashima in Hitachi Province on the 19th day of the 9th month of Anwa 2 (959), year of the earth snake. The bettō (temple administrator) is called Jigen-zan Jōrin-ji. It belongs to the Tendai sect and is affiliated with Tōei-zan. The principal deity is Yakushi Nyorai, said to be the work of Great Master Jikaku. The founder was Dharma Seal Son'ei. It was rebuilt in Jōwa 3 (1347), year of the fire boar, and Dharma Master Ryōkaku is called the restorer. There are many cherry trees in the precincts, presenting a great spectacle in spring.

Honji-dō (Marginal note: The principal deity is Eleven-faced Kannon, said to be the work of Great Master Chishō)

Ancient temple bell (Marginal note: Kept at the bettō temple Jōrin-ji. It has "Matsunyo Keihaku" inscribed, but the characters above cannot be read. It is thought that perhaps the character "fuku" was damaged in carving. The inscription is as follows)

　Dedicated temple bell to Kashima Shrine, Ōi Village, Ebara District, Musashi Province
　Kanshō 2 ■ year of the water sheep, 11th month ■ day, Matsunyo respectfully donated

Suzumori Hachiman Shrine　In the same southern direction, separated by a rope road, more than ten chō away in Iriyamasu Village (Marginal note: It is thought that what is called Iriyamasu here is probably what the Wamyō-shō refers to as yoko [余戸, a type of administrative unit]). The enshrined deity in the central hall is Emperor Ōjin (Marginal note: Left hall - Emperor Chūai, Right hall - Empress Jingū). It is also called Sōsha Iwai Shrine. The bettō belongs to the Shingon sect and is called Hachiman-zan Mitsugon-in. The head priest is of the Morita family.

【Left page】
(Marginal note: It is thought that this shrine is listed in the Engi-shiki and the Remaining Chapters of the Provincial Gazetteer, and is probably the so-called Iwai Shrine. In later generations, as the deities worshipped became uncertain, Iwashimizu Shō-Hachiman Shrine was probably invited based on the connection to Iwai)

According to the Remaining Chapters of the Musashi Provincial Gazetteer:
　Iwai Shrine, Ebara District, Musashi Province　Sacred rice field thirty-six bundles, two characters
　Dedicated to Ōnamuchi no Mikoto in the 8th month of the 2nd year of Emperor Bidatsu (573), year of the water snake. There is a stone well beside the shrine for prayer. When local people have false wishes, the water of the purification well changes to salty taste; when honest, it becomes like clear water. Neighboring provinces find this wondrous, and those who pray for healing take and drink it, finding its efficacy divine. The locals call it medicine water.

According to the Sandai Jitsuroku:
　On the 7th day of the 10th month, winter of Jōgan 1 (859), year of the earth rabbit, provinces within and outside the capital sent envoys to distribute offerings to heavenly and earthly deities. Having prayed in the previous 9th month for no disasters of wind and rain, there was sincere response, and the year brought good harvest, so this was a thanksgiving. Iwai Shrine of Musashi Province, Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade, was listed among the official shrines.

Bell Stone (Marginal note: Located at this shrine. It is traditionally said that when struck with another stone, that stone produces the sound of a bell. According to this shrine's records, due to this sacred stone this place was named Suzuishi-mori (Bell Stone Grove), later abbreviated to Suzu-no-mori, though this is not certain. The Enyūki-kō states that at this shrine there was a stone, and when rolled it made a sound like a bell. Some say the ancient stone was stolen by thieves)

Crow Stone (Marginal note: Located on the left side of the shrine grounds. It is a stone of about four to five feet, and its surface naturally displays the form of a crow as if painted with black lacquer. On the left shoulder of the stone is an inscription by Master Nankaku, recording that Karasu-ishi Katsu-shin carved it. It is said that Katsu-shin calling himself Karasu-ishi originated from his love of this stone. According to Edo Sunago, this stone was formerly at the three-way intersection on the route from Azabu's Furukawa-chō toward Mita, but was later moved to this location. The writing is in ancient seal script)