【Right Page】
The small stones from the shrine grounds are said to have miraculous powers as protection against smallpox, so local people pick them up and take them home. On September 28th, there is sumo wrestling. 《Marginal note: According to the register of holdings, Tokoe within Rokugō is called Kajiwara-bun in Ōta Shinrokurō's territory》

Mount Kihara: This refers to the hill behind. It is the territory of the Kihara clan. 《Marginal note: The claim that their ancestors were part of the Kōno clan of Iyo is incorrect》

《Marginal note: Examining the genealogy of the Kihara clan, their family name is Hozumi, and their ancestor is called Suzuki Kamonnosuke Yoshiyuki. Four generations later, Heibee Yoshiyori of the same lineage served the Tokugawa house and received five kan-mon worth of》

《Marginal note: land at Kihara in Yamana District, Enshū. His son was called Shichirōbee Yoshitsugu. He lived in his fief of Kihara and served in construction works. Then, on February 18th of Tenshō 3 (1575), by the lord's command, he changed from the Suzuki surname to Kihara, taking the place name》

《Marginal note: In the same 18th year, when entering Edo, he was granted 440 koku at Arai-shuku village in Ebara District, Musashi Province》

This mountaintop was the ancient Sagami Highway, and was a place called Arai-shuku. An ancient poem states "Looking at Kasashima at Arai Point, does my lord cross the mountain path?" This surely refers to this place.

Kumano Shrine: There is also a small shrine to Benzaiten on an island in the pond. 《Marginal note: Local people call this shrine the shrine of Ono no Komachi, but the basis for this》《Marginal note: is unknown》

Ifukusan Tōun-ji Temple: Located at the foot of the same mountain. The main gate faces east toward the sea. The view is the same as from Hakkei Slope. 《Marginal note: The cultivated fields below the cliff in front of this temple were formerly sea, and waves used to crash up to the base of this cliff. In those days, people traveled on the upper road》

This temple is a Sōtō Zen temple, and in medieval times was [associated with] the ancestor of the Kihara clan, lords of this land 《Marginal note: Kihara Jūrō Saemon Yoshitsugu》

【Left Page　Illustration】
Tokoe Hachiman
Gyōkei-ji Temple

Main Shrine　　Gyōkei-ji Temple