【Right page - Illustration】
Part Four
　　　Nichiren Saint's Mausoleum
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sub-temple

【Left page】
Plaque "Chōeizan" by Kōetsu's brush　Five-story Pagoda　Shichimen Hall　Treasure Repository (located behind the guest hall)

Temple Parish (located in Minamitani, called Minamitani Danrin with dormitories for Buddhist learning. The slope behind this is called Rōshi-zaka)　Nichiren Saint's Cremation Site (located at the mountain edge of the same place, now a simple grass hall has been built on the old site)　Kanō Tan'yū Hōin's Gravestone (located at the same place, there are gravestones of successive generations of the Kanō family. The inscription was written by Master Razan)

Nichiren Saint's Final Resting Place Site (located west of the main hall, called Daibō. This land was originally the residential property of Ikegami Uemon-no-tayū Munenaka. After the Saint's passing, Munenaka donated his residence to the Nine Elder Monks' Nitchō Saint, making it a temple called Chōsōzan Hongyōji. Now for certain reasons it has been renamed Daibō. It is said to be one of the three great Daibō temples of Japan)　Nichiren Saint's Mirror Portrait (enshrined in this temple)

In Kōan 5, when the founding saint was staying at Munenaka's residence approaching death, [Munenaka said] "Such an unprecedented great master entering my home is truly like a blind turtle meeting floating driftwood," rejoicing at one moment and shedding tears of separation the next, unable to stop weeping from grief, requesting that a sacred image be left behind. The Saint, unable to ignore the couple's deep faith, finally consented and had his image reflected in a mirror and carved, giving it to Munenaka. Therefore, people call it the "Mirror Portrait."　Similarly, the Pillar Leaned Upon at the Time of Approaching Nirvana (located in the worship hall of the portrait hall. This is said to be the pillar the Saint leaned against when showing his death at Munenaka's residence)

Inkstone Well (also located below the cliff in front of the garden. It is a cold spring with sweet water. In Kōan 5, ninth month, when the Saint entered Munenaka's residence, on the 25th of the same month, gathering all disciples and lay supporters to lecture on the Risshō Ankoku Ron, he finished saying "My time of death is already within twenty-one days," distributed Buddhist images and sutra scrolls to his disciples, drew water from this well for inkstone water, and drew the honzon for his time of approaching nirvana (now at Myōhonji in Kamakura Hikigatani). Also, using this water, he wrote the secret records of the mystical talismans of the founder's lifetime and transmitted them to the Six Elder Monks)　Departure Portrait (enshrined at the same place. On Kōan 5, year of the water-horse, ninth month, eighth day, leaving Mount Minobu and entering this Ikegami, on the thirteenth day of the tenth month, he showed his death at this place. Around that time, Munenaka intended to create this sacred statue. Accordingly, Saint Nichihō made it. This shows the appearance of departing for the capital of quiescent light)　Founding Saint Nichiren's Stone Pagoda (on the left side of the main temple, at the peak of Matsuyama)　Ikegami Uemon-no-tayū Munenaka's Tomb (built on the right side of the same place. Surrounded by stone balustrades. On the gravestone surface is written Rōkenin Nisshū Saint, Kōan...)