【Right page】
Given to Arishige's second son Tokujirō. (Tokujirō took religious vows and took the name Rōkei. He became one of the nine elder monks and was called Echizen Ajari. He died on February 29th of the first year of Shōchū, Year of the Rat.) He was the founding priest of this temple, and his burial mound also exists.

Temple treasures: Letter of transfer from Yoriyoshi Asomi (a letter of transfer when the divine image of Hachiman Shrine was given to Yoshiie Asomi)
One letter of transfer from Ehara Saemon-no-jō (This is also a certificate for transferring the same divine image to Echizen Ajari, and is an authentic document)

Jigenzan Manpuku-ji Temple　Located in Magome Village, this is a Sōtō Zen temple belonging to Tokuō-ji Temple in Sagami Province. The principal image is a naturally formed copper statue of the Amida Trinity with single halo (Amida, Kannon, and Seishi). (The central figure is over two feet tall, and the left and right figures are about one foot each)

According to tradition, this temple was founded by Kajiwara Heizō Kagetoki. There are memorial tablets and tombs.

(Upon examination, the memorial tablet bears the inscription "Manpuku-ji-den, Former Lord of Three Provinces, Kōzan Funen Daiko-ji, 20th day of the first month of the second year of Shōji." This is likely a later fabrication. Such posthumous Buddhist names were unknown in the Kamakura period. The practice of adding the title "Daiko-ji" began in more recent times. Among the retainers of the Odawara Hōjō family was one called Kajiwara Mikawa-no-kami, and Kajiwara Sukegorō held land in Edo Magome according to the Hōjō family's land registry. This temple was probably founded by this Mikawa-no-kami. Since Kagetoki's name is most distinguished, the temple monks have mistakenly attributed it to him. There is no record in ancient texts of Kagetoki being appointed as Mikawa-no-kami)

Temple treasure: Hotei saddle (Said to have belonged to the Kajiwara family. The front pommel features maki-e lacquerwork depicting Hotei monk carrying a staff. The corners are damaged and it is very old)

Stirrups (Now called koroku. Small like stirrups, with thin iron plating only on the chest guard and mud scraper areas, very light, appearing to be from the Kamakura period)

【Left page】
War conch shell (Said to be from when General Yoritomo hunted in the foothills of Mt. Fuji)

Portrait of the Kajiwara family (A seated figure about one and a half feet tall, wearing an eboshi court cap and formal robes. The facial features show courage but also cunning. The temple monks claim it is a portrait of Kagetoki, but it is probably also a portrait of Mikawa-no-kami)

One certificate (An ancient document stating that when General Yoritomo conducted falconry in this area in the seventh year of Kenkyū and stayed overnight at this temple, he later bestowed falcon feathers and swords of Hirabayashi Yoshihira, Ietsugu and others upon the temple monks as rewards, though its authenticity is uncertain)

Magome Hachiman Shrine (About three chō southwest of the same location, on the Ikegami road. This shrine has been the tutelary deity of the Kajiwara family for generations)

Kajiwara family residence site　Located across the street from the same place. Now part of farmers' gardens. Locals consider it Kagetoki's mansion, but it was probably the residence site of Mikawa-no-kami and Sukegorō.

Hōrai-ji Temple (Mine no Yakushi)　Located in Mine Village. Said to be a branch of Hōrai-ji (Mine no Yakushi) belonging to Hōshōzan Shōzen-ji Temple.

Taikinzan Kōmyō-ji Temple　Also called Hōtō-in. Located about five chō north of Nitta Myōjin in Unoki Village, this is a Seizan branch Pure Land temple. (It is said to have originally been Shingon sect) Founded during the Kanki era, with Zen'e Shōnin as the founding priest and Kishu Zenji Ryōchū as the second generation. (Ryōchū was the founding priest of Kōmyō-ji Temple in Kamakura. He resided at this temple for four years during the Enryaku-Ninji period. After this, the Chinzei orthodox lineage was continued.) This temple marks the beginning of Pure Land Buddhist propagation in the Kantō region and the spread of nembutsu practice...