【Right Page】
According to the temple records, when the monk Gyōki Bosatsu was traveling and preaching in the Kantō region, he arrived at this place in Wadō 3 (710 CE). He personally created and enshrined the current principal image of Yakushi Buddha, along with the flanking Amida and Shakyamuni Buddhas, as well as the Twelve Divine Generals, Four Heavenly Kings, and Niō guardian statues. Much later, in Tenpyō 5 (733 CE), in the spring of the third month, when Emperor Shōmu's consort gave birth to a prince but her breast milk dried up, upon Gyōki Bosatsu's memorial to the throne, prayers were offered to this temple's Yakushi Buddha. When the efficacy was obtained, two ginkgo trees were donated. Also in the autumn of the same year, a hall was constructed, making this a sacred site with seven temple buildings. 《The spiritual power of the Nyorai manifests even today - when women with insufficient breast milk pray with sincere hearts, there are always signs of efficacy》However, much later, a certain local lord who belonged to a sect that suppressed other religious schools deeply envied the temple's prosperity, destroyed the halls and pagodas, and abandoned the principal image at the base of the ginkgo trees, exposing it to wind and rain. 《Due to this sinful act, his descendants were cut off》Later, around the Eiroku period (1558-1570), the head priest Eiden solicited donations from all directions, built a temple building, and relocated the principal image.

《Upon investigation, the remaining fragments of the Musashi Province Fudoki mention that the monk Seisō enshrined a Yakushi Buddha at Manta Temple in Manta Village, Ebara District - this might possibly refer to our temple. The same text also records that plums were offered as tribute from Manta Village. Even today, around Furukawa Village, Ōmori, Kamata and other areas, there are many plum trees corresponding to that location, and selling their fruit in the capital is most common. Considering these facts together, this might be the ancient Manta. Perhaps because there are plum trees, there is also wachūsan (herbal medicine)》

【Left Page】
Taikōzan Kōmyōji Temple　Located in Takahata Village, it is called Hōtōin. It belongs to the Shingi Shingon sect, and its principal image is Dainichi Nyorai, created by the monk Eshin Sōzu. This temple was founded during the Hōgen period (1156-1159), and its founding priest was called Gyōkan Shōnin.

Ōmori　Adjacent to Iriyamasu Village, south of Suzunomori. In the land registry of the Odawara Hōjō family, among the lands listed under Shibuya Matasaburō and Lord Rokugō, "Ōmori within Rokugō" refers to this place.

From Ōta Motosuke's "Journey to Heian": Resting in the shade of the forest called Ōmori
　In the cool shade beneath the trees of Ōmori, both familiar and unfamiliar people stop to rest　　Motosuke

Kifune Myōjin Shrine　Located to the right of the highway in Ōmori Village, this is the local tutelary deity. Its bettō (administrator temple) is called Taishinji of the Shingon sect. Its origins are not clear.

Kamata Plums　Located in Kamata Village 《Kamata is included in the Wamyō Ruijushō among the districts of Musashi Province's Ebara District, pronounced "Kamata." The Odawara Hōjō family's domain register shows that Kamata Sukegōrō held lands including Rokugō embankment area, Inage Manor's Kitsuki Village, Imai, and Yakehe divisions. Therefore, Sukegōrō was likely also a person of this area. Also, in the same document, "Kamata within Rokugō" listed among Enshōji Temple's holdings probably refers to this same place》