【Right Page】
It is said to be the bodhi temple of the elder sister (dated the last day of the tenth month of the Year of the Ox, Tenshō 17).

Rōusan Chōshōji is located in Ryōshi-machi and belongs to the Nichiren sect. This temple enshrines Hokushin Myōken Daibosatsu, said to be the protective Buddha of Lord Toyotomi Hideyoshi.

Rokugō Hachiman Shrine is the general tutelary deity of Rokugō, located in Hachiman-zuka Village. The bettō (temple administrator) belongs to the Shingon sect and is called Mihatasan Hōshuin Kenchōji. According to tradition, when Minamoto no Yoritomo, the Right Minister and Shogun of Kamakura, led a great army from Awa Province to enter Kamakura, he raised banners at this location and recorded the arrival of his military forces. This is said to be the historical site. After his victory, he established Tsurugaoka Hachiman Shrine in Kamakura. The festival is held on June 15th, when the portable shrine is moved from Haneda to Taishi-gawara. At this shrine, there is said to be a ridge plaque recording that Kajiwara served as magistrate when Lord Yoritomo founded it. (Note: This Kajiwara is not Kagetoki. It would likely be one of those mentioned in the Makami Village Manpukuji section - either Kajiwara Mikawa-no-kami or Kajiwara Sukegorō, retainers of the Hōjō family of Odawara.)

Hachiman-zuka (a mound in the forest to the right of the main shrine, where trees flourish)　Banner-raising Cedar (located on the shrine grounds)

Old Mansion Site (the field toward the great gate is so called. It may be the site of Namekata Danshō Akitsura's residence. The road by the shrine's great gate stone bridge is called the ancient highway. There is also a bamboo grove, said to have been used by Lord Yoritomo for banner poles, or alternatively grown from whips he stuck in the ground)

【Left Page】
Rokugō Crossing is located south of Hachiman-zuka. This river is the lower reaches of the Tama River, serving as a ferry from Hachiman-zuka to Kawasaki Station. In the past there was a bridge, but during the Kyōhō era, through the ingenuity of a man named Tanaka Kyūgu, the bridge was removed and replaced with a ferry to prevent flood disasters. (Tanaka Kyūgu was commonly called Kyūgu Emon Yoshifuru, also known as Kantai Rōjin. He was well-versed in hydraulic engineering. The flood control of the Sakawa River in Sagami Province was also his work, and there is still a monument recording this in that riverbed. He also wrote a book called "Minkan Shōyō." His grave is now in the grounds of Myōkōji, a Nichiren temple called Tenchūsan in Kamihirama Village.) The Tōkaidō Meisho-ki states this bridge was 120 ken long. (The four great bridges of the eastern provinces are said to be Seta in Ōmi, Yahagi in Mikawa, Yoshida in the same province, and this Rokugō bridge, as seen in Wakan Meisū. The three great bridges of Edo are said to be Ryōgoku Bridge, Senju Ōhashi, and Rokugō Bridge.)

Poem on Rokugō Bridge, written in the year Mizunoto-hitsuji, by Master Gahō
The note states that according to popular tradition, Hatakeyama ShigeTada once lived here. Though not verified in old records, since Shigetada was from a prominent Musashi family and frequently traveled to Kamakura, it is not unreasonable, hence the opening verse mentions this.

[Chinese poem follows describing the bridge, the area's history, and the constant flow of travelers]