【Right Page】
According to the land registry of the Hōjō family, Lord Rokugō governed the territories of Rokugō, Ōmori division, and Kohanawa. Within Rokugō, Ōmori was ruled by Shibuya Matasaburō, Kamata within Rokugō was governed by Enjōji temple, and Tsutsumi-no-kata by Kamata Sukegorō. Rokugō Hara division was ruled by Shimazu Yashichirō, and Rokugō Yukigaya, Iriyamasu, and Hanai divisions were all governed by Ōta Shinrokurō. Arai-juku within Rokugō was ruled by Kajiwara Hyūga-no-kami, and Iriyamasu and Kigo-ato by a certain Saitō, Ushihisa Shinjirō, and Ichinokura and Kamata divisions.

Tokoe village and Kajiwara division were also territories of Ōta Shinrokurō. Similarly, Negishi and Kajiwara divisions within Rokugō, Gokurakuji division within Rokugō, and Rokugō Taishi-kawara were territories of Namekata Yoshijirō, along with Mantōin division within Kawasaki and Hasunuma within Rokugō, which were ruled by Kijita Shinsaburō. Thus we can see how vast the area once called Rokugō was. According to Hayashi Shunsai's record from Kan'ei 20 (1643), Hatakeyama Shigetada once resided here, though this lacks verification in old records. However, since Shigetada was a powerful warrior of Musashi Province who frequently traveled to Kamakura, this would not be without reason.

According to the Edo Meishō-shi, among the Shibuya Kon'ōmaru clan was one called Shibuya Shōji Jirō Shigekuni, who due to a disagreement left his family, retired to Rokugō in Kawasaki, and changed his name from Shibuya to Kawasaki. Considering this, since Shigetada was also called Hatakeyama Shōji Jirō, later people may have confused him with Kawasaki Shōji Jirō and mistakenly identified him as Shigetada. Since Shigetada resided in Hatakeyama in Ōsuma District, he would not have needed to pass through this location when traveling to Kamakura, but would have gone via Sekido from Fuchū. Going to Kamakura via this location would be an extremely roundabout route.

Kaname-shima Benzaiten Shrine is located at Susaki, south of Haneda village. It is therefore also called Haneda Benzaiten. Since this bay of Haneda is called Ōgi-ga-hama (Fan Beach), this location is called Kaname-shima. The head temple belongs to the Shingon sect and is called Konshōzan Ryūō Mitsu-in. The statue of Benzaiten is said to be identical to the cave Benzaiten of Enoshima Main Shrine in Sagami Province and is attributed to Kōbō Daishi. This sacred image was previously treasured in the household of Edo's Lord Arima Fujiwara no Sumimasa, but when the temple's chief priest Kaiyō Hōin received a divine revelation in a dream, the main deity was transferred to this location in the fourth month of Hōei 8 (1711). (There are considerable discrepancies between the shrine record written by Zen master Kōkoku, founder of Shinagawa Tairyūji, in Shōtoku 3 and the Arima family's foundation legend.)

【Left Page】
The shrine also enshrines one sacred jewel (nyoi-hōshu), said to be natural and not made of gold, silver, copper, or iron.

According to tradition, Mount Nichigen in Musashi Province was a site established by Kōbō Daishi. In the mountain is what is called the sacred water of Dainichi, in which exists one sacred jewel. In ancient times, this jewel followed the flow of the Tama River and came to rest near Haneda. Since it emanated sacred light day and night from the water, the local people found it mysterious, cast nets to retrieve it, and later built a shrine to venerate it. This is said to be the current shrine. (According to the abbreviated foundation legend, in the spring of Kōji 2 (1143), they obtained one sacred jewel by net fishing in the great river south of the shrine. Therefore it was named Tama River and called Tamagawa Benzaiten.)

Although this location had maintained shrine buildings since ancient times, they were frequently damaged by wind and waves and could not be preserved for long. However, the head priest Kaiyō Ajari copied the entire Lotus Sutra with one character per stone, sank these into the seabed to build an island, and constructed a treasure hall. Perhaps due to this spiritual response, from then on green pines grew luxuriantly, moss covered the grounds, and finally the shrine was able to escape the disasters of wind and waves.

Edo Famous Places Illustrated - Tenzen Volume