【Right page】
Horses are no different from those in Japan. They do not stumble when traveling over mountain slopes or rocky plains,
climb mountains, and gallop when crossing water. This is because they have naturally become accustomed to that land.
This region has warm climate in all four seasons, and since grass does not wither even in winter,
horses eat spring grass year-round, so there is no need to feed them beans.
When common households need horses, they bring them from the fields, and
when their business is finished, they release them back to the fields. Saddles, stirrups, and other equipment are no
different from Japanese horse gear. Only beneath the small cords and on the breast strap do they attach
round tassels made of red thread.
Illustration of Decorated Horse

【Left page】
Besides these dances, there are dances called Fan Music (danced by six boys) and Hand-clapping Music (danced by three small boys).

As for music:
Taihei-chō, Chōsei-en, Shiran-kō, Tenson Taihei-no-uta,
Tōka-gen, Yō-kō, Juson-ō
There are several other pieces besides these. Among these, Tōka-gen and Yō-kō are Ming music (music from China's Ming dynasty), and
Juson-ō is music from the Qing dynasty. There is also something called Divine Song, which, like Japan's Shiki-sanban,
is performed at the beginning of national music. An old man in costume ascends the stage
and sings this piece. At the beginning of chaos in this country, the divine
Sacred Heavenly Grandson who ruled the world would appear whenever
successive kings ascended to the throne, showing divine protection.
They composed welcoming songs for the gods and celebrated with them.
In later generations, when gods ceased to frequently appear,
they preserved the songs transmitted from the age of gods, performing this piece during royal enthronements
or special ceremonies. During the chanting of Divine Songs,
neither wind nor string instruments make any sound.

○Actors
Following the court music and dance, there are actors (performers). In their plays, there is an ancient story
of brothers named Tsuru-kame (Crane-Turtle) who avenged their father. Like Japan's Soga