【Right page】
This resembles the revenge story of the brothers. Long ago, in a place called Nakagusuku in the Ryukyu Kingdom,
there was a lord called Mō Kokutei. He was loyal and brave, governing the country well. At that
time, there was a lord of Katsuren named Akō. While young, he attained the
position of Gunba and enjoyed the king's favor, so he indulged in
luxury to the extreme. However, inwardly he despised Mō Kokutei, so he used his
eloquence skillfully to slander him to the king, reporting that Mō Kokutei was plotting
rebellion. The king was both surprised and angered, and without even conducting a proper investigation,
gave Akō military forces to attack and destroy Mō Kokutei. Though Mō-kō lamented his
innocence, Akō would not listen at all, so thinking "this is the end,"
he resigned himself and finally committed suicide. Mō-kō had two
sons: the elder called Tsuru, aged thirteen, and the younger called Kame, aged twelve. The two
children were extremely clever. Their father Mō-kō had regularly used two treasured swords to
teach them swordsmanship, and despite their small arms, in that art they were
trained to a level not inferior to adults. At this time, they were with their mother at the home of a
relative named Sa Kuniyoshi in Sannan. When they heard that their father Mō-kō had met an
unjust death at the hands of attackers due to Akō's slander, they looked up to heaven
and prostrated themselves on the ground, weeping. But wiping away their tears, they pleaded with their mother:
"Father's death cannot be undone no matter how much we lament now, so we

【Left page】
brothers, fortunately unknown by face, will sneak close and strike down Akō
to avenge our father. We earnestly wish to receive
the two treasured swords that father cherished." They pleaded with all their hearts. The mother, forgetting her grief,
said, "What brave words you have spoken, my brothers! I shall indeed give you
the two swords as you wish," and took them out to divide between them. The brothers
joyfully took their leave, wearing their father's cherished swords as keepsakes, disguised themselves,
and went to Katsuren to target their father's enemy. Now, Akō,
having eliminated Mō-kō whom he had long detested, thought he could now compose poetry about spring
fields without restraint from anyone, and went out with his retainers. The brothers quickly
learned of this, concealed their treasured swords, and watched for any opportunity. Akō
had no idea that the two boys were Mō-kō's sons, and said, "What beautiful
young lads! Come here and pour sake for me," beckoning them to his side.
His heart was disturbed by the brothers' beautiful appearance, and he drank several cups
of sake. In his drunken revelry, he removed the clothes he was wearing and gave them to the brothers.
Perhaps thinking this still wasn't enough, he gave the sword he was wearing to Tsuru. Tsuru
thought "now is the perfect opportunity" and signaled to his brother with his eyes. Without showing the motion of drawing the sword,
he approached and grappled with Akō, saying "Who do you think we are? We are the two sons of Mō Kokutei, who committed suicide due to your
slander. For our father's