Seiwei died in the fifth year of Jōwa (1349), and King Satto of Chūzan ascended to power. Satto was the son of the former Urasoe Aji. At this time, the Yuan dynasty had already fallen and the Ming emperor had ascended the throne. In the fifth year of Hongwu (1372), the Ming envoy Yang Zai carried an imperial edict to that country to instruct them. King Satto of Chūzan, King Shōsatto of Nanzan, and King Haniji of Hokuzan all sent envoys to pay tribute. In the fifteenth year (1382), the three kings were granted gold-plated silver seals and silk brocade. It had been over 680 years since Emperor Bunmu granted positions to the people of the southern islands, and now the three kings received investiture from a foreign country (Ming). Satto's great-great-grandson Shō Hashi was wise and benevolent, and unified Nanzan and Hokuzan. This occurred at the beginning of the Xuande era (around 1429). During the reign of Shō Nei, Regent Toyotomi Hideyoshi ordered Satsuma Province to demand tribute from Chūzan. In the spring of the eighteenth year of Wanli (1590), Shō Nei sent the monk Tenryū Tōan and others as envoys. The following year, the regent greatly conscripted troops, wanting to enter Beijing via Korea. In the summer of that year, Shō Nei sent envoys requesting investiture, and the following year the regent invaded Korea. The Ming emperor had the envoys carry the edict back themselves and did not dispatch investiture envoys. After more than ten years, the Korean campaign ended, and Shō Nei firmly requested the restoration of former practices. The Ming king, pleased with this non-rebellious vassal, ordered the Military Affairs Secretary. Initially, Chūzan and Satsuma Province had maintained neighborly relations for generations, but in recent years relations between the two countries deteriorated and diplomatic missions ceased. The Satsuma lord Minamoto no Ason Iehisa (Shimazu Iehisa) reported this to the Divine Ancestor (Tokugawa Ieyasu), who dispatched troops to attack. Chūzan's forces were defeated in successive battles, and the king surrendered. The following year, Iehisa brought Shō Nei and the king's relatives and retainers. The Divine Ancestor allowed them to return to their country as vassals of Satsuma Province, continuing their former friendship. Thus the ancient southern island territory was restored to its former domain. The following year, Shō Nei was allowed to return and sent tribute to China, reporting that the Chūzan king had already returned to his country and also wanting to request trade on our behalf. This year was the fortieth year of Wanli of Ming (1612). The Ming emperor did not permit tribute envoys to enter court, accepting only small amounts of local products and giving rewards. After Ming's fall, in the fourth year of Shunzhi (1647), the Qing emperor sent envoys to pacify Ryukyu. Later, envoys were again sent to collect the seals and ribbons granted by the previous dynasty. King Shō Shitsu took this opportunity to request investiture. At that time, pirates infested the seas making travel dangerous, the Qing emperor died, and the crown prince ascended the throne. In the second year of Kangxi (1663), envoys were sent for investiture following the precedent of the former dynasty. In the fifth year (1666), an edict was first issued establishing biennial tribute as the rule. Later generations continued this practice, and in the fifty-second year of Kangxi (1713), Crown Prince Shō Kei succeeded at the age of only fifteen. This year was the third year of our Shōtoku era. Since Chūzan became a tributary to China, whenever a king died, the crown prince would announce the death and request succession investiture. When investiture envoys arrived, they would first perform sacrificial rites for the previous king at the mortuary temple outside the country gate. There were only imperial sacrificial rites but no posthumous titles were granted. Therefore, throughout the generations, no posthumous titles could be obtained.