[Right Page]
428
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary on Hetuvidyā, Volume 9
80

[Upper Section]

In the portion of what is explained, fire is called by name, and the scope of fire's heat etc. is named "universal characteristic." This is what the inferential mind obtains. These two characteristics are considered to be the two characteristics of hetuvidyā. Therefore this doctrine has many doubts. First, it seems not to distinguish the two characteristics of the two teachings. Also, when the mind cognizes the tactile sensation of heat, it seems to say that the capable-cognizer is named direct perception and the object-cognized is named self-characteristic. Also, it seems not to know that the self-characteristic obtained by that concentrated mind also becomes the principle explained by the teachings. [Although it relates to scriptural teaching, it is not the same scope as scattered mind etc.] Because there are such doubts, the commentary master quotes and immediately refutes it. The text of the refutation is as follows. "This explanation is entirely wrong [...] because it does not relate to self-characteristics" - this is the commentary master refuting Bunki. Within the refutation there are two intentions. "Contradicting the Buddhabhūmi-śāstra" refutes not distinguishing the differences between the two characteristics of the two teachings. In that treatise it explains the characteristics that the two characteristics of hetuvidyā and inner teaching are different. "If using the likes of fire's heat" onward - according to your doctrine, concentrated mind is not direct perception but should be inference, he refutes. Because concentrated mind relates to fire without cognizing tactile heat, and the obtained characteristic is also the principle explained by language [meaning]. Therefore your explained two characteristics are neither the two characteristics of hetuvidyā, nor do they resemble the two characteristics of inner teaching - thus he refutes. Generally, in the correct doctrine's intention, in the inner teaching gate, even when fire comes to burn the body, the body is burned by fire and the mind cognizes that tactile heat, but is not burned. The scope obtained by that discriminative cognition is not self-characteristic. It lacks the function of burning and is what language explains. The scope that discriminative cognition does not reach - this is self-characteristic. It has the function of burning and is not what language explains. When fire burns the body, the mental consciousness simultaneous with body-consciousness has no discrimination of heat, yet relates to tactile heat. That is direct perception. What is obtained is self-characteristic. The five-accompanying mental consciousness has discrimination of heat and grasps tactile heat. This is non-valid cognition. [In hetuvidyā it should be considered resembling direct perception.] What is obtained does not correspond to universal characteristics,

[Lower Section]

how much less to self-characteristics. [What non-valid cognition obtains is entirely not the characteristics of all dharmas.] Next, concentrated mind relating to fire is neither fire coming to burn nor remembering tactile heat. It merely witnesses and knows the burning self-characteristic of the scope that discrimination does not reach. Therefore this is direct perception. This self-characteristic is not what language obtains. It is also the principle explained by teachings. Unlike scattered mind's attachment to names and meanings, it relates to doctrinal principle. In order to settle into the ground-substance of this present section, contemplating it - this foolish speculation should be inquired into thus.

"However, the various non-theists [...] Buddhist dharma's conventional language etc." raises the differences between non-theist and Buddhist dharma doctrines. "They immediately object saying" - the non-theists object to Buddhist dharma. "Mahāyāna explains saying etc." - Buddhist dharma answers the non-theists' objection. "There are those who rescue the objection to outsiders saying etc." - Master Bunki rescues the objection to non-theists. The meaning is that fire's self-characteristic has the function of burning - if language says "if one obtains self-characteristics," then it should burn the mouth and the mind that relates to it. Therefore it should burn the mind. Since that is not the case, therefore saying "obtaining self-characteristics" is wrong [meaning]. "If others make counter-objections etc." - the non-theists make counter-objections to Master Ki. This is Master Ki himself narrating what the non-theists think. The meaning is: your Buddhist dharma's concentrated mind, though obtaining fire's self-characteristic, is already not burned. My cognitive explanation is also like this - obtaining self-characteristics without being burned. If you object that I should be burned, then your concentrated mind should also be burned [meaning]. "Immediately there is an explanation saying etc." - Master Ki answers the non-theists' objection. The meaning is: my concentrated mind differs from your verbal explanation. Because mind originally takes separate objects, though obtaining fire's self-characteristic, it is not burned [meaning].

"By this previous objection etc." - the commentary master appends to this Bunki's answer. This is that the two sides of the previous Bunki's objection are wrong. That is, in the previous objection to non-theists, saying that mind and mouth should be burned, the objection saying the mind should be burned is

[Left Page]
429
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary on Hetuvidyā, Volume 9
81

[Upper Section]

wrong. Because non-theists could also rescue by saying "because mind takes separate objects, though obtaining self-characteristics, it is not burned." The objection saying "the mouth should be burned" is correct. Because language depends on vocal expression, vocal expression depends on body and mouth. Body takes contact-objects. If language says "if one obtains fire's self-characteristics," then it should definitely burn the mouth [meaning].

"Should object to conventional language" - one should not object to "mind obtaining self-characteristics" but should object to "conventional language obtaining self-characteristics" [meaning]. "Now questioning this objection etc." - the commentary master questions Bunki. If hypothetically objecting to non-theists saying "if obtaining self-characteristics, mind and mouth should be burned," is this objecting about hetuvidyā's self-characteristics, or objecting about inner teaching's self-characteristics [meaning]? "Answering that it depends on hetuvidyā's self-characteristics" - this is Master Ki's answer. "If so, then this objection etc." - the commentary master considers Master Ki's objection wrong. Hetuvidyā's self-characteristics are not like fire's burning characteristics. Why object to non-theists saying mind and mouth should be burned [meaning]? This is the intent of initially quoting this doctrine above. It does not distinguish the two characteristics of the two teachings. Therefore it refutes this. If it were hetuvidyā's self-characteristics, then [fire's] self-characteristics should not burn things. Speaking in terms of inner teaching, they are self-characteristics within universal characteristics, being the scope of the speakable.

"Even if following dependence on sūtras etc." - even if rescuing by saying it depends on inner teaching's self-characteristics, it also corrects that error. The meaning is: if depending on inner teaching's self-characteristics, then in inner teaching's intention, provisional cognition and verbal explanation only obtain universal characteristics and completely do not obtain self-characteristics. Why self-narrate non-theists' counter-objection, saying "provisional cognition and explanation obtain self-characteristics" [meaning]? "If according to the external school etc." - again making rescue-objection. The rescue's meaning says: when I previously said "provisional cognition and explanation obtain self-characteristics," this was narrating the external school's teaching. It was not my intention of objecting to the external school. That is,

[Lower Section]

non-theists do not distinguish anything, generally calculating that provisional cognition and explanation obtain self-characteristics. I, depending on inner teaching's self-characteristics - if obtaining self-characteristics, wouldn't mind and mouth be burned? - thus object. Therefore "provisional cognition and explanation obtaining self-characteristics" is according to the external school [meaning]. The commentary master's objection-intention says: if so, then the external school completely does not say "provisional cognition and explanation both obtain self-characteristics." They calculate "real cognition and verbal explanation both obtain self-characteristics" and do not say "provisional cognition obtains." Therefore, in previously narrating counter-objections, one should necessarily make counter-objections depending on real cognition. How could one make counter-objections depending on provisional cognition [meaning]? Master Ki's intention is narrating outsiders' counter-objections, therefore correcting their errors. That is, one should say "real cognition and explanation, though obtaining self-characteristics, are not burned." "Provisional cognition and explanation, though obtaining self-characteristics" is not the non-theists' doctrine [meaning]. "They counter-object saying [...] who says concentrated mind etc." - this quotes Master Bunki rescuing external counter-objections, saying "depending on objects' separation and contact, concentrated mind takes separation." It also objects to this Master Ki's rescue. Within the objection there are three sections. First presenting the original treatise's contradiction, next that it should not be unable to obtain self-characteristics, later presenting the evidence that though taking contact-objects one is not burned, making objection. The first original treatise contradiction is that in the original treatise (56th) regarding the six sense-faculties and six consciousnesses, six [nose, tongue, body - three faculties, three consciousnesses] take contact, four [eye, ear - two faculties, two consciousnesses] take separation, two [mental faculty, mental consciousness] are connected to both separation and contact [etc. Taking mind, one should see the original text]. Concentrated mind is already the sixth consciousness. Why say it is limited to separation [meaning]? The next objection's meaning: if determining that because it is uniformly separate therefore not burned, then being uniformly separate, it also cannot obtain self-characteristics [meaning]. The latter objection's meaning: like in the hot hell, body-consciousness and mental consciousness together obtain fire's self-characteristics. If not obtaining self-characteristics, they should not faint and should not be together with suffering. Already fainting and being together with suffering, one can know they obtain fire's self-characteristics. Yet they already have no

[There is a blank space after the fifth character "絶" in line 88. There may be a "。"]