1. Takaoka paper products　　　　1. Mino paper products　　　　1. Wajima noodles
1. Wakasa noodles　　　　　　　1. Foreign sake　　　　　　　1. Foreign soy sauce
　The above items shall be restricted

1. Small goods:
　　Tortoiseshell items　　　Umbrellas　　　Snow sandals　　Straw sandals　　Velvet cord items
　　Children's toys　　　Silver metal fittings　　Silver pipes　　Tissue holders
　　Tobacco pouches　　Silk hair cord items　　　Fans
　Right, foreign products shall be restricted

1. Eggs　　　　　　　　　1. Aloeswood items　　　　　1. Hair ties and cords
1. Watermelons　　　　　　1. Tatami mat surfaces　　　1. Citrus fruits
1. Vegetarian dried foods and vegetables　　　1. Braziers, candlestands and other bronze items
　Right, foreign products shall be restricted

　Additionally, regarding dyed goods, though some items have been sent to Kyoto and Kaga province until now, henceforth foreign dyeing shall not be permitted
　Regarding these enforcement matters, consultation with chief magistrates and inspectors is required. After announcing the items in the written notice, there may be items that cause particular problems, and beyond those in the written notice, there may be textiles and other items that can be restricted without hindrance. Such matters should be thoroughly examined and reported by the officials in charge

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Four District Magistrate

○Due to the current policy, the attached notice has been given to the town magistrates. Items handled according to our subordinate's written notice should also be restricted, and if it is appropriate to assign subordinate officials to this matter, investigations should be conducted and reported immediately. Furthermore, regarding Mikuni port, transactions with other places shall continue as before, but strict attention should be paid to controlling trade with the castle town
　　　　　Attached document same as above

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Magistrate

○Same as above, consultations should be conducted as per internal discussions
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

○Same as above, to ensure there are no irregularities in this matter, two foot inspectors should be assigned, and if there are other appropriate assignments to be made, investigations should be conducted and reported immediately　For this purpose, Mizuno Seibei and Takeshita Jōzaemon have been appointed and assigned
　　　　　November 20th　Also to Fuchū

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Administrative Head

○Regarding travel on highways, when arranging horses and porters, applications should be submitted with ledgers bearing the official inspection seals of the controlling authorities. However, recently it has been heard that townspeople and villagers are borrowing the names of retainers or temples and shrines, submitting confusing ledgers without official inspection seals, and there are travelers doing this, which is improper conduct. Though proper procedures have been followed at post stations, furthermore this time enforcement