1. Bunsei 12, Year of the Ox (1829)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
　○On the past 28th, when [the lord] attended the castle, an assembly was ordered, and at the veranda of the White Study Hall, the Senior Councilors were seated in formal arrangement. Through Lord Matsudaira Suō-no-kami, it was announced: "Considering the hardship caused by the recent fire damage, His Lordship graciously grants a loan of 3,000 ryō in gold, for which we are deeply grateful." This matter should be communicated to all relevant parties.
　　　　　　May　　　　　　　Head of Personal Attendants: Kumagai Kohei
　In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fukuyama Tōemon
　○Each person who previously remained in chambers during duty shifts shall henceforth be assigned to wait in the antechamber.
　　　　　　June 3rd
　In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
　○Due to this exceptional cost-cutting measure, His Lordship has decided to reduce the retinue, as announced in the attached document. Please understand and implement accordingly. Attachment:
　1. Palanquin attendants　　　　13 men　Walking inspectors
　　　However, same as before
　1. Foot soldiers　　　　　　　10 men　Rear guard foot soldiers
　　　However, reduced by 3 from the previous 13
　1. Lord's riding horse　　　　　1 horse
　1. Reserve riding horse　　　　1 horse
　　　However, same as before
　1. Led horse　　　　　　　　　1 horse
　　　However, reduced
　1. Escort horses　　　　　　　1 horse
　　　However, reduced by 1 from the previous 2
　　Following this pattern, even minor items like rain gear and baskets should be reduced
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Magistrate
　1. Kitchen duty personnel: previously 3 people, but henceforth 2 people per shift shall serve, handling only the needs of the various lords' quarters
　　　However, due to this change, one person from the duty kitchen staff shall be reduced
　1. Kitchen servants and regular workers: previously 61 people, recently reduced by 12, but now further reduced by 7, leaving 42 people total
　　Announce and implement the above measures
　　　　　　July 2nd

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Various Monthly Duty Officers