1. Regarding deputy magistrate assistants, while there have been four per territory, according to this policy, one shall be reduced, making it three per territory.

1. Regarding entrusted territories, they shall be administered the same as the main domain. They should be handled in consultation with the chief administrator of entrusted territories.
　　　　　2nd month, 16th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

○ Regarding the rice stipend for the four gate guards at Magistrate Akari's granary, while 12 hyō of rice per person has been provided until now, according to this policy, 3 hyō per person shall be reduced during the designated period, leaving 9 hyō of rice per person.
　This should be announced as stated above.
　　　　　2nd month, 25th day

○ The Sakurababa Academy shall be lent to those who are dedicated to learning, and they shall be appointed as lecturers there.
　　　　　2nd month, last day
　This was announced through the chamberlain. Therefore, on the 3rd day of the 3rd month, a proclamation should be issued to inform all monthly duty officers.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Caretaker
　　　　This should be communicated to Teraki Jūtayū of the caretaker group　　　　　Hayashi Hachiemon

○ The plants and trees in the Ninomaru flower garden and other plants used for cut flowers shall henceforth be placed under the supervision of the tea ceremony department. The remaining areas previously under Yoshie Jinzaemon's custody shall be placed under Teraki Jūtayū's supervision.
　　However, those previously under Jinzaemon's supervision shall be placed under Jūtayū's supervision. Most importantly, regarding cultivation work and such matters, they shall serve according to the tea ceremony department's instructions.
　　　　　3rd month, 5th day　　The same directive was given to the tea ceremony department through the inspector.
　　However, today, Yoshie Jinzaemon, a minor official in charge of the Ninomaru flower garden, was replaced due to old age.

In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
○ Until now, soup and sake have sometimes been provided to those on duty or those in attendance. Henceforth, all such provisions shall be discontinued. This should be understood accordingly.
　　　　　3rd month, 10th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector of the Tag Office

○ Recently, two supervisors each have been appointed to the chief administrator positions at the tag office, but due to the current policy, these titles shall be discontinued. However, those who are leaders should continue to take care of all matters as before. This should be announced as stated. 3rd month, 20th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

○ Regarding the town and village gratitude silver entrusted to town elders and internal agents this time, it shall henceforth be handled under each one's respective supervision.
　　　　　4th month, 5th day