The above matters shall be communicated to each respective party.
　　　　　7th month, 25th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
○ Regarding the post station duties of Ishiba and Matsumoto wholesale merchants in the castle town, since they serve all the way down to horse handlers and various laborers and are in extreme financial distress as a post station, since Hōreki 6 (1756), as relief assistance, they have been receiving 1 rin 5 mō per kin for leaf tobacco transport fees, with 5 mō exempted from transport tax. However, in recent years, illicit trading of processed tobacco has increased in Ōno, causing a gradual decrease in leaf tobacco. Therefore, this time, tobacco powder dealers from our locality - Urushiya Seizaemon and Okamotoya Jinbei - who handle Ōno tobacco powder, went to Ōno territory and thoroughly discussed with the local merchants their desire to broadly trade processed tobacco powder with the same commission fees as leaf tobacco powder. There were no objections whatsoever, and the arrangement would be even more convenient. So whereas processed tobacco from other places has been prohibited until now, if broad trade is permitted, receiving 1 rin 5 mō commission per kin, and paying transport tax at three-tenths the rate of leaf tobacco, business would gradually become even more profitable. Therefore, Ishiba and Matsumoto wholesale merchants along with tobacco powder dealers submitted petitions requesting permission for the above arrangement. When this matter was communicated to the Senior Councilors, they instructed that the request be granted as petitioned.
　　　　　8th month, 5th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○ Previously, upon petition by people from Seikanji village, the site for a theater building was designated as tea garden land within the Ishiba farmland area behind Hōzōji temple and lent out. However, due to problems that arose, that land was returned to farmland, and tea garden land within the same farmland area on the east side of Tateyaguchi highway was designated and lent out instead.
　　　　　8th month, 11th day

In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
○ Regarding the foot soldiers' travels, whereas until now they entered and exited the gate compound with paper passes bearing the group leader's seal, henceforth entry and exit without passes has been granted as petitioned. Accordingly, both regular duty soldiers and fixed employees should have their escort personnel assembled, and for the remainder, each individual's destination for outings should be investigated and reported by the group leader, as shall be communicated and arranged.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
○ The same matter as above has been communicated, so please understand this point and handle it appropriately.
　　　　　8th month, last day