Magistrate
○ Regarding river flood control construction work, it has been set at 100 kan-me of silver, with village allotments based on the average rate of expenses over the past ten years, and villages shall be ordered to undertake construction projects on a contractual basis.
　However, any remaining silver beyond the set amount shall be distributed annually to those who have remaining balances from previous construction silver payments.
1. Regarding the village undertaking of construction projects that have been ordered, river flood control magistrates shall each determine their assigned locations and give careful attention to construction management matters.
　However, assigned locations shall be rotated annually.
1. After all villages have completed their work, special inspection officials shall be added, and these officials shall tour their respective assigned locations to examine the thoroughness or lack thereof of attention given.
　However, the appointment of special inspection officials shall be decided through annual deliberation.
The above has been ordered, so furthermore, regarding administrative matters, river flood control magistrates shall thoroughly consult and communicate as instructed.
　　　　　9th month, 11th day

In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
1. Regarding the foot soldiers, since previously there has been a shortage of four men during years when the lord is in residence in Edo and two men during years when he is absent, special monetary grants have been given to all foot soldiers. Therefore, to fill this shortage, Yoshikawa Shinnosuke and Takagi Matagoro, who inherited positions through succession calculations, have been employed as foot soldiers. They are exempted from escort duties, but shall perform all other duties the same as regular officials.
1. The position of residential foot soldiers has been abolished henceforth.
The above should be understood and implemented accordingly.
　　　　　9th month, 20th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　Akesato Granary Office
　　　　　　Finance Office　　Deputies
○ For those serving as deputies in both of the above offices, if their service extends to five years, they shall be granted junior assembly rank status, and furthermore, depending on their years of diligent service, they may be granted full junior assembly rank.
　　　　　　Buddhist priests
　　　　　　Various deputies
○ Since there are those who are skilled and unskilled in the above duties, henceforth rotation assignments shall be ordered, and after examination, personnel changes shall be implemented.
The above shall be communicated to the respective offices.
　　　　　9th month, 25th day