Town Magistrate
　　　　　　To consult and arrange appropriately　　　　　　Three Counties Magistrate
○ Although it has long been desired to provide appropriate relief to various areas during years of poor harvest, it has been difficult to achieve due to the current circumstances. Therefore, through special deliberation this time, as a system for relief during future years of poor harvest, though in small amounts, 300 hyō each of rice seedlings shall be distributed to the towns and three counties this year. Using this number of hyō as capital, careful attention should be paid to establishing a system resembling community granaries. Furthermore, regarding future matters, the number of hyō to be distributed shall depend on the annual harvest conditions.
　　　　　Same day
　　However, on the 2nd day of the 6th month of the following tatsu year, the aforementioned distributed rice seedlings were handed over to towns and counties at the Hamamachi granary.

In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
○ Regarding adoption among those in permanent residence, while adoption from other domains was prohibited last tora year for samurai rank and above, for physicians, considering they have hereditary professions, through special deliberation they shall be permitted as before, and requests shall be granted as desired after examination.
　　　　　11th month, 15th day
　The senior councilors instructed that the above should be communicated, so Yamamoto Seiha was told to inform the physicians in permanent residence.

○ It was announced that stipends shall be granted to those receiving 190 koku and below at the end of this year.
　　　　　11th month
　　However, 100 koku [recipients receive] 6 hyō, various groups and deputies 1.5 hyō each

○ This u year's community granary collection totals for villages in the three counties
　　　　　　Upper Territory
1. Rice seedlings: 126 hyō, 3 to, 8 shō, 8 gō, 5 shaku　However, 5 to per hyō
1. Rice seedlings: 90 hyō, 3 to, 8 shō, 8 gō　However, 4 to per hyō
　　Total rice seedlings: 217 hyō, 3 to, 2 shō, 5 shaku
1. Millet: 19 hyō, 8 shō, 5 gō　However, 5 to per hyō
1. Millet: 1 hyō　　However, 4 to 5 shō capacity
　　Total millet: 20 hyō, 8 shō, 5 gō
1. Silver: 516 monme, 8 bu
　　　　　　Middle Territory