July 25th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To District Heads　All Administered Territories
○From now on, advance selling and buying of new rice, as well as transactions using pawn certificates, are prohibited
○Purchasing of sake brewing rice is suspended until the new rice harvest is fully available　As per previous regulations
　　　　　August 5th　　　Also to Fuchu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To District Heads　Same as above
○Regarding advance selling and buying of new rice and purchasing of sake brewing rice, which were previously prohibited: reports have been received that private transactions are being conducted in secret, which is improper conduct. Therefore, if there are any future violations of these regulations, strict punishment will certainly be imposed. Keep this in mind and strictly instruct your subordinates accordingly.
　　　　　August 25th　　Also to Fuchu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To District Heads　Same as above
○New sake brewers who had previously been granted permission to produce half-koku quantities will have this privilege suspended for this year. Keep this in mind and handle appropriately.
　　　　　Same day　　　　Same as above
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○As rice grain shipments from Okinokuchi port are currently suspended, sake production shipments are also temporarily prohibited. Furthermore, all shipments of imported salt and local salt are suspended.
Handle as stated above.
　　　　　September 5th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
○Regarding the purchase of sake brewing rice that was previously prohibited: due to petitions from sake merchants in the castle town, quarter-koku production is now permitted. As this is a year of high rice prices, oversight must be even more strictly enforced, and if there are any violators, strict punishment will certainly be imposed. This matter shall be announced. Details will be communicated by the inspectors.
　Announce as stated above.
　　　　　October 29th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monthly Duty Officers
○Stipends, albeit small amounts, will be granted to all retainers with less than 600 koku, extending down to the lowest ranks. Details will be announced later by the Finance Office.
　　　　　November 16th　　To all subordinate ranks