matter.
○Regarding the matter of hired laborers (arako), each department should exercise discretion, but it is heard that some departments, clinging to conventional practices, have been unable to implement adequate economies. Since this is the occasion of the current reforms, [you] should exercise thorough discretion and implement economizing measures regardless of past practices.
1. Until now, all unavoidable official expenses have been handled under the designation "private official business," but henceforth this designation will be discontinued, so when unavoidable matters arise, the reasons should be reported and handled through written statements of purpose.　　　〆
○The annual allocation of 3,780 monme of silver for the sword office has been discontinued due to official policy. Moreover, for new fittings and repair items, sincere discretion should be exercised, and official business should be conducted using existing items as much as possible. If unavoidable purchases are necessary, the inspection office should thoroughly investigate and decide through collective consultation, ensuring no loss to the domain.
The sword magistrate should understand the above and thoroughly convey it.
　　　　　　〆
　The above has been conveyed to various officials according to their respective roles.　　Other proclamations are as follows:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Proclamation to the Magistrates
○Regarding the service of hired laborers, although their hardship is acknowledged, since they are numerous, there are those with wrong attitudes and negligent service is also heard of. Henceforth [they] should serve diligently, and if there are naturally those with wrong attitudes, strict official action will be taken.
The above should be conveyed to the heads of hired laborers.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
○Until now, when fine silver was insufficient, [the shortfall] was received from the finance office for payments, but henceforth payments from fine silver will be handled using tobacco tax silver. Moreover, when fine silver is collected, it should be submitted to the reserve fund.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector in Charge of Official Silver Office
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakamura Tarōzaemon
○Due to the current reforms, all borrowing silver from the finance office has been discontinued. However, for unavoidable cases, after examination, interest-bearing loans from official silver reserves may be granted, so this should be understood and handled appropriately. For such borrowed silver, care should be taken to make repayment easy through discretion.
　　　　Same day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monthly Duty Officers
○Due to long-standing financial difficulties, in recent years particularly increased rice loans have been granted, and the hardships of the retainers are viewed with sympathy. On the occasion of the current succession, it would be desirable to forgive the rice loans, but since unavoidable expenses continue to mount, this cannot be left to [the lord's] personal inclination. Moreover, regarding frugality, although [orders] have been repeatedly issued previously, [practice] has become lax. Currently, [the lord] above also, with special consideration, uses cotton clothing for official purposes, so each [retainer] according to their status should pay attention even to household clothing, ensure no extravagance in all matters, and continue practicing frugality as ordered.