Please keep this in mind accordingly.
                                Officials in charge
                                    Suzuki Chuudayuu
                                    Nara Gondayuu
                                    Oozeki Shingorozaemon

○Copies of the documents directly issued by Messenger Kinoshita Naiki-dono, as well as copies of documents conveying the purport of instructions given to retainers, are being distributed. Please consult and handle appropriately.

                    Memorandum
1. Regarding the inspection routes and lodging accommodations for the domain inspection in the northern provinces, please prepare and submit documents based on the precedent from the Tenmei era. If there are places along previously used inspection routes that have become impassable at present, please submit written notice to that effect.
    However, if the route differs from precedent, proper inquiry should be made before proceeding.

1. The purport of previously issued documents emphasized that all matters should be handled simply and without extravagance, but this is being communicated again, so please keep this in mind from now on.

1. During domain inspections, the repair of lodging accommodations, roads, and bridges, as well as cleaning and the construction of roadside rest areas, etc., are strictly forbidden.

1. If there are no impediments to the locations used for inspection lodging during the Tenmei era, this time also follow the previous precedent. Even if accommodations are cramped, or if they are two-story buildings or temples, that is acceptable, but to avoid separate lodging in different buildings, it is preferable to have one group stay in one establishment as much as possible. However, regarding new repairs, there should be none at all, and instructions to this effect should be issued to the relevant parties.

1. Regarding meals at lodgings, orders should be given for simple fare of one soup and one dish, and instructions to this effect should be issued to the towns where lodging will occur. Of course, existing cooking utensils should be used, and if any are unsuitable, new preparations should never be made even if mentioned at the time. Also, regarding bedding for attendants, existing items are fine even if old. Since silk fabrics are unnecessary, thorough instructions regarding these points should be given.

1. Should there be any innkeepers at inspection lodging sites who are planning to offer congratulatory gifts or entertainment, this would be completely mistaken thinking, and such behavior would be inappropriate. Since such offerings will not be accepted, strict public notices should be issued to prevent such misunderstandings.

1. In towns along the domain route that provide relay horses and porters, instructions should be given to post station officials not to prepare extra personnel or horses beyond what was specified in advance notices.

1. During the passage of inspectors, merchants should continue their business and farmers their cultivation without concern. The above should be communicated in advance. Generally, all matters should be handled with simplicity in mind, and without being bound by precedents from previous inspections, public notices incorporating the spirit of the preceding clauses should be issued to towns along the route. Even so, should there be any misunderstandings contrary to precedent...