They suffered defeat at the hands of Imagawa retainer Asahina Juro Yasumochi. In the third month of the same eleventh year, Okochi once again recaptured Hikuma and requested military support for Owari, so Yoshitatsu set out again and joined Okochi in defending Hikuma Castle. Ujichika again besieged and attacked the castle with 30,000 troops in the sixth month of the same year, and it finally fell on the nineteenth day of the eighth month. Okochi Sadatsuna, his brother Konumi Shinzaemon-no-jo Michitsuna, and over a thousand others were killed in battle. Yoshitatsu surrendered and entered Fusai Temple where he became a monk (taking the Buddhist name Anshin), left a written oath never to take up arms against Suruga again, and returned to Owari.

Thus Yoshitatsu retired, and his son Jibu-no-taiyu Yoshimune inherited the family headship. At the beginning of the Daiei era, Ujichika built a castle at Nagoya in Owari and installed his youngest son Sama-no-suke Ujiyoshi (younger brother of Yoshimoto) there as a check against Kiyosu (Shiba Yoshimune's residence). He had Yoshimune's sister marry Ujiyoshi, eliminating any division between east and west.

At that time, Oda Danjodayu Nobuhide, lord of Shobata Castle in Kaito District (one of the three magistrates of Kiyosu), shared a love of linked verse with Imagawa Ujiyoshi and they exchanged poems with each other. However, on one occasion a messenger mistakenly lost a document box containing linked verse poems in the flooding of the Otai River. Both families considered this unfortunate, and thereafter they held meetings together. Nobuhide would visit Nagoya Castle, obtain lodgings in one room, and stay for five to three days or sometimes ten days at a time, enjoying linked verse and tea ceremony.

In the spring of Kyoroku 5, when Nobuhide was staying as usual, he cut open a window facing the main bailey. The Imagawa retainers found this suspicious, saying it was inappropriate for a guest to cut arrow slits in the lord's residence. However, Ujiyoshi paid no heed, saying that this person in particular would harbor no ulterior motives, and since Yanagi-no-maru was dark under the cover of great trees, it must be an elegant window, and he did not stop him at all.

Meanwhile, on the eleventh day of the third month, Nobuhide suddenly feigned serious illness and summoned retainers from Kiyosu and Shobata, creating a commotion. When night fell, there was said to be a fire in the direction of Imaichiba, causing an uproar in the castle. Fires broke out at Wakamiya Shrine, Tenno, Tennei Temple, and Anyo Temple, blowing sparks toward the castle. From the southeast of the castle, soldiers from Shobata coordinated with Oda Tamba-no-kami, lord of Hioki Castle, raised battle cries and attacked. Battle cries also arose from Yanagi-no-maru as fires were set, and with attacks from both inside and outside, the Imagawa retainers were defeated in this unexpected night attack and all died in battle. Ujiyoshi sought to save his life through Yakushiji Gyobu-no-jo and, relying on connections through his mother's side, went to the capital. Nobuhide easily seized the castle through stratagem and soon moved to this castle. In Tenbun 3, Kichihoshi-maru (Nobunaga's childhood name) was born.