Subsidiary shrines (several small shrines exist) Worship hall　Ema Hall (Located south of the main shrine. During the February festival, numerous votive tablets donated by temple schools throughout the domain are displayed in this hall)

Moreover, from the seventh year of Tenpo, poor harvests continued throughout the provinces, rice prices soared, and many people suffered from famine. At that time, philanthropic townspeople of the domain hung a plaque reading "Charity Hall" at this place and daily distributed money, rice, grain, and even clothing according to their means to help the poor. This too perhaps arose from inspiration by the benevolent government of our lord. By the spring of the ninth year, the total amount of charity reached approximately twenty thousand ryo. That such benevolent grace should extend to the lower classes during these years of successive poor harvests is truly awe-inspiring and deeply appreciated.

Bell Tower (From the third month of Manen 4, by official command, this bell is rung at the twelve hours of day and night to inform the townspeople. Hence it is called the time bell. The inscription on the old bell was composed by Koide Eian, but it was destroyed by fire in Horeki 13. The inscription on the current bell was composed by Suga Yasusada)

Inscription and Preface for the Bell of Owari Castle Town

Alas, striking drums to announce dawn and dusk, ringing bells to mark the hours of zi and wu - this is the universal custom of past and present. In the spring of the year of Xin-Chou, our lord issued a command to newly create a drum, hang it at the various gates, and following the duty of timekeeping, every hour it sounds without error. However, still fearing it would not reach distant places, he again commanded officials to cast a great bell and suspend it in the center of the market streets to govern the counting of time.

Hereupon both bell and drum sound together, and thereafter the way of day and night became as clear as looking at one's palm. The officials, having this, accomplish their public and private duties; the common people, having this, pursue their livelihoods. What is called the way of sound and music connecting with government - is this not what is meant? Established for one time to be handed down for ten thousand generations. The magnificence of this great achievement cannot be fully recorded. Therefore, respectfully following the public command, I humbly inscribe the circumstances on the bell and compose this inscription.

The inscription reads:
Resonant and clear, granting time to the four classes of people. The great sound spreads everywhere through city and village neighborhoods.
Bestowing culture, contemplating military affairs, harmonizing people, moving the gods. The lord's great achievements will not be forgotten for a thousand years.

Manen 4, Year of Xin-Chou, auspicious day of the third month of spring. Court official Eian Koide Ryutei respectfully composed with bowed head.

Metalworker of the domain: Mizuno Tarozaemon Fujiwara Norushige
Inscribed after engraving the old inscription on the recast time bell