《Small print: The emperor's achievements have already inherited the rule, and the divine spirit resides in heaven. Thinking distantly of the era of pure transformation, still recording the year of birth. Originally sacred from the time of hanging robes, not merely yielding the country to the wise. For many times stopping land tributes, looking out at human settlements from high places》
《Small print: Young geese's songs harmonize with each other, plum blossom praises first transmitted. The imperial heart reveres frugality, the people receive the benefits of moral cultivation. Digging the earth to build ice houses, opening channels to irrigate rice fields. Civilizing influence reaches even the Three Han kingdoms, generous benevolence spreads across the four seas》
《Small print: The ancient shrine lies deep in a pine grove, cypress trees line the surrounding walls. Simple rafters represent plainness, golden mirrors symbolize purity. Religious services are especially solemn, ceremonial dignity even more austere. Fine chestnuts for the harvest festival are prepared, secret prayers offered with ceremonial processions》
《Small print: Devoutly the first light floats on curtains, flowing wind carries through stringed instruments. Female shamans emerge ringing bells, officials dismount before the palanquin. Auspicious clouds gather like horns at the hall, blessed grass grows fresh in the courtyard stairs. In peaceful times there are many joyful events, taking up the brush to compose this poem》

　　　　　　At Wakamiya Shrine
Though years pass, the divine majesty never wanes in this shrine dwelling, thus it is called Wakamiya (Young Shrine) by the world　　Ueda Nakatoshi

Shōgakuzan Amida Temple Ōjōin 《Small print: Located on the west side of the gate town, Jōdo sect temple affiliated with Kyoto's Chion-in》 originally moved from Niie Village in Kaitō District and was located in Kiyosu, but was relocated here during the capital relocation in the Keichō era. The monk Shin'a from Kannon Temple in Saikū Village, Taki District, Ise Province, initiated a religious vow and from Kanpun 5 (1665) established pilgrimage sites for the 48 vows of Shinano Zenkōji Temple, making this location the 37th station. ○Main Buddha 《Small print: The Amida Triad was created by the Buddhist sculptor Kasuga; the two attendant figures have unusual forms that don't appear to be Buddhist statues, perhaps they are ancient Hachiman deity statues》 Main Buddha of the abbot's quarters 《Small print: Seated Amida statue, authentic work of Monk Eshin》 Nirvana Hall 《Small print: Genroku era, resident monk San'yo》