Shōsan Jōdo Sutra, one scroll (written by Chūjō-hime), gold folding screens, one pair (painted by Ko-hōgen Motonobu), embroidered nirvana image, one scroll (an exceptionally rare large scroll that is hung in the main hall during the annual nirvana ceremony for people to form spiritual connections with). Sub-temple Shōmyōin (moved from Kiyosu in Keichō 16, with large cherry trees in the grounds), Ichigyōin (also moved from Kiyosu in the same year; the principal image of the Fudō Hall is an authentic work by Chō-denji).

Visiting Seikōin on a Spring Day　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sōshū
The flower terrace, after one rain, sprinkles the level wasteland. Beyond the outer walls, human dwellings suddenly appear and disappear. In quiet appreciation, I fondly recall Kōraku's verses. Why would reclusive wandering need Shōbun's pictures? Fragrant trees before the eaves reflect the spring; returning geese beyond the railings call to themselves at dusk. Sitting peacefully, I further hear discussions of pure principles, and realize that long days exist in brief moments.

In Kan'ei 13, when Korean envoys came on a diplomatic mission, Seikōin was used as lodging for the three envoys, and this became the precedent for envoys to always use this temple as their resting place when passing through. The poetry and prose exchanged between local scholars like Matsudaira Shūun and Ide Teishin with the Korean guests, published in collections such as Kenchi-shū, Sansei Shōwa, Hōsa Shiki, and Kongyoku-shū Kōhen under the title "Nagoya Guest Hall Works," were all composed during gatherings at this Seikōin.

Third day, second month, year of Kōshin: Meeting with various scholars when Korean envoys lodged in the capital　Letter of introduction　　　　　Matsudaira Kunzan

Since hearing that the envoy star pointed east, I raised my head and waited as if experiencing three autumns. Now the imperial mission has arrived safely at our humble town. What joy is like this in receiving and welcoming their noble presence! My surname is Gen, given name Shūun, courtesy name Shiryū, styled Kunzan, also known as the Master of Kōshin Hermitage. My clan is called Matsudaira. I am the scholarly administrator of this domain. Today, following orders to assist at the guest quarters, I am most fortunate to receive your pure teachings.