renamed it, with Priest Dairin as the founding abbot. Later, during the Tenbun period, it was moved to Kiyosu, and in Keichō 15th year it was moved again to its present location. (In the past when it was called Bodai-ji, there were temple land donations from the Muromachi shogunal house, but these were lost due to years of turmoil.) Now twelve branch temples stand in this area, making it a great temple. ○ Principal image: wooden statue of Shakyamuni Buddha, meditation hall

Shōgenzan Jōkyū-ji Temple (south of Zentoku-ji Temple, which is its branch temple. Founded by Head Monk Sanjaku, it was in Kiyosu but moved here during the Keichō period)
Principal image: Shakyamuni Buddha (work of Eshin Sōzu) Sacred treasure: Kagekiyo's protective principal image, Thousand-armed Kannon (a small Buddha that the villain Kagekiyo carved himself on an arrowhead. Kagekiyo's descendants lived in Kowatari and had preserved it in their family, then donated it to this temple. There is also a memorial tablet reading "Suigetsu Kagekiyo Daishi, Kenpō 2nd year, Kinoe-inu year, 8th month, 15th day")

Jienzan Kōshin-ji Temple (adjacent to the south of Jōkyū-ji Temple, also a branch temple of Zentoku-ji. Founded by monk Gen'yo, it was called Shōju-in but changed to its present temple name in Hōei 2nd year, 10th month)
Principal image: Shō-Kannon (work of Gyōki) Yakushi Hall (The principal image is a sacred Buddha. During a public viewing in the Enpō period, there was a violent samurai who struck down a Yakushi devotee for allegedly being disrespectful, then quickly departed. However, the person who was cut fell to the ground but was completely unharmed, so people believed even more fervently that Yakushi Buddha had stood in as his substitute. From this, it became popularly known as "Kirazu Yakushi" [the Yakushi who doesn't cut])

Nishi Hongan-ji Branch Office (on the west side of the same town) Followers from Nagashima in Kuwana District, Ise Province petitioned Shinshō-in Rennyo Shōnin to build a temple in Sugie village of Nagashima