《Small text: Delighted to be granted permission, that night the boy fought with the demon in the bell tower, grasping its hair and not letting go. The demon was defeated and fled with its hair pulled out. At daybreak, following the blood trail》
《Small text: they found that the blood stopped at the grave of a wicked servant, thus learning that the ghost of this person was responsible for the demonic haunting. After this, there were no more strange occurrences, and the hair was stored as a treasure of Genkō-ji Temple. The boy grew up and remained at the temple》
《Small text: but when he tried to channel water to the temple fields, other farmers interfered and wouldn't let the water flow in. So he made a plow handle so large it would take over ten people to lift, and placed it at the water inlet, but the people still removed and discarded it》
《Small text: Then he took a great stone so large it would take five hundred people to move, placed it at the water inlet of others' fields to direct water to the temple fields. The people were so frightened that they stopped interfering thereafter》
《Small text: Thus he shaved his head at that temple and took the name Dōjō Hōshi》

Chinzei Hachirō Tametomo's Tomb 《Small text: Located east of Otō Bridge. There is a tradition that Tametomo lived here, but since there is no record in ancient books, it is not certain. Tametomo's》
《Small text: eldest son Yoshisane lived in hiding in Chita District, Owari Province, and his grandson Ichibe-tarō Yoshisue resided in Ichibe Manor here. Perhaps he built his ancestor's tomb. Also, in the historical documents of Gankō-ji Temple in Ushidate Village》
《Small text: it appears that Tametomo's son Otō-jirō Yoshitsugu lived here, but this is also uncertain. Tametomo had four sons and one daughter, but there is no person named Yoshitsugu. However, since there is a connection to Tametomo, one cannot say it is not his》
《Small text: tomb, so following the legend that has become well-known among the people, we do not forcibly argue its truth or falsehood》

Owari Famous Places Illustrated, Volume One 《Small text: End》