From "Hakusenshū" (Collection of Moored Boats):
"Market people, sell these hats as snow umbrellas" — Bashō

Gozu Tennō Shrine and Shinmei Shrine (located on the north side of Tonya-machi. The deity of Tennō Shrine is Susanoo-no-Mikoto, and the deity of Shinmei Shrine is Amaterasu Ōmikami) Subsidiary shrines (Konpira Shrine, Akiba Shine)

Regular festivals (On the 20th of the first month, kagura is performed according to ancient custom. For details, I defer to "Biyō Nenjū Gyōji" written by Enkōan and will omit them here. On the 10th of the sixth month there is a trial performance, and on the following 11th day, four festival floats with mechanical dolls are pulled around. The craftsmanship of the dolls is extremely ingenious. Also on the 10th of the eighth month there are kagura and hot water rituals)

Sacred trees (There are large pine and hackberry trees. The pine has withered in recent years, while the hackberry is now flourishing) Shrine priest (Aoki family)

Shōbōzan Seion-ji Temple (Located in Higashi-Biwajima, a branch temple of Shōgen-ji in Mifuchi Village of the Sōtō sect. The exact year of founding is not clear) Principal image (Amida Nyorai, created by Eshin Sōzu)

Yakushi Hall (This was the protective principal image of Lord Moronaga, called the Yakushi of the Mosquito Festival)

According to the temple's origin story, the Mosquito Festival Yakushi Nyorai was created by Kōbō Daishi with one prayer for each stroke of the chisel, and was Lord Moronaga's protective principal image. It was established for the spiritual repose of the lord's beloved concubine after her death, and the temple was named Seion-ji after the deceased woman's posthumous name (Seion-in Shōgetsu Reishō Daishi).

Originally it was a sacred site of the Tendai sect with a seven-hall garan complex, but the buildings were washed away in floods during the Ōei era and burned down again during the Kyōroku era. However, through both water and fire disasters, only the Nyorai image remained intact as a miraculous statue. Around that time, Sensō Donshū, the eighth abbot of Shōgen-ji, restored this temple and converted it to the current sect.

Lord Moronaga's memorial tablet (inscribed as "Myōon-in-den Daisōkoku Moronaga-kō, founder and establisher of this temple," dated the 9th day of the 2nd month of Kenkyū 3)

Sacred treasure: One scroll painting of Lord Moronaga (This was an ancient painting from the Kenkyū period, but over the years the five colors became difficult to distinguish, so recently...)