Main Buddha《Marginal note: Amida Nyorai, work of Gyōki》

Hōkisan Saigan-ji Temple《Marginal note: Located south of Hōzōji Temple, it is a direct subsidiary of Higashi Honganji Temple. Originally it was Tendai sect, but Koreyoshi, younger brother of Baba Shichirō Korefusa, a resident of Kai Province, became a monk and took the name Saiei. He was the uncle of Baba Mino-no-kami Nobufusa. During the Bunmei era, he converted to Master Rennyo's teachings and restored this temple, changing it to the present sect. During the Keichō era, when the castle was built, it moved to Kinshita Sengen-chō, and during the Genroku era it moved again to the present location. The main hall of this temple was built with surplus materials from the castle construction, granted by the lord》Main Buddha《Marginal note: Standing Amida statue, work of Kasuga》Sacred Treasures: Substitute Amida Nyorai painting《Marginal note: Brush of Master Rennyo》Amida painting《Marginal note: Brush of Master Jitsunyo》Yakushi Nyorai painting《Marginal note: Handed down from the founder, brush of Chō-densu》Amida Nyorai《Marginal note: Work of Prince Shōtoku, protective Buddha of Baba Mino-no-kami》Takeda Shingen's war drum《Marginal note: Inscribed on the body "Tembun 2, 2nd month, Hiei Jinbei"》Naginata owned by Mino-no-kami, Painting of Mount Fuji《Marginal note: Brush of lord Zuiryū-in-kimi》The following are omitted《Marginal note: Since this temple is adopted land of the Ōgimachi family, the purple curtains and green blinds are all donations from the Ōgimachi family》Sub-temple《Marginal note: Yuishin-ji》

Reihōzan Shōgaku-ji Temple《Marginal note: Located south of Saigan-ji Temple, direct subsidiary of Higashi Honganji Temple. Originally of the Bukōji sect, called Reifūzan Daion-in Shōgaku-ji and was temple family land, but in Genroku 4 it changed to the present sect. In Kan'ei 5, it was restored by the monk Ryōsei and was located in Kinshita Rokku-chō, but moved to the present location in Shōtoku 6. Due to fires in both Genroku and Kan'ei periods, temple treasures and records were lost》Main Buddha《Marginal note: Standing Amida statue》

Hanano-ki (Flower Trees)《Marginal note: Refers to the area around the samurai residences north of Odaidokoro-chō, west of the Egawa river. Before the capital relocation, it was a valley beneath Mount Tennō where several cherry trees grew, so by the gracious thought of the founding lord, it was named Hanano-ki》

Sengen Shrine《Marginal note: Located south of Kinshita Egawa-chō, moved from Fujizuka-chō during the Keichō era. Annual festival on September 4th. There is a Tenman-gū shrine within the grounds. Shrine keeper: Mitani family》

Gyokozan Kakuhō-ji Temple《Marginal note: Located north of Kinshita Ebiya-chō, Shingon sect, subsidiary of Mantoku-ji Temple in Nagano village》Main Buddha《Marginal note: Yakushi Buddha, work of Gyōki, called Tora Yakushi (Tiger Yakushi)》Hōkyōin Pagoda