Pagoda《Marginal note: Carved on the stone surface is "Respectfully dedicated to the construction of a Hōkyōin Pagoda, Ōei 11, year of the Metal Monkey, 2nd month, 15th day, petitioner Toku Amida Butsu, respectfully submitted"》

Kōsai-ji Temple《Marginal note: Located in Kamijuku Goheizō-chō, Honganji sect Eastern branch, subsidiary of Shōman-ji Temple in Harisaki, Mikawa Province. Founded in Eiroku 1. This temple has special significance as it enshrines the memorial tablets of successive generations of lords. This is based on ancient permission and is said to be of unparalleled scale》Main Buddha《Marginal note: Standing Amida statue》

Yama Shrine《Marginal note: Located to the east of Kōsai-ji Temple. The original site was within the castle's Ofukai area, but it was moved here during the Keichō capital relocation. Annual festival is held on both November 6th and 7th. Shrine keeper: Mitani family》

Takeshima Tenman-gū《Marginal note: Located south of Yama Shrine. An ancient mirror before the altar bears the characters "Takeshima Tenman-gū." Takeshima was originally a place name, and retainers of Imagawa Ujiyoshi are said to have resided in Takeshima. This appears in the Nagoya Battle Records. Annual festivals are on the 25th of the 1st, 5th, and 9th months. The shrine keeper is concurrently served by the Mitani family of Yama Shrine}}

Inō Highway《Marginal note: This is the road that goes north along the bank of the Egawa river, west of Kamijuku. In spring, people of all classes come and go for picnics at Inō Embankment. Looking north from around Jōshin Kannon Hall, one can see at a glance Kaga's Mount Haku, Shinano's Mount Ontake, Hida's Mount Norikura, Mino's Mount Ena, Ōmi's Mount Ibuki, Ise's Mount Tado, and other peaks crowned with snow throughout the four seasons - a landscape that rivals the view of the rice fields in front}}

Chōkyūzan Endon-ji Temple《Marginal note: Located on the northwest side of Gojō Bridge Street, Nichiren sect, subsidiary of Ryūhon-ji Temple in Kitano, Kyoto. There is a Kishimojin Hall within the grounds where worshippers gather every month on the 29th》Main Buddha《Marginal note: Hokke Sanbō (Three Treasures of the Lotus Sutra)》

Aharayama Keiei-ji Temple《Marginal note: Located east adjacent to Endon-ji Temple, Honganji sect Eastern branch, subsidiary of Hōkō-ji Temple in Kyoto. Founded by Shaku Zenshō on March 28th, Eishō 8, year of the Metal Sheep. Originally located in Aihara village, Kasugai district, it was moved to Shōman-ji-chō during the Keian era, then moved to the present location in Kyōhō 9}}Main Buddha《Marginal note: Amida Buddha, work of Kasuga}}