On the twenty-third day of the tenth month, day of kinoto-mi, Imperial Lady-in-Waiting of Junior Third Rank, Princess Hiroi, passed away. Hiroi was a descendant of Prince Nagachika of Second Rank. Her father was Prince Ogawa of Senior Fifth Rank. In the fourth year of Jinshu, she was granted Junior Third Rank, and in the third year of Ten'an, she was transferred to the position of Imperial Lady-in-Waiting (her previous post was Assistant Imperial Lady-in-Waiting). She was over eighty years old when she died. From her youth, Hiroi cultivated virtue and proper conduct, moved with propriety, was praised for her skill in poetry, and excelled at saibara court music. Many enthusiasts came to learn from her. When she passed away, people of the time mourned her loss, as recorded, but no ancient texts record that there is a grave here. The tradition seems to have been lost.

Iō-zan Tōkō-ji Temple is located on the south side west of Hiroi Yokomitsu-zō Misono-chō, and is a branch temple of the Shingon sect's Tennō-bō. It was an ancient temple founded by the priest Taichō in the first year of Tempyō, but in the second year of Genna, the priest Ryōchō from Jizō-in Temple in Atsuta revitalized it and moved there. Therefore, many of the temple's treasures are items that Ryōchō brought from Atsuta. The principal image is a bronze statue of Yakushi (Medicine Buddha), originally called Chiharano Yakushi, but common people came to understand and call it Chihana no Yakushi. Therefore, when women in childbirth who have trouble with milk production hang ema votive tablets and pray to this Yakushi Nyorai, there are beneficial effects, and the spiritual responses are remarkable. This too may be due to the great compassionate vow, as the reverent faith of all people continues to increase and the temple prospers.

There is a guardian Hachiman shrine. Temple treasures include: a painting of Fudō (said to be copied by Chōdenji of the honji-butsu of Atsuta Sword Shrine), one scroll of solicitation documents from Atsuta Shrine (said to be a scroll written by Tessho-ki in the third month of Bunmei 11, though Asakura Shigeiri's authentication states it is the handwriting of Ninagawa Chikamasa), and one snake jewel (said to have been brought by Ryōchō from Atsuta, but the legend ventures into ghost stories, so it is omitted).

Sōkei-zan Dairin-ji Temple is located on the east side south of Fushimi-chō-dōri Hanaya-chō, and is a branch of the Rinzai sect's Myōshin-ji in Kyoto. It was founded in the eleventh month of Kan'ei 5 by Takikawa Bunzen-no-kami Tadamasa (Buddhist name: Dairin-ji Sōki Koji), with the monk Ōryū as founding priest, serving as the Takikawa family temple. The principal image is a wooden statue of Shakyamuni. The sub-temple Hōshun-in was established in the third month of Kyōhō 9 by relocating a sub-temple from Gukei-ji in Nakamura, Kani District, Mino Province.

Shūnan-zan Goshin-in Kōmyō-ji Temple is located on the west side at the north end of Ishikiri-chō, and is a branch of the Jōdo sect's Chion-in in Kyoto. It was founded in Ōei 25 by the priest Kyūsei, originally located in Nakamura, Aichi District, later moved to Kiyosu, and moved here again during the Keichō era. It is said that when Lord Hideyoshi was young, he practiced calligraphy at Kōmyō-ji when this temple was in its former location, but this is not so - it is well known that it was at Kōmyō-ji in Kayatsu. The principal image is a seated statue of Amida. There is a Ten Kings Hall and the sub-temple Ginshō-in, which was rebuilt on the eleventh day of the twelfth month of Enpō 8.