《Note: It fell into decay, but during the Genna era (1615-1624), Jumyoin came from Kuguri in Mino and restored it | The main shrine is Tendogū with Hachiman and Benzaiten on the left and right. There are many subsidiary shrines within the precincts》

Tominagasan Yōnenji Temple 《Note: Located on the south side of Iida-machi, Eastern｜branch temple directly under Higashi Honganji》 was founded in Keichō 2 (1597) by the monk Kenshō. Kenshō was the eldest son Kyūtarō of Tominaga Rokuzaemon, grandson of the fifth generation of Tominaga Chikugo-no-kami, lord of Nagafuke Castle in Inabe District, Ise Province. Therefore it is called Tominagasan. 《Note: The genealogy of the lineage from Chikugo-no-kami｜still exists today》 Main image 《Note: Amida｜Buddha》《Note: Made by｜An'ami》

Temple treasures: Portrait of Saint Shinran 《Note: In the true calligraphy of Master Rennyo with an inscription on the back saying it was given to disciple Kūzen｜this is also seen in the Rennyo Shōnin Ichidaiki Kikigaki and Yamashina Renshoki. Also En-》《Note: There are numerous hanging scrolls in the true calligraphy of Kōdaishi Saint Shinran, Master Rennyo, Master Jitsunyo, etc. Also crystal prayer beads handed down｜from Master Kyōnyo and many other items, but as there are too many to mention, I omit them here. Also due to connections with Lord Konoe,｜purple curtains with his family crest were donated by His Lordship, which is unique to this temple among｜the sect. Also there are very many calligraphies and paintings in the direct hand of the domain lord and ritual implements with the hollyhock crest》

Karasu Pond 《Note: Located in the rear garden｜with forest》《Note: The springs are also naturally worthy of admiration. This pond was originally a large pond with the same water source as the Karasu｜spring in the gardens of the current Hiraiwa family and Teisoin, but somehow traffic became separated and even those who know of it became few. There are many red lotuses on the pond surface》《Note: During the sixth and seventh months, flowers bloom every morning creating an indescribably pure and wondrous sight. Among the forest springs is a shrine to the tutelary deity Izuna Myōjin｜○The former head priest of this temple, Ikōin Reiyō, was of great learning and virtue and served as assistant lecturer at the main temple's academy, so after his death》《Note: Students from various provinces built a stone monument within the temple grounds to commemorate their teacher's benevolence. The text was by Lord Kiyooka Chōzai and the calligraphy by Lord Itsutsuji Toyonaka》

《Note: Yōnenji Temple Rear Garden Karasu Pond - Viewing Lotus, Composed in Ancient Style, One Chapter　　Refined》
《Note: The pond takes its name from crows, but why call the water color dark? In the sixth and seventh months, red lotuses emerge from clear ripples｜In the cool dawn flowers summon me to come and pole a melon-rind boat》

Takahamasan Heidenin Temple 《Note: Located east of Iida-machi, branch temple of Jōdo sect Kenchūji. Originally the family temple of the Hiraiwa clan in Mikawa Province, when Kazue-no-kami Chikayoshi ruled Kai Province, it was moved to the provincial capital of that country》《Note: But in Keichō 12 (1607) when Chikayoshi became lord of Honzan Castle, the temple was also moved to this domain, first located around Katahata Kajiya-machi｜but in the same 18th year (1613) it was moved again to its present location. Chikayoshi's Buddhist name was Heidenin-dono Etsuō Kyūgaku Daijōji, and those who died with him》