(later moved to this domain) Main Buddha (Lotus Sutra Three Treasures)

Suzukiyama Kyōjun-ji (located on the south side of the same town, directly affiliated with Nishi Hongan-ji. Built in June of Tenshō 10 [1582] by Takigawa Sakon-shōgen Kazumasu, originally located in Umayabashi in Kōzuke Province. Later, Suzuki Shigeyuki's eldest son Shigeyoshi rebuilt it for the spiritual benefit of his father Shigeyuki, moved it to Komatsudo in Kai Province in Keichō 6 [1601], then moved it again to Sototsubo village in Niwa district in Keichō 11, and relocated it to the present site during the Kan'ei era. The detailed history is recorded in the inscription on the temple bell.)
Main Buddha (Amida Nyorai is a sacred image one shaku two sun in height, carved by Prince Shōtoku himself for the propagation of Buddhism in his joy after subduing the heretical views of Moriya. This sacred image was given by Kennyo Shōnin to Suzuki Shigeyuki when he sided with Hongan-ji during the battle between Hongan-ji and Lord Nobunaga at Ishiyama in Settsu Province. After his triumphant return, he went into hiding in the depths of Kiso in Shinshū. Since this was a sacred image that Shigeyuki had faith in throughout his life, after his death, his retainer Imai Gen'go presented the sacred Buddha and other relics to Shigeyoshi. Later, when Shigeyoshi donated them to this temple, numerous treasures including Shigeyuki's weapons and relics remain. Also, the six-character sacred name in the genuine calligraphy of Saint Shinran is called the "Toyowaka substitute name" and is especially revered. The rest are too numerous to mention.)

Kōkōzan Yōren-ji (located behind Nabeyachō, affiliated with Chion-ji temple at Hyakumanben in Kyoto of the Jōdo sect. Built in Tenbun 24 [1555] by Hayashi Sado-no-kami Nobukatsu, a senior retainer of Lord Nobunaga, for the spiritual benefit of his deceased father Kōkō.)
Main Buddha (wooden statue of Amida)
Kannon Hall (enshrines statues of thirty-three Kannon. In this temple is the grave of the ancestors of the tea master Hirao Kazunari. It is a rare stone pagoda with a large natural stone as base, with memorial tablet, incense burner, flower vases and other ritual implements carved into a single stone. [His ancestor] fled the turmoil at the end of the Ming dynasty, became naturalized and came to this domain, receiving the surname Hirao from the lord. He was actually of the Cao family. From then on, generations have served [the domain] and continue unbroken to this day.)

Jōkakuzan Zenkō-ji (located west of Yōren-ji, affiliated with Kōgaku-in of the Jōdo sect. Originally located in Kuroda village in Haguri district, it was moved to the Nagono area after the Kuroda battle of the Meitoku era. According to the "Jitenaiō Shō," there was a person named Honda Yoshimitsu in Imoikō, Koizumi-shō, Ina district, Shinano Province, who carried home a statue of Amida Nyorai that had been abandoned in Namba Horie in Settsu Province. When he reached the Kuroda inn in Owari Province, he spread rough straw mats, placed a mortar, enshrined the Nyorai on top and prostrated himself. That night he received a divine message consoling Zenkō's hardships, and from then on the Nyorai carried Zenkō to Shinano. This is an ancient temple built at the site where Zenkō lodged in Kuroda village.)
Main Buddha (Ikkō Sanzon Amida)