Jimyōzan Kōgaku-in Kyōan-ji Temple (located south of Nabeyachō, a branch temple of Jōdo sect Kyoto Chion-in). Kyōan-ji was originally located in Shinpu, Koma District, Kai Province, but on March 7, Keichō 5 (1600), Senchiyokun (son of the Divine Lord, whose mother was Sōō-in-dono) passed away. His posthumous Buddhist name was Kōgaku-in-dono Kasō Rinyō Daidōshi, and he was buried at this temple. In Keichō 13 (1608), Hiraiwa Kazue-no-kami Chikayoshi moved it to Kiyosu, but it was relocated here by the vow of Sōō-in-dono. Main Buddha (Amida Triad), study hall (relocated the sleeping quarters of Sōō-in-dono to serve as the abbot's quarters), main gate (relocated from the castle gate of the Divine Ancestor Lord's Kiyosu and erected in Kan'ei 19), guardian Kumano Shrine (enshrining wooden statues of the Three Shrine Gongen), bell tower, sub-temples (Jōhō-in and Kagetsu-in. These two buildings were established in Genna 3 for Sōō-in-dono's father Shimizu Kaga-no-kami Munekiyo, posthumous name Jōhō-in, and his mother Kagetsu-in. Joshō-in was built in Keichō 18).

Buppōzan Tōjū-ji Temple (located on the west side north of Zenjimachi Surugachō, a branch temple of Jōdo sect Nanjimachi Saikō-in). Main Buddha (seated statue of Amida), Yakushi Hall (the main Buddha was originally at Komakiyama. When the temple buildings burned down, only this statue escaped the fire and was found seated on bamboo grass leaves in a thicket, so the temple monks found it mysterious and revered it, naming it Sasaba Yakushi. It is made from the same wood as the main Buddha of Hōrai-ji in Mikawa and is an ancient Buddha that was at Sugimiō Hall in Inaki-shō, Niwa District. Now it is called Hechima Yakushi, and people make vows believing it has a vow to save from the suffering of colic, and when there is efficacy, they offer bottle gourds at the front of the hall).

Juryōzan Ganshō-ji Temple (located on the east side south of Tōjū-ji, a branch temple of Sōtō sect Banshō-ji. Built by Oda Bingo-no-kami Nobuhide in Kyōroku 1 (1528), it is the bodhi temple of his mother, the Zen nun Ganshō-in Mogaku Ryōhan. The landscape garden in the rear is particularly worthy of admiration. Also, the temple's retirement quarters Daiei-ken is located to the north of the same town). Main Buddha (seated statue of Shakyamuni).

Taisūzan Eian-ji Temple (located on the east side south of Surugachō in the same town, a branch temple of Sōtō sect Shōgen-ji in Mibuchi Village. Built by Kinoshita Higo-no-kami Toyotomi Toshinao, posthumous name Eian-ji Teian Dōshō, originally located in Kita Village, Kaitō District).