(continuing from the previous page) temple). Main Buddha (wooden statue of Sacred Kannon).

Honkōzan Chōei-ji Temple (located on the west side south of Eian-ji, a branch temple of Nichiren sect Kyoto Myōman-ji. Built in Kanbun 8 by the elder statesman Naruse Hayato-no-kami Masachika for the bodhi of his mother Eiju-in). Main Buddha (Hokke Sanpō - Three Treasures of the Lotus Sutra).

Butsuryokuzan Honryū-ji Temple (located on the east side north of Hokkejimachi, a branch temple of Nichiren sect Honshō-ji in the same town. Built in Bunroku 1, it was a temple that was in Kiyosu. The perpetual chanting of the daimoku in Jōshō Hall is called Jō-daimoku and began on October 6, Genroku 9). Main Buddha (Hokke Sanpō).

Myōchōzan Shōon-ji Temple (located on the west side south of Honryū-ji, a branch temple of Nichiren sect Kyoto Honkoku-ji. Originally located in Orizu Village, Nakajima District, it was founded by the nun Myōchō. Once a traveling monk came carrying a wooden statue of Saint Nichiren, gave it to Myōchō, and departed. Characters reading "Bun'ei 10, Year of the Metal Rooster" could be seen on the back of the statue, so it was known to be a statue carved by the Saint himself. In Kyōroku 4, monk Nicchin built a shadow hall and enshrined it, but later it was relocated here and is called the Miō Hall. This statue is one of the three Japanese statues carved by the Saint in Sado Province in Bun'ei 10. The three statues refer to wooden images enshrined at three temples: Kyoto Honkoku-ji, Kan'ō-ji in Edo Yanaka, and this Shōon-ji, as mentioned in "Kakyō Yūran"). Main Buddha (Hokke Sanpō).

Keiun-zan Hokke-ji Temple (located next door south of the Miō Hall, same sect and branch temple. Built during the Entoku era by Oda Tachi Saemon-no-jō Tsunekatsu with monk Nichiju as the founding priest. The fifth-generation monk Nichiyō was revered by Lord Nobunaga and was invited to Gifu where he also established a Hokke-ji temple, but after the Lord moved to Azuchi in Ōmi, he returned to live at this temple. Being an ancient temple with proper lineage, it preserves a great many ancient documentary proofs of the Oda family). Main Buddha (Hokke Sanpō).

Hōjuzan Jōtoku-ji Temple (located on the west side south of Hokkejimachi Surugachō street, a branch temple of Nichiren sect Kyoto Myōman-ji. Built in Keichō 6 and moved from Kiyosu in Keichō 16). Main Buddha (Hokke Sanpō).

Myōnichizan Myōren-ji Temple (located on the east side south of Jōtoku-ji, a branch temple of Nichiren sect Tanjō-ji in Kominato, Awa Province. Built in Keian 2. The mountain name and temple name are derived from the posthumous Buddhist names of the parents of Founder Saint Nichiren). Main Buddha (Hokke Sanpō).