Hakusan Gongen Shrine (Located on a small hill east of Suruga-chō Street. As it is the tutelary deity of this area, the main shrine building is built with utmost beauty. The annual festival is on June 9th with sacred kagura performances, and votive lanterns from various neighborhoods fill the mountaintop without gaps, creating an illusion of daylight, with particularly large crowds gathering)

Hōei-zan Daien-ji Temple (Located on the north side of Okuda-chō. It belongs to the Eastern branch of the Hongan-ji sect, a subsidiary temple of Jōdo-ji in Gifu, Mino Province. Originally called Jōen-ji, it was renamed to its current name during the Kyōhō era) Principal Buddha (Amida Nyorai, created by Eshin)

Grave of Kataoka Gengozaemon Takafusa (Located at Kentoku-ji Temple in Higashida-chō. Buddhist name: Jinkan'yōken Shinji. Monument erected by the samurai Kumai and Imai families. He was one of the forty-seven loyal retainers of Akō. He was actually a child of a local samurai family who became an adopted son of the Kataoka family of Akō. After his lord's house was destroyed, all the conspirators disguised themselves, and Takafusa also came to this domain selling bear gall pills to meet his real parents. His father suspected him, saying "Do you have no intention of avenging your lord?" and angrily berated him, but even when called a coward, Takafusa did not reveal his true intentions and left in silence. Soon after the revenge was accomplished, when someone selling printed accounts of the incident passed by their gate, his real father ran out asking "Is my child among those people?" He took the paper and upon reading it, fell to the ground and cried out with joy. In the printed biography of the loyal retainers, Takafusa's portrait inscription reads: "Born in Owari, retainer of Akō, what need for special mention of severed sleeves, cease discussing peach休, plotting revenge without self-interest, standing out from the crowd, dedicating his life, who could not be moved by such gratitude, how pure is this young man")

Teiryū-zan Sairen-ji Temple (Located on the north side of Higashi-monzen-chō. A Jōdo sect temple affiliated with Chion-in. Founded during the Eiroku era for Sairenin Teigaku Junshō Daishi, daughter of Lord Nobunaga. Since the founding priest Soteki was from the Takeda Shingen clan, many of this temple's treasures are relics of that general) Principal Buddha (Standing statue of Amida) Temple treasures: One food container (eating utensil used by Shingen in military campaigns), One scroll of Shingen's guardian deity (painted by Takuma), Shingen's banner (Navy blue quarter-banner with gold paint reading "Swift as wind, quiet as forest, fierce as fire, immovable as mountain," but half is torn and lost, with only a few characters remaining. Shingen's armor was also here but has now been lost) Sub-temple (Teiyō-in)

Fuji Gongen Shrine (Located on the west side of Fujizuka-chō. Originally called Maeyama of Yamaguchi, with extensive shrine grounds. During the Ōei era, Maeyama Genzaemon served as the priest, but when the castle was constructed, the shrine was moved to the south of Ebiya-chō in Kinshita, and the original site became Asano Kii-no-kami's construction site. Even after it became a samurai residence, only the burial mound and this shrine remained, called Fujizuka, which became the town's name. Annual festivals are held on the 11th of the 1st, 5th, and 9th months)