Iō-zan Rurikō-ji Temple (Located on the west side of Hisaya-chō 1-chōme. A Sōtō Zen temple founded by monk Keian, originally located in Kiyosu but moved here during the Genna era. The principal Buddha Yakushi Nyorai in the main hall is a sacred Buddha that served as the guardian deity of a person named Jōan. Recently, Konpira has been invited to the temple grounds and is flourishing. Also enshrined are Akiba shrine and various Kannon and Jizō statues)

Gyokurin-zan Seigan-ji Temple (Located on the west side going down Fukuro-chō in the same neighborhood. A Jōdo sect temple, subsidiary to Shōgaku-ji in Atsuta, founded during the Kyōroku era. The perpetual nembutsu chanting that began on November 15th of Genroku 2 was famous throughout the world as "Hisaya Seigan-ji constant nembutsu," but has now ceased) Principal Buddha (Statue of Amida, created by An'ami) Jizō Bodhisattva (created by Kōbō Daishi) Temple treasure: Banner of Lord Taira no Shigemori (Written with the six-character name on red silk, with "Shigemori, Senior Second Rank, General of the Left, called Komatsu Naidaijin, Buddhist name for pure lotus bodhi, Genkū" written below)

Asahi-zan Hijikata Jōnen-ji Temple (Located on the north side entering east from Kozakura-chō Ōtsu-chō. An in-family temple directly affiliated with Higashi Hongan-ji) Originally located in Asahi village of Kiyosu, it was an ancient Tendai sect temple. The restoration founder Kyōe was a descendant of the Seiwa Genji, grandson of Prince Tsunemoto, descendant of Yamato-no-kami Yorichika, son of Hijikata Dewa-no-kami Haruuji, called Sakon-jō Tokinao. He became a monk during the Kanshō era and became the head priest of this temple. When Master Rennyo returned to Kyoto from the Kantō region and stayed at this temple, he became a direct disciple, changed the sect, and restored all the temple buildings in Meiō 3, but moved to the current location in Keichō 15.

○Principal Buddha (This is a sacred Buddha under the protection of the Shogun, a standing statue of Amida Nyorai created by An'ami, donated to the current resident Jōshin along with several items bearing the Tokugawa family crest. This is unique to this temple within the sect. The Shogun occasionally visited this temple and bestowed personal writings and undergarments. Lord Genkyō also granted a six-character name in his own calligraphy, which is still preserved as a temple tradition) Six-character name in Master Rennyo's own calligraphy (Originally the principal Buddha, this name was written and given to Kyōe during their master-disciple pledge, but after receiving the current principal Buddha from the Shogun, it became a temple treasure) Imperial decree, golden statue of Prince Shōtoku, daily treasure sword