(Transmitted from Hijikata Tarō Sueharu, resident of Uchi District in Yamato Province; besides this, there are many authentic writings of Saint Shinran, Master Kakujo and successive generations, as well as handwritten items by the Shogun family and distinguished persons, but these are omitted) Sub-temple (Kōun-ji)

Enichi-san Kōen-ji (Located at the southwest corner of Ōtsu-machi Street and Kozakura-chō, direct branch temple of Higashi Hongan-ji. In Entoku 1, Ōta Jinzaemon-no-jō Yorinobu, later appointed to Junior Fifth Rank Lower Musashi-no-kami, shaved his head and became a disciple of Master Rennyo, changing his name to Zensai. He founded this temple in Nakata Village, Kaisai District, moved to Kiyosu in Keichō 9, and after the relocation of the government seat, moved here. The characters "Karauto Village" visible on the back of the main Buddha statue indicate that this temple was originally located in Karōdo, Katori-shō, Kuwana District, Ise Province. It is also said that during the Eishō era it moved from Karōdo to Nakata in Ibarae, Kaisai District)

Main Buddha (Standing statue of Amida)
Sacred Treasures: Amida Buddha (made by Bodhisattva Gyōki, protective Buddha of ancestor Yorinobu)
One sword (item possessed by Yorinobu)
Six-character sacred name (authentic writing given by Master Rennyo to Zensai as a memento)
Portrait of Amida Buddha (consecrated by Master Jitsunyo, with Entoku 1, year of earth-cock, and Eishō 2, year of wood-ox written twice in his own hand on the back)
Portrait of Master Kyōjo (with handwritten eulogy and name, etc. Other rare ritual implements are all omitted. ○This temple is on land adopted by the Ishii family, so the green curtains and purple hangings are all donations from the Ishii family)

Hearing that a new pavilion called Zangetsu-tei was built at Nagoya Kōen-ji:
"The moonlight remaining in the pure window - is it for the sake of the dharma that teaches the West?" Lord Ishii Gyōsen

Kukyō-san Enrin-ji (Located on the north side entering west from Fukuro-machi Street to Ōtsu-machi, branch temple of Jōdo sect Kyoto Jōka-in. Originally called Shōgaku-in, a ruined Shingon sect temple site, renovated and converted by Master Kantsū in Enkyō 2, June, giving it the current temple name. Kantsū's character name was Muge, a person from Ōnaru, Kaisai District, lay surname Yokoi. A remarkable famous monk from youth, he traveled to Edo, Kamakura, Kyoto and elsewhere, received the five-fold transmission from Priest Yūten at age seventeen, and established a nembutsu school, residing at this temple. This is recorded in the Record of Priest Kantsū's Religious Practices. Even now the constant nembutsu, the sound of chanting, and temple bell continue day and night, truly the lingering influence of Master Kantsū)
Main Buddha (Seated statue of Amida)

Shugen Hanjō-in (Located on the west side going down Ise-machi Street to Fukuro-machi, direct affiliate of Tōzan-ha Sanpō-in. A woman called Jūshichiya, a shrine maiden of Ise Inner Shrine, left the Inner Shrine in the Kan'ei era due to certain circumstances and came to Narumi in this province, serving as a shrine maiden at Hachiman Shrine. When the domain lord held kagura performances at the Yanagihara prayer hall, he sought skilled shrine maidens and summoned this Jūshichiya from Narumi. In Genroku 2, she became the son-in-law of Shugen Hanjō-in and resided here. Even afterward, when kagura was performed, she was always summoned. By the lord's wishes, her name was changed to Hanamori, and since then shrine maidens have been called Hanamori)
Main Buddha (Sacred Kannon made by Kōbō Daishi)