Kigaku-san Banshō-ji Temple (Located in Ura-monzen-machi, a branch temple of Sōji-ji in Noto Province of the Sōtō Zen sect)

In Tenbun 9 (1540), Oda Bingo-no-kami Nobuhide, lord of Furuwatari Castle, established this temple with priest Daiun as the founding abbot. On March 3rd of Tenbun 20 (1551), when Nobuhide died at Suemori Castle, he was buried at this temple. The temple took its name from his posthumous Buddhist name, Banshō-in Tōgan Dōken. After the construction of Nagoya Castle in Keichō 15 (1610), the temple was moved to this location, and its former site became townhouses (this is present-day Sakura-machi).

The principal image is Kannon (Avalokiteśvara), with Zenzai-dōji (Sudhana) and the Eight-Year-Old Dragon Girl as attendant figures. There are a meditation hall and bell tower.

The temple bells bear the following inscriptions:
- Mino Province, Kakamu District, Yugeta Manor, Saraki Village, Nagatsuka Shrine bell; patron Usuda Genzaemon Fujiwara Sukesada, Jinō lay monk, shrine priest Fujiwara Kanemitsu, master craftsman Hyōe-tarō Fujiwara Tomotsugu, with fifty-four associates, 18th day of the 11th month, Bunmei 7 (1475)
- Bell of Takada-ji Temple in Kasugai District, Owari Province; Hira Sasashita Yamashiro-no-kami Fujiwara Sadanori, Kuchino Isen lay monk, Akachi Shin'emon Yoshihisa, 20th day of the 12th month, Daiei 5 (1525), scribe Myōshin
- Donated by the 4th abbot monk Daisō of Kigaku-san Banshō-ji Temple, Nagoya Manor, Owari Province, carved on an auspicious day in mid-spring of a hinoe-inu year of the Tenshō era

Tomb of Lady Kōgen-in (consort of the founding lord, daughter of Asano Kii-no-kami Yoshinaga, buried at this temple due to her faith in this sect)

Temple treasure: Ono koto (a treasured relic beloved by Lady Kōgen-in; many other precious objects exist but are omitted here)

Guardian shrine: Hakusetsu Inari Shrine

Sub-temples: Fukuju-in, Mannen-ji, Eishō-in, Seigan-in

Kakurezato (Hidden Village) (refers to the area south of Banshō-ji's rear gate. Recently, a potter named Toyohachi began making raku-fired vessels for tea and sake in this village, gaining great fame and popularity. Now his son Toyosuke continues the craft and has also gained great renown as a master craftsman)

Kasuga Shrine (located on Maetsu Nagamichi; deities enshrined are: First Hall - Takeikazuchi-no-mikoto, Second Hall - Sainushi-no-mikoto, Third Hall - Ame-no-koyane-no-mikoto, Fourth Hall - Hime-ōgami. This shrine was restored by the Maki family. A large pond was dug to the west to resemble Sarusawa Pond in Nara. The area still retains the place name "Ike-no-uchi" (Within the Pond). The annual festival is held on August 18th with kagura performances)