《but he was late in coming out to greet him, which angered the provincial governor who considered it disrespectful, so he severely reprimanded and punished him. The head priest then went to the shrine and petitioned: "This matter is not my shame but the great deity's shame. Please punish the governor," he prayed. The deity manifested and declared: "Long ago in this province there was a monk named Shunko who tried to recite the Lotus Sutra and offer religious entertainment to me, but you found him troublesome and threw water on him and drove him away. Unable to bear my anger, he has now been reborn as the governor to exact retribution, so it is beyond my power to intervene. Since he is the reincarnation of Shunko, he bears the name Toshitsuna." This is recorded in the Fujinami chapter of Zoku Yotsugi Monogatari, Yorimichi's Hobutsu-shu, and Uji Shui Monogatari. ○During the Jokyu Disturbance, local residents gathered at the shrine grounds with their possessions and belongings to avoid the turmoil. Among them were those who had touched parental mourning taboos or birth pollution, which the shrine priests could not control, so they summoned the great deity and performed sacred music to divine the divine will. The oracle declared: "My descent to this land is to nurture and help all people. Do not prohibit them." The people rejoiced with deep faith and reverence, as recorded in Shaseki-shu. ○The Jikkinsho records that when Minister Myoon-in was in Owari Province, he visited Atsuta Shrine nightly. On the seventh night when the moon was clear, he played the biwa and performed the roei "May the literary arts of this worldly life..." whereupon the treasure hall shook tremendously. Even in these latter days, it is most auspicious when one masters the Way, and this event is recorded in Genpei Seisui-ki and Heike Monogatari, noting divine manifestations and oracles. ○In recent times, when Lord Nobunaga set out for Okehazama, he visited this shrine and prayed. In response, two white herons emerged from the sacred hall and flew eastward, and through divine assistance he achieved victory. This is recorded in Azuchi Sogyo-roku, Nobunaga-ki, Soken-ki, etc. Though there are countless other miraculous responses, these are omitted.》

Sacred Poetry《The poems from when Prince Yamato-takeru was alive are recorded in great numbers in Nihon Shoki, Kojiki, Kanpyo Engi, etc., which will be noted in the latter sections below. What is recorded here are only the divine poems from oracles》
《From Gyokuyo-shu》
　As mementos after the cherry blossoms scatter, I shall rely on the wisteria hanging from the pine
　　《This is said to be a poem of Atsuta Daimyojin. Long ago, the head priests of that shrine were generations of the Owari clan. Owari no Kazunori's daughter, named Matsu (Pine), became intimate with Fujiwara no Suekane and bore Suenori. After the deity gave this oracle, Suenori became the first [non-Owari] head priest, and his lineage continues unbroken to this day》