《When a certain man's wife became possessed by madness, a mountain temple monk chanted dharanis and performed ritual prayers, causing her to vomit up objects. She expelled a cursed doll made by a rival wife and nails that had been hammered into the torii gate of Atsuta Shrine, saying various things》
《It is recorded as such, but which torii gate this refers to is now unclear》

Narazu-no-ume (Barren Plum Tree) 《Located beside the Inner Tenjin Shrine; the ancient tree withered away and the current one grew from new shoots. It is popularly believed that finding plum fruits from this tree brings divine blessings, so many people search for them. This area is also called Yomogi-ga-shima (Mugwort Island), and》
《it is recorded in the "Kōranso" that finding mugwort around the hedge of this plum tree is auspicious. Even now, when worshippers happen to find a single stem of mugwort, they believe it brings remarkable spiritual responses to their prayers and good fortune, so they carefully》
《search for it as a custom. The origin of the name Hōrai-ga-shima (Penglai Island) will be described below》

Prayer Request to Atsuta Shrine: Petition for the Advancement of My Son Takachika to Court Position in the Coming Spring
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōe no Masahira

From "Chōya Gunsai"
Masahira was granted the crane tablet in the face of adversity and pressed the bear armrest in Owari Province. In the past, he was mired in the obscurity of the snow window; now he looks up to the divine assistance of Atsuta. Last year, following the divine worship and according to ancestral precedent, I already conducted a special festival. Before going to the capital recently, I offered sincere devotion and again conducted a special festival. This is because I have a wish in my heart. The beginning of the scholarly courtier tradition originated from the Ōe family, starting from the Engi era. My great-grandfather, Chiko-no-asomi, Provincial Governor of Iyo and Palace Reader, had a son, the scholar Koreyuki, who became a chamberlain. During the Tenryaku era, my grandfather, Middle Counselor Koreyuki, served as Palace Reader, and his son, the scholar Yoshimitsu, became a chamberlain. During Emperor En'yū's reign, my uncle, Major Controller of the Left Yoshimitsu, served as Palace Reader, and his son, the scholar Sadamoto, became a chamberlain. Now in the present time, while I, Masahira, serve as Palace Reader, my son Takachika has become a scholar. The family tradition has been maintained for four generations without decline. Does Heaven not rejoice in blessing the Ōe family? Also, Lord Koreyuki resigned from Senior Assistant Minister of Ceremonial and appointed his son, the scholar Yoshimitsu, as Junior Assistant Minister of Ceremonial. On the day Yoshimitsu was granted high rank, Koreyuki was reappointed as Provisional Senior Assistant Minister of Ceremonial. Now Takachika is destined to be appointed Junior Assistant Minister of Ceremonial next spring, but due to the taboo against father and son holding the same office, I must resign my position as Provisional Senior Assistant Minister of Ceremonial next spring. To maintain my grandfather's tradition, I wish to elevate my beloved son to high office. If I am fortunate to receive divine blessing and this matter is successfully accomplished, I will have Takachika conduct a special festival within the next year. 《Omitted》 Masahira's ancestor, Left Gate Guard Commander On...