《His Lordship On was once exiled to this province and served at the divine shrine. Now Masahira has unexpectedly become a provincial governor, and Takachika has also followed him here. It can be said that the scholars of the Ōe family have connections with Owari Province》
《and bonds with Atsuta Shrine.《Omitted》 Masahira himself composed this ritual prayer text, prostrating himself on the ground with reverence and making this respectful announcement. Fourth year of Chōhō, twelfth month, ninth day》

Prayer Text for the Offering of the Great Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra at Atsuta Shrine in Owari Province

From "Honchō Bunzui" (Literary Essence of Japan)
Provincial Governor, Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade, Acting Provisional Senior Assistant Minister of Ceremonial, concurrently Palace Scholar and Senior Assistant, Ōe no Masahira, bowing respectfully and paying homage to the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha, states: The governors of this province have for generations copied and offered the complete Great Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra in six hundred volumes for the tutelary Atsuta Shrine, and this has already become an established custom. Among them, if there were an official whom the deities would not accept, he would be unable to make offerings of this sūtra and also unable to complete his term of office. In the affairs of this province, nothing takes precedence over the Great Prajñāpāramitā assembly. Masahira was fortunate to emerge from the snow window of Gan-kō and mistakenly came to govern the customs of Owari Province. Had I not served as a palace reader to our sovereign, how could a simple-minded fool have become a provincial governor? Had I not planted good roots in this land, how could a quiet scholar have copied the Great Prajñāpāramitā? This year we encountered floods and great drought. Though the province has declined in administrative skill, there is little greed. Though I am personally avaricious, having no choice in matters, following old customs, I have solemnly adorned Atsuta's sacred shrine and disseminated the teaching texts of Prajñā. I invited sixty monks, performed music with two or three voices, arranged offerings of wealth and precious goods modestly, and properly prepared ritual vessels and implements.《Omitted》

From the eighth month of the third year of Chōhō of Japan to the tenth month of the first year of Kankō, over four years from beginning to end, I copied this. With the merit thus generated, I have solemnly adorned the Three Treasures, Great Ocean, and three sacred portals, and dedicated the merit to the celestial hosts, earth deities, three realms, and four benefactors. 《Omitted》 My wish has already been fulfilled, and my term of office is also complete. The time when I wish to return to my homeland is now not far away. Divine spirits, I pray you will grant me spiritual blessings. Masahira respectfully announces.

First year of Kankō, tenth month, fourteenth day. Respectful announcement regarding prayer requests.

From "Shinchō-ki" (Record of Nobunaga)
As for the Great Deity of this shrine, he is the ancestral spirit of successive sacred sovereigns and the protective deity of the imperial court. To guard the permanence of the house and nation, and especially to subdue the rebellion of barbarians, he has manifested his traces in the eastern coastal region. 《Omitted》 Nobunaga, as a descendant in the continuous lineage of the Taira Chancellor, was born into a house of military arts and barely succeeded to the hereditary profession. Since then, he has long regretted his ancestors' lawlessness and recently worried about...