《worried about the extreme disorder of the end times》, wishing again to restore the declining imperial capital, govern the nation's chaos, make the sovereign like Yao and Shun, and save the people from suffering - beyond this, there is no other sincere desire. 《Omitted》 Here Minamoto no Yoshi-

moto arose in the Suruga-Izu region, extending his might to the three distant provinces, violating near and far territories, destroying shrines, burning and scattering people's homes, acting according to his own will without respecting imperial wishes or following military commands. The evil portents

grow more vigorous each month and flourish each day, like intertwining vines that cannot be dealt with. Neither side will withdraw, but instead they use axes and hatchets. Now that things have come to this, will they still reach great strength? His forces are numerous, numbering over forty

thousand, while our forces are few, barely three thousand. Facing the many with the few is like a mantis confronting a chariot wheel, or a mosquito biting an iron ox. Without relying on the divine power of this shrine, how could we possibly achieve victory?

I have heard it told that Prince Yamato Takeru once destroyed the eastern barbarians at Kambara. The auspicious omens are like matching tallies - the swift execution of the rebels before our very eyes is certain. What I humbly pray for is that the two stones of water and fire

will display their spiritual efficacy as appropriate, and that the sharp blades of the eight swords will sever the heads of the rebel masses, immediately fulfilling our wishes. I humbly offer one arrow and arrowhead to serve in place of the Yu sacrifice at the western grove and the offering of duckweed and white artemisia. Now

this raising of righteous forces is absolutely not for private use or personal desire, but to restore the decline of the imperial way and save the people from danger. May the divine mirror not err. Therefore, this petition is as stated.

Third year of Eiroku, fifth month, nineteenth day　　　　　　　　　Taira no Nobunaga respectfully announces
Atsuta Shrine《The three characters are inscribed on a tablet at the Kaizō Gate. This is probably the authentic calligraphy of Great Master Henjō Kongō》　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Seika

From "Seika Literary Collection"
Five-colored clouds pass Penglai following our gaze, fairy maidens are confined below the palace gates, the Tang dynasty is trampled and broken, quickly returning
The waves of paired socks before the Kaizō Gate

Atsuta　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Razan
From "Hinoe-Tatsu Travel Record"

When eastern conquest was accomplished and the triumphant return came, the lodging once summoned Princess Miyazu. Who would say that the ghost from beneath Mawei Slope
came here one morning to establish this sacred shrine

Atsuta Shrine　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Shunsei
From "Mizunoto-Hitsuji Travel Record"

Passing through the inn to pay respects at Atsuta. Dense pine trees before the auspicious fence. The sacred traces of the secluded shrine, the register name of the great shrine of Owari
Province dates to the Engi era. The general of the mulberry domain built meritorious achievements, the Son of Heaven of Li Tang sought
immortals. The awesome majesty eternally serves as the nation's guardian. The eight swords are cold with frost under the eastern sea's sky

Same　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamazaki Ansai