《An ancient manuscript compiled by Moribenoshukune Kiyaine in the 16th year of Jōgan and revised by Fujiwara no Murasugi in the 2nd year of Kanpyō》Ancient Manuscript of the Nihon Shoki, One Set《Known to the world as the Atsuta-bon Nihon Shoki, with inscriptions on the back of the volumes》

《Waka poems written on kaishi paper by dozens of renowned poets including Shōsanmi Ishige Shami Genkagun Amida Buddha. In recent years, these waka have been copied and printed, circulating in the world as "Atsuta-bon Nihon Shoki Kanpai Waka." With a dedication letter》

《There is an accompanying document stating: "We dedicate the Nihon Shoki, fifteen volumes plus the first volume (sixteen volumes in total including upper and lower parts) to the inner sanctuary of Atsuta Daijingū. At the request of Assistant Head Priest Owari no Nakamune, with the patronage of the Fourth Abbot of Shijō Konren-ji and under the administration of Third Abbot Gon'a of Enpuku-ji. Fourth day of the tenth month, third year of Eiwa (1377)"》

Dedicated Ancient Renga Scrolls《Hundred-verse renga from the 13th day of the 11th month of Ōei 30, hundred-verse renga from the 19th day of the 4th month of Entoku 4, hundred-verse renga from the 23rd day of the 12th month of Tenbun 16, hundred-verse renga from the 11th day of the 8th month of Shōhō 2, etc.》

Waka Kaishi, One Scroll《Waka poems composed on the 15th day of the 3rd month of Keichō 9 (1604), attending the treasure hall of Atsuta Shrine in spring and composing poems on the shrine's pine trees. The poets were Sachūjō Fujiwara no Tamemitsu and eighteen others. Some of these poems were recorded earlier》

Lotus Sutra, One Set《Kōbō Daishi's authentic calligraphy》Same, One Set《Nichiren Shōnin's calligraphy》Sutra, One Scroll《Ono no Tōfū's calligraphy. Unknown which sutra it is. Besides these, there are very many ancient manuscripts and old printed books and Buddhist sutras in Japanese and Chinese, numbering over a hundred, so these are omitted》

Shunこうmon Tablet《Ono no Tōfū's calligraphy》　Kumo-kiri-maru Sword《Inscribed Yoshimitsu blade. Records in various scrolls tell of Minamoto no Raikō slaying spider demons with Yoshimitsu's sword - this is that sword》

Aza-maru Sword《Made by Bizen Sukehira. Sukehira was a swordsmith of Emperor Ichijō's time, originally worn by Kagekiyo. Due to his connection as son-in-law to the head priest, it was passed down in the head priest's family. In the 7th month of Tenbun 7, when the Oda fought the Saitō of Mino, Chiaki Kii-no-kami wore this sword and died in battle at Mount Inaba, so it passed to the enemy's Kageyama Kamon-no-suke, and later became the side-sword of Niwa Gorōzaemon Nagahide. Beginning with Kagekiyo, Kageyama also lost sight in one eye, and Nagahide also lost one eye, so fearing the mysterious spiritual response and knowing it was originally this shrine's sword, Nagahide donated it back, as recorded in the Shinchō-ki and other historical texts》

Atsuta Kuninobu Sword《Kuninobu was a swordsmith of Emperor Go-Kōgon's time, a resident of Hasebe in Yamato, who came to Atsuta to forge swords and was thus called Atsuta Kuninobu》

Sanjō Munechika Sword《Munechika was a person of Emperor Ichijō's time. There is also a sword by Sanjō Yoshiie》　Amakuni Sword《With inscription》　Mitsutada Sword《With inscription》　Rai Kunimitsu Sword《With inscription》　Muneyoshi Sword《With inscription and dedication inscription from the 17th day of the 6th month of Ōei 26》　Yoshi