She was granted the rank of Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade and became the provincial governor (kuni-no-miyatsuko) of Owari Province. The Shoku Nihon-gi records that in Tenpyō-shōhō 1, 8th month, Kinoto-i day, Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade Owari-no-sukune Ogura died. She was a woman from this province who was summoned to the capital to serve in government and was granted the position of provincial governor through her diligent service as a court lady (myōbu).

All entries recorded in the Shoku Nihon-gi list her among the women receiving court ranks, clearly indicating she was a woman. However, later historical works erroneously state that "Owari-no-sukune Okikazu, also known as Ogura, was a man who served as governor of Owari Province during Emperor Genshō's reign and concurrently held the position of provincial governor." This is a grave error.

Owari-no-sukune Miyamori: The Nihon Kōki and Ruijū Kokushi record that in Enryaku 18, 5th month, Tsuchinoto-mi day, Owari Province Ama County administrator Junior Eighth Rank Upper Grade Ōsabe-no-Urukamushi reported: "Assistant deputy Aho-no-asomi Hironari disregarded court regulations and arbitrarily raised hawks and chickens, eventually having the county assistant administrator Owari-no-sukune Miyamori hunt in temple groves on the six precept days, and consequently seized hawks to present to the court." The imperial edict stated: "If there are violations, one should first report the circumstances, but [Hironari] insulted and showed contempt for provincial officials and arbitrarily seized their hawks. He should be specially sentenced to beating with sticks and dismissed from his position." Documents from Jōwa 14 and Kajō 3 preserved at this shrine show that when provincial and county officials neglected religious duties and failed to maintain shrines and shrine-temples, the ritual specialist (hafuri) Miyamaro submitted a complaint. However, Miyamaro is a different person from this Miyamori and should not be confused.

Owari-no-muraji Hamanushi: The Zoku Nihon Kōki and Ruijū Kokushi record that in Jōwa 12, 1st month, Kinoto-u day, Outer Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Owari-no-muraji Hamanushi performed the Wafū Chōjuraku dance on Ryūbi Road. The spectators numbered in the thousands. Initially thought to be a bent-backed old man unable to move about, when he dropped his sleeves and moved to the music, he appeared just like a young man. All four sections of the court said, "In recent times there has been no one like this." Hamanushi was originally a court musician (reijin). At age 113, he created this dance himself and submitted a petition requesting to perform Chōjuraku. The petition included a waka poem with the words: "nanatsugi no miyo ni mawataru mono chi mari to o no okina no mahi tatematsuru" (In the reign of seven generations, this hundred-year-old man presents his dance). On the day Hinoto-mi, the Emperor summoned Owari-no-muraji Hamanushi to the front of Seiryōden and had him perform Chōjuraku. After the dance, Hamanushi immediately recited a waka: "okina tote wahi ya wa oramu kusa mo ki mo sakayuru toki ni idete mahi temu" (Though I am an old man, why should I lament? When grass and trees flourish, I will come forth and dance). The Emperor praised and admired him, those around shed tears, granted him one set of imperial robes, and dismissed him. In the same era's 13th year, 1st month, Tsuchinoe-tatsu day, Outer Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Owari-no-muraji Hamanushi was summoned to the front of Seiryōden to perform dance. At this time he was 114 years old. The Emperor, pitying his advanced age, granted him Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade. Toyohara Tōshū's Taigensha records that "in Jōwa 3, 4th month, Hamanushi accompanied the imperial envoy to Tang China, corrected errors in original dances, mastered the fundamentals of the dragon flute, and after returning to court in the same era's 6th year, 8th month, both arts became particularly flourishing." The annotations in the Minori volume of Kaikai-sha record that "Emperor Kōya favored dragon king dance music, and Hamanushi performed before him." The Shiojiri notes that "Hamanushi was a court musician from Atsuta." Many families continue to transmit gagaku dance and music to this day.