In years when Daiseko-yama appears, Shuku Imamichi and Nakaze put out car music performances, and in years when Tanaka-yama appears, Ichiba and Kanbe put out car music performances. In years when Daiyama rests, only Higashiwaki and Suga put out car music performances. During the Kankō era (1004-1012), when all men and women suffered from epidemic disease, the local people used banner spears to worship the plague gods at the Tennō shrine. Later, during the Bunmei era (1469-1487), a person named Sahashi Hyōbu is said to have established the ritual procedures. There is a tradition of the Daiguji family presenting swords, and the Hashimoto family of Ichiba-machi also presenting swords. The child performers of Ichiba car music wear costumes with the hollyhock mon crest, which was bestowed by Tōshō Shinkun (Tokugawa Ieyasu). The curtains of Higashiwaki car music were donated by Sūgen'in-kun, the wife of Taitokuin-dono (Tokugawa Hidetada), in April of Keichō 9 (1604). The curtains of Suga car music were donated by Tokoname-kun, the aunt of Tōshō Shinkun.

Daifukuda Shrine (Adjacent to the south of Minami Shingu. Originally located within the grounds of Jingūji temple, it was moved here in Genroku 16 (1703). It is one of the seven subsidiary shrines of Atsuta, recorded in the Honkoku-chō as Daifukuda Daibosatsu.)

During the reign of Emperor Suzaku, when Sōma Masakado rebelled, imperial forces were dispatched and the emperor commanded prayers at Atsuta Shrine. The divine palanquin was carried out to Hoshizaki for prayer rituals. For no apparent reason, the palanquin suddenly became stained with blood, but at that very moment Masakado was killed by Hidesato and Sadamori. This was a portent shown by the great deity. However, since the palanquin was defiled with blood and could not return to the main shrine, a new shrine was built to house it and named Daifukuda Shrine. The enshrined deity is Masaya Akatsu no Mikoto.

Hisakimiko Shrine (Located south adjacent to Daifukuda Shrine. It is one of the seven subsidiary shrines of Atsuta.) In the Engi-shiki it is recorded as Hisakimiko Shrine in Aichi District, in the Honkoku-chō as Shōnii Hisakimiko Tenjin, and in the Shoku Nihon Kōki in Jōwa 2 (835)