《Small text: Tetsukō Daigoshi Shingi died in battle on May 19th of Eiroku 3 (1560), Kōshin year, at age 43. On the back: On May 19th of Eiroku 3, Kōshin year, Imagawa Jirō Dayū Minamoto no Yoshimoto, lord of Fuchū Castle in Suruga Province, engaged in battle with Oda Kazusa-no-suke Taira no Nobunaga, lord of Kiyosu Castle in Owari Province》

《Small text: In battle, Yoshimoto was unsuccessful and finally died in battle at Okehazama. The second patriarch of this temple, Ryūki, conducted incense burning ceremonies here. The temple also preserves the memorial tablet of Matsui Jirōhachi Sōshin along with saddles and stirrup guards. About eight chō west of this temple is the tomb of Imagawa Yoshimoto》

《Small text: Commonly called Ishizuka. In front of the gate is a large pond called Shōrokai, with dozens of old pine trees facing the water surface, preserving quite a mystical landscape. This is because in the past, lake water used to reach up to this gate front, so the name Shōrokai still remains today》

Sub-temple《Small text: Tōkō-an}}

Hōryūzan Enmei Temple《Small text: Located in Ōbu Village, affiliated with Noda Mitsuzō-in of the Tendai sect. Founded by Seiyū Gyōshō and restored by priest Keisai in Kyōroku 4》Main deity《Small text: Enmei Jizō}}

Guest hall main deity《Small text: Wooden statue of Shakyamuni》Guardian shrine《Small text: Hakusan Shrine》Mountain gate《Small text: Recently rebuilt with painted beams and carved rafters of such beauty that nothing can compare, truly amazing to all who see it}}

Main hall vertical plaque《Small text: Imperial calligraphy of Emperor Go-Nara reading "Hōryūzan." On the back is written "Made by Takitake-bō Ennun on an auspicious day in the third month of Tenbun 8, Kinoto-i year"}} Main hall temple bell《Small text: Inscribed "Auspicious day of the eighth month of Bunroku 14," and there is also a donation document from Kajikawa Gozaemon dated September 7th of Tenshō 11, Mizunoto-hitsuji year, regarding Enmei Temple lands. There are many other old documents, but these are omitted}}

The temple grounds are situated on high ground, and climbing the stone steps, one can look down upon the lower reaches of the Sakai River. Among the distant trees and deep greenery, even the white walls of Kariya Castle in Mikawa can be glimpsed, encompassing a hundred scenic views in a single moment with the finest natural beauty.

Ishigase River《Small text: Forms the border between Muraki Village and Ōbu Village, flowing from Agui-shō. In Eiroku 1, the Divine Ancestor [Tokugawa Ieyasu] fought here against Mizuno Shimōsa-no-kami Nobumoto, when Watanabe Hanzō Moriuna, at seventeen years old, distinguished himself greatly. In the same 3rd year, another battle occurred here involving Torii Shirōzaemon, Ōhara Sakon'emon, Yada Sakujūrō, Hachiya Hannojō, Ōkubo Shichirōemon, Ōkubo Jiemon, Takagi Kyūsuke and others crossing spears. Also in the 4th year, here...》