《Small text: There was a battle here, and Ishikawa Hōki-no-kami, Honda Higo-no-kami, Uemura Shōemon and others all distinguished themselves militarily. Also, to the south of here are the Muraki fort, the pine tree of the burial mound, and other sites》

Ogawa Village《Small text: Refers to Ogawa Village, also written as Kogawa. In the Sanmoku-ki poetry collection, it was sung as "tamatsuo gawa no tokoname ni" - whether this refers to this village is uncertain, but the place called tokonabe is not far away. The connection made by the court noble Masayasu to "tama no ogawa" has the same meaning as "tamatsu ogawa," so perhaps this should be considered the song of this place for now. We await further scholarly investigation》

《Small text: From Fuboku-shō}}
What appeared to be a shore where white waves break / Is the deutzia flowers blooming in Ogawa village     Former Tokudaiji Minister of the Left

《Small text: On the 18th day, arrived at the residence of Mizuno Uemon Dayū Tamenori in Ogawa, Chita District. He earnestly requested that we rest here for a while (etc.) - From Fuji Rekiran-ki》

How many knots of thread said to come above the pines / Let me see to the end of the Tama-no-ogawa     Monk and Middle Counselor Masayasu

Kaishōzan Zendō Temple《Small text: Located in the same village, Jōdo sect, affiliated with Chion-in in Kyoto. The founding priest was Shin'yo Shōnin. The founding date is not clear. Restored by monk Hōyo in Tenbun 19. Lady Denshū-in was born in this village, so she donated some temple lands to this temple. The Lady was the daughter of Mizuno Tadamasa and the mother of the Divine Lord [Tokugawa Ieyasu]. Since this temple was in the Lady's ancestral village, Mizuno Bingo-no-kami moved it from the seaside to its present location during the Keichō era》

《Small text: Later, during the Hōreki era when Priest Mon'yo was here, the main hall was rebuilt through donations from Tsukamoto Genzaemon of this place and Takaha Heibei of Ōbu Village. They were truly devoted dual patrons, and the descendants of both families continue to this day}}

Main deity《Small text: The standing statue of Amida was made by Prince Shōtoku. The original main deity was a triad of Buddhas made by Jōchō, which was donated by the Lady. There are also memorial tablets for the Lady and Mizuno Bingo-no-kami Nobumoto}}

Sacred treasures: Self-portrait of Master Zendō, one scroll《Small text: The temple name arose from the existence of this sacred image}} Image of Prince Shōtoku《Small text: Painted by Lord Zuiryū}} Moon-form portrait of Master Hōnen《Small text: Painted by Miyamoto Musashi}}

Handled incense burner《Small text: This was owned by Master Zendō, a refined and rare elegant vessel of Chinese manufacture}} Painting of the Thirteen Buddhas, one scroll《Small text: Donated by the Tsukamoto family during the Tenbun era}}

Irimi Tenjin Shrine《Small text: Located in the same village, sometimes written as Irie Shrine. The deity enshrined is Princess Ototachibana-hime. In the provincial register it appears as "Junior Third Rank Irimi Tenjin." The shrine name arose from Princess Ototachibana-hime entering the sea and perishing}}