When crossing [the bridge], [the monk] was commanded to be called Engetsubō. 《Note: According to the Azuma Kagami, on the 25th day of the 10th month of Bunji 6 (1190), Lord Yoritomo visited the Great Hall temple, so he must have stopped here at that time. The reference to the 15th day of the 8th month is probably an error in transmission》Main deity 《Note: Fudō Myōō》Guest hall 《Note: Houses a wooden statue of Amida Buddha. It is a work by Jikaku Daishi, a seated statue over three feet tall》Temple treasures 《Note: The hanging scroll of Amida Buddha now used for the insect memorial service at Eihi was originally a temple treasure here, but at some point became something passed around among the villages. There are many other sacred treasures, but these are omitted》

Karamatsu Well 《Note: Located in the same village. The villagers draw water from it morning and evening. The water is extremely clear. This is said to be sacred water blessed by Jikaku Daishi. It is said that on New Year's Day, the shadow of a pine tree can always be seen in the well, but there are no pine trees nearby. Since everyone finds this mysterious, what was originally the "Phantom Pine Well" (Kyomatsu no I) came to be called the "Chinese Pine Well" (Karamatsu no I)》

Kamezaki 《Note: Located more than one ri east of Otsukawa and Handa villages, projecting into the sea. It faces Takahama Tsurugasaki in Mikawa Province, and to the north, the downstream of the Sakai River enters here and becomes the sea for the first time. Also, at the foot of the mountain here, there is one famous well. Since its water level does not change with hot or cold weather and the water is extremely clear, the entire village draws from it. All other well water is said to have a salty taste and be difficult to use》

Kanzaki Tenjin Shrine 《Note: Located in Kamezaki village. Now called Shinmei. The enshrined deities are Kan-Yamato-Iware-hiko-no-Mikoto and Amaterasu Ōmikami. This is the shrine listed as Junior Third Rank Kanzaki Tenjin in the provincial registry》
Annual festivals 《Note: February 25th, March 16th》Subsidiary shrines 《Note: Tenjin Shrine, Mountain God Shrine, Hoe God Shrine, Ebisu Shrine》This shrine is quite large and located hundreds of steps up. Looking down at the sea surface below, counting the islands, and pointing to distant mountains, it offers a clear and magnificent scenic view, as can be understood from the illustration. ○Shrine priest 《Note: Yamamoto family》

Nariha Tenjin Shrine 《Note: Located in Shimo-Handa village. Listed as Junior Third Rank Nariha Tenjin in the provincial registry. However, it was called Hachiman during the medieval period, but on the back of an old mask that is a treasure of this shrine is written "Nariha Tenjin no..."》