(When this was introduced, the fishermen would take the intestines, wash and clean them, and put them in a dish. The monk would observe this and sprinkle white salt according to the quantity of intestines, then the fishermen would stir it with wooden spatulas. After storing it for two or three days and tasting it, the flavor was most excellent)
(Thus it eventually became a famous product of this province. This is mentioned in Kaikyō Yūran. Although it is produced throughout this district, what is made in this village and at Morosaki is considered the finest quality. The subtle flavor of the seasoning is indescribable, and when an already intoxicated drinker sips just a bit, it makes them pour several more cups. It is truly an incomparable specialty product)

Octopus Pots (The method of catching octopus at the seashore of this village involves sinking pots fired at Tokoname in the same district - pots with narrow mouths and bulging bodies - to the bottom of the water. The octopus think the inside of the pot is their own cave and crawl in, but later cannot get out due to the narrow mouth, so they are caught by hand. In Nishiura the method is different - they fish using rice cakes as bait. This is also unusual and curious, differing from the ordinary method. Some people use the old pots as water containers or flower vases, and all of these are called octopus pots)

Hōjusan Iōji Temple (Located in the same village, a Shingon sect temple affiliated with Chōno Mantokuji. Founded in the second year of Jinki (725 CE), Year of the Metal Ox, by Bodhisattva Gyōki. Originally there were twelve sub-temples with temple assets of 180 kanmon, but due to destruction and decay, now only four buildings remain: Hōjōin, Hokuhōin, Rishōin, and Enzōbō) Main Buddha (Yakushi Nyorai. Statues of Nikkō and Gakkō are enshrined to the left and right. All are works by Gyōki) Myōjō Water (It is said that Kōbō Daishi dug this well and performed goma fire rituals) Temple treasure - temple bell mouth (Located in the Kannon Hall of Hokuhōin, the inscription bears the characters "Hōtoku 3rd year, Yamada-gō Gokurakuji")

Tajima (In the Wamyō-shō it appears as "Chita-gun Tajima," an ancient place name. The area now called Tajima-no-shō is this place)

Hazusaki (Located in Morosaki Village, also written as Hazu) According to tradition, Chita District extends long into the southern sea, and its shape is like an arrow. This cape is at the southeastern end and resembles an arrow nock, so the name Hazu originated here. This cape is a single mountain with precipitous cliffs a thousand fathoms high, craggy rocks a hundred feet tall, and the axis of the earth