It was not by design that [the imperial ship] arrived at this province, but rather through the divine providence of the Great Shrine of Ise. The shrine priests rejoiced and reported this matter to the court immediately. Next:

From the "Shinyōshū" collection:
"Divine winds must have guided the imperial ship to shore, fulfilling our prayers placed in the offshore waves at this beach of Ise" - Former High Priest Yorii

Himaka Island: Located one ri southeast of Morozaki, directly north of Shinojima. With a circumference of just over one ri, it has many fishing households. While Shinojima is originally Ise territory with many genuine stones, this island has naturally different topography, and its soil color and stone quality also resemble those of Morozaki. Furthermore, the clams harvested from this island are large in form and exceptionally delicious in taste. Therefore, people call them "Himaka clams." The shells of particularly large specimens reach three to four sun in diameter. This demonstrates that they are an incomparable local specialty.

Himaka Tenjin Shrine: Located in the same place. Now called Hachiooji. This corresponds to what is listed in the "Honkokuchō" as "Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade Himaka Tenjin."

Eihōzan Anrakuji Temple: Located in the same place. Sōtō sect, branch temple of Kongōji in Enshū Province. This temple was founded in Bunki 2 (1502), year of the metal dog, by the monk Getsuden. The wooden statue of Amida Buddha, the principal image, is of very ancient craftsmanship and particularly sacred. There are three other temples besides this one, but I omit them here. In the colophon of a character dictionary copied in Genki 2 that Baikyo possessed, it is recorded: "At this time, Genki 2, year of the earth horse, second month, fifth day, this was completed. Especially for the public use of Himaka Chōshin-an, written and left by the second-generation head priest Shūshu at age fifty-six." This Chōshin-an may now be defunct, though it is uncertain, but it is likely that one of the four temples changed its name from Chōshin-an to its current temple name.

Nojima: Located south of Shinojima. A small island with no human dwellings, only overgrown with vegetation.

Matsushima: Located southwest of Shinojima. A small island that is quite high, with only a single pine tree on top, hence perhaps the name.

Hirashima: Located in the same area. Named for being very low and flat. This island also has no human dwellings whatsoever.