Ryūkaizan Shōkaiji Temple (Located in the same village, Sōtō sect, a branch temple of Ryūgenji in Hagi Village, Mikawa Province. In Eishō 5 [1508], year of the Dragon, Saji Tōtōmi-no-kami founded the temple. Originally located in Okabe Village, but in Bunroku 1 [1592], year of the Dragon, Saji Bitchū-no-kami Tamenawa moved it to the present location. For his eldest son Kurōbei Yoshishige [Buddhist name Seiun Sōi], he added repairs and changed the name to Seiun-ji, but later restored the old name. Memorial tablets of successive generations of the Saji family remain.)
Principal Buddha (wooden statue of Shakyamuni) Temple treasures: Saddle and stirrups (items possessed by Saji Bitchū-no-kami, later donated to this temple)

Fugu Cape (Located in Hosome Village. Stone steps wind around, precipitous cliffs jut out prominently, facing the vast waves, offering an unobstructed view - a splendid scenic spot) The remaining volume of "Owari Fudoki" states: "This mountain has lush vegetation that remains green throughout the four seasons. To the west it is rugged, facing the sea; to the east, rock walls are washed by tides. When the weather is clear and the atmosphere calm, the mountains of Ise Province can be seen in an instant," and so forth, describing the scenery most excellently.

Fugu Tenjin Shrine (Located in the same village, commonly called Kaze-no-miya. The enshrined deity is Shinatsuhiko-no-kami. This corresponds to what is listed in the "Honkokuchō" as Senior Third Rank Fugu Tenjin. The year of enshrinement is not clear in detail.) In Eishō 6 (1509), year of the Snake, the castle lord of this village, the Ogawa clan, rebuilt it. This shrine is situated on a precipice overlooking the sea, and since ancient times, passing ships would invariably lower their sails when reaching the front of this shrine. This was done out of reverence for this deity. Since "Wamyōshō" also records "Fugu," we can see the antiquity of this place name. ○ Subsidiary shrines (Shinmei shrine, Taga shrine, Tennō shrine, Kusunoki shrine, Hachiman shrine, Ebisu shrine, Funadama Myōjin shrine, Tamashii shrine, Yama shrine, Fuji shrine, etc. - very numerous) Regular festivals (On the first Horse day of the New Year, called Mito Festival, villagers gather sacred sakaki branches for ritual ceremonies. Afterwards, they plant these sakaki branches in their private fields. Also, there is a Gion Festival on June 16th)