《The facts have already been recorded in the section on Atsuta, so they are omitted here》

Grave of Taira no Yasuyori, Judge (Hōgan) 《Located west of the mountain gate. In the first year of Jishō, he plotted with the monk Shunkan, Tamba no Shōshō Naritsune, and others to overthrow the Taira clan, but the conspiracy was discovered and he was exiled to Kikaigashima. During the journey, he shaved his hair and changed his name to Shōshō. After residing on that island for three years, he received a pardon and returned to the capital. Later he retired to Sōrinji Temple in Higashiyama and wrote the "Hōbutsu-shū" (Collection of Treasures). He was also appointed as a provincial administrator (hōshi) in Awa Province, and during his tenure donated thirty chō of rice fields to this temple and built a hall to perform memorial services for Yoshitomo. Therefore, the temple monks later erected this stone monument》

Grave of the Nun Ikezen-ni 《Located east of Yoshitomo's grave. During the Heiji Disturbance, when Lord Yoritomo was about to be destroyed by the Taira clan, Ikezen-ni, the stepmother of Taira no Kiyomori, showed deep compassion. She was especially moved because Lord Yoritomo's appearance resembled her beloved deceased son, Samanotō Iemori, and she pleaded with the Taira Chancellor, earnestly begging for his life, until he was finally sentenced to exile instead. Lord Yoritomo, to express gratitude for this great favor, built a mound tomb within the temple grounds, personally copied eight scrolls of sacred texts and placed them in the tomb, conducting memorial services for the nun. Also, when Lord Yoritomo was first sent into exile, the nun entrusted him with her guardian deity, a Jizō Bodhisattva, saying "Quickly become a monk and pray for your ancestors' enlightenment, and take refuge in this sacred image." Lord Yoritomo later donated this to the temple. The sacred image is still at the temple today》

Daibō 《This is the leading institution among the six temples of Daigodō-ji mountain complex. The principal image of Amida Nyorai in the inner hall was carved by Saint Shinran and was originally the hereditary guardian deity of the Mizuno family. Prayers to this sacred image brought victory in the summer and winter campaigns at Osaka, as recorded in the temple's founding chronicles. The restoration priest Chōen had connections with the Divine Ruler (Tokugawa Ieyasu), and when he visited this temple during the Keichō era, he said that any wish could be requested. Chōen, perhaps following wartime customs, boldly requested land for deer hunting and permits for falconry. Though the Divine Ruler considered this improper, he ordered hawk permits, deer permits, and certificates for small birds to be issued through officials. This was truly irregular and improper conduct. The next resident priest, Shūen, finding this shameful, deeply hid those permits. During the time of the next priest, Kaien, when someone requested the hawk and deer permits, he gave them to that person. However, the certificate for small birds is still preserved at the temple today. Since Chōen was from the Mizuno clan and had connections with the Divine Ruler, successive abbots have continued to come from the Mizuno family, and this continues today》

Sacred Treasures: Sword of the late Satyakura 《One blade》 Portrait of Lord Yoritomo 《One scroll》 Osada Tadamune assassinates Yoshitomo