The Ōno people are the members of this Saji clan. Principal Buddha: Standing statue of Amida Buddha, with Kannon and Seishi on the left and right.

Fukujusan Kaion-ji Temple: Located in Ōno village, belonging to the Rinzai sect, a branch temple of Myōshin-ji in Kyoto. Principal Buddha: Seated statue of Shakyamuni Buddha. There is a Yakushi Hall within the temple grounds, and in front of the hall there is a natural standing stone called Raigō-ishi (Welcome Stone). According to tradition, Yakushi Nyorai stood upon this stone and emerged from the sea. Also, this temple produces miraculous medicine for skin diseases. This is indeed a famous prescription received through Yakushi Nyorai's divine revelation in dreams. In the world, this Nyorai is called Hama Yakushi (Beach Yakushi). Generally, the miraculous efficacies are so remarkable that they cannot all be counted. For details, I defer to the published temple origin story and omit them here. ○ Sub-temples: There are three buildings - Kōshū-an, Chinkai-an, and Daiun-in. In front of the study hall's garden, there are numerous cycads [tetsu is the old character for iron], especially giant specimens of the finest quality, so their fame is the highest. Generally, in this district, cycads, pines, ubame oak, etc., are all far superior to those found elsewhere.

Banshōzan Sainen-ji Temple: Located in the same village, belonging to the Sōtō sect, a branch temple of Chōgen-ji in Yokosuka village. According to the monks' tradition, castle lord Saji Suruga-no-kami established it in Tenbun 1 (1532) with priest Kaun as the founding abbot. There are memorial tablets for Suruga-no-kami and Kōzuke-no-suke Yoshisada, etc. Principal Buddha: Seated statue of Shakyamuni Buddha. Temple treasure: One scroll painting of the Second Patriarch Standing in Snow, donated by Saji Kōzuke-no-suke in Tenbun 1, painted by Sesshū at age 73. This is truly a rare masterpiece of the world, indeed a famous large-scale painting. Sub-temples: There are four sub-temples - Kakuō-ken, Shōrin-sai, Ichiyō-ken, and Chokuhō-ken.

Ganshōzan Tōryū-ji Raigō-in: Located in the same village, belonging to the Jōdo sect, a branch temple of Sōfuku-ji in Sanshū. In ancient times it was a Tendai sect temple complex