Beginning with both emperors (including Emperor Kanmu), and continuing through thirteen generations of emperors thereafter, this temple clearly served as an imperial temple for the protection of the nation. The second abbot of this temple was the monk Gonsō, and the third was Kōbō Daishi (Kūkai). The magnificence of the temple halls and pagodas of that time can all be seen in the liturgical manuals compiled by the great master. Due to present circumstances, details are omitted here.

○Temple Treasures
Dainichi Nyorai《painted by Kōbō Daishi》, Amida crossing the mountains《painted by Eshin Sōzu》, liturgical manual of this temple《by Kōbō Daishi》, Hōkaiji Noh text《by Lord Nobunaga》, Nirvana image《painted by Tosa Shōgen Mitsunobu》, Fudō Myōō《painted by Kose Kanaoka》, Yakushi Nyorai《painted by Chōdenji》, Three Thousand Buddhas《painted by Takuma Hōgen Eiga》, mandalas of both realms《painted by Awataguchi Hōin Kōen》, Sixteen Good Deities《painted by Chō Shikyō》, Three Buddhas and Ten Bodhisattvas《painted by Ganki》. Besides these, there are dozens of other rare treasures, but they are omitted here.

○Jōkō-in《restored by Hōin Eizen in Bunroku 2》, Daijō-in《restored by Hōin Shōei in Bunroku 3》, Kichijō-in《restored by Hōin Ryūun in Keichō 1》. All three temples are commonly called Yakuō-zan.

○Two votive tablets of Ushiwaka and Benkei《dated Keichō 18, year of the Ox, 4th month, 3rd day, from Chita District, Teramoto Nakajima Village, donated by Sado Genzaemon》, one votive tablet of Kawazu and Matano wrestlers《dated Genna 3, year of the Snake, 2nd month, auspicious day》

○Manzai performers《In Yabumura there are Shinfuku Dayū, Matsufuku Dayū, and Komefuku Dayū; in Kagiya Village there are Uwaha Dayū and several others, all of the same school as the Mikawa court manzai. Originally, during the reign of the 89th human emperor, Emperor Kameyama, when the founding priest Mujū Kokushi of Chōbo-ji Temple in Kigasaki, Yamada District of the same province, was present, there was a man called Yūsuke in Ajima Village, which was part of that temple's domain. Being poor, at the beginning of each year he would go from house to house, singing and dancing "fortune comes" and "treasure springs forth" while begging for alms.》