《Marginal notes: [Various poetic inscriptions about the temple and landscape]》
《Re-visiting Kannon-ji Temple　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okuda Shukken》
《Revisiting the cliff behind Kannon-ji Temple, gazing at the view while leaning against the pines, mulberry fields and blue sea, in an instant ten thousand acres of new fields connect to the water bay》
《Inscription for Kannon-ji Temple　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Rin Baizan》
《Seeking Zen境界 beyond the world, pure and secluded summer days are cool, delicate vines wrap around the temple walls, spiritual sounds move the waves｜Seeing off guests in mountain rain at the window, seven-ri beach with raised sails, boats hurriedly depart, appearing and disappearing at the edge of sea clouds》
《Same　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kōrai Ikkyō》
《Dragging a staff in the evening sun, drunk and chanting verses most richly, fishing boats compete to enter the bay, evening birds all return to the pines｜The sun sets over Kuwana's sea, clouds darken Tado Peak, when the fires of crab villages are lit, listening to temple bells》

Amao Tenjin Shrine《Located in Kida village, now called Hachiman. This is the one listed in the 'Honkoku-chō' as Senior Second Rank Amao Tenjin. Later people changed it to Amao (Rain Tail). Kōfuku-ji temple in the same village being called Amao-zan is also due to this connection》

Amao-zan Kōfuku-ji Temple《Located in the same village, a branch temple of the Tendai sect's Noda Mitsuzō-in. Founded by Gyōki Bosatsu in Taihō 2, year of the water tiger (702). Later, it was restored by Hōin Keizan in Hōtoku 2, year of the metal horse (1450)》
　Principal Image《The Eleven-faced Kannon is Gyōki's work, and also enshrines Fudō Myōō and Bishamonten, also by Gyōki》
　Temple Treasures《Contains treasures and plaques donated by the domain lord》

Narihira Mound《Located in Tomita village, commonly called Kurumagaeshi Goshoyashiki. According to the oral tradition of village elders, Narihira Asomi lived in this place. Or when the Arao clan lived in this district, their surname was Ariwara, so their descendants built their ancestor's grave》
《which later people mistakenly considered to be Narihira Asomi's mound. Also, there is a Kifune Shrine to the northeast, which is said to be Narihira Asomi's tutelary deity. Also in Kakiya village in the same district, there is what is called Narihira's Eboshi Mound》
《All these theories are difficult to confirm, so we merely record the oral traditions of the village elders》

Saint Ryōnin　The son of a man named Hata Dōbu from the same village, whose mother was the daughter of a Shinto priest from Atsuta.
Born on New Year's Day of Enkyū 4, year of the water mouse (1072) during Emperor Go-Sanjō's reign, and at the age of twelve in spring went to Mount Hiei...