In the recent year of An'ei 2 (1773), on the 16th day of the 10th month, by imperial decree, he was posthumously granted the title of Saint Shōō Daishi (Great Master Shōō).
For further details, please refer to the Genkō Shakusho and the Dainenbutsu-ji Ryōso Ekotoba-den, among others.

Arao Tenjin Shrine (located in Shimizu Village, now called Myōjin. The enshrined deities are Emperor Homuda, Princess Tamayori, and Empress Okinagatarashi. This corresponds to the "Third Rank Arao Tenjin" mentioned in the Honkoku-chō. Subsidiary shrines include Shinmei Shrine and Yama-no-kami Shrine)

Funatsu Shrine (located in Nawa Village. Enshrines the Twelve Funadama Deities. Built in Ōei 25 (1418)) Sacred treasure (One Daruma Masamune sword, 2 shaku 1 sun in length, said to have been possessed by Shibuya Kon'ōmaru)
Annual festival (March 10th)

Nawa dried udon (a specialty of the same village. The wheat flour of this district is refined and of the highest quality, so various villages like Ōno, Iwaya, Yokosuga, and Saburi all produce sōmen noodles as specialties. In recent years, dried udon has been refined here and transported in large quantities to various provinces. The manufacturing process is extremely pure and clean, and both the appearance and flavor are excellent. The poet Tōba's verse "A bowl of hot noodles, silver threads in disarray" describes this type of product, and the two characters "silver threads" serve as an apt description)

Ōdaka Village (formerly called Hikami-no-sato, also written as Hyōjō. Later became the present village name. In Ninagawa Chikamoto's diary, it appears as "Owari Province Ōtaka-gō Daibai-in granted security." According to old accounts, it was initially called Hidaka, but due to frequent fires, it was finally changed to Ōdaka in Eitoku 2 (1382))

Ōdaka greens (vegetables grown in Ōdaka Village) These greens grow to heights of 2-3 shaku to over 4 shaku, yet the leaves, stems, and roots are all tender. Whether boiled or pickled in salt, their flavor is extremely delicious, superior even to fish and turtle. Both in appearance and taste, they differ greatly from ordinary produce of other regions.