Temple Treasures: A pair of large celadon flower vases (commonly called Tenryuji-te style), Chinzei Tenmangu Shrine (According to the origin records, the painted image of Tobiume Tenjin of this shrine was originally enshrined in the pine forest of Iida Village, Kasugai District in ancient times, but the people of both Iida and Kayazu villages received divine dreams and transferred it to this temple precinct in the 2nd year of Showa era. Later, when this temple was destroyed by fire in the 12th year of Kanei, 9th month, this shrine was also burned down, but mysteriously the divine image appeared on a pine tree in the garden courtyard and remained unharmed, so that pine is still called the Tenjin Pine to this day. In the 1st year of Jokyo, the domain lord undertook its reconstruction)

Two five-story stone pagodas (one bears the inscription "Thousand Amida Buddha, 13th day of 12th month, 8th year of Eikyo," the other "Ku Amida Buddha, 12th day of 5th month, 9th year of the same era")

The offerings from this temple to Atsuta Taijingu every year for the November Tora-U festival are as follows: 32 baskets of pickled vegetables, 3 to of black beans, 2 sho of white rice, 8 pairs of willow chopsticks 1 shaku 5 sun long, 4 poles (made of Yamato bamboo, 6 shaku long), 1 bundle of daikon radish, 100 mon for sake offering. The baskets are decorated with sakaki branches, departing at the 7th hour of morning and arriving at daybreak. The pickled vegetables contributed by this temple are separate from those contributed by Shobo-ji temple, and are handled and manufactured annually by Rinko-in, a branch temple of this temple. Therefore Rinko-in is called Komono-an (Pickled Vegetable Hermitage). Also, what is marked as "pickle fields" on the map refers to the exempt land of this temple, and since offerings are still made from this temple in this way, it is difficult to determine which was the main temple and which the branch in later generations.

Kyucho-san Jitsujō-ji Temple (located in the same village, Nichiren sect, branch of Honkoku-ji in Kyoto): Founded by Nichimyo, a disciple of Saint Nichiren, it is one of the four temples of this province. Rebuilt by Oda Yamato-no-kami Toshisada during the Meio period. Later, Fukushima Masanori donated temple property, which it still holds today. ○Temple Treasures: Large mandala in Saint Nichiren's own calligraphy (1 scroll), large mandala by Saint Nisshin (1 scroll), Chinese-style painting of Sixteen Arhats (16 scrolls)

Sub-temples (Engyō-bō, Ryūsen-in, Shōzen-bō)

Kayazu Ancient Battlefield (located in the same village. The lord of Iwakura Castle, Oda Hikogoro Nobutomo, murdered his lord Buei Yoshimune and seized Kiyosu Castle, moving there to reside, so Lord Nobunaga raised an army to punish Hikogoro...)