(Continued from previous page) ...raised an army and first intended to set fire to the civilian houses of Kiyosu. On the 16th day of the 8th month of Tenbun 20, they departed from Nagoya and advanced to the vicinity of Inabaji River. From Kiyosu side as well, they advanced to Kayazu Village, and from the Hour of the Dragon to the Hour of the Monkey, both sides engaged in fierce battle, scattering sparks as they fought in confusion. Following the death in the forefront of Akase Seiroku, a page of Oda Magosaburo Nobumitsu, Shimokata Sakon, Nakajo Koichiro, and Shibata Gonroku charged forward in the first formation and killed Sakai Jinsuke of the Kiyosu side. In addition, distinguished warriors including Sakai Hikozaemon, Kurobe Gensuke, Nomura Yoichizaemon, Akabayashi Magoshichiro, Tsuchikura Yasuke and others - more than fifty mounted warriors in total - were either killed or shot down, causing the Kiyosu forces to suffer a great defeat. Lord Nobunaga rejoiced, raised victory cries, and returned to camp - this ancient battlefield is described in the Shincho-ki.

Mount Houo Jinmoku-ji Temple (located in Jinmoku-ji Village, Shingon sect, branch temple of Daisu Shinfuku-ji in the capital): According to temple tradition, this temple was founded by Jinmoku Tatsumaro. Tatsumaro made his living through fishing and hunting, but one day when he took his net intending to go to the seashore, he cast his net into a nearby inlet and immediately felt something in the net. Using all his strength to pull in the net, he obtained a single purple-gold Buddha statue. Looking at it carefully, he saw it was a sacred image of Kannon, so he was both startled and delighted, pressed his palms together in worship, immediately repented of his sinful karma, abandoned his occupation, awakened to the Buddhist path, built a small temple beside the inlet, and enshrined that sacred image. In Suiko 4, year of Hinoto-Mi (the 6th year of Empress Suiko), he named the temple after his family name. This follows the precedent from ancient times when Buddha appeared in the world - when Nyoze-nyo, daughter of the wealthy Gakkagai of Vaishali country in southern India, suffered from five kinds of terrible diseases, Buddha...