The women also joined forces to construct the buildings. In the 7th year of Kenkyū, hinoe-tatsu (1196), the monk Shōkan persuaded the donors to provide donations and began the construction. 《Note: On the 10th day of the 2nd month, they entered the mountain to cut wood, which is called the "ceremonial beginning with hand axes." On the 4th day of the 4th month of the following year, they set the stone foundation; on the 8th day of the 5th month, they erected the pillars; on the 11th day of the 7th month, they held the roof-raising ceremony. In the 2nd year of Shōji, kanoe-saru (1200), they thatched the temple buildings, and in the 1st year of Kennin, kanoto-tori (1201), on the 3rd day of the 11th month, construction was completed. On the 18th day of the same month at the hour of the horse, the temple dedication ceremony was held. The imperial messenger was Abe no Sukemoto, Senior Assistant of the Palace Table Office.》

Now, since the monk accomplished the restoration of the great buildings and completed the dedication ceremony through his own efforts alone, he was made the founder of the temple's restoration, and his wooden statue was enshrined within the hall. After the monk once made a pilgrimage around Kannon Pond, his whereabouts became unknown, and since no one knew when he might return, people wondered if he might perhaps be an incarnation of Kannon, and held him in mysterious regard.

Since then, the dharma lamp has never been extinguished, and the temple halls and pagodas remain a venerable ancient temple of immaculate purity.

○ Principal Image: Sacred Kannon 《Note: A secret Buddha statue of jambu river gold transmitted from the three countries (India, China, Japan). The venerable images of Bishamonten and Jikokuten are enshrined to the left and right. Long ago, when the monk Ippen came to stay at this temple and performed dancing nenbutsu, this Bishamonten danced together with monks and laypeople. Therefore, it is called "Dancing Bishamonten." When the monk came to this province during his travels around the country, nenbutsu processions were necessarily held in front of the hall, and they continue even now. This is said to be a remnant of those times. Also, Jikokuten is commonly called "Rice-Planting Bishamonten." Long ago, in the village of Kayatsu, there was a wealthy man called Chikishita Chōja who deeply revered this sacred image. One night, the deity planted over ten chō of rice fields, so from then on it was called "Rice-Planting Bishamonten." Together with Dancing Bishamonten, it is a miraculous image. Also enshrined in the hall are colossal Four Heavenly Kings carved from single trees. These are works of Bodhisattva Gyōki and are all miraculous images.》

Temple Treasures:
Wooden statue of Amida 《Note: It is said to be one of sixty-six Amida Buddha statues that Torame, the concubine of Soga Jūrō Sukeshige, created after becoming a nun, which she donated to temples in sixty-six provinces》