Hōryō Daikon (Hōryō Radish) 《Small text: Produced in Hōryō Village. Compared to Miyashige radish, the quality is somewhat inferior, but the large ones reach about three kan-me (approximately 11kg) in weight per radish. Transportation to other provinces is thriving. However, people's belief that these》
　《Small text: large ones are products of Miyashige is entirely mistaken. In a popular booklet published during the Kan'ei era, in a section about famously thick things, it mentions "main pillars, gate posts, Owari radish, Hachiman burdock," and the Owari radish refers to the product of this Hōryō》
　《Small text: which is widely known. Also, in the writings of Matsudaira Kunzan, it states "Owari radish is the best in the realm, the large ones weigh several kin, white as snow, sweet as candy. People from all directions compete to buy them as local specialties." This also refers entirely to the products of this Hōryō}}
　《Small text: The products from Miyashige always have a black stamp with the characters for Miyashige. They are somewhat thinner in shape. Large ones without black stamps should be considered products of our village. We now distinguish them to show people from other regions}}

Ishitsukuri Village 《Small text: In the Wamyōshō, it appears as Ishitsukuri in Nakashima District, but now that village is not in Nakashima District, and instead the village name remains in our district because it was a village close to Nakashima District, so in later generations that place came to belong to our district》
　《Small text: but somehow that tradition was lost}}

Ishitsukuri Shrine 《Small text: Located in Ishitsukuri Village. In the Engi Shinmyōshiki it appears as Ishitsukuri Shrine, in the Honkokuchō as Third Rank Ishitsukuri Tenjin, and in the same collection it states about Nakashima District─now there is no Ishitsukuri Village─examining this, it is suspected that Tenjin Shrine in Ishitsukuri Village, Matsuba Manor, Kaitō District might be this shrine─and in the Genealogical》
　《Small text: Record it states that the Ishitsukuri clan descended from Taketamarineno-mikoto, sixth-generation grandson of Hoakari-no-mikoto─and so on─this shares the same ancestral deity as the Owari clan}}

Nakamori Tenjin Shrine 《Small text: Located in Mori Village. This is what appears in the Honkokuchō as Third Rank Nakamori Tenjin}}

Nakamori (Central Forest) 《Small text: Located in the same village. The upper forest is in Nakashima District and is now called Morikami Village. The central forest is here, and the lower forest is the forest near Imugi Village in the southern part of our district. Long ago, when making pilgrimages from the provincial office to Atsuta Shrine》
　《Small text: people would pass through this area}}
　　　　　　《Small text: In the province, when visiting a place called Atsuta Shrine in spring, hearing bush warblers singing loudly along the way, when asked where this was, they replied it was called Nakamori}}
　　　《Small text: Personal poetry collection}}
　　　　While the bush warbler's voice continues, I am not hurried, even though it is just a forest along the way　Akazome Emon