《Small print: Though the extinction [of the Fukushima family line] seems most lamentable, it must be Heaven's punishment for years of cruel tyranny. Masanori's younger brother Kanbeno-suke Masayori and Masanori's retainer Fukushima Tamba-no-kami and other brave warriors were all natives of this village》

Zuishōzan Kikusen'in Temple《Small print: Located in the same village, a branch temple of the Sōtō sect under Shōganji Temple in Mitsubuchi Village, founded in the first year of Bunroku, mizunoe-tatsu year (1592) by the founding priest Myōsō Zenji》Principal image《Small print: Wooden statue of Amida Buddha》Temple treasures《Small print: The Fudō Myōō statue was Fukushima Masanori's personal guardian deity》Masanori's memorial tablet《Small print: Inscribed "Kaifukuji-den Zen-Sanbon Sōkō Getsuō Shōin Daishi," this temple served as Masanori's family temple when he resided at Kiyosu Castle》

《Small print: After Masanori's death, his retainer named Ōno Heinai dedicated this [tablet]. There is also a portrait scroll of Masanori donated by the local samurai Akabayashi family of Nii-ke Village, with biographical notes on the reverse, but since the text is largely similar to what was mentioned earlier》《Small print: it is omitted here》

Hanamasa Village《Small print: The Shinpōshō records "Owari Province Hanamasa imperial estate, sealed fief of 37 chō," showing it was quite extensive. It was an old village that served as a sealed fief for Ise Grand Shrine. The surviving place names in this district like Hanamasa, Hanatsune, and Hanaga》《Small print: all likely derive from the practice of offering flowers to that shrine》

Zuiōzan Hōzōji Temple《Small print: Located in Nakabashi Village, a branch temple of both Kyoto's Awao Kōmyōji and Eikandō Zenrinji temples of the Jōdo sect's Seizan branch. The founding date is unclear》Principal image《Small print: Iron Jizō Bodhisattva}}《Small print: This is a sacred statue that Kōbō Daishi cast when founding Hachisuka Rengeji Temple, imbuing the Jizō Bodhisattva with prayers for women's safe childbirth. It is popularly called Koyasu Jizō and was originally located east of Hachisuka Village but was later》《Small print: moved to its present location. At the old site remains a single pine tree called Fuda-kake Pine}}

Fujikida《Small print: Present-day Kida Village. The Owari Record by Sugawara Kiyokimi, cited in the Jinten Ainō-shō, tells that in Kasugabe District there lived a man named Kawase-no-muraji, and overnight wisteria grew in his rice field, which he considered miraculous and dared not cut down}}《Small print: It grew somewhat larger, becoming like a great tree. The place was named Fujikida according to this record}}《Small print: This refers to this location and is an ancient place name. In later times the character for wisteria (fuji) was dropped to become the present village name}}

Young rice shoots transplanted—the cranes standing in Kida's rice fields, through how many generations have they known the autumn of ripened grain?　　Awata Tsuchimaro

Site of Kida Saburō Minamoto-no-Shigemasu's Residence《Small print: Located in the same village, Shigemasu was indeed a native of this place, and according to the Jōshūiki, Heike Monogatari and other works, on the 9th day of the 4th month of the 4th year of Jishō, Minamoto-no-Sanmi Yorimasa petitioned Prince Takakura}}