Head Priest Himuro Family《Side note: Prince Yukinaga, grandson of Emperor Go-Daigo, had a son named Yoshiō, who held the rank of Senior Second Court Rank and Great Counselor. To escape civil war, he came to live in Tsushima. His son Yoshiwaka《Side note: some say he was Prince Yukinaga's second son}} first became a Shinto priest. However》
《Side note: having no heir, Odai Daigaku-no-suke Sadatsune《Side note: son of Ōhashi Sadamoto}} became head priest. At that time, he held territory in Himuro Village in Nakajima District, so the family took the name Himuro and has continued unbroken to this day. The Namiai-ki records: "On December 29th of Eikyō 7, Lord Yoshiō made a ceremonial visit to the house of the head priest of Tsushima Tennō Shrine, and members of seven distinguished families performed kagura music. This auspicious precedent should be maintained for all future generations." In the 8th year of the same era, on New Year's Day, zōni soup was offered to Lord Yoshiō. There was no fish. Ise clams were used for the broth. The rice was half-polished white rice. The soup contained sliced Owari radish, and the namasu was》
《Side note: made with dried small sardines mixed with shredded radish. From this year onward, it appears there was no more wandering in exile}}

Shrine Officials《Side note: Horita family, Kawamura family, Mano family, Hattori family}} Kagura Musicians《Side note: Hattori family, Hayashi family, Hirano family, Ōyabe family}}
《Side note: several branches of the Himuro family}} Shrine Maidens《Side note: Horita family, Utsunomiya family, Kaiden family, Hattori family, and several other families, either descendants of Southern Court loyalists or local gentry from their ancestral lands, all being old families with proper lineage}}

Temple Monks　Jissō-in Temple《Side note: Located northeast of the main shrine. The year of founding is not clear. The founding abbot was Jōen Hōin《Side note: there is a memorial tablet dated Jōwa 1, year of the Wood Tiger}}. During the Eiroku period, the monk Kakusei restored it. ○Principal Buddha: Yakushi Nyorai, carved by Kasuga ○Sacred Treasures: Aizen Myōō by Tankei}}
《Side note: Bishamonten by Unkei, Seed Mandala by Kōkyō Daishi, Nine Assembly Mandala by Kōbō Daishi, and several other items omitted here. Also certificates from Lord Nobunaga, Nobutada, Nobuo, and various other houses, numbering several documents}}

Myōjō-in Temple《Side note: Located in the same area. Though the founding date is not clear, since the memorial tablet shows that the founding abbot Hōsei died in Tenchō 7, it must have been established before then. ○Principal Buddha: Yakushi, seated statue by An'ami}}

Hōju-in Temple《Side note: Located in the same area. The founding date is not clear. In Bunwa 2, the monk Jittō restored it. ○Principal Buddha: Fudō Myōō by Chishō Daishi}}

Kannon-bō Temple《Side note: Located in Ozuma. The founding date is not clear. It was restored by Hōin Kaisei in Eishō 12. Originally it was located in Miyoshi Village in the same district and was called Miyoshi-san Ekō-in Kannon-bō, but in Keichō 13, Hōin Shukuzō moved it to this location and it was added to the ranks of shrine temples, according to temple tradition. ○Principal Buddha: Fudō Myōō, wooden statue. There is an inscription on the pedestal which is quite long so I omit it, but at the end it reads "Ōei 6, year of Earth Rabbit, first month, Kongō Buddhist sculptor Ryōsai" ○Tutelary Shrine: Hakusan Shrine, located within the precincts, established by Hōin Shukuzō during the Keichō period ○Sacred Treasures: Yakushi, wooden statue by Eshin Sōzu, Sanskrit letter A by Kōbō Daishi, also certificates from Nobuhide, Lord Nobunaga, Nobutada, and others, numbering several documents. All four temple buildings are called Goō-san Jingū-ji and belong to the Shingon sect, currently branch temples of Daisu Shinpuku-ji in the capital. In ancient times there were ten temple buildings, but they were abandoned after the medieval period and reduced to the present number}}