Principal Buddha (Hokke Sanpō) Guardian Deity (Sanjū Banjin)
Jōshinbō (Located in Onoza, a direct branch temple of Higashi Hongan-ji Temple, recently called a branch office of the main temple and greatly prosperous. Originally of the Tendai sect, the exact date of its founding is unknown. The seventh generation Kyōsen became a devotee during the time of Takuyo Shōnin, the fifth generation descendant of Saint Shinran, converted to the present sect and became a direct follower. At that time, he received a painted image of Amida from the main temple. On its back is written "Meitoku 2nd year, fourth month of the Sheep year, patron Kyōsen" in the hand of the head priest) Principal Buddha (painted image of Amida) Sacred treasure (cotton cap. In medieval times, a wooden statue of Amida was wrapped in this cotton cap, and an old woman brought it to the head priest Kensei of that time, telling him it should become the principal Buddha of this temple. That old woman then disappeared. Therefore, this was reported to the main temple and made a sacred treasure) Sub-temple (Kōkō-ji)

Local Products
Hakusetsu-ko (Made by Kawachiya Kiheiji of Kamigiri-machi, a type of okoshi rice confection of the highest quality. This is called Tsushima okoshi. Also, what is made at the house of Minoya San'emon in Oshikiri-machi in the capital is called San'emon okoshi and is a famous product. What is made in Atsuta is called miya-ko. What is made at Kawaguchiya in Kowatari and such places are all miya-okoshi. In Fujiwara no Akihira's Shin Sarugaku-ki, in the section listing local products of various provinces, it is recorded as Owari-ko, showing that this product of our province has ancient origins. In Shiojiri it states "Ko is called okoshi by Japanese custom. It is what the Chinese call kanki-dan. For its preparation, one should consult the Teikei Keibutsu-ryaku. What is sold in Atsuta market is called miya-okoshi." Also, in Keichū's Waji Seiran-shō there are names like "ko-ki (okoshi-gome)" and "rei-ki-mai (okoshi-gome)", so altogether okoshi should be called one of the famous products of our province)

Local Products
Fu (What is made in the towns of this area is called Tsushima-fu and is a famous product. It surpasses other productions and is of the most refined taste and highest quality)

Like Tsushima-fu, the bag of Hotei - when you peek inside, emptiness is visible - Torisan

Ichigami Shrine (Located at Hashikoe rice market, one of the subordinate shrines of Tennō, consisting of three shrines. The center enshrines Ōichihime, the left enshrines Ōtoshi no Kami, and the right enshrines Uka no Mitama no Kami. On the morning of the 10th day of the first month, called the first market, various amusements are sold at this place. Their forms are elegant and many are refined and ancient. Also, the regular festival is on the 15th day of the 8th month with many festival floats. Between them, parade objects are carried. Towns that don't produce boat festivals in the 6th month send out these festival floats)