Kihakuzan Dairyūji Temple (located in Kome-no-za, Jōdo sect Seizan branch, subsidiary temple of both Kōmyōji and Zenrinji in Kyoto)
This temple was founded during the Eikyō era by Prince Yoshitaka for征夷大将軍 (Seii Taishōgun) Senior Second Court Rank Middle Counselor Prince Yukinaga, and takes its temple name from that prince's posthumous Buddhist name "Dairyūji-den." (According to the Namiai-ki, on the 15th day of the 6th month of Eikyō 8, members of the Eleven Parties built a shrine to worship Tennō, which is the Wakamiya Shrine within the temple grounds.)

Later, during the Tenbun era, the priest Daigan restored the temple. (According to the Shinano-miya-den, in the 8th month of Ōei 31, when the Prince was to move to Asuke in Mikawa Province, he departed from Suwa via the Ina road. Iida Tarō, Komaba Kojirō, Ina Shirō Zaemon and others with over 200 horsemen waited to intercept him, and at the great riverbed at the foot of the northern mountain of Namiai, they fought desperately to stop him. On the Prince's side as well, over 80 horsemen fought without regard for their lives, killing twelve or thirteen including Iida and Ina. However, the enemy surrounded them in great numbers, and twenty-five men including Serada Ōi-no-suke Yoshiaki, Hagawa Aki-no-kami Kagetsune, and Kumagai Yasaburō Naochika were killed. Knowing that he could not escape this fate, the Prince entrusted Prince Yoshitaka to loyal warriors with instructions to safely escort him to Mikawa Province. The Prince then entered a farmhouse at Ōgawara, set it on fire, and committed suicide. Many who had served him loyally also died here. The next day, a monk from Shōkōji Temple found his remains and buried them. His posthumous Buddhist name is recorded as Dairyūji-den.)

Principal Image: Seated Amida Buddha statue, created by Jikaku Daishi
Sacred Treasures: Portrait of Prince Yukinaga (one hanging scroll) and memorial tablet inscribed "Dairyūji-den Seii Taishōgun Senior Second Court Rank Middle Counselor Prince Yukinaga, Ōei 31, Year of the Wood Dragon, 8th month, 15th day," ancient copy of Namiai-ki (one scroll), ancient copy of Shinano-miya-den (one scroll), and proclamation boards by Oda Nobutada and Nobukatsu
Sub-temple: Hōjuin

Jūni Castle Site (located west of Dairyūji Temple in Kome-no-za; whose castle this was is now unclear. In this area there are place names such as "Goten" (palace) and "Shiro-no-koshi" (castle waist), and there is also a tree called "Goza-tsunagi Yanagi" (seat-tying willow), which is said to be a name related to this castle)