【Right Page】
Vincetoxicum (Rough potato)
Vincetoxicum is also called mirror grass and is a climbing plant. In June and July, it produces small pale purple flowers shaped like bells. They resemble lilies but have no star patterns, with five petals and pistils. The plant's growth habit and leaves are similar to those of Paederia scandens (skunk vine). When this plant is broken, milky sap comes out. Paederia scandens, however, does not produce milky sap. The flowers bloom and form fruits in late autumn, resembling paper mulberry husks. In early winter, they naturally split open and white cotton-like fibers emerge. The husks are like small boats - the large ones are about 2-3 sun long, while the small ones are just over 1 sun. This corresponds to what is mentioned in sacred texts about the deity Sukunahikona-no-kami using vincetoxicum husks as boats, and should be used when depicting this minor deity.

Hosta (Plantain lily) / White Crane Immortal
Flowers bloom in April. There are many varieties. Those with white markings on leaf edges are called "edge-variegated hosta." Those with variegated leaves are called "variegated hosta." There is a golden variety. The leaves are the same as ordinary hostas, but the flowers are snow-white, with upright stems like hairpins, extremely beautiful. One variety has extremely narrow, long, glossy leaves, with flowers similar to the golden variety. Flower colors include white and purple. Large hostas grow about 4 feet tall, while small hostas vary by location and are mountain plants.

Hosta, also called white calyx, effectively dissolves fish bones. It should not be applied to teeth, as it will crack and shatter them. It comes in purple and yellow varieties. Purple ones are common, yellow ones are superior. Seeds are not very abundant.

【Left Page】
Hypericum (St. John's wort)
Resembles willow. Flowers are yellow with five petals like hibiscus. Stamens are short, similar to winter jasmine. Leaves resemble those of Hypericum erectum, growing in opposite pairs, with stem and leaves embracing on both sides. Height about 3-4 feet, spreading horizontally. Flowers bloom in April and May.

Sedum (Stonecrop) /景天
Leaves are like those of Hylotelephium erythrostictum but smaller, with serrated edges. Yellow flowers bloom clustered together in one location. The plant stem is thick. Flowers are also like Hylotelephium, blooming in May. Leaves grow in three directions.

Pulsatilla (Pasque flower) / White-headed elder
New leaf shoots emerge snow-white, gradually turning green over time. Also has tiger stripes like New Year decorative whiskers, with flowers in May. Leaves grow in three directions.

Impatiens (Touch-me-not) (flowers in August-September)
Leaves resemble wild chrysanthemum leaves with shallow serrations, and thin leaves. Stems are jointed, with thin threads about 1 sun long hanging from the undersides of leaves, suspending flowers like fishing boats. Flower shape is like a monkshood turned sideways, colored bright golden yellow, extremely distinctive. There are also purple flowers and white ones.

Scabiosa (Pincushion flower)
Leaves are like mugwort, stems are thick, with round pale purple flowers. Also called "board chrysanthemum." Alternative name is "jade ball flower." Flowers bloom from July-August through September.