【Right Page】
[Windmill flower (Kazaguruma)　《Small text: Flowers｜March-April have》] The flower shape is like a wheel with eight flat petals and
stamens in the center. There are many varieties of flowers: white single, light purple single, crimson
purple single, purple single, dark blue single, also snow-white double, single thousand-petaled,
or snow-white thousand-petaled, white with red-tipped thousand-petaled, persimmon-red thousand-petaled. All
flowers are elegant and magnificent. The flower size is over four sun.
【Vertical ruled line】
[Clematis (Tetsusenca) 《Small text: March-April｜flowers exist》] Flowers are like windmills but small and compact.
There are thousand-petaled flowers, light purple double varieties that bloom in raised clusters. Also there are
varieties with separated white and light purple blooms. Also what is called Tenshi-botan (winding branch peony) is found in the double clematis.
The flowers are white with eight petals and are interesting. Not shown in diagram. Flower size is two to three sun.
【Vertical ruled line】
[Karamatsu-grass (Karamatsusou) 《Small text: Three｜varieties》
　《Small text: March-April flowers exist》
《Small text: Also》 Autumn Karamatsu]
Flower color is white, shape like karamatsu (larch). The stem has blackish coloring.
There are also purple flowers, and the plant habit is more flexible than white karamatsu. Also
there are some with white that transitions to purple. The leaves are also
slightly thicker than white karamatsu. There is also large karamatsu-grass with large plant habit that grows
tall. It's called grass nanten. There is also yellow karamatsu with slightly different leaves.

【Left Page】
[Fukki-grass (Fuukisou) 《Small text: Flowers｜March-April》
Golden phoenix flower (Kinpouka)　《Small text: exist》]
The flower shape is like plum blossoms with stamens extending upward, extremely
true golden yellow color and large flowers. Leaves resemble chrysanthemum leaves, round and thick.
Few incisions, it's an elegant herbaceous flower. There are double and thousand-petaled flowers.
They say white exists but I haven't seen it. There is also Satsuma golden phoenix flower.
【Vertical ruled line】
[Leaf cockscomb (Hakeito)] Both flower form and leaves are of ordinary cockscomb. Flowers come in red and yellow with separated blooming
in three varieties, with white mottled spots on the leaves. Leaf edges are blue and
blue center is white, like light snow falling on blue-purple, more magnificent than flowers, so
it's called leaf cockscomb. When flowers are red, leaves also have white-red mottling. July-August.
【Vertical ruled line】
Ganraikō is called brocade grass. Calling it leaf cockscomb is an error. This has no flowers
but forms seeds between the leaves. The flower form of leaf cockscomb is like cockscomb.
It's the same family as cockscomb flowers. Ganraikō means it becomes magnificent when geese arrive, hence the name. Leaf prime is August.
【Vertical ruled line】
Rōshōnen, also called autumn red, ganraikō exists. A poem says:
"Flying geese come from the south, border grass in autumn. Though frost has not yet fallen, red leaves already show sorrow first. Green
Pearl's banquet ends and returns to Kinkoku. Seven-foot coral does not close at night."

【Text within [ ] is enclosed in frames. Continuing text starts below those frames.】