【Right Page】
Violet grass
(Also called: Sangokusō (three-country grass))
Large violet
Kinsai (violet greens)
Sentōsō (arrowhead grass)

Also called fukki-sumire or kakuremino. The leaf shape is like a flowering vine, with deep cuts, and the leaves are soft and small. The stem is purple in color. The flowers are white, blooming like violets. Among these small varieties, there are three types with different flowers and leaves. Some have long narrow leaves, some have round leaves, and the round ones are called tsubo-sumire (pot violets). The flowers come in purple and white, all being jichō (violets).
There are also other grasses called sangokusō, and since some grasses change names by location, and there are other grasses also called sangokusō, it is unclear which one is being referred to. The flowers bloom from March to August or September.

Ebine grass
Sanjishaku (mountain magnet)

The flowers are numerous. The large ebine has flowers of hon-yellow color, generally with green. Man-ebine has the same flower color as large ebine, with large green. Nankin also has the same flower color. What is called kin-murasaki has deep persimmon-red petals with luster, and both the inside of the flower and the tongue are hon-yellow. Cha-kin has blue-purple petals, with the tongue the same color but slightly lighter.
Defune-ebine has dirty white with light purple speckles, and the tongue is the same. Ha-ebine is yellow with blue tints, with the outside and inside of the flower being yellow,

【Left Page】
and the inside tongue is white. There is beni-kaba ebine, with petals of transitional white with slight redness. Purple ebine is of deep purple throughout, with petals and tongue of the same color. Kanoko-ebine is white with red spots. White ebine has both petals and tongue of dirty white. Those with blue-white petals and white tongue are called gosude-ebine. Those with blue-purple petals and white tongue with touches of red are called beni-ebine. There are also yuki-shiro (snow white) and hon-beni (true red). There are summer ebine and autumn ebine; summer ebine is yellow with blue tints and blooms in April and May. Autumn ebine blooms in July and August, with light cherry-colored flowers and tongue of the same color. Both flowers and leaves remain unchanged, with only differences in blooming season.

Kurin-grass
Seisetsu-ka (banner-joint flower)

The flower shape is like sakura-grass, with thick petals, and the flower base blooms around in a circle. The base stands thick and tall, blooming in tiers. There are several colors: white, red, or snow-white, genji, and also light-colored varieties. Those with red base and white petal edges are called genji kurin-sō. Flowers appear in March and April.

Strawberry
Fukubonshi (覆盆子)

The flowers are small rings like plum blossoms, with yellow and snow-white varieties. Herbalists call the fruit fukubonshi and the leaves yōrui. Also called fuyu-ichigo (winter strawberry) or kan-ichigo (cold strawberry).