These were sold to Tokyo and other locations. Also in that year (Meiji 4), Tanaka Kichigoro of Naebo Village in the same district (approximately one ri from Sapporo), certain migrants from Usu District, Iburi Province, Takano Chiyonosuke of Saru District, Hidaka Province, and migrants from Awaji in Shizunai District of the same province attempted sericulture, though the results are unknown.

On the twentieth day of the fourth month of Meiji 5 (1872), twenty-four sheets of silkworm eggs produced the previous year at the Okadama Village silkworm-rearing facility were hatched, yielding nine koku of cocoons. Twenty sheets of egg paper and several kan of thread reeled by hand-cranked reeling machines (zaguri) were produced and sold in Yokohama. Among the general populace, sericulture was practiced in Shūfu Village in Atsuta District, Ishikari Province; Kurokawa Village in Yoichi District, Shiribeshi Province; Monbetsu Village in Usu District, Iburi Province; Shiroishi Village, Naebo Village, Sapporo Village, and Shinoro Village in Sapporo District, Ishikari Province; and Shimohō Village in Shizunai District, Hidaka Province.

In Meiji 6 (1873), twenty-eight sheets of the white cocoon variety known as "Matamukashi-dane," brought by migrants from Shiogama Village in Isawa District, Rikuchū Province, who had settled in Hiragishi Village, Sapporo District, were purchased. Combined with six sheets of government-produced yellow silkworm eggs, a trial rearing was conducted at the Okadama Village silkworm facility. The eggs hatched on the third day of the sixth month, and after fifty-two days, four koku and five to of cocoons were harvested, and egg sheets and zaguri-reeled thread were produced. The quantities are unknown.
By this year, the number of people in the jurisdiction engaged in sericulture had grown considerably. In addition to the villages already practicing sericulture from the previous year, new participants appeared in Teine Village and Hiragishi Village in Sapporo District; Tōbetsu Village in Ishikari District; Iwanai Village in Iwanai District, Shiribeshi Province; and Urakawa Town in Hidaka Province.

In Meiji 7 (1874), sericulture operations at the Okadama Village facility were discontinued. The former main office building on Sōsei-dōri in Sapporo was repurposed as a temporary silkworm-rearing facility. Fifteen sheets of silkworm eggs produced the previous year were hatched, the eggs hatching on the twenty-ninth day of the fifth month, and after fifty-three days, four koku and six to of cocoons were harvested. Furthermore, that year, fifty-six sheets of government-produced silkworm eggs were distributed to residents within the jurisdiction for trial rearing. For the first time, a sericulture liaison officer (yōsan sewayaku) was appointed in the Sapporo area, and a system was established for purchasing raw cocoons from the populace. The total cocoons purchased from the various villages amounted to thirty-eight koku, two to, one shō, and one gō…