12th Day, Mizunoe-Saru: Clear. The New Year's first formal reporting ceremony proceeded as usual. ○ Regarding the third repetition of the ritual binding, consulted with Kyōi about the brief diary to be submitted to the deputy. ○ Regarding the matter of Yamamoto Shōzaburō, a relative of the late Toki Denzō, who this time was appointed to serve as an apprentice in the catering department according to his request.

14th Day, Kinoe-Inu: Clear. Naniwa Fourth Rank Aikyō Ason, age seventy, today received imperial declaration of Junior Third Rank. ○ This time, regarding a storehouse owned by Shimaya Kinzō of Kurakō-machi, located at a residence in Jishin-machi in the Tsutsumi area, he applied to sell it for eleven kanme. After financial consultation about whether to purchase it, today I had the regular carpenter Zenbei accompany me to inspect it, and found it to be a ten-mat storehouse. Since the price seemed reasonable, I had the carpenter Zenbei, whom I had previously instructed to prepare floor plans for our family residence, add a drawing of the new storehouse to be built on the north-northwest side. Today I took this directly to Kōtokui Inyōsuke in the same town for directional consultation, and was told there were no impediments whatsoever. Therefore, I received divination reports for the dates and times for laying the foundation, erecting pillars, and raising the roof beam for constructing this storehouse.

2nd Month, 7th Day, Hinoe-Saru, Hour of the Snake
Same month, 13th Day, Mizunoe-Tora, Hour of the Dragon  
Same month, 19th Day, Tsuchinoe-Saru, Hour of the Dragon

15th Day, Kinoto-I: Clear. Went to Kōtokui's and sent three momme of silver as gratitude for yesterday's divination consultation. When I mentioned that there might be some conflicts with yesterday's dates, he kindly provided additional calculations as written below:

2nd Month, 6th Day, Kinoto-Hitsuji, Hour of the Snake
Same month, 10th Day, Tsuchinoto-I, Hour of the Snake
Same month, 11th Day, Kanoe-Ne, Hour of the Dragon

○ Today the entire household received ceremonial sake cups as in previous years. ○ In the evening, as thanks to the magistrate for the salary increases and stipend allocations granted since last year, I offered three types of soup and seven kinds of delicacies, and also provided delicacies to all the retainers as usual. Regarding my own five-to salary increase from last winter...