13th Day, Kanoto-Ushi: Clear. Regarding Seya Jirō's debt matter, due to his delinquency in repaying 13 kan monme of silver for living expenses in Bishū Province, he was summoned by the Kantō Temple and Shrine Magistrate as conveyed by the Kyoto Magistrate's Office. Having no choice, he will depart on the coming 18th day, so today he came to take his leave and was served sake.

14th Day, Mizunoe-Tora: Cloudy. I went to Seo Yahē's place this evening. As Jihē of the same household will go down to Edo from the coming 18th day, I sent him farewell gifts including three bundles of fans, one package of ten booklets of Japanese paper, moxa bags, powdered medicine bags, protective amulets from Kifune and Funagawa, etc. I also gave the same to his assistant Kohē, for which I gave one shu in gold as bag money. Yahē served sake and we exchanged several cups, returning after the hour of the Boar.

15th Day, Mizunoto-U: Cloudy. The storehouse inventory was completed yesterday. ○ One more participant joined the 10th day new lecture.

16th Day, Kinoe-Tatsu: The customary ceremonial cups were granted to the family branches as in previous years. ○ Regarding Seo Jihē's matter of going down to Kantō, today also I spent the entire day visiting Yahē of the same household, and matters accumulated.

19th Day, Hinoe-Saru: Rain. For the 16th meeting of the gold-stake lecture, I went on duty to Yoshidaya in Sanbongi, and all matters were completed as usual.

20th Day, Hinoto-Saru: Clear. Regarding my second son Tsunehiro, since this spring I had been secretly requesting through Nomura Awaji-no-kami Seisan for his adoption and succession to Fujiki Echigo-no-kami Toshiaki of the Nijō family retainers, but a request came to consider my third son Tsuneaki based on his age. However, since Tsuneaki has had an itching disease on the soles of both feet for some time and is under treatment by physician Shingū Ryōtei, with uncertain prospects for the future, I responded that I would still prefer to send my second son Tsunehiro. Today around the hour of the Snake, a reply came from the same person that it was definitively decided to request my second son Tsunehiro. Regarding this, I immediately went to the Hirohashi house and promptly conveyed this greeting to Seisan.