○Regarding Tsunenori's change of family name from Fujiki to Kondo, today a notification was submitted to Tsunemasu in the office. The document is as follows:
Fujiki Okoimotayu Tsunenori
Family name changed to Kondo
The above is hereby notified.
Hitsuji 8th month

○As congratulations arrived at our house for Tsunehiro's completion of his first court rank appointment, today we sent one layer of white steamed rice cakes in return to each sender. However, those for Tsunetada, Tsunetake, Horikawa, Seo, etc. were sent from Toshiaki's side. ○Today the young prince and princesses made a ceremonial visit to Hateda sacred mountain. I attended my regular duty, and Tsunenori went out to pay respects at the sacred mountain. ○Regarding Tsunehiro, he was ordered to begin regular service from yesterday, the 27th.

29th day, Kinoto-Tori, clear weather: From today begins the counting of autumn days.

9th month (small month)
4th day, Kanoe-Tora, clear weather: The second meeting of the palace renovation lecture association with 200 monme contribution was held at Okudaya as usual. Completed duty and returned home at the hour of the Dog.

6th day, Mizunoe-Tatsu, clear weather: Settlement of accounts for the lecture association.

7th day, Mizunoto-Mi, cloudy: Ume no Gennosuke reported regarding the inspection of Sakurada land that Dekame Shiro should be instructed to provide five sho of rice.

9th day, Kinoto-Hitsuji, cloudy: The Chrysanthemum Festival rituals and family celebration ceremonies as usual.

10th day, Hinoe-Saru, cloudy: For Tsunehiro's completion of his first court rank appointment, accompanied by Tsunehiro, Tsunekei and others, we visited Otsu Yasutoshi to offer congratulations, bringing two strings of dried squid, two monme of silver for white steamed rice cakes, etc. as gifts in reciprocation. Had lunch and then viewed the Shinomiya Festival, returning home after the hour of the Dog.

12th day, Tsuchinoe-Inu, clear weather: Murata, myself, Ijichi and others departed today for land inspection in Kuga village.