Keiki did not attend service at the palace.

17th day, Kanoto-ushi, light snow. Since Keikan received the decree for his application for shoōdaibu rank, I went to offer congratulations and sent one hundred hiki of gold as celebratory feast money.

18th day, Mizunoe-tora, clear. The beginning of the Nishinaka gathering, but both persons did not attend.

19th day, Mizunoto-u, clear. Regarding the petition of Sakaiya Shōbei from Kizu Kodera village, in order to negotiate with the officials of Lord Mizuno Iwami-no-kami at Nishitsuji village encampment in Yamato Province, from early morning I took along my subordinate Fujita Kajizaemon, colleague Hikobei, and two servants and departed. Sakaiya Tō-Shōbei had come up to Kyoto two days ago to meet us and accompanied me in my palanquin. We had lunch at Fushimi, and after nightfall arrived at Kizu township and stayed at Kawaguchiya.

20th day, Kinoe-tatsu, clear. Departed Kizu at the hour of the dragon (7-9 AM), traveled six ri and arrived at an inn in a place called Tawaramoto. From Tawaramoto, there was supposedly a Hōbōji temple where the Nishitsuji official named Nakagawa Shichizaemon resided, so immediately upon arrival I sent a messenger, but he had gone to the encampment and was not at home. At half past the hour of the monkey (3:30 PM) I stayed at Tawaramoto. ○ Today there was a Te-no-shiru meeting, but I could not attend as I was traveling.

21st day, Kinoto-mi, cloudy with afternoon rain. Traveled three and a half ri from Tawaramoto and arrived at the residence of a certain Suya in a place called Chikashō. From this place to Nishitsuji encampment was said to be about one chō, so I put on my hakama and immediately sent Yūzaemon to the encampment, but Nakagawa had gone to Kawada and had not yet returned to the village, and would give a reply upon his return. Therefore I stayed in Chikashō.

22nd day, Hinoe-uma, clear. Guided by Genzō, an agent of Sakaishō, I alone took a palanquin with one servant and from early morning made pilgrimages to Miwa Shrine and then to Hasedera Temple. Had lunch at Sakurai post station and spent the night at Tōnomine. Miwa Shrine's torii has sacred doors attached. At Tōnomine's stone torii hangs a plaque inscribed "Awaji Daigongen."

23rd day, Hinoto-hitsuji, heavy snow. Early morning pilgrimage to Lord Kamatari's shrine at Tōnomine. At the hour of the dragon (7-9 AM), the temple community gathered in the worship hall of the main shrine and conducted prayer services. The back...