Eighth day, Tsuchinoto-ushi (己丑), rain then clear. Shirō Hiranao died at the age of eighty.

Tenth day, Kanoto-u (辛卯), clear. This morning my elderly mother, accompanied by Tanzen, made the customary mid-summer grave visit as in previous years. ○ From the fourth month of this year rain had continued, but with successive prayers for cessation of rain, finally from the eighth day of this seventh month it became sunny. Most precious indeed.

Fourteenth day, Kinoto-hitsuji (乙未). My son's mid-summer celebration and return courtesy visits were as in previous years. ○ This season's payment total: 1 kan 291 momme 5 bu 6 mō in silver.

Fifteenth day, Hinoe-saru (丙申), clear. The celebrations within the noble houses were as usual. The young imperial prince's congratulatory visits and rounds were conducted as customary.

Sixteenth day, Hinoto-tori (丁酉), overcast. Return courtesy visits in the provinces were completed as in previous years.

Nineteenth day, Kanoe-ne (庚子), overcast then clear. Kyōkei today enrolled in calligraphy at Murata Shikibu-no-daijō's place, and I sent 2 momme 1 shu of silver along with him as payment for fans. ○ Regarding Nakaōji Gōkiji, also called Shōkiki Uemon, who had been serving as an attendant to the noble house but whose conduct became dissolute, he was given leave by imperial command this time, and I was told by Senior Retainer Namba Iyo-no-kami that if he reformed himself, there might be compassionate financial assistance according to his petition, which I should convey. A written notice came from Fujioka Kurando. Therefore I went and delivered this, conveying the meaning of the compassion orally.

Twenty-second day, Mizunoto-u (癸卯), overcast, rain in afternoon. Since Librarian Hōho-agata-nushi had been ill for a long time and was not recovering, I sent one container of simmered food as a get-well gift.

Twenty-fourth day, Kinoe-tatsu (甲辰), clear. Hōho-agata-nushi's recovery was ultimately not possible and he died this morning. However, since dismounting plaques had been ordered for the six gates and three gates from some time ago, I reported this matter to the appropriate office, and within half an hour it was announced. I returned home from the palace at noon and immediately went to visit, speaking with his son Hosei about various matters until the end.

Twenty-fifth day, Kinoto-mi (乙巳), clear. I brought and sent 1 shu of gold as incense money to Hosei's place for condolences. Moreover, due to tonight's funeral, I went and looked after various matters all day until everything was completed.