Of these, two tan for purification robes, one tan by lottery from Ikejiiri with the deputy magistrate standing, I wish to consult with Kyōi regarding the small diary. ○ From Second Head Banken, Kyōkei for consultation went to serve guard duty at the retreat quarters. ○ Today there was no audience for those entering the mansion.

12th day, Kanoe-ne, rain. From the Third Head, through discussion Kyōkei went in the evening, and two sake servers attended.

13th day, Kanoto-u, clear. For New Year's greetings to relatives in the territory other than those present, I had Kyōkei serve as substitute.
○ Yesterday's memorial presentation was as in previous years. ○ Today there was no audience with the Buddhist monks at the appointed time.

15th day, Mizunoto-mi, clear. Today, regarding the Great Lord's end of temporary mourning, purification was ordered yesterday. This early morning after bathing, as soon as instructed, I performed the ritual in the sitting room as on the 7th day. The purification implements, manner of performance, attire, etc., were all completed as on the 7th day. The purification implements were presented as they were to Bamboo Palace, and after a short time, celebratory sake was bestowed. ○ Everyone wore noshime formal long kamishimo and offered New Year's congratulations in the sitting rooms of both palaces. ○ Sake cups were bestowed from the Young Lord as in previous years. ○ Retainer Shiraki Bunnai was ordered into retirement, granted one-person stipend, his adopted son Sahei's succession petition was completed, and he made his first appearance at the palace. Similarly, Kawase Genjirō was ordered to begin service. Monk Taga Jusai was granted 2 koku 5 to from now on, and additionally Murata, Okamoto, Hori Benji and others were granted salary increases. ○ Former Third Head Banken invited me but I did not attend; Kyōkei went. ○ Regarding the two new Second Heads, Yasutoshi's assumption of office, everyone was invited, and as congratulations, 2 shō of first-fruit rice, two bundles of fans, one piece of silver, etc. were sent. The same person's wife, cousin Bōjo and two daughters of Chiyokimi, etc. came up to the capital. ○ The officials of the palace domain territory, who usually make courtesy visits in the fifth month each year, were delayed, but today were ordered to attend. Offerings and the bestowal of celebratory sake, etc. were as customary. ○ There was no celebration of the palace's Sagichō; only the auspicious writings were put to flame.

16th day, Kinoe-uma, rain followed by light snow. New Second Head Yasutoshi assumed office, and at his nephew Kisshōtomi's place a gathering was arranged. I, Kyōki, and Kyōkei attended from breakfast, and Chiko also attended to help with domestic arrangements.
○ The Fourth Group's rotation duty began, so I took my seat. This being the second rotation naturally. All matters were as in previous years.