Fan boxes and other items had been prepared beforehand at Seo's place and were brought and distributed today. When notice came that [we] should depart immediately, Chiyozō dressed in hemp formal wear, long-sleeved kimono, and sword, and accompanied by clerk Kohei and apprentices Tōzaburō and Ichizō, went to the residence. I remained at Ōtsuya with Uno and others. We partook of sake and food, and after about half an hour, [they] returned saying the formal proceedings at the residence had concluded. However, there was a celebratory drinking ceremony with the caretaker, and Chiyozō participated in the exchange of sake cups. This was after about thirty cups had been exchanged. Throughout, both Nakajima Rihei and Risuke handled the arrangements. Though it was quite a juvenile affair, overall it was carried out without incident and concluded promptly - the intent was fully understood. Risuke's clerk and Kirokurou came to Ōtsuya, meeting for the first time and exchanging various greetings. Around the Hour of the Monkey (3 PM), [we] returned to the Horikawa residence. I remained for the celebratory drinking there while Chiyozō was sent home.

17th day, 甲午, Clear with strong winds - In the afternoon, I sent Chiyozō to pay respects to Shimizu Gemba-no-jō, an attendant of the Yōmei family, and presented a box of fans. He wore hemp formal wear, long-sleeved kimono, and sword, with Jibei as his guide today. His attire was arranged at the palace, with young attendants as on the 15th. From there, he was taken to one Kamehachi, who serves as a liaison for the Satsuma household. He wore hakama, haori, and sword, again with Jibei as guide. After completing this, [we] stopped by Teramachi Wakasa-no-kami's residence and returned home in the evening.

○ Kyōkei substituted for the shrine duty rotation.

18th day, 乙未, Clear - Master Naoichi (age 80 at the time), the reform supervisor, passed away this morning, so I went to offer condolences and sent one shu in funeral money, having him pay respects. This elderly gentleman had for many years shown exceptional kindness in arithmetic and other shrine matters - he was truly a benefactor. My feelings of loss are boundless.

○ The Eastern Honganji's main consort entered the palace for the first time today. Sake and food were served. She is a princess from Fushimi and the Great Lord's niece.

○ After lunch, I visited Namba Iyo-no-kami, Mie Chūsho and others, then attended a procurement meeting at Okudaya.

○ Since Ōshio Heihachirō set fires in Osaka on the 19th of last month, there have been night patrols by military personnel within the Imperial Palace grounds, including all the upper nine gates...