For this purpose, the duty officer Ikuken from my shrine community received various implements, and all matters were completed as usual. There were two people with problems, [involving] a rice cooking bucket and one small bowl, with only the monthly official's lottery assignment, one small bowl allocated, with remaining silver per person of 2 shu in gold and 360 mon in copper coins distributed each. Due to high rice prices, this is an unprecedented situation.

14th day, 辛酉, Clear - The Aoi Festival. Kyōsen served as the second-ranking official in charge of rotating offerings. Kyōkei performed substitute duty for the first time. One attendant and two white-robed servants as usual. Around the middle of the hour of the Snake, the third drum was beaten, and [we] immediately went on duty wearing court dress and plain robes as usual, inserting aoi (hollyhock) and katsura (laurel). [The ceremony] concluded without incident at the latter part of the hour of the Monkey and [we] withdrew. Most auspicious! ○ Early morning sacred sake offering as in previous years. ○ After the hour of the Sheep, Imperial Messenger Shigeruino-i Middle Captain, Imperial Liaison Shimizudani, Administrator Kanroji, Treasury Messenger Shibayama Castle Messenger, Namba and other various officials came. I went to Namba's rest quarters to pay a courtesy call and sent two throats of mackerel and flying fish. ○ Horikawa Zaemon Taishi, relative of Jukōin Kobayashi Junkichi and others visited, [we] served sake and food. However, this was Taishi's first visit.

15th day, 壬戌, Clear - Being the middle day of prayers for the Great Retired Shogun's illness, the second head priest Hoyasu prepared and offered 21 sets of sacred hemp, which were presented the same day, resulting in His Lordship's great satisfaction.

18th day, 乙丑, Clear - Today being the final day of prayers for the illness, yesterday [we] sent 2 shō of first-fruit rice to second head priest Enyasu.

19th day, 丙寅, Clear - On the 21st of last month, [we] were asked by the職中 to also handle the frugality administration, and after subsequent consultations and correspondence from the secretariat, responses were repeatedly submitted from outside the council. Today after lunch, there was a private meeting and consultation at the Kawaramachi Shinya residence. Those who gathered were Head Priest Mōkyūe, Kyōhitsu, Kyōshō, Kyōchoku, Kyōeki, outsider Kyōsen, accountant Hitsuken, Ikuken Nari, Kuki and others. However, since Nariki is in deep mourning, [the meeting] was held at the Shinya residence as described above. All matters were discussed and concluded, and furthermore on the coming 20th