Imperial edict messenger: Mibu Kanmu Yasuyoshi Asomi
　　　　　　　　　　　Oshikoji Daigeki Shinori Asomi
In addition to these, there are retainers such as Miyake, Mikura, and Kostoneri.

20th day, Kinoto-ushi, clear. The sacred music lecture accounting was held at the shrine as usual, with officials in charge assembling. There were three people: Kazuaki, myself, and Hissaken.

23rd day, Tsuchinoe-tatsu, clear. The shrine's economy committee met in the duty rotation room to investigate various matters. Regarding rice distributions to earth hat craftsmen, item craftsmen, etc., it was decided and assigned to the staff that during the economy period, distributions would be reduced by 20%. Also, regarding the collection of overdue barrel fees, reminders were issued, and in addition, October lottery economy reductions were completed, with investigations and accounting conducted.

○Regarding the matter of Doroike Village's Sanjuro: There had been a loan of official funds from Kishu, but this time a seizure order came to the village officials, and when collection was achieved, it was reported to the shrine. Village officials were sent to me. Upon understanding the situation, regarding the mortgage on Sanjuro's residence that was previously handed over to me from the shrine - the paddy fields at two Natsume locations and one Mikusu location that Kyosen had purchased and kept the year before last - there was a request for me to provide additional silver this time. Therefore, I went to the shrine to make a petition. My request was that since the borrowed silver was Sanjuro's personal loan and did not concern annual rice taxes, either the village should handle it or the village should repay the original silver for the said fields and houses - requesting that one of these two methods be ordered. Since today was a meeting day at the temple, it was decided that this was reasonable, and this was communicated to the village officials. However, regarding the village's provision of silver, they repeatedly lamented that it was extremely difficult due to poor harvests in recent years. Because of this, it was privately conveyed that the landowner had promised to petition me about this matter, and so petitions were made to the market again. However, regarding this land case, various rice tax complications had already been dealt with previously.