Do not grind the miso but add it to the broth. When bringing to a boil, wash the abalone thoroughly with its shell, boil well for delicious use. It becomes tender enough to cut with chopsticks.

○Mock Sea Bream Salt-Grilled Kabayaki
Wash the sea bream as usual, apply a little salt and set aside. Spread salt in a large pot, place the sea bream on top, wrap with salt from above and steam-grill. To check the steaming, put in two extra pieces and steam them as a test. When serving in the reception room, place in a large bowl, wash off the salt, and sprinkle with aromatic spices.

Remaining sashimi fish　　　Kuruma shrimp
Salt-grilled　　　　　　　Eel
Arranged dishes　　　　　　etc.
　　　　　　　　　　　　combinations

Golden thread fish　　　　Salt-grilled
　　　　　　　　　　　　Single-side filleted
Yellow fish　　　　　　　Soy sauce
Kudzu greens　　　　　　Marinated grilling

Spanish mackerel steamed　　Croaker marinated grilling
　　With thick sauce　　　　Pan-fried
　Japanese pepper miso　　　Pickled cucumber
　　topping　　　　　　　Ginger

Filefish　　　　　　　　Kuruma shrimp
Salt-grilled　　　　　　combinations
Pan-fried

Needlefish　　　　　　　Crucian carp marinated grilling
Pan-fried　　　　　　　Japanese pepper miso
Salt-grilled　　　　　　Dengaku

Eel　Catfish　　　　　　Besides these, anything
Kabayaki　　　　　　　　depending on seasonal availability
With accompaniments　　　as appropriate

【Appetizer Section】
First course: assorted appetizers
Or: appetizer salad
Second course: marinated dishes  
Third course: clear soup

For example: kamaboko, firm eggs ○grilled fish, Asakusa nori (types of seaweed) ○marinated dishes: chrysanthemum leaves, mustard, bracken, dandelion - arranged appropriately according to the season for viewing pleasure

【Clear Soup Section】
Ceremonial banquet clear soup
Two small crucian carp, pufferfish, salmon
In Kyoto, for wedding ceremonies

Clams are absolutely essential. When clams are unavailable, fish paste is used inside the shell as clam meat.
For the ceremonial miso soup, the third course should be clear broth according to established practice. For banquet soups, it is good to alternate between light and heavy ones. For combinations, great invention is applied - grated taro is favored this year. However, with reheating...

【Appetizer Section】
This should be the same as clear soup. Arranged in inkstone lids or bowls

Three, five, or seven varieties - there is no fixed rule. Since people use these daily, detailed recording would be tedious, so here we provide only examples of menu arrangements.