【Page 70】
【Upper section】
Paper collation by Jōbō, Provisional Great Prelate (Original Vow of Kinzōin) investigated

From the twenty-fifth day of the eighth month of the first year of Eiroku (1558, Year of the Earth Horse) to the first day of the ninth month, work completed
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Scribe: Shunsin Kiyotane

【Lower section】
Table of Contents for Saishō Mondōshō, Fascicle Nine

Fascicle Nine
Question: Can the agent of prophecy extend to those of fixed nature in the two vehicles?
Question: Does the third incalculable eon actually have the meaning of transcending eons?
Question: When manifesting the eight aspects in the causal stage, does one give prophecies of country, eon, and name for those being taught?
Question: Is the quantity of the Bhadrakalpa twenty intermediate eons?
Question: In the Compendium of Mahāyāna text "to attract one class and maintain the remainder," does the remainder class include sudden-awakening bodhisattvas?
Question: Is the name "provisional cognition" limited only to inferential cognition?
Question: Do the verses "All uphold offerings to Buddha Jeweled Topknot, etc." explain Dharma jewel offerings?
Question: Do bodhisattvas with transformed bodies in lower realms see divided bodies in upper realms?
Question: Was the former King Sujāta a wheel-turning king?
Question: Do bodhisattvas from the first ground onward have types who fear afflictions?
Question: Does the text "If there are faithful good men and good women who, regarding past, future, and present buddhas" explain deliberative thought?
Question: What practice among the ten dharma practices does the sūtra text "extensively expound and circulate for sentient beings, and those who hear the Dharma" explain?

【Page 71】
【Upper section】
Question: In the sūtra text "seeing my honored muni," which of the three bodies is this?
Question: How does the commentary master explain the sūtra text "Vaiśravaṇa of great shoulders"?
Question: Is Buddha Victorious Contemplation the same as Buddha Puṣya?
Question: When King Sujāta appears in the world as a wheel-turning king, does he actually undergo rebirth?
Question: Is Śākyamuni Bodhisattva one in whom compassion predominates?
Question: Is Śākyamuni's transcending eons limited to forty eons?
Question: Does the substance of what is prophesied extend to the three bodies?
Question: Are maṇi jewels and wish-fulfilling jewels the same substance?
Question: Regarding Wonderful Banner's stage.
Question: Are the offerings "All uphold offerings to Buddha Jeweled Topknot, etc." the sixth type of joint offerings?

【Lower section】
Saishō Mondōshō, Volume Nine

Volume Nine
Question: Regarding the sūtra text's clarification of prophecy characteristics, can the agent of prophecy extend to those of fixed nature in the two vehicles?
Answer: There are two explanations. Regarding the commentary's latter explanation, it is unclear. Those of fixed nature in the two vehicles do not themselves become buddhas. How would they know of others becoming buddhas? Based on this, in the Lotus Sūtra Profound Meanings, when listing agents of one-vehicle prophecy, only two categories of buddhas and bodhisattvas are mentioned, stating "In all sūtras, agents of prophecy do not exceed these two." We know it does not extend to those of fixed nature in the two vehicles. How is this?

In my view: Though the explanation has two interpretations, that the agent of prophecy does not extend to those of fixed nature in the two vehicles should be taken as the correct explanation. However, if one were to establish the meaning of the inclusive explanation through one aspect, the commentary immediately explains this: those of fixed nature in the two vehicles who are not of the foolish dharma type and who believe in the existence of Mahāyāna can also be recorded through general characteristics, but this does not extend to detailed recording of countries, eons, names, etc. The evidence is in the Bodhisattva Precepts Sūtra: "Once there was an arhat who, leading a novice to generate the great mind and produce reverence, gave prophecy that he would become a buddha." However, regarding explanations in texts like the Profound Meanings, this is discussed in terms of the majority. Next, regarding the explanation that it does not extend to those of fixed nature in the two vehicles, perhaps the Bodhisattva Precepts Sūtra explains this concerning expedient two-vehicle practitioners.

The commentary states: