[Right page]
It is not only that food entering through the mouth causes harm, but one must also be cautious about how music and beautiful sights harm the ears and eyes. The "Wenxuan" states: "Indulging the desires of ears and eyes, indulging bodily comfort, harms the harmony of blood vessels." It also says that "riding in carriages when going out and using sedan chairs when entering" is called "an opportunity for weakening the legs," that "beautiful bedchambers and cool palaces" are called "mediators of cold and heat disorders," that "white teeth and moth eyebrows (beautiful women)" are called "axes that harm life," and that "indulging in sweet, crispy, and rich foods" is called "medicine that rots the intestines." While these matters may not directly concern pregnant women, they should be considered most important as prohibitions for those who practice health cultivation.

Moreover, in ancient times there was something called "fetal education" - the teaching already existed when the child to be born was still in the womb. The "Biographies of Exemplary Women" states: "When a woman

[Left page]
conceives a child, she does not lie on her side when sleeping, does not lean to one side when sitting, does not stand on one foot when standing, does not eat improper meat, does not eat if the cutting is not proper, does not sit if the mat is not properly arranged, does not look at improper sights with her eyes, does not listen to lewd sounds with her ears, and at night has blind musicians recite poetry and speak of righteous things. If done this way, the child that is born will have proper appearance and talent exceeding others."

Tairen, the mother of King Wen of Zhou, was the middle daughter of the Zhizhong clan. King Ji married her and made her his consort. Tairen's character was upright and single-minded, sincere and dignified, and she practiced only virtue. When she conceived King Wen, she did not look at bad sights with her eyes, did not listen to lewd sounds with her ears, did not utter arrogant words with her mouth, and King Wen