"Ansei Revised Peaceful Solid Foundation Illustrated" (Safety Record)

Burned mansions: Over 670
Number of storehouses: Over 325,600 buildings
Number of fire sources: 45 locations  
Collapsed houses: Over 576,000
Number of deaths: Over 168,500 people

[Bottom right]
It has been 199 years from the Great Fire of Meireki 3rd year to this year. This time, the head priest of Ekoin Temple has requested that instead of accepting the usual memorial service fee of one kan-mon for the souls who died in the earthquake and fires, he would like to conduct proper funeral services without charge. This request has been approved. 
October

[Main text]
Natural disasters and earth disturbances cannot be prevented by human power. This time, on the night of October 2nd, Ansei 2nd year (Year of the Rabbit), at the fourth hour, heaven and earth suddenly shook and a great earthquake occurred. In the east, within Wadakura Gate, both mansions of Lord Matsudaira Higo-no-kami were affected, Lord Matsudaira Shimosa-no-kami's mansion, Lord Naito's mansion was slightly burned. Lord Sakai Ukyo-no-suke's mansion mostly collapsed. At Yashiro-sugashi, Lord Endo Tajima-no-kami's mansion burned. Lord Matsudaira Sagami-no-kami's mansion was half burned but the front gate remained. The fire brigade post's watchtower remained. Lord Masuyama Kawachi-no-kami's mansion completely collapsed but the front gate remained. Lord Oda Hyobu-shoyu's mansion mostly collapsed. Lord Ogasawara Saemon-no-jo's front gate collapsed. Only the front gate of Lord Matsudaira Awa-no-kami's mansion collapsed. Lord Matsudaira Ukyo-no-suke's and Lord Doi Oi-no-kami's mansions were slightly burned. Within Hibiya Gate, Lord Honda Nakatsukasa-taiyu's and Lord Nagai Totomi-no-kami's mansions burned. Lord Tosa's middle mansion collapsed. At Soto-Sakurada, around the Mori and Uesugi mansions, there was much collapse. Lord Matsudaira Hizen-no-kami's mansion burned. Lord Abe Harima-no-kami's mansion completely collapsed. The Niwa and Kuchiki mansions mostly fell down. The mansions of Lords Arima Bingo-no-kami, Nambu Shinano-no-kami, Matsudaira Tokinosuke, and Ito Shuri-taiyu burned. Lord Kamei Oki-no-kami's mansion was half burned. Lord Hojo's and the Satsuma domain's subsidiary mansion were slightly burned. At Kasumigaseki and Nagata-cho, the mansions of various daimyo and hatamoto suffered great damage in many places. Around Taki-no-kuchi, both mansions of Lord Sakai Gaku-no-kami burned, but the front gate of the upper mansion remained. Lord Morikawa Dewa-no-kami's mansion burned. Generally, within Kanda Bridge and Tokiwa Bridge areas, there was great collapse. Outside Kanda Bridge on the main street, damage was light, but in Ogawa-cho there was much collapse. Around the mansions of Lords Matsudaira Buzen-no-kami and Hongo Tango-no-kami, seven hatamoto mansions burned. Also the mansions of Lords Hotta Bitchu-no-kami, Naito Suruga-no-kami, Okabe Bingo-no-kami, Saito, Kondo, Kawaguchi, Honda, Okubo, Hisamatsu, Soga, Nakarai Sakyo-taiyu, Toki, and Mizoguchi, and all fire brigade buildings burned. The mansions of Lords Sakakibara Shikibu-taiyu and Toda Oi-no-kami were slightly burned. Around Iida-machi and Suruga-dai, buildings strongly collapsed. Around the mansions of Lords Matsudaira Sanuki-no-kami, Matsudaira Suruga-no-kami, and Iwaki, there was great damage. In Kanda, both east and west areas had many collapses, Honcho and Temma-cho streets were severely affected, while Bakuro-cho and Ryogoku areas had slight damage. Around Ningyo-cho and Koami-cho was very severe, while around Takara-cho and Uogashi was quite light. Hatchobori was similarly light. South of Nihonbashi, around Tori-cho east-west main street and Nakabashi, most areas collapsed. Fire broke out from Kaji-cho, and Daiku-cho, Gorobei-cho, Tatami-cho, Minami-tenma-cho 2nd and 3rd districts, Suzuki-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Gusoku-cho, Yanagi-cho, Shirauoya-shiki, Kyobashi, and Takegashi all burned completely. Generally around Ginza, Owari-cho, and Shinbashi suffered great damage. Around Tsukiji was also severely affected, but the main hall of Nishi Honganji site was unharmed. Most of the grounds collapsed but did not crumble. Both sides of Shibaguchi and Shioi-cho burned. Around Shinmei-cho and Mishima-cho completely collapsed. From Tamachi area to Takanawa, Nihon-enoki, Shirogane area, and Shinagawa post station all suffered slight damage. Around Asakusa, Kaya-cho, Fukui-cho, and Daichi areas collapsed. Around Okura-mae street, Morishita, Hondawara-cho, and Higashi-naka-cho mostly collapsed. Fire broke out from the middle of Komagata, and burned through Suwa-cho, Kurofune-cho, and Miyoshi-cho, stopping at the riverbank. Namiki street and Kannon Hall were unharmed. Thunder Gate was undamaged. Most of the temple grounds were damaged. The torii of Sanja Gongen collapsed. The nine-ring spire of the five-story pagoda bent. All of Kita-uma-do and Minami-uma-do and eight temples burned. Tamachi 2nd district, Yamakawa-cho, and all three theaters in the theater district burned. Actor quarters slightly remained. One side of Hanakawado burned halfway. All of Shin-Yoshiwara collapsed, and particularly with fires breaking out from various places, all five districts burned completely. Over 3,500 people died. Of the fifty buildings outside the main gate, a few on the west side remained. Tanaka, Torigoe, and Mitani streets greatly collapsed. About two blocks near Imado Bridge burned. The Hashiba area greatly collapsed. Some houses in Zeni-za town burned. Senju post station completely collapsed. Kozukappara town burned. Around Kanasugi, Minowa, and Daion Temple, there was much collapse. Sakamoto 2nd and 3rd districts burned. Around Yamazaki-cho and Kotoku Temple front street, there was much collapse, and the grounds of Gyoan Temple at Shin-tera-cho and Kikuya Bridge burned. The hall of Higashi Honganji site was unharmed. The back gate collapsed. At Hakken-ji-cho, Jisso Temple, Senzo Temple, and Fudo-in collapsed. Gyokuso Temple burned. Around Shamisen-bori and Nanamagari, most areas collapsed. Fire broke out from the middle of the east side of Ueno Hirokoji, and Roku-Amida, Ito Matsusakaya kimono shop burned. Ueno-cho, Kuromon-cho, and Choja-cho all burned up to Naka-okachi-cho. Samurai residences burned. Lord Inoue Chikugo-no-kami's mansion burned. Lord Ogasawara's middle mansion, Lord Hori Tamba-no-kami's, Lord Sakai Aki-no-kami's, Lord Ozeki Shinano-no-kami's, and Lord Naito Bungo-no-kami's mansions all mostly suffered damage. The mansions of Lords Ishikawa Tonomo-no-kami, Kuroda Buzen-no-kami, Matsudaira Iga-no-kami (middle mansion), and Tatebe Takumi-no-kami burned. Around Yushima Tenjin-shita, everything collapsed. Ike-no-hata, Kaya-cho 1st and 2nd districts, and Shichiken-cho burned. The mansions of Lord Sakakibara and Lord Matsudaira Izumo-no-kami slightly burned. Lord Kitsureukawa's and Lord Matsudaira Bingo-no-kami's mansions mostly collapsed. At Yanaka Tennoji Temple, the nine rings of the five-story pagoda broke and fell. Around this area there was little collapse, but temple buildings were severely damaged in various places. Both districts of Nezu collapsed. Around Komagome and Sugamo there was much collapse. Around Hongo there was slight damage. Yushima Tenjin Shrine slightly collapsed. Around the three districts in front of the gate mostly suffered damage. Tsumaoi Shrine had no problems. Town houses slightly suffered damage. Kanda Myojin Shrine was undamaged. Seido (Confucian temple) greatly suffered damage, and about one block of the street in front fell into the Kanda River. Around Koishikawa, Kasuga-cho, Tozaki-cho, and Tomizaka area, Lord Ogasawara Shinano-no-kami's mansion mostly collapsed. Below Ushi Tenjin, Lord Iizuka Kenmotsu's and six other hatamoto mansions burned. Generally this area strongly collapsed. Around Kohinata, Otsuka, Ushigome, and Ichigaya there was damage in various places, and inside and outside Yotsuya Gate and Akasaka Gate greatly suffered damage. Shinjuku street had slight damage. Around Horinouchi was very light. Around Aoyama, Azabu, Hiroo, and Mita all had damage in various places. Around the base of Atago, Sakurada, Kubo-cho, Bizen-cho, and Fushimi-cho mostly suffered damage. Around Nishi-kubo, Shin-shimoya-cho, Fukide-cho, and Iikura, damage was generally severe, and many mansion grounds at Tameike of Lords Kuroda, Yoshida, and Toki greatly collapsed. Around Hatchobori was very light, but Reigan Island was severely affected with much collapse.