Ike-no-hata, Kaya-cho 1st and 2nd districts, and Shichiken-cho burned. The mansions of Lord Sakakibara and Lord Matsudaira Izumo-no-kami slightly burned. Lord Kitsureukawa's and Lord Matsudaira Bingo-no-kami's mansions mostly collapsed. At Yanaka Tennoji Temple, the nine rings of the five-story pagoda broke and fell. Around this area there was little collapse, but temple buildings were severely damaged in various places. Both districts of Nezu collapsed. Around Komagome and Sugamo there was much collapse. Around Hongo there was slight damage. Yushima Tenjin Shrine slightly collapsed. Around the three districts in front of the gate mostly suffered damage. Tsumaoi Shrine had no problems. Town houses slightly suffered damage. Kanda Myojin Shrine was undamaged. Seido (Confucian temple) greatly suffered damage, and about one block of the street in front fell into the Kanda River. Around Koishikawa, Kasuga-cho, Tozaki-cho, and Tomizaka area, Lord Ogasawara Shinano-no-kami's mansion mostly collapsed. Below Ushi Tenjin, Lord Iizuka Kenmotsu's and six other hatamoto mansions burned. Generally this area strongly collapsed. Around Kohinata, Otsuka, Ushigome, and Ichigaya there was damage in various places, and inside and outside Yotsuya Gate and Akasaka Gate greatly suffered damage. Shinjuku street had slight damage. Around Horinouchi was very light. Around Aoyama, Azabu, Hiroo, and Mita all had damage in various places. Around the base of Atago, Sakurada, Kubo-cho, Bizen-cho, and Fushimi-cho mostly suffered damage. Around Nishi-kubo, Shin-shimoya-cho, Fukide-cho, and Iikura, damage was generally severe, and many mansion grounds at Tameike of Lords Kuroda, Yoshida, and Toki greatly collapsed. Around Hatchobori was very light, but Reigan Island was severely affected with much collapse. Fire broke out from the middle of Shio-cho, and one side burned halfway, with Shinkawa slightly affected and Okawabata-cho burned. Around Ohashi was severely affected and Lord Ando Nagato-no-kami's mansion collapsed. Around Matsushima-cho, Lord Hayashi Harima-no-kami's mansion completely collapsed, and four other hatamoto mansions collapsed. At Kaigara-cho, the middle mansions of Lords Honda Higo-no-kami and Sakai Shimotsuke-no-kami, and Lord Sakai Gaku-no-kami's Ginza mansion greatly collapsed. At Teppozu Jukken-cho, Lord Matsudaira Awaji-no-kami's mansion burned. Teppozu Inari Shrine was unharmed. Fukakawa was extremely severe, with fires breaking out from seven locations, and Aikawa-cho, Kumai-cho, Tomikichi-cho, Shogenji, Nakajima-cho, Oshima-cho, Hamaguri-cho, Geki-dono-cho, Kitagawa-cho, and various other districts all burned completely, with only Kuroe-cho slightly remaining. Yamamoto-cho, around Yagura-shita, Nishi-yoko-cho, and Naka-cho up to Hachiman-mae burned. The bridge in front of Awa Province mansion burned and fell. Hachiman Shrine was not safe, and stone torii inside and outside collapsed. Tsuchi-bashi and Irifune-cho completely collapsed. Sanjusangendo completely collapsed. Nagaki-sama's district slightly burned. Lumber yards in various places greatly suffered damage. Wakura completely burned. Around the rope-making grounds everything collapsed. In the temple district, Genshin Temple, Kaifuku Temple, and Einen Temple - both main halls and sutra halls collapsed. Yamato-cho burned. At Isezaki-cho, Lord Kuroda's and some town houses burned. Higashi-hirano-cho had much collapse, and the lower mansions of Lords Makino and Naito collapsed. Joshinshin Temple's main hall was unharmed, but five buildings in the sutra hall grounds collapsed and the middle gate was damaged and fell. In front of the gate, a memorial tower one jo five shaku high and three shaku wide broke into two pieces of square stone. Reigan Temple's main hall was not safe, and fifteen buildings in the grounds collapsed. Little remained of the back streets. Chamatsu Temple and Jion Temple collapsed. Shinko Temple burned. Lord Tachibana Izumo-no-kami's mansion completely collapsed but the front gate remained. Around Takahashi, the seaside and Daiku-cho mostly collapsed. Around Ogi-bashi, Oshima area, and Funabori area, damage was extremely extensive in many places. Tokiwa-cho 1st and 2nd districts and Moto-cho burned. Lord Ota Settsu-no-kami's lower mansion completely collapsed and the front row houses burned. Shinmei Shrine was not safe and subsidiary shrines fell. At Rokken-bori, the lower bridge street remained. Half of Morishita-cho burned. Miroku Temple was greatly damaged. At Kita-rokken-bori and Hanagawa-cho, the group mansions of Lords Hyuga, Nagai, Kinoshita Zusho, Hayashi, and Inoue burned. The ship warehouse was unharmed. Matsui-cho collapsed. Hitotsume Benzaiten Shrine completely collapsed. Fukagawa Kiyosumi-cho and Shin-tera collapsed. In Honjo generally there were many collapsed houses, and at Matsuzaka-cho 1st district, three hatamoto mansions and Lord Tsuchiya Sado-no-kami's mansion burned. On Futatsume street, the lower mansions of Lord Todo and Lord Tsugaru Etchu-no-kami greatly suffered damage. About one block of Nagasaki-cho burned. From Midori-cho 2nd district to 4th district up to Mittsume Bridge burned. Besides this, there were many collapsed houses in this area. Near Kameido Tenjin Bridge, a little burned. The shrine was not safe. Yanagishima Myoken Shrine had no problems. Near Oshiage, many temples suffered damage and private houses greatly collapsed. Around Koume and Ogura-an, town houses burned. Around Yoshida-cho and Yoshioka-cho there was much collapse, and generally many mansions suffered damage. Ishihara Kata-cho slightly burned. Ishihara street strongly collapsed, and Lord Matsura's lower mansion at Banba greatly suffered damage. Around Ishihara Sotede-cho, few houses remained. Kita-banba-cho slightly burned. Around Nakanogo, the entire area strongly collapsed. Facing Higashi-bashi, the lower mansions of Lords Sakai Shimotsuke-no-kami and Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami greatly suffered damage. Lord Matsudaira Suwo-no-kami's lower mansion burned. Generally around Terashima, Hikifune, and Kinegawa areas were extremely severe, and most fire-related damage affected many houses. On the Tokaido as far as Odawara, Fujisawa post station had little damage. Kanagawa post station had much damage. Around Miura and Misaki also shook greatly and storehouses greatly suffered damage. Around Kawasaki post station there was actually little damage. Haneda Ryojin-cho suffered slight damage. Benzaiten Shrine was unharmed. Daishi Hall had no problems. Around Omori and Ikegami there was damage in various places. On the Nikko road, around Soka and Koshigaya there was much great collapse, while around Kurihashi there was little damage. The Nakasendo was very light. Around Omiya there was nothing much, but from Shimosa through Kazusa and Boshu provinces there was strong collapse. Around Sunamura, Funabori, Horie, Nekozane, and Gyotoku, both Ichinoi and Ninoi had much collapse. The Narita road was completely devastated - throughout Kazusa around Yawata, Shimosa around Chiba, and as far as Noda, there was extraordinary collapse. However, the next morning fires in all areas subsided and people felt relief. Because of this, the government graciously established relief huts and provided daily food distribution and care to the city - this should truly be gratefully revered and honored. Wealthy townspeople also provided aid to their neighborhoods, each contributing their share, and for this too they received commendation and praise from the government. At such a time, we record these details hoping it might serve as some help and assistance - this is why we present this account.

[Bottom left frame]
Relief Hut Locations:
In front of Asakusa Raijin Gate - 1 location
Outside Saiwai Bridge Gate - 1 location  
Fukagawa Seaside Daiku-cho - 1 location
Same, Hachiman grounds - 1 location
Honjo Warishimomizu - 1 location
Below Ueno Hill - 1 location
Same location, Toeizan
Relief Hut - 1 location

Due to this earthquake and fires, relief huts have been established for the destitute. Those in need should apply to the officials and may enter the huts as convenient.
October