1. Although this book, like the previous volume, divides meal arrangements by the four seasons, when mixing and substituting ingredients from here and there, the number of meal arrangements can extend to over a hundred variations. Moreover, substituting taro for burdock root, or chestnuts for taro, etc., can be done freely according to the cook's discretion and creativity.

1. The preparation of broths, the balance of dashi, brewing methods, quick boiling techniques and their distinctions, as well as pickling methods, simmering, and the differentiation of pickled vegetables, etc., are detailed in the previous volume, so they are omitted here. For details, please refer to the previous volume. The preparation methods omitted from the previous volume are recorded in detail in this book.

1. The methods for arranged fresh presentations, illustrations, or the arrangement of kaiseki place settings are also covered in the previous volume, so they are not recorded here. Only those items omitted from the previous work are presented.

1. In general, peeling and cutting methods are illustrated with diagrams in the previous volume. The methods for making decorative flowers should be viewed in the latter part of this book.

1. Pear, kunenbo citrus, decorative chestnut cutting, decorative carrot, decorative ginger, as well as fine cutting, julienne cutting, tanzaku cutting, colored paper cutting, white hair cutting, needle cutting, round peeling, golden thread cutting, perfectly round cutting methods, white thread-like taro, chasen (tea whisk shape), cedar bamboo preparations, red narcissus, yellow narcissus preparations, etc., are also detailed in the previous volume, so they are omitted here. The cutting methods that were omitted are briefly recorded below.

[Illustration] Pine story cutting method [Illustration] Preparation diagram - detailed on page 51

[Illustration]
Kunenbo citrus with branch attached: As shown in the diagram, cut about halfway through, then continue peeling in a circular motion. Remove the inner flesh and cut finely, arrange in a round shape as originally, and wrap the peel back to its original form to resemble the branched kunenbo. Serve as a sweet dish or as an accompaniment to poultry and fish dishes.

[Illustration above]
Cut the front and back of the pear, and as shown in the diagram, hollow out the center in a round shape. Peel a mandarin or kunenbo completely and stuff it inside.

[Illustration below]
Remove the skin in a hexagonal pattern and cut from the cross-section. As shown in this diagram, it will appear like a makuhari melon. It can also be peeled in an octagonal pattern.