Page 45
Twenty-second: Winter Two-tray Set with Two Soups and Five Dishes

　　　　　Main Tray
Mukōzuke (appetizer)
　　　　Madder root
　　　　White hair (julienned)
　　　　Strawberry-shaped
Raw arrangement plate　Water chestnut
　　　　Green yokan
Sword garnish
Details of sword garnish in previous volume
White vinegar

　　　△Cut madder root into white hair-like strips and soak in water, chopping with the skin. Soon put water seven parts full and kelp into another bowl, put the white hair strips in it, and when the color turns red, squeeze and use. △Strawberry water chestnut: Grate water chestnut with wasabi grater, pinch into strawberry-like shapes, and deep-fry in sesame oil. △Green yokan is available at confectionery shops. Cut this into thin strips and dust with rakugan powder. △White vinegar: Squeeze tofu and set aside, roast and grind white sesame, mix with ground tofu, thin with vinegar, strain through a bamboo strainer, add a little sugar, and pool at the bottom of the dish.

Main soup　Echigo miso
　　　　　White dumplings
　　　　　Turnip
　　　　　Shiitake mushrooms
　　　　　Green nori

　　　△Grind Echigo miso, make soup with kelp dashi, and strain through a bamboo strainer. △Peel turnips, make them small and round, boil and simmer. △Soak shiitake mushrooms in water, remove stems, boil and simmer. △Dry green nori, powder it and sprinkle.

　　Pulled tea
　　Miso
　　White thread yam
Small bowl　Small matsutake

　　　△Grind white miso, thin with dashi, strain through miso strainer and cook. Before serving, warm and mix in pulled tea, spreading on the bottom of the small bowl. △Prepare Chinese yam as white threads, cut into small pieces, make root-packed portions with yellow gardenia pods and boil, using both white and yellow. For yellow, chop gardenia fruits, soak in water, and use this to color. For details, see the previous volume. △Boil small matsutake with salted dashi, cut and layer. ○Steam both white threads and matsutake, put miso in a bowl and place in steamer.

Rice　Pickled vegetables
　　　Five varieties

　　　△Five varieties of pickled vegetables are found in numbers 5, 13, 17, etc. Should be referenced.

　　　　Second Tray
Mukōzuke
　　　　Miwa somen noodles
　　　　Molded iwatake mushrooms
Sashimi plate　Double narcissus
　　　　Kai-buki nori seaweed
　　　　Mura-shigure confection
Pocket paper
Found in previous volume
In choku bowl
Iri-zake (seasoned sake)
Grated wasabi
Wasabi sea bream sauce
Details in previous volume

　　　△Boil Miwa somen noodles, put in water, wash well and drain on bamboo strainer. Boil iwatake mushrooms, wash well, spread on bamboo strainer, add little by little to large agar, adjusting the amount, put iwatake inside, pour into box mold, let cool and cut to proper size. △Double narcissus: see menu number 6. △Soak kai-buki nori in water and squeeze out. △Mura-shigure is available at confectionery shops.

Second soup　Clear broth
　　　　　　Suizenji nori
　　　　　　Sode-no-usagi (sleeve rabbit)

　　　△Soak Suizenji nori in water, cut into strips, soak in warm water, discard the water and add to soup. △Sode-no-usagi is available at kamaboko shops. Add as is to the soup. ○Since sode-no-usagi contains wasabi inside, no separate aromatic accent is needed.

To be continued