Attach petals around the outer edge first, then attach slightly smaller ones between them, positioned slightly inward. Layer many petals as shown on the right.

Make carrots round, cut from the end, make slightly mounded, and cut fine vertical and horizontal notches as shown in the right diagram to make pistils, then insert with bamboo pegs.

Make slightly mounded as shown.

Diagram of Finished Chrysanthemum

For half-open flowers, make petals in large and small sizes. For the base, hollow out the center of arrowhead tubers and attach as before.

For all of these, insert into bamboo and wrap with hemp cotton thread. When chrysanthemum leaves are unavailable, use daikon radish leaves. Attach with wire.

For buds, also make cuts in arrowhead tubers.

○Small Chrysanthemum Instructions

For small chrysanthemums, use chestnuts or arrowhead tubers, making them thin as shown in the diagram. Make gradually larger ones in four tiers of about four or five pieces each, layering as shown in the diagram below.

Layer four or five of these pieces and place pistils in the center. Make pistils as for large chrysanthemums, insert into bamboo and wrap with hemp cotton thread. For leaves, daikon leaves may also be used, attached with wire. Wrap the wire in blue as well.

For winter chrysanthemums, make thick flowers with single petals. Make pistils from carrots as shown in the left diagram, or kumquat peeled flesh may also be used.

Winter chrysanthemum pistils as shown
Grated carrot is also good

Flower diagram as shown - use chestnuts for backing, same as small chrysanthemums. For leaves, make smaller versions following the large branch pattern, coloring the leaves lightly with red.

○Clematis Instructions

Make clematis pistil cores as shown in this diagram.
Then use carrot or red vegetable skin to make pistils like those of camellia and peony, wrap around the core, tie with cotton thread, arrange the pistils horizontally as shown in the right diagram and insert. Cut away from the thread edge and place in the flower center, inserting with bamboo.

Cut from thread edge as shown in diagram

Make petals as shown in diagram, same as peony and camellia. Add vertical curves and soak in water.

Make base from arrowhead tubers, hollowing out the center

Attach petals with bamboo pegs, using six petals