1. Wearing formal court dress (daimon), one departs home at six-and-a-half o'clock (around 7 AM) and goes to the castle. In the Gari-no-ma (Wild Goose Room), one confers with fellow attendees, and all together bring sword catalogs to the Ōhiroma (Great Hall), place swords in front, and await the lord's appearance.
   The aforementioned sword catalogs for presentation are brought by caretakers to the middle entrance and handed over to the Buddhist monks. The monks receive them and place them after passing through the veranda of the Gari-no-ma. One should note their location before going around to the front.

1. His Lordship appears in the Black Study (Kuro-shoin), where the Three Branch Houses have their audience, concluded with ceremonial dried abalone (noshi), then withdraw. Next, His Lordship appears in the White Study (Shiro-shoin), where those of ranks from minor captain (shōshō) to chamberlain (jijū) to fourth court rank bring sword catalogs.
   After the inspectors conclude, soup and sake are served to the Three Branch Houses and accompanying retainers, and seasonal clothing is bestowed. Next, those from minor captain to chamberlain to fourth court rank receive sake and are granted seasonal clothing.
   All then withdraw, and next His Lordship appears in the Great Hall. When appearing on the lower platform, the sliding doors are opened, and the various daimyo place their swords in front for audience. At this time, formal thanks are offered and concluded, the sliding doors are closed, and His Lordship takes his seat.
   The sword catalogs presented by the various daimyo are collected during the audience.

1. After His Lordship is seated, beginning with the senior direct retainers (go-ryū) and hereditary retainers (fudai), groups of three receive sake and are granted seasonal clothing in order. Among those of the same rank, they appear in order after the hereditary retainers according to their stipend amounts. However, the ceremonial attendants (sōsha-ban) are interspersed. After receiving sake and seasonal clothing, those of the same rank pass through the veranda and wooden-floored areas of the Great Hall, line up in order with a small interval after the senior councilors (rōjū). They remain until all the senior retainers are finished, and withdraw after greetings with the senior councilors.

1. After withdrawal, one goes to Nishinomaru castle and has an audience with the ceremonial attendants in the Great Hall.