Watanabe detained the monk and told Yokichi that since Shichihaya-hime, daughter of Masakado, was hidden in the leather tabi carrier's load, he would purchase her. He handed over the sacred mirror and observed both men's reactions.

The monk wept. From within the mountain load, Shichihaya-hime (…) therefore, (likely) Masakado visits (…)
【Actor】Mon-no-suke
【According to the "Kabuki Chronology," Shichihaya-hime is Masakado's daughter (Yoshikado's sister), but since Masakado's descendants are immortal, when leather tabi shop owner Mojibei cut her with a knife, she was unharmed, so this episode might be being told here.】

【Character】Tsuna
【Actor】Nakazō

Leather tabi shop carrier (different from leather tabi shop owner Mojibei)
Actually Shōgun-tarō Yoshikado (Taira no Yoshikado, legendary eldest son of Masakado)
【Character】Kanda Yokichi
【Actor】Matsusuke【Double role with Usui Aratarō】

【Left Page】
The monk calling himself Yoshikado also wanted to meet his lord Yoshikado, and when he called himself Hitachi-no-suke, he opened his heart to Yokichi's sister's portrait (?), and seeing that the Shōgun-tarō Yoshikado he wished to meet declared "I am he," the claim of being Hitachi-no-suke, retainer of Masakado, was false. In truth, he was Goi-no-suke Tadaie, retainer of Suō-no-suke, who had an affair with his lord's princess Suō-no-naishi and fled. On the night they departed, they lost the sacred sword, so to prove his identity, he agonized and committed seppuku, thus discovering Yoshikado, he said. The Hino-kozō's sacred sword also came into Watanabe's hands, to his joy. Finally,

Watanabe, moved by Tadaie's loyalty, confronted Yoshikado.
【Actor】Nakazō
Yokichi fell into Tadaie's scheme, called himself Yoshikado, and felt regret.
【Actor】Matsusuke

【Character】Tadaie
【Actor】Mon-no-suke【Double role with Urabe Suetake】

【Text becomes unclear from here】
Suō-no-naishi mourned the seppuku of Tadaie (? The one committing seppuku is not Tadaie but Yokichi (Yoshikado)) with whom she was reunited.
【Actor】Kikunojō

【According to the "Kabuki Chronology," Yoshikado requested a pillow at Watanabe Tsuna's house and received a sleeve with Suō-no-naishi's poem "Haru no yo no yume bakari naru tamakura ni" (On this pillow that is but a spring night's dream) written on it. Because he slept using this as a pillow, he committed seppuku and declared himself to be Yoshikado. In the illustration, the one stabbing his belly with a sword is the carrier Yokichi = Yoshikado.】