【Right page, upper section】
Sadamitsu brings his wife Tsuma-giku and requests to serve as an intermediary to Yorimitsu. As depicted in the illustration, clouds descend, and finding it strange that Tsuma-giku began crying to the monkey's small drum, her true nature is revealed through the divine power of the sword Hizamaru.

【Character】Tsuma-giku, actually a cloud spirit of Mount Katsuragi
【Actor】Kikunojō

Having her identity discovered and fearing the divine power of the sword Hizamaru, she reveals her cloud spirit form.

Excellent! Excellent!
Ō-Satsuma Shuzendayū
At this point, the rhythm dance is performed
Fujita Otozō【Nagauta vocalist】

【Right page, lower section】
【Character】Minamoto no Yorimitsu
【Actor】Sōjūrō

【Character】Sadamitsu【Usui no Sadamitsu】
【Actor】Matsusuke

【Left page】

【Character】Yasumasa's daughter Ko-Shikibu
【Actor】Shichiji (presumed)

Hakamadare, requested by Yorichika, becomes an imperial messenger and comes to his elder brother Yasumasa's mansion. By the Emperor's edict, he orders the execution of the hidden Prince Kanehito, presenting two difficult demands. While harboring romantic feelings for Izumi Shikibu and having his identity known to Yasumasa, he plots evil deeds.

When her daughter Ko-Shikibu's poem about Mount Ōe is made into a word riddle by her husband Yasumasa, she grieves as her daughter Ko-Shikibu is made to stand as a substitute for Prince Kanehito.

【Character】Yasumasa's wife Izumi Shikibu
【Actor】Satoyoshi【Possibly doubling with Hashidate】

【Upper left】
【Character】Ōkido Hachirō
【Actor】Tetsugōrō (presumed)

【Lower right】
【Character】Higekuro no Sadaishō, actually Hakamadare Yasusuke
【Actor】Nakazō【Possibly doubling with Watanabe no Tsuna】【Different from Higekuro no Sadaishō in panel 4※】

【Character】Tango no Kami Hirai no Yasumasa
【Actor】Danjūrō【Possibly doubling with Sakata no Kintoki】

【※According to the 'Kabuki Chronology': "Nakazō as Hakamadare Yasusuke. Emerging as a stage assistant from inside a plum tree hollow. He kills Higekuro no Sadaishō and steals his court cap and costume." This refers to the scene depicted in panel 4. The Higekuro in panel 7 is likely Hakamadare disguised as Higekuro using the stolen court costume.】