【Endpaper】

【Left Page Header】
【Red Square Seal: Imperial Library Collection】
○When a south wind blows in winter, snow will surely fall within two to three days. When the wind shifts from southwest to northwest, it becomes even heavier.
○When a great wind is about to blow, many birds cry and flutter in the sky, schools of fish leap on the water surface, stars move, and halos appear around the moon and sun. Clouds become fragmented and fly about, their color white and yellow, gathering and scattering irregularly. Clouds circle the sun, and the edges of clouds are yellow and move quickly.
○When north winds blow in the first and second months, rain will surely follow.
○Around the 15th day of the seventh month, north winds inevitably blow for a long time. This is commonly called "Bon-kita" (Bon Festival north wind).
○In summer and autumn, east winds blow for long periods. This is called "hikatagochi" and can blow for dozens of days.

【Left Page Main Text】
【Red Square Seal: Shirai Hikaru】
【Red Circle Seal: Imperial・Showa 15・11・28・Purchase】
　○Medicine for cutting off malaria (intermittent fever)
Family tradition: Zanki (Demon-slaying) pill formula
　　Yellow lead oxide《grind well and purify three times with water》　　Single-bulb garlic《grind to a mud-like consistency》
Mix the above in equal parts, adding slightly more yellow lead oxide. Compound at noon on the 5th day of the 5th month, with several people working together to form pills. On the day of fever, at the fifth watch (around 2 AM), draw flowing water, sit facing east, and take the medicine.
　○Alternative formula to use instead of the above:
Three garlic bulbs, seven peppercorns, three parts soot from cooking pots
Pound these together into one pill. Men should attach it to the Kyokutaku acupoint on the left hand, women on the right hand, and tie it in place.
　Kyokutaku diagram　【Drawing of arm】Kyokutaku　　《Located in the middle between Shakutaku and Shokai points, in the space between the large tendon where the pulse beats》
Another method:
On the morning of the fever day, face east and apply to the Hyakue acupoint《at the top of the head on the nose line, five sun inward from the hairline》