【Right Page Header】
○When clouds go east, it will be clear; when they go west, it will rain. When they go southeast, it will clear. This is due to northwest winds. In Kyoto, when clouds go toward Kiyomizu, it will surely clear.
○When clouds in the northwest direction are red and gradually disappear, it will be clear. When they are red and change color again, there will be wind and rain.
○Clouds like fish scales indicate rain or wind. Also, clouds that rise with fine horizontal stripes like tiger fur in various places are called "mizumasa," and when they appear, rain will surely fall within one or two days. There are also "lagoon clouds" with large horizontal stripes across the entire sky like a receding tidal flat, and these also bring rain soon.
○When cloud formations scatter and fly about, strong winds are about to blow. Fierce winds will blow from the direction the clouds come from. One should prepare defenses for that direction.

【Left Page Header】
○When there are cloud formations above and below the sun that look like dragons, there will surely be wind and rain. When there has been long sunshine and red clouds pass across the sky illuminating mountains and valleys, there will be rain the next day.
○In autumn skies, even if there are clouds, if there is no wind, there will be no rain. Also, when clouds form in the east, there will be rain.
○Even if rain stops and clouds clear, when clouds cover and hide mountain peaks, it will rain again.
○When there are black clouds above the morning sun covering it like fog, and the sunlight shoots to the side appearing thin and yellowish-white, there will be wind and rain that day. When it becomes like this at sunset in the evening.

【Right Page Main Text】
　○Medicine for grape boils
Grape boils are grape-like growths that can appear even in one night, and if one doesn't know the treatment method, the person will die within about a day. Apply moxibustion and have them eat raw soybeans as a test. If the moxibustion doesn't feel hot and the soybeans don't taste raw or fishy but seem fragrant, it is a grape boil. To treat this, char garlic until black and apply it. It will heal quickly and save the person's life. It's good to mix it with paste before applying. No other medicine, even from the most famous doctors, can cure this.
　○Medicine for blindness
Powdered oyster shell, burnt alum (in equal parts), a little borneol. Strain about one shell-full through silk and apply it 5-6 times a day.

【Left Page Main Text】
It is wonderfully effective.
　○Method to treat foreign objects in the eye
When anything enters the eye, put a little chickweed seed on the tip of a paper twist and insert it into the eye. It will spin around without any pain and come out in a short time. Even with the eye open, there is no pain at all, which is extremely mysterious. Even with white membrane, blood deficiency, or angry flesh in the eye, they will attach to the seed and come out; wipe them away and the eye will become clear afterward.
　○Method for when someone faints
When a person faints and doesn't respond even when their name is called, go up on the roof of their house, lift up the roof tiles, and call their name. They will regain consciousness immediately, which is mysterious.
　○Method to treat objects stuck in the ear