【Right Page Header】
Lightning that is like flames means great drought.
○When evening glow quickly changes to purple and becomes black, it's a sign of rain.
Sometimes wind may blow. When the same color continues until later and gradually becomes thin, know that it will be clear weather.
○On the morning of the day when seasons change each month, if the eastern direction is red, wind and rain will be favorable during that season.
○Morning redness in the east means clear weather. Brown color means rain.
○Rain falling under a rainbow means it will clear.
○Fog that is hard to clear becomes rain. However, if mountain valley fog doesn't clear for a long time in the morning, the weather is good.
○There is no wind within fog. When fog clears,

【Left Page Header】
wind blows.
○Clouds covering the Big Dipper mean heavy rain. When black clouds block it so the Big Dipper cannot be seen, rain within three days. When black clouds thickly cover the Big Dipper, rain that night. When yellow clouds cover the Big Dipper, rain falls tomorrow. When white vapor covers the Big Dipper, rain within three days. When blue vapor covers the Big Dipper, rain within five days.
○When there are no clouds in the sky but clouds above and below the Big Dipper, there will be heavy rain within five days. After sunset, when there is white light rising from the ground toward the Big Dipper and the stars in between have no light, strong wind will surely blow that night. When black vapor with moisture is between the leading star of the Big Dipper and there are clouds around it, rain will fall that night.

【Right Page Main Text】
　○Medicine for tapeworms
For hernia where the scrotum swells and becomes large, various medicines have no effect. Mix mustard greens with vinegar and apply to the scrotum. Endure the strong stinging for about two hours. This will cut the root for a lifetime. 《Enduring the stinging causes no harm at all》
　○Medicine for hernia
Elderberry, Licorice root 《small amount》
If you decoct these two ingredients as usual and use them, no matter how severe the hernia, the pain will heal immediately. Another method:
Daphniphyllum leaves 《10 monme》, Chamaecyparis wood 《5 monme》, Aucklandia 《5 monme》
Areca nut 《5 monme》, Licorice root 《2 monme》
Decoct these five ingredients as usual and take. The efficacy is very good for hernia, abdominal pain, and parasitic symptoms. Also

【Left Page Main Text】
Dried water pepper 《large》, Licorice root 《small amount》 - powder these two ingredients finely,
shake out with plain hot water, then decoct the remainder as usual and drink. Another method:
Black pepper 《1.5 ryō》, Salt 《1 gō 5 shaku》 - make lukewarm water with these two ingredients, put in a basin and take a hip bath. However, cover with a yukata over the basin, wrap both scrotum and penis well with cotton or silk, and warm the hips with the water. The yukata is to prevent choking on pepper fumes.
　○Hernia charm
On the morning of July 15th, draw "ceiling water" 《refers to water that no one has yet drawn》, roll it into balls about the size of udon flour and swallow.
　○Medicine for leg sores
Grind gardenia with water, wash the leg sores well and apply.