【Right Page Header】
○When there is yellow vapor in front of the Big Dipper, wind will blow tomorrow. If it is covered with moist vapor, there will be heavy rain at midnight or tomorrow.
○At night, observe the Big Dipper to know tomorrow's weather. When there are five-colored cloud vapors above and below the Big Dipper, rain will fall within that day. It will be difficult to stop within one day.
When cloud vapor covers the Big Dipper and is yellow-white in color, wind will blow. Red color means drought. Blue means heavy rain. Black means wind.
○When red cloud vapor covers between the Big Dipper, tomorrow will be extremely hot. When white vapor blocks and covers between the handle of the Big Dipper, there will be strong wind and bad rain within three days.
○When there is yellow vapor above and below the Big Dipper with moisture shaped like fish and dragons, or like scales, there will be heavy rain that day or that

【Left Page Header】
night.
○When spring should be warm but is cold, there is much rain. When summer is cold, there are floods. When summer suddenly becomes hot, rain falls. When winter suddenly becomes warm, snow will surely fall. If autumn becomes cold early, winter will surely be warm.
If it rains much in spring, summer will surely have drought.

【Right Page Main Text】
It will sting strongly, but curing it with one application is wonderful. Another method:
Catechu 《1 monme》, Calomel 《3 bu》
Powder these finely and apply with sesame oil. It is very effective.
　○Medicine to cut the root of hernia and testicular drop
Atractylodes 《1 kin》 - soak 1/4 in child's urine, 1/4 in fine sake, 1/4 in salt water, 1/4 in milk,
soak each for three days, then roast dry. Make citrus seeds into powder similarly, make pills the size of paulownia seeds with sake paste,
take 100 pills at a time on an empty stomach with sake.
　○Medicine for eye injuries
When the eye is struck and stars suddenly appear, mix fly heads with soft rice grains and women's milk

【Left Page Main Text】
until it becomes syrupy and drop into the eye. It has quick effect.
　○Medicine to treat foot calluses
Powder whale whiskers and mix into socks, cover with paper. It will heal.
　○Medicine for body odor
Malachite - powder this one ingredient and apply. It wonderfully cuts the root. Do not doubt it. Another method:
Cut aucklandia root thickly, soak in good vinegar overnight, and clamp under the armpit. Doing this repeatedly will cure it. Also
powder litharge, grate ginger with skin and mix together, frequently apply under the armpits. Another method:
Calomel 《1 monme》, Chalcanthite 《1 monme》, Pine resin ash 《1 monme》
Gecko 《charred, 1 monme》