【Right Page Header】
Methods of All Kinds of Protective Charms and Incantations

○Charm to stop nosebleeds
Fold paper into eight layers, soak in freshly drawn water, and place on top of the head. The bleeding will stop immediately.

○Charm to repel flies
Write the character "白" (white) at the hour of the horse on Tango Day and paste it upside down on the four pillars of the house. Tango is the fifth day of the fifth month.

○Charm to avoid bee stings
Chant "On Mushojū Nishogo Shim On Sho" several times, and it is wondrous that bees will not sting.

○Charm to avoid snake bites
Always carry loquat seeds in one's pocket, and it is strange that one will not be bitten.

【Left Page Header】
○Charm for smallpox
Cut one loquat leaf into a square one sun on each side, add soybeans equal to the child's age in years (whether one grain or two grains), and decoct as usual. However, when smallpox is prevalent in the world, at any time, add soybeans equal to the child's age and decoct with a leaf cut one sun square, and give it to the child to drink - it is wondrous how mild the illness becomes.

○Method to stop children's night crying
Apply Arisaema consanguineum alone to the palm of the child's hand with thin paste.

○Same charm
Draw the following mark with cinnabar above the child's navel, and the night crying will stop wondrously. Also write the two characters "Hinoe-Tora" with cinnabar on paper and place at the child's bedside

【Right Page Main Text】
【Illustration】
Place in a windy location for a long time until it becomes fine powder, and apply to all cuts from blades - it stops bleeding well and heals quickly. The older it is, the better. Also

【Left Page Main Text】
Black cowpea, Lamb's quarters (Chenopodium)
Char these two ingredients equally black and apply as paste.

　○Same immediate hemostatic medicine
Chew tea leaves and apply - this is wondrous. Also, dry paulownia leaves in shade and store them, make into powder and sprinkle - this is also good. It has miraculous effects. For large wounds, wash with warmed sake. Shochu is also good.

　○Medicine for pufferfish poisoning
Make camphor into powder and drink with plain hot water. Drinking indigo juice is also good. In urgent cases, drinking fecal water and vomiting it out is also good. All of these have miraculous efficacy.

　○Method to revive those who drowned
For those who drowned, quickly remove the dead person's clothing and belt