【Right Page Header】
【Illustration】

【Left Page Header】
place it, and the crying will stop.

○Charm for skin eruptions (senakasa)
Draw six characters for "south" (南) with ink over the skin eruption to match its size, paint the top completely black with ink, then write one "south" character on top. The healing is wondrous. Also, if you write the character "north" (北) after it has healed, it will return to its original state. This is strange indeed.

○Charm to escape unexpected calamities
On the ceiling above where you sleep, before going to bed, trace a six-pointed star like this with your finger, write the character "dog" (戌) in the center without adding the dot to this character, and chant the following verse three times:
　"If anyone comes to tell me of unknown things,
　　May they be torn away by the gods within"

【Right Page Main Text】
remove them, and apply moxa to the navel. Also, pour the charred remains of a varied tit mixed with water into the mouth. If within one hour, the person will surely revive. Also,

Pull the drowned person up from the water upside down, place on flat ground, hold from behind, burn straw in front, apply the heat to the abdomen, and direct the smoke toward the face. This will make them vomit water. If water does not come out, the person holding them should push upward around the navel area with their hands. Water will come out.

After all water is vomited out, grate old ginger and apply to the gums, make white alum into powder and blow it into the nostrils through a tube. When white alum is unavailable, pour vinegar abundantly into the nostrils. After revival, apply moxa to the navel.

【Left Page Main Text】
Another method: lay the drowned person with both feet elevated, put salt in the navel, and water will naturally come out and they will revive. It is bad to hang them upside down and shake the water out.

○Method to rescue a hanged person
Do not cut the rope when trying to rescue a hanged person. If you cut carelessly, they will surely die. Go around to the back, firmly embrace them from above both elbows, with the intention of lifting the hanged person's body slightly higher, have another person bring something to serve as a footstool under their feet, and the person holding them should also climb onto that platform. After doing this, cut the rope, and the person holding them should embrace the hanged person around the navel area, and when cutting the rope, both should make a "un" sound while tightening and pushing up the abdomen. Do this and