【Right Page Header】
Hang it inside the paper lantern. Insects wondrously will not come. {{Side note: Shepherd's purse spikes are commonly called shamisen grass}}

○Method to stop flying ants from appearing
"Today at the fourth hour, great wind" - write like this on paper and paste it where they appear.

○Method to keep foxes and raccoon dogs away while walking on roads
Grip both hands hiding the nails, and likewise for feet, wrap the nails with anything and walk. It is wondrous in avoiding difficulties anywhere.

○How to wear paulownia geta without chipping them
Since paulownia abhors impurity, do not wear them to places like toilets. The teeth will chip as they are.

○Charm to find a lost child
For boys on the left, for girls on the right side of the obi

【Left Page Header】
The person going out to search should point a whale pointer and go. Mysteriously, clues will appear.

○Charm to delay childbirth
Wash a flat stone well with salt, then write as follows
■【Note: Character "blood" (血) in center with "levy" (賦) characters positioned above, below, left and right】
Bury it face-down in the ground east of under the woman's living room.
Later, when you want her to give birth, dig up this stone and wipe away the character "blood." Safe childbirth will surely follow. This is a secret art.

○Charm to plant trees without them dying
Fourth month, eighth day - write like this on paper, make it into a poetry card and attach when planting

【Right Page Main Text】
【Illustration】
Powder the right ingredients and make with sesame oil.

○Medicine to treat dry hair lacking moisture
Mulberry bark, oriental arborvitae leaves
Simmer these two ingredients and wash the hair. Hair loss will cease and moisture will return.

【Left Page Main Text】
○Method to determine life or death of the wounded
White horse【marginal note: "Ashige-uma"】dung, lotus seeds
Mix these two ingredients in equal parts, roast to a fragrant color, mix well into powder, and test using lukewarm water about the amount of one tea serving. Those who will recover will accept and take the full dose, but those who will not will vomit it back up.

○Method to make smallpox mild
Nandina wood, leaves, and berries - simmer these three ingredients and bathe the patient. Used on several hundred people, all cases were mild.
Another method:
On the eighth day of the twelfth month, take a chicken egg, put one well-washed earthworm inside the egg, put that egg in rice and cook it with the rice, remove the egg, peel it, discard the earthworm, and mix a little of that rice with a little of the egg, adding it while still...