【Right Page Header】
That method cannot be performed.

○Charm against nighttime attacks
Sleep using one shaku of red felt as a pillow. Using rhinoceros horn as a pillow is also good.

○Method to improve marital harmony
On the fifth day of the fifth month, take the leg bone of a turtledove (pigeon) and put it in a red pouch. The man should wear it on his left hand,

【Left Page Header】
the woman on her right hand. It's also good to keep it always in the sleeve. The relationship will immediately improve.

○Charm to stop jealousy
Boil and feed a bush warbler. The woman will forget her jealousy.
Also, make pills of equal parts red millet and Job's tears seeds, and regularly have the woman take them. Stopping jealousy is wondrous.

○Method to know if a woman has a wandering heart
Take soil from under the hooves of a horse going eastward and hide it in the woman's clothing. It will be revealed in her emotional words.

○Charm to ward off lightning
Plant a catalpa tree in the garden. Lightning will not strike. Also, this tree in the house...

【Right Page Main Text】
1. Take a large Asian pear, peel it, grate it with a wasabi grater, squeeze out the juice, dry the pulp well. After it has dried completely, soak it again in the juice, then take it out and dry it again. Do this repeatedly until all the juice is used up, then dry it well in the sun and powder it. When intoxicated with alcohol, prepare and drink about one serving of tea at a time. Sobering up is like divine intervention. Fresh well water is best. Another method:

1. Make charcoal powder from cherry tree bark, form pills with paste, and when unbearably drunk, take about three pills. It is wondrous.

○Method to not get seasick
1. Boil pinellia and place it in the navel, cover with paper. You will not get seasick. Eating pickled plums is also good.

【Left Page Main Text】
○Medicine for stroke
1. Take roots that grow toward the south from mulberry trees, wash them well, dry in the sun, chop and decoct. Make gardenia into fine powder as a single ingredient medicine. Use the mulberry root decoction repeatedly - it is wondrous for all stroke ailments. Most importantly, avoid impurity when preparing.

○Medicine to treat breast tumors
1. Apply warm compresses with Chinese chives. Applying plum juice is also good.
Also, use achyranthes root, boil it in water to make it like a plaster, spread it on cloth and apply - there will be immediate effect.

○Medicine for gonorrhea
1. Licorice root - 1 bu  1. Akebia - 1 bu  1. Safflower - 1 bu