【Right Page Header】
Sprinkle it on your body and also on the sick person - even if you get close, the disease won't spread. This is miraculous. Also, put horse bones in a red bag - men should hold it in the left hand, women in the right hand. You won't be affected by epidemic diseases.

○Charm to ward off diarrhea
On Risshū (beginning of autumn) in the seventh month, face west and drink seven red beans with freshly drawn water. Also, if you wash and purify the toilet on the thirteenth day of the seventh month, you won't suffer from diarrhea.
Also, make miso soup with hibiscus flowers and eat it. This will ward off even slight diarrhea. Also, hang fig branches at entrances and exits. This is miraculous.

【Left Page Header】
○Charm to prevent smallpox from affecting the eyes
Have the child carry seven mung beans and throw them into a well. After that, have them pray at this well seven times before returning. No matter what kind of smallpox it is, it won't affect the eyes.

○Charm for infant night crying - one method
Put dog hair in a red bag and place it on the child's back. Also, take one lump of cow dung and place it under the mat. Do this without letting either the mother or wet nurse know. Also, secretly laying grass that grew in a wild boar's sleeping place is good.

○Charm for children who won't sleep at night
Place an owl's skull bone near the pillow. The child will sleep well.

【Right Page Main Text】
○Medicine for wooden tongue
When the tongue becomes stiff and swollen like wood, filling the mouth, decoct peony and licorice as usual and hold in the mouth. Also, mixing vinegar with sugar and holding it in the mouth is good.

○Method to treat swallowing metal
If someone mistakenly swallows gold, silver, copper, tin or similar metals, leaving it as is will eventually cause illness. At such times, drink one cup of fresh duck blood.
If a child swallows coins, have them eat much fresh shepherd's purse. It will immediately dissolve and come out below.

○Medicine for swelling
Use apple alone, made into black char. Very effective. Also,

【Left Page Main Text】
Dry the white part inside winter melon rind and use it. Also:
Pokeweed (large dose), cogon grass root (medium dose), dodder seed (medium dose)
Decoct these three ingredients as usual and use. Very miraculous.

○Method to turn a heavy drinker into a teetotaler
Some people become drunk and disorderly every time they drink, dancing wildly, getting into fights and arguments. When they sober up, they regret it themselves, but they do it again. To cure this, there's no other way but to make them unable to drink alcohol. The method is:
On the morning of the fifth day of the fifth month, collect dew from bamboo leaves, put it in a sake cup, mix it with sake, and have the person drink it without their knowledge. The cure is miraculous. Also, white dog's milk and cormorant droppings are all effective. Offer them at the ancestors' stone pagoda