【Right Page Header】
Also, placing soil from a cremation ground at the bedside is good.

○Method for when there is a curse from a female evil spirit and one is possessed by a supernatural entity
One portion true realgar (1 ryō, finely powdered), pine resin (4 ryō)
Put the pine resin in a pot, decoct and melt it, add the realgar, stir with a tiger's claw, and form into balls the size of musket balls. At night, burn this in a basket, have the woman sit above it, cover the top with a futon, leaving only the head exposed.
Doing this for three treatments will naturally eliminate the evil qi.
Afterward:
Realgar, ginseng, saposhnikovia, schisandra fruit (equal parts of each)

【Left Page Header】
Grind these four ingredients into fine powder and take one spoonful with well water - this will cure completely.

○Method to not lose one's way in mountains and fields, and not be deceived by foxes and raccoon dogs
Take the foot bone of a mountain turtle and wear it - men on the left hand, women on the right. You will not get lost.

○Charm to avoid sword disasters
There is a red turtle called shubetsu, about the size of a coin, with a belly as red as blood. If you wear this, bladed weapons cannot harm your body, and women will have charm and be liked by people.

○Method to fulfill wishes
Burn rooster feathers, soak in sake and drink. Also, on the fifth day of the fifth month,

【Right Page Main Text】
mix water with sake and use. This is also good.

○Medicine for frostbite
Eggplant caps (dried), scallion white roots (10 pieces)
Decoct these two ingredients in 1.5 cups of water down to 8/10 and wash with it.
Also, making charcoal from oil pottery and applying it is good.

○Method to treat lice in the genital area
Strong tobacco soaked in hot water and rubbed on will turn the lice red and kill them.

○Medicine for swollen testicles in children
Trichosanthes powder (1 monme), licorice (1.5 monme)
Decoct these two ingredients well and drink.

○Hair growth medicine
Pinellia alone, made into fine powder and applied, will make hair grow quickly.

【Left Page Main Text】
Another method: char whole bitter orange, mix with equal parts wild rice ash, dissolve with hair oil and apply. Also,
charring a grass called sandai-sō and kneading with oil to apply is good. Another method:
Sichuan pepper, angelica dahurica, vitex fruit, lysimachia, aconite, cnidium (10 monme each)
Chop these six ingredients finely while fresh, wrap in silk, soak in white sesame oil for 21 days, and apply to bald spots three times daily.

○Method to correct red hair and bring out luster
Decocting paulownia wood and washing the hair will turn red color black - this is miraculous. Also, decocting equal parts hemp leaves and mulberry leaves for washing is good. Always with lamp light