【Right Page Header】
No sores or malignant ulcers will develop, and in winter there will be no cracking from frostbite. Wonderfully effective.

○Method to conceive a child
On the day of Hinoto-I in the second month, take apricot blossoms and peach blossoms, dry them in shade, and make into powder. On the day of Tsuchinoe-Ne, take one spoonful with freshly drawn well water. Drink three times a day. Pregnancy will surely occur - miraculous.

○Method to conceive a male child
Hang a tiger's nose above the door of the living room. The child born will surely be male.

○Charm to ease difficult childbirth
Write the character "person" (人) on one lotus petal and swallow it. Safe delivery will surely occur - miraculous. Also,
Split one peach pit in two, on one piece

【Left Page Header】
write the character "ka" (可) and on one piece write the character "shutsu" (出), then combine them and swallow. Birth will occur immediately. Also,
Take one soybean that has sprouted from cow dung, split it into two halves, write "father" (父) on one side and "child" (子) on the other, combine them, wrap in paper and have the mother drink with water. Birth will occur immediately.
Also split one soybean, write the character "i" (伊) on one side and "se" (勢) on the other, combine and wrap, then swallow with water. For a boy, hold this soybean in the left hand; for a girl, in the right hand during birth. This is not to be doubted.

○Method to prevent caterpillars from growing on trees
Bury silkworm moths at the roots of the tree.

【Right Page Main Text】
For severe coughing that causes loss of consciousness, use bamboo sap (juice obtained by roasting bamboo). White sesame oil is also good. It heals immediately. Decocting radish seeds works well, and decocting turnip roots is also good. All have remarkable effects.

○Medicine to treat rectal prolapse
Rectal prolapse is when the anus swells and protrudes at length. Char crucian carp heads and drink with sake. Mixing with oil and applying is also good. Another method:
Mix coptis alone with water and apply.

○Miraculous medicine for leprosy
Knead pine resin, put in water and knead twenty times, then form pills the size of peppercorns with honey. Take twenty pills at a time on an empty stomach with

【Left Page Main Text】
hot water. Long-term use shows effects. Avoid all salty foods completely. Another method:
Mix 2.5 shō of lime with water, let settle, then decoct thirty lotus leaves in that water, once every five or six days, half a

[Illustration]