【Right Page Header】
Also, pouring fish washing water is good.

○Charm to prevent charcoal fire from sparking
If you pinch a little salt and put it in the fire, that fire will not spark.

○Precaution for lotus ponds
When tung oil is put in a lotus pond, the lotus plants will all wither completely.

○Precaution against lacquer rash
Chew Sichuan pepper (Japanese pepper) and apply it above the nose, then you won't get lacquer rash.

○Charm to remove warts
On July 7th, wipe the wart three times with soybeans. Have that person plant this bean in the second ditch from the east of a south-facing house.

【Left Page Header】
When that bean sprouts leaves, pour hot water on it to kill it, and the wart will immediately fall off.

○Method to keep strong-spirited horses from being startled
Hang a wolf's tail in front of the horse's chest. It won't be startled by things and will also ward off evil spirits.

○Method to prevent lice from breeding
Cut up Chinese quince and spread it under mats. Lice will not breed. Miraculous.

○Charm to prevent a sleeping person from waking up
Take soil from under the hooves of an eastward-bound horse, mix it with mud from three wells, and place it under the navel of the sleeping person. That person will sleep and not wake up.

【Right Page Main Text】
Bathe for about half a day. Another method: decoct schizonepeta and mint with water, and use vervain powder with that liquid.
Another method: bury rhubarb in hot ashes and burn it, ten monme, and gleditsia thorn ten monme, powder them equally and take one monme at a time on an empty stomach with warm sake. Evil matter will descend through bowel movements and heal.
Also, for white leprosy, chop sophora root weighing 800 me, soak in eight shō of fine sake, and drink continuously. Also powder the root and bark of sophora and drink with the aforementioned sake.

○Medicine for heat rash
Cut a cucumber and rub the heat rash with the cut surface. Also decoct cimicifuga with water and wash repeatedly.

○Medicine for beriberi

【Left Page Main Text】
Decoct fresh pokeweed root and boil red adzuki beans in that juice to eat. Most importantly, avoid salt, reduce rice consumption, and prohibit all oily fish. Another method:
Cut the tip of a winter melon, remove the inside flesh, stuff the cavity with red beans, char them black, and drink with hot water for about thirty days during the cold season. From the following year, beriberi will not occur. It is miraculous. Another method:
When beriberi attacks the chest causing suffering, put twenty monme of alum in about four shō of water, decoct and boil three to five times, then soak the legs in it. Also, eating much watermelon causes abundant urination and relieves the chest. Decocting watermelon seeds is also good, as is the rind.

○Medicine for removing splinters that have penetrated