【Right Page Header】
○Yaburu (Break) is the day when stars begin to form
Worshipping gods or departing on journeys will surely result in death. Disturbing earth and weddings are very bad.

○Ayau (Danger) is the day when wind begins to form
Very good for making sake. Sowing seeds, worshipping gods, building houses - nothing is favorable.

○Naru (Achieve) is the day when people begin to form
Very good for worshipping gods, disturbing earth, planting trees, building houses, beginning conjugal relations, sowing seeds. All other matters will be accomplished when using this day.

○Osan (Collect) is the day when water begins to form
Worshipping gods and weddings result in death. Making sake causes three people to die. House building, traveling, and disturbing earth are very good.

【Left Page Header】
○Hiraku (Open) is the day when earthly fortune begins to form
Building temples, plastering stoves, disturbing earth, erecting gates, digging wells, departing on journeys, sowing seeds, worshipping gods, and weddings - it is said that treasure will be obtained within three days when used for these purposes.

【Illustration】

【Right Page Main Text】
Mark points at both ends, and also place the straw vertically with its center at the temporary point, marking points at the upper and lower ends. These are the Four Flowers moxibustion points. The temporary point should be wiped away afterward.

○Method for Locating the Kanmon Moxibustion Points
This moxibustion should be applied together with the Four Flowers. It treats deficiency fatigue where the palms and soles are hot, night sweats appear, the spirit becomes weary and distressed, joints ache, there is coldness, the skin becomes thin, the face yellows, appetite is poor, and strength is lacking. For location: men use the left, women use the right foot. Measure from the tip of the big toe's nail across the sole to below the heel, then to the horizontal crease behind the knee hollow. Take this measurement with the straw, pull it from the tip of the nose up over the head, down the back of the neck, and temporarily mark the center where the straw ends. Also measure from below the nose to both corners of the mouth.

【Left Page Main Text】
Place the center of this straw at the temporary point and apply moxibustion at both ends. These are the Kanmon points. The temporary point should be wiped away.
However, when the tendons of the knee hollow are tensed, many become visible and it is not accurate. First, sit down and temporarily mark the head of the horizontal crease with ink, then observe this to measure to the center of the crease.
The number of moxa cones should be the patient's age plus one additional cone.
Also, place the two Kanmon points and the two horizontal Four Flowers points simultaneously, applying twenty-one cones to each point daily. When each point reaches 150 to 200 treatments, then apply moxibustion to the vertical Four Flowers points. Apply seven cones to each point daily, and after each point reaches fifty to one hundred treatments, apply moxibustion to Sanri to direct qi downward. After applying moxibustion to upper body points, it is always beneficial to apply moxibustion to Sanri to direct qi downward. This should be remembered.