【Right Page Header】
○Tozu (Close) is the day when illness begins to form
Good for building tombs. Building houses and sowing grains are very bad.

○About Tenichi Tensho (Heavenly First God's Ascension)
The day when the Tenichi God ascends to heaven is called Tenichi Tensho. The Tenichi God serves as an official of Indra, circling the three realms and recording human good and evil to report to Indra. The Tenichi God also has an official called Nichiyu God. When the Tenichi God ascends to heaven, the Nichiyu God descends to the lower world and makes people's homes his own dwelling. Because this god dislikes impurity, during the sixteen days of Tenichi Tensho, all matters should be kept pure. If impure, the Nichiyu God will bring curses. One should especially keep the heart pure. Also, one should refrain from demolishing or constructing houses.

【Left Page Header】
From the day of Mizunoto-Mi, the Tenichi God ascends to heaven, and after sixteen days returns to the lower world, while the Nichiyu God ascends to heaven. During these sixteen days, deer hunting, hawk hunting, river hunting, and such should be avoided. He ascends to heaven on Mizunoto-Mi day and descends on Tsuchinoe-Saru day. These sixteen days are called Tenichi Tensho.

○About Hantsuchi (Violating Earth)
Seven days from Kanoe-Uma day is Great Earth. The middle day, Hinoto-Ushi, is considered an interval day. Seven days from Tsuchinoe-Tora day is Small Earth. This totals fifteen days. Though this does not appear in the middle section [of calendars], since people know of it, it is recorded here.

○About Higan (Equinox)
The word "higan" comes from Buddhist teaching. Between Yama Heaven and Tushita Heaven is the Chuyo-in and

【Right Page Main Text】
○I-no-me (Boar's Eye)
When a person stands and you look at their lower back, there are slight depressions on both sides like two eyes. These are called the lumbar eye points. Have them lie face down and apply seven to fourteen moxa cones. Good for consumption, lower back pain, constipation, and all lower body disorders. Moxibustion applied on the day of Mizunoto-I at the hour of the Boar is very effective. Hence it is commonly called "Boar's Eye."

○Fushi (Wind Market)
Located at the center of the outer thigh, seven sun above the knee, between the two tendons. Have the person stand upright, drop both hands naturally, and mark the point where the tip of the middle finger reaches. Good for numbness and pain in the lower back and thighs, beriberi, and apoplexy.

○Kichikuba (Riding Bamboo Horse)
For men use the left, for women use the right hand. Measure from the center of the horizontal crease inside the elbow to the tip of the middle finger. Have the patient straddle a round bamboo pole.

【Left Page Main Text】
Two people lift the bamboo pole, and when the patient's feet are off the tatami, straighten the back and place the right straw at the turtle tail (where there is bone above the anus), move the straw up along the spine, temporarily mark where the straw ends, then mark points one sun to the left and right - these are the moxibustion points. Apply fourteen to twenty-one moxa cones each. Excellent for all malignant sores, apoplexy, gout, and abscesses.

【Illustration】