【Right Page Header】
○Gettoku (Moon Virtue)
Written as Gettoku (Moon Virtue). This is also one of the seven auspicious days. Good for all matters.
1st month: Kinoe, Kinoto, Tsuchinoe, Kanoto; 2nd month: Same; 3rd month: Kinoto, Hinoto, Kanoe, Mizunoto; 4th month: Mizunoe, Hinoto, Kanoe, Kinoe; 5th month: Kinoe, Tsuchinoto, Kinoto, Kanoto; 6th month: Kinoto, Kanoto, Kinoe, Tsuchinoe; 7th month: Kanoe, Kanoto, Mizunoe, Hinoto; 8th month: Mizunoe, Hinoto, Kanoe, Kinoe; 9th month: Kinoe, Tsuchinoe, Kinoto, Kanoto; 10th month: Kinoto, Kanoto, Kinoe, Tsuchinoe; 11th month: Kanoe, Kanoto, Mizunoe, Hinoto; 12th month: Mizunoe, Hinoto, Kanoe, Kinoe
These are the days corresponding to the above stems and branches.

○Bosō (Mother's Storehouse)
Since heaven bestows blessings on all things like a mother cherishing her child, it is called Bosō. It is a particularly great auspicious day. No hindrance to any matter.
Spring: Boar and Rat days; Summer: Tiger and Rabbit days; Autumn: Dragon, Ox, and Dog days; Winter: Monkey, Rooster, Snake, and Horse days
These are the respective days.

【Left Page Header】
○Kamiyoshi (Divine Auspiciousness)
Written as Kamiyoshi or Jōkichi. Particularly good for Shinto rituals, festivals, shrine relocations, prayers, vows, temple and shrine construction, etc. Good for all other matters as well. However, one should avoid impurity.

○Tensha (Heavenly Pardon)
Written as Tensha. A day marked as good for all things, it is a supremely auspicious day. It is said to be the day when heaven nurtures all things and pardons their sins. Therefore, even if it coincides with other inauspicious days, they all become auspicious days.
Spring: Tsuchinoe-Tora day; Summer: Kinoe-Uma; Autumn: Tsuchinoe-Saru; Winter: Kinoe-Ne

○Gomu-bi (Five Tomb Days)
Written as Gomu (Five Tombs). These days correspond to the "tomb" fortune among the twelve fortunes. One should be cautious in all matters.
Tsuchinoe-Tatsu, Mizunoe-Tatsu, Hinoe-Inu, Kanoto-Ushi, Kinoto-Hitsuji

【Right Page Main Text】
【Illustration】
Located in the center of the bone. Measure the distance from between the two fingers to the horizontal crease of the wrist with a straw, fold this straw in half, and apply moxibustion at the center fold. This is the Gōkoku point. This is also good when applied to those who have collapsed from apoplexy. It is also good for ailments of the hands and shoulders.

○Inpaku (Hidden White)

【Left Page Main Text】
Apply moxibustion about one bu (using a carpenter's square) away from the inner corner of the big toe's nail bed. This is the Inpaku point. This is also good for apoplexy and paralysis.

○Hyakue (Hundred Meetings)
Measure from the Taizsui bone (the large bone between the spine and nape) to the center of the eyebrows, divide this into eighteen parts to establish it as one shaku and eight sun, mark three sun from the center of the eyebrows as the front hairline for a temporary point, and five sun and five bu from this temporary point is the Hyakue point. The head should be held straight when taking measurements. Good for apoplexy with incomprehensible speech, or epilepsy, chest distress, and other acute symptoms. Also good for forgetfulness, anal prolapse, headaches, etc. Five to seven moxa cones are appropriate.

○Tairyō (Great Mound) and Kanshi (Interval Messenger)