【Right Page Header】
○Fuku-bi (Return Day)
Fuku-bi means "returning to the original state." Therefore, it is very good for auspicious matters but very bad for inauspicious matters. Even for good things, it is bad for marriage arrangements. Funeral ceremonies should especially be avoided.

○Chō-bi (Double Day)
Written as Chō-bi (Double Day). Since it means "overlapping," bride-taking ceremonies and funeral rites should also be greatly avoided.

【Left Page Header】
○Kiko (Return Taboo)
Kiko is when the Tenbō star descends to earth and blocks people's gates. Therefore, returning from travel, bride-taking ceremonies, entering one's domain, etc. are all bad.

○Chiimi (Blood Taboo)
Chiimi is the day of Satsuki (killing taboo). As people know, it taboos drawing blood.

○Kue-bi (Inauspicious Meeting Day)
Written as Kue-bi (Inauspicious Meeting Day). It is a day when all matters are bad. It should not be used for anything.

○Tenka (Heavenly Fire) and Chika (Earthly Fire)
Tenka taboos using high places. Chika taboos moving earthly matters. Both are inauspicious days. One should be cautious and not use them.

○Jūshi (Ten Deaths)
Written as Jūshi (Ten Deaths). Called Taisatsu-bi (Great Killing Day), it is a greatly inauspicious day. All matters should be avoided and shunned.

【Right Page Main Text】
Both are located below the palm. At the center of the horizontal crease between the wrist and forearm, there are two vertical tendons. Moxibustion should be applied between them. This is the Tairyō point. Kanshi should be applied three sun below Tairyō. To measure this distance, first measure from the Tairyō point to the horizontal crease of the elbow, divide by twelve and a half to establish it as one shaku, two sun, and five bu, then apply moxibustion in the center of the vertical tendon at the three-sun point. Good for cholera, fever without sweating, persistent dry retching with chest distress, elbow spasms, red eyes, dry mouth, chest and armpit swelling and pain, etc.

○Kakuyu (Diaphragm Transport), Kan'yu (Liver Transport), Hiyu (Spleen Transport)
This is what people commonly call the "seven, nine, eleven" moxibustion. Counting from the Taizui bone, at the seventh vertebra below, extending sideways one sun and five bu on both sides (this measurement is taken by measuring the middle joint of that person's middle finger on the outside and establishing it as one sun; the tips of the middle finger and thumb should be joined together), this point is called Kakuyu. Good for heart pain, general numbness, vomiting food, cold diaphragm and stomach, phlegm discharge, fullness in the flanks, fatigue in hands and feet, etc.

【Left Page Main Text】
Similarly, one sun and five bu to both sides below the ninth vertebra is called Kan'yu. Good for excessive anger, blurred vision, tearing, shortness of breath, hiccups, dry mouth, hernia, accumulations, etc. Similarly, one sun and five bu to both sides below the eleventh vertebra is called Hiyu. Good for body wasting, distention of the flanks, phlegm, malaria, chills and fever, edema, qi distention, jaundice, loss of appetite, etc.