○Regarding the two kotsukahi (servants) Arako who were lent for the provisional medical school and medicinal garden, the御匙医師 (court physician) made a petition, and one travelling attendant was granted with an annual stipend of six rice bales and eighty monme of silver, and he was to keep one person in his own employ. Since the physician's quarters have now been completed and there is land for the medicinal garden, there was a request to increase the staff by one person. Therefore, one person from among the floating population shall be assigned, and arrangements should be made in consultation to ensure no impediments in their deployment.
　　July 20th

○When the medical school was established on the 6th day of the 3rd month of Bunka 2 (1805), it was ordered that two assistants in total be provided for the medical school and medicinal garden. However, since it had been only a provisional medical school until this year with no space for a medicinal garden, only one of the two assistants was sufficient. Now that the main medical school has been completed and there is some vacant land available, we wish to establish a medicinal garden and begin groundwork at this time. Therefore, we humbly request that one medicinal garden assistant be provided.
Respectfully submitted
　　July　　　　Court Physician
　Note: This was petitioned through an oral statement by Asano Dogi, and when reported to the senior councilors, it was ordered to Yamaguchi Sakuemon as per the separate document, and this matter was communicated to Doyu.

　　　　　　To the Inspector
　It was ordered to communicate the following to the magistrate heads:
○Regarding masterless persons born in imperial lands, entrusted territories, other domains, and other provinces, inquiries about punishments should be made by the governing territory that arrested and investigated them.
　However, for serious criminals whose cases cannot be decided by that office, a joint deliberation shall be conducted at the town magistrate's office, and the inquiry shall be made jointly by both parties.
　　　July 24th

　　　　　　To the Inspector
○Regarding the armor completed through special loans granted with particular intention recently, it was ordered to store them in the mountain village treasury for fire prevention. Details should be discussed with the military equipment magistrates. Others who wish to store their personal equipment for fire prevention may also consult with the military equipment magistrates at their discretion.
　Note: This matter was communicated to the pages' chief, senior guards' chief, deputy, new guards' chief, and personal attendants' supervisor, and also communicated to Nakane Shinemon of the military equipment supervision for his information.
　　September 25th
○As per the separate document, this was communicated to military equipment supervisors Nakamura Naka and Kumagai Kohyoe.
　Attachment