When confiscation occurs, appropriate rewards should be granted to each party. However, since there may be locations where it is difficult to stop timber during floods, the villagers along the river courses should be mindful in advance, and whenever they spot drifting timber, they should detain it and report to the village officials. At that time, the village officials should promptly report the matter to the mountain office. If there is any negligent handling, it shall be considered a fault.

Since the above matter has been newly proclaimed this time, it should be strictly communicated to all temples and rural areas, acknowledgment documents should be obtained and kept, and periodic inspections should be conducted.

11th day of the 7th month - Note: Regarding the communication of the above matter to the capital as well, the caretaker official was summoned and given a separate document.

    Kanazu Magistrate
    Magistrate  
    Inspector
    Construction Magistrate

1. Personnel from town offices and all other departments should be transferred as much as possible to serve as additional workers for moat dredging.
1. Ten men from the construction group shall be assigned to carpentry staff duties, and the ten men from the advance group who previously served in carpentry staff shall be transferred as additional workers for moat dredging.
1. The duties of foot soldiers and external workers at the construction office should be reduced as much as possible, and they should be assigned to moat dredging.
1. Regarding construction sites for waterworks, since contracts are assigned depending on the location, the ashigaru foot soldiers previously assigned to waterworks should be reduced and assigned to moat dredging.

11th day of the 7th month

    To the Chief Administrator

○ For the regulation of silk cocoon trade proclaimed in the previous Year of the Sheep, cocoon wholesale houses and silk inspection offices were established in towns and rural areas to regulate commercial activities, record them in ledgers, and collect gratitude silver. Since the Year of the Sheep was the first year of this system, there may have been inadequate inspections, but by recent years, inspections should have become more thorough. However, it is heard that the regulation has actually become less effective. Moreover, there have been reports of improper conduct among silk cocoon traders, and some have been severely punished. However, this matter will not be brought to official attention for now. Henceforth, if there are violators, severe punishment will be ordered, so this matter should be communicated through all administrative levels so that everyone understands properly. Furthermore, if there are countless silk inspection offices and cocoon wholesale businesses, thorough investigations should be conducted through proper channels and detailed reports should be communicated.

5th day of the 9th month - Note: Also to the capital

    To the Magistrate
    To the Kitchen Head and Inspector