To the Goyōnin (Chief Retainer): Suganuma Shichirōzaemon
1. Assign seating positions to the inactive palace guards (muyaku go-rusuban) under the supervision of Shimada Kyūma, and deliver the roster to Kyūma
1. Abolish the assistant new guard (shinban nami) position
1. Years required for promotion from new guard to great guard: seventy years
1. Years required for appointment from special appointment seat to experienced position: fifty years  
1. Years required for appointment from experienced position to regular seat: fifty years
1. Among the inactive palace guard group, excuse Kawasaki Kintayū and Hirase Gisaku from escort duty. Convey this to supervisor Shimada Kyūma
1. Appoint the following ten men from the new guard group for escort duty:
　Okashima Seiemon, Nakamura Chūdayū, Matsumura Hachirō, Shirasaki Seitarō
　Nakano Kyūgo, Ban Hikoemon, Katō Seibei, Hatasa Okuzaemon
　Kubo Matabei, Horie Takeemon
　Total

To the Palace Caretaker: Minagawa Toneri  
○Since Shimada Kyūma has been appointed as supervisor of the inactive palace guards, arrange to transfer the people listed in the attached document to Kyūma

Attached Document
Palace guards etc. - names abbreviated (from previous correspondence)
Same as above - can be understood thereby
Total

Head of Great Guards: Sakai Jūnosuke
○Shimada Kyūma has been appointed as supervisor of inactive palace guards. Regarding petitions from this supervisor and petitions from those under his supervision, it has been ordered that when the supervisor is ill, etc., he should consult with the monthly duty officers. Keep this in mind.

Shimada Kyūma
○Since you have been appointed as supervisor of inactive palace guards, understand as written in the attached document and convey this to those under your supervision
1. Since Namikawa Heikichi, Okashima Anbei, Kawasaki Kintayū, and Habakabe Hachisuke are absent due to illness, mourning, etc., you should personally convey the instructions meant for the entire group

Attached Document  
1. Regarding your official position, your office should be understood as next to the Great Guard Head, following the Personal Attendant office
1. For your petitions and petitions from those under your supervision when you are ill, etc., consult with the monthly duty Great Guard Head