In Edo

○ Regarding the tightening of kitchen affairs, although this has been proclaimed repeatedly, there may be various concerns, but due to many urgent matters, deliberations do not reach completion, and the intention is gradually becoming lax. Strict economy has been proclaimed for all departments, but the intention is that without being bound by formalities, even minor matters should be thoroughly investigated by the inspection staff, and measures should be taken to avoid wastefulness. Henceforth, patrol inspections by ashigaru inspectors have been ordered.
　　　　　Junior Official Kitchen Inspector
　　　　　To Iwaya Kinshiro

○ The tightening of kitchen affairs should be carried out strictly and carefully. Recently, it is heard that inspections of various matters have become negligent. Without losing sight of the purpose of official positions, all good and bad should be investigated and reported internally. Since you previously served in governmental affairs, you should understand the general principles of tightening control. You should consult privately with the ashigaru inspectors and work with special attention to ensure there are no irregularities in kitchen affairs. As assistant to the kitchen head, regarding accounting matters, you should sincerely worry about avoiding wastefulness and report your opinions to the magistrate. With this intention, a transfer has been ordered, so you should work diligently without negligence.
　　　　　To the Inspector
　　　　　To the Ashigaru Inspector

○ With the current intention, inspections of kitchen facilities and dining halls have been ordered. You should visit frequently and take great care to ensure proper tightening of control, and also report your observations internally.
　10th day of the 10th month

　　　　　To the Chief Administrator

1. Regarding solicitation requests in town offices and the three Kanazu districts, no matter how many there are, only five per year shall be approved.
The above means that when there are solicitation requests at various offices, they should be examined and held until March, then submitted uniformly from all offices in early April. After evaluating their importance, five petition documents shall be approved.
　However, regarding remaining petition documents, applicants shall be informed that the five petitions allowed for the current year have been completed, their petition documents shall be returned, and if they petition again the following year, they shall be handled as described above.

The above should be understood by all offices. However, requests urgent enough to warrant exceptional assistance are special cases, so petition documents may be accepted and submitted for evaluation even at irregular times.
　16th day of the 10th month

　　　　　To the Inspector

○ Although ten men from the construction group were assigned to small staff duties in the carpentry department, due to a request from the construction magistrate, service in the carpentry department has been exempted. However, when the carpentry department has particularly heavy workload, small staff duties may still be assigned. Also, regarding those who previously served as gunner group personnel within construction office duties, henceforth they shall serve within the construction group, and the personnel system shall be discontinued.

The above should be communicated to the construction magistrate.