Yonezawa Kyutayu
Total: 161 persons
The above personnel increases have been ordered.

○To be communicated to the Buddhist clergy as per the attached document
Kanazu Magistrate
Town Magistrate
District Magistrate of Administered Territories
Three Districts Magistrate

Written pledge submitted:
Regarding the dispatch of an envoy monk from the head temple this time, concerning matters of religious conviction and peace of mind, as well as any instructions from the head temple, whatever may occur, we will not deviate in the slightest from what we pledged with our sealed commitment this spring. Should we err in our understanding, we will accept transfer to the head temple and any punishment imposed without uttering a single word of objection. If there are any among the lay followers who do not comply, we have been ordered to investigate and report their names and origins, which we humbly acknowledge. Therefore, we submit this sealed pledge.

Communicated on the 5th day of the 11th month
Kanazu Magistrate
Town Magistrate  
District Magistrate of Administered Territories
Three Districts Magistrate

To the Buddhist clergy:
On the 5th day of the 11th month, Kanazu Magistrate Kaifuku Kyuemon reported that when he summoned and addressed the petitioners from the temples under his jurisdiction as ordered by the senior retainers yesterday, they complied without delay, signed their acknowledgments, and submitted them as shown in the attached document.

On the same day, District Magistrate of Administered Territories Takeda Heitayu reported that when he summoned the representatives of the seven temples in the administered territories and discussed yesterday's orders with them regarding their sealed acknowledgments, they requested deliberation as shown in the attached document. Despite various attempts to make them understand, they persisted in their request, so he had no choice but to accept the attached document and place them under house custody, reporting this with the attached document.

To the Inspector:
○Regarding the religious conviction matter, as there will be an investigation at the accounting office with the Buddhist clergy summoned, large numbers of lay followers may also appear. Therefore, consult with the monthly duty senior military commander and the spear magistrate regarding additional guards at the various gates. Also, should large numbers of lay followers appear and any disturbances occur, instructions will be given at that time, so inform the senior military commander to be prepared for immediate deployment and security measures.

9th day of the 11th month