Regarding the above matters, after consultation among respective parties, five additional guards each were assigned to Yanagi Gate, Sakura Gate, Kawaguchi Gate, Urushi Gate, etc., and the same instructions were given for Tetsu Gate.

1. On November 12th, as lay Buddhist followers gathered in large numbers at Nishi-mido-sho causing disturbances, after consulting with the senior retainers about whether to reinstate the extraordinary night patrols that had been previously suspended, they were resumed starting from the night of the 12th.

1. On the same day, mounted security by senior ashigaru commanders was ordered at Nishi-mido kakari-sho. The same applied to messenger guards.
   However, senior ashigaru commanders were to bring twenty men each from the nine-man units.

1. On November 13th, as lay Buddhist followers had been coming to Nishi kakari-sho since the 11th causing disturbances, investigations were ordered at Kamigata-guchi and various locations. Deputy officials accompanied by subordinates were dispatched to investigate villagers in territories under the jurisdiction of district magistrates. Finding nothing particularly unusual, it was determined that deployment would not be necessary from the 14th, and this was communicated to the district magistrates.

1. On November 15th, since the 12th, thirty-six men from the administrative units had been continuously stationed at Nishi kakari-sho day and night, but this was interfering with other official duties and proving difficult. Therefore, twelve men each were to be dispatched from the guard units for rotating shifts day and night.

1. On November 16th, Sakura Gate and Yanagi Gate were ordered to implement two-person guard duty from today.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
○ Although security by senior ashigaru commanders and messenger guards was previously ordered at Nishi kakari-sho, this will no longer be necessary from the 25th, so inform each party accordingly.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
○ As the security at Nishi kakari-sho is being withdrawn, the following arrangements are ordered, and each should handle accordingly:
　Two foot inspectors, three assistant foot soldiers, six inspector unit members
　Ten senior gunner unit members, two town unit members, district unit members (two during day, one at night)
　The above shall maintain shifts day and night
　1. Senior ashigaru commanders serving as fortress guards shall prepare weapons and equipment respectively, remain on standby at their own residences, and rush to the post immediately in case of urgent matters
　The following arrangements were communicated to the senior monthly duty officer:
　　1. Fortress guards shall be dispatched from among the foreign ship guard unit members. Regarding duties at the temple site, foot inspectors have been dispatched there, so coordinate and maintain posts through consultation.
　　1. The three positions of senior ashigaru commander, fortress guard, and foreign guard shall remain on standby at their respective quarters, ready to deploy immediately upon orders. It was communicated that weapons have been received at Sasaki Tōzaemon's residence.
　　　　November 24th
　However, the extraordinary night patrols that were recently reinstated will be suspended from the night of the 25th.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate