Regarding Tax Payments
1. 20,000 koku　　　　18 kan 669 monme
1. 1,000 koku　　　　4 kan 781 monme  
1. 300 koku　　　　1 kan 610 monme
1. 100 koku　　　　700 monme
1. 25 koku　　　　511 monme
1. 9 koku　　　　119 monme
1. 50-person stipend　　1 kan 260 monme
1. 10-person stipend　　329 monme
　　　　Total　The rest is abbreviated

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief of the Great Guard
1. Since exceptional financial assistance and frugality have been mandated this time, those in the guard units with particularly small stipends shall, after consultation with relatives and connections, set time limits and completely eliminate seasonal greetings, gift exchanges, farewell gifts, and souvenirs.
1. At the homes of those on rotating duty in the small units, meals at midday shall follow regulations of one soup and one dish, with no more than three rounds of sake.
1. Serving sake at the guard stations is prohibited.
The above should be observed, and each person should be instructed with proper understanding. Should anyone fail to observe these rules and then claim financial hardship, this would be extremely inappropriate. If such persons are reported, each case should be communicated privately.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief of the Palace Guard
○The above directive given to the guard chiefs was distributed as a separate memorandum　　Caretaker
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Supervisor of Unassigned Caretakers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief of the New Guard
　　Same day　However, the above directive was also issued in Edo as a guideline

　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Retainer
　　　　　　　　　　　　Shibuya Gonzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　Suganuma Jūrōzaemon
○This time, tightening control and frugality have been ordered for all offices, so special duties have been assigned to each. Special duties have also been assigned to some of the magistrates and inspectors, so they should consult with each other to implement proper control measures.
　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　Imamura Denbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　Komiyama Denshichi
○Similar to the above, special duties have been assigned. Special duties have also been assigned to some of the chief retainers and inspectors, so they should consult with each other to implement proper control measures.
　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　　　　　　　Hasebe Koemon
　　　　　　　　　　　Suzuki Jūzaemon