1. Bunsei 2nd year, year of the Rabbit (1819)
　○Appointed to supervise the unemployed caretaker guards　　　　Amagata Kingoemon
　○Same as above　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tominaga Magoshiro
　○Since Amagata Kingoemon and Tominaga Magoshiro have been appointed to supervise the unemployed caretaker guards, they should be transferred to the unemployed caretaker guard unit.
　　　　　　February 7th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monthly duty chief guard captain
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Amemori Genshiro
　However, until now the unemployed caretaker guard supervision was handled by one person, Tagaya Gonsuke, but Gonsuke was reprimanded on the 5th and had his position and 100 koku from his stipend confiscated. Due to this, it was ordered that the unemployed caretaker unit should be supervised by the monthly duty chief guard captain, but today these two men were appointed to unemployed supervision, so hereafter supervision will be by two people.
　　　End

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the inspectors
　○Regarding family restraint inquiries when domain retainers are ordered into house confinement, house arrest, restraint, etc., cousins need not submit inquiry documents.

　1. If the punishment is severe enough to warrant dismissal from service, dismissal from employment, or family dissolution, even cousins should submit restraint inquiry documents.
　1. All inquiry documents should state "restraint" as the inquiry and also record the family relationship.
　　　　　　February 24th
　　　Since the chief retainers instructed that the above should be communicated to all relevant parties, it was gradually communicated, and the following separate document was given to the inspectors for their understanding.

　　　　　　Separate Document
　○When there are inquiries to the inspectors, give instructions as follows:
　1. Family relationships that should submit inquiry documents when house confinement, house arrest, restraint, etc. are ordered:
　　　Same surname　Father-son　Brothers　Grandfather-grandson　Uncle-nephew　Son-in-law and father-in-law
　1. Regarding grandsons, nephews, etc., when they go as adopted sons to other houses, there is no mourning connection, but since originally there should be a mourning connection, such cases should submit inquiry documents regardless of whether there is a mourning connection or not.
　1. The inquiry method for cousins when there is severe punishment is the same as above.
　1. Son-in-law and father-in-law relationships are limited to between son-in-law and father-in-law. For instance, relationships like son's father-in-law or sister's son-in-law do not require inquiry documents.
　1. Even in cases of grandfather-grandson, uncle-nephew, cousin, etc. relationships, if the father is adopted, the person himself is adopted, etc., and there is originally no mourning connection, no inquiry documents need to be submitted.