February 24th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shimoryō District Magistrate
○Regarding Michimi Island in the waters off Dorobara Shimbo Bay, it was previously granted to Hikuroku of the same bay, but this time it will be borrowed as government land to construct government storehouses and other buildings. Therefore, as compensation for this land, the following will be granted:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Dorobara Shimbo Bay
　1. 200 hyō of rice　　　　　Michimi Hikuroku
　　　To be granted annually as above. However, if the island becomes unnecessary, it will not be granted.
　1. 12 monme of silver
　　　This is granted this year upon Hikuroku's request due to hardships caused by borrowing the island. Until the payment of this silver is completed, 50 hyō per year from the granted 200 hyō of rice shall be paid as central tax.
　　　　　　May 25th
　However, regarding the borrowing of this island as government land, it was reported to the senior councillor that this should be communicated to the falconry office for their information.

○Appointed as supervisor of Michimi Island government management　《Marginal note: Magistrate Imamura Denbei | Inspector Nakamura Tarōzaemon》
　　　　　　August 11th
○Regarding Michimi Island in the waters off Dorobara Shimbo Bay, it was previously designated as government land, and government rice storehouses and offices will be built successively. For the remaining land area, those who petition will be granted land tenure and house construction rights. Even residents of towns and villages and people from other domains may apply if they have guarantors from our domain territory. Those who wish to do so should consult with Mikuni Port Tax Office regarding ground rent and miscellaneous expenses, inspect the location, and submit sealed bids to that office by September with land lot markings. This matter should be announced to all relevant parties.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Later: Town Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three Districts Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Formerly: Four Town and District Magistrate
○Since government rice storehouses are being built on Michimi Island this time and other government management measures are being implemented, the retired monk Chijō of Kyūshōji Temple in Mikuni petitioned to establish a tutelary Konpira Shrine and organize Konpira religious associations for the safety of various ships at sea and the prosperity of the port. This petition was granted as requested. However, many people will gather