Due to this situation, as previously announced, the three-year half-reduced borrowed rice system has been ordered to continue. Although the front long barracks and other peripheral buildings may have suffered about 90% fire damage, since the fire originated very close to the lords' residences, everything from household tools to clothing was truly devastated by the flames. The lords barely escaped injury and evacuated their seats in such a rapid fire that immediate necessities are lacking. Consequently, everyone has suffered hardship. With daily expenses so pressing and the half-reduction being ordered again, His Lordship feels extremely troubled, but unavoidably issues this order, which should be thoroughly communicated.
　　　　　　11th day of 2nd month, to all subordinate administrators
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town and Four Districts Magistrate

○Due to this fire damage, the assistance duty exemption has been ordered. Accordingly, the service money previously ordered has been exempted. However, due to the fire damage, construction projects will be ordered successively, and with daily necessities and various tools being disrupted, separate service money must unavoidably be levied. Although the amount is reduced compared to what was previously ordered, given the current difficult times for towns and rural areas, careful consideration should be given. The allocation details will be communicated by the magistrates.
　　　　Same day　　Also communicated to Fuchū by the magistrate

One: 7,080 ryō　　　　Fukui Town
　Of which 1,180 ryō each　　April, May, July, August, October, November

One: 2,980 ryō　　Kawakita Territory
　Of which 500 ryō each　　　　April, May, July, August
　　490 ryō each　　October, November

One: 2,980 ryō　Upper Territory
　Of which　Same as above

One: 2,320 ryō　　Middle Territory
　Of which 390 ryō each　　April, May, July, August
　　380 ryō each　　October, November

One: 2,320 ryō　　Lower Territory
　Of which　Same as above

One: 2,320 ryō　　Fuchū Town and Rural Areas
　Of which　Same as above
　　　Total gold: 20,000 ryō
　　　　Of which 3,350 ryō each　April, May, July, August
　　　　　3,300 ryō each　　　October, November
　　　　　　Total