1. The responsible villages shall be ordered to cut down [the trees]
1. Since cutting down all river channel vegetation at once may cause difficulties, tree cutting shall first be ordered from above Asuwa River Ōhashi to Mikuni Port
1. During this official work, respective officials shall be assigned
   However, the water magistrate and river maintenance magistrate shall be notified by the chief magistrate; villages along river channels in Honbo territory and other territories shall be contacted by the chief magistrate; for inspections, one each of chief magistrate, inspector, and investigation official shall attend, with two foot-soldier inspectors assigned. Accordingly, on the 23rd day, all went by boat to inspect as far as Mikuni Port and returned on the 24th. On the 28th of the same month, they went out to inspect from above Ōhashi to the Inatsu boundary.
　　　　　　20th day of 7th month

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Magistrate
○Since the previous Year of the Boar, crop inspections have not been submitted according to official policy, but since inspections have not yet been submitted after the succession, crop inspections are ordered for this year. This should be understood accordingly.
　　　　　　22nd day of 7th month
　　　Memorandum of the announced document

1. When moving to the main castle, except for the three days of New Year, the entourage circling the front route shall be stopped, and only inner route attendants, palanquin bearers, and close attendants shall be brought along; relay arrangements shall also be simplified to only ceremonial spears
   However, regarding entourage for shrine visits, it shall remain as before, and foot soldiers and others in the retinue, including the Edo escort procession, should be instructed not to cause delays through crowding
1. Regarding attire for countryside rounds, as before, in both hot and cold weather, single haori jackets of hemp or cotton may be worn at discretion
   However, regarding dark blue tabi and straw sandals, these may be worn at discretion as before
1. Ship insignia and head boatswain insignia for cormorant fishing shall be discontinued
1. For cormorant fishing downstream excursions, simplifications as per separate document
1. On ceremonial days, officials and foot-soldier inspectors shall wear ceremonial shoulder garments
1. Rounds by foot-soldier commanders shall be ordered once daily in the morning
   However, quarters shall be discontinued, and when there is official business, they shall remain at the far end of the long hearth
1. Inspector overnight duty shall be discontinued, with duty assignments only during daytime
   However, as before, matters of gate entry and exit shall be handled by guard inspection officials
1. The three-person guard duty shall be reduced by one person
1. Sword magistrate duty shifts shall be discontinued, however, they shall remain on duty until 9 o'clock during the day