Shall be granted/provided
1. When priests appear, as follows: Day of arrival in Edo, Day of courtesy visit for domain service
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Day of departure, Occasions of unexpected congratulations
　For these occasions, refreshments and sake preparations have been provided, but henceforth soup, sake, and side dishes shall be served in small plates with two varieties. The same applies to all those who appear at the secretarial office and others of lower rank
1. For imperial envoy occasions, priests' refreshments have been one soup and three dishes, but henceforth shall be one soup and two dishes with pickles, plus one type of domain salt-preserved delicacies, while sake, soup, side dishes, and confections shall be discontinued
　　However, during cold weather and such, sake may be provided occasionally, and one or two types of light side dishes may be served
1. For those who appear unexpectedly, refreshments at the secretarial office or grass rice cakes, soup, etc. shall be discontinued
　　However, when unavoidably detained by official business, exceptions may be made
1. Account ledgers have used formal paper until now, but new ledger paper has been ordered, with writing style to remain in the same format as before
1. Regarding business of the outer treasury, construction works, kitchen supplies, or financial office, orders have been given directly from the secretarial office to respective departments, but henceforth shall be communicated to the magistrate, and after the magistrate gives orders, offerings or various items shall be inquired about directly from departments to the secretarial office
　　However, when the magistrate goes outside the gate on official business, orders shall be given to the financial officer. If unavoidably both magistrate and financial officer go outside the gate, then if communicated to the accounting office, they will handle the business
1. Night messengers outside the gate have been sent two at a time, but shall be sent one at a time; for distant places or late night matters, after deliberation, two people

　shall be sent
1. Regarding festival celebrations, even if requests are made for main family members to attend, they shall be declined during the designated period
1. Similarly, requesting Noh performers' family members to come to the quarters shall be entirely discontinued
1. Except for palace guard samurai, ordinary samurai and minor officials need not wear formal court dress
　　However, since foot inspectors appear at the middle gate reception, one person on duty shall wear court dress
1. Regarding distinguished personages' palace visits, we have requested that they avoid gathering in one place as much as possible, and it has been announced that matters requiring discretion should of course be considered, and when there are postponements due to obstacles, this should be broadly communicated
1. During postponements, lunch attendants and table setup shall be discontinued
　　However, one palace priest shall be sent
1. During postponements, formal meal service shall be stopped and only light meals shall be circulated
1. For hawk flying sessions, hawks shall be borrowed from Hitotsubashi for the flying sessions
　　However, gifts to falconers and assistants shall be given from private funds
1. Lanterns in the lower corridor shall be discontinued; for official business, movement shall be done carrying hand candles
1. Medical fees for physicians shall be handled according to established protocol
1. Regarding various gifts to retainers, due to exceptional economy measures this time, there may be further reforms. Since this will serve as guidance for each individual, this shall be communicated to each respectively