though it may be difficult, please convey this properly.
　　　September 16th


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Gokiya Yashirō
　　　　　　　　　　　Yamagataya Shichibei
○Due to the current financial difficulties of the domain administration, extensions have been ordered for all debts. Therefore, regarding the annual installment rice loans with "Su" seal that each of you handles, though this is a difficult matter, repayment in thirty annual installments starting from the end of this Year of the Rat has been ordered. Though this will cause hardship for the creditors, please handle the matter appropriately. You are ordered to convey this matter.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The same persons as above
○Regarding the same matter above, since there are special circumstances concerning the rapeseed-backed financing from previous years, repayment should be made as originally agreed. However, since there are now uniform extensions being granted, interest payments are waived. Please convey this matter appropriately.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ebisya Jiemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Komeya Heibei
○Due to the current financial difficulties of the domain administration, reductions have been ordered for all debts. Therefore, regarding the annual installment rice loans with "Three" seal that each of you handles, repayment in thirty annual installments starting from this Year of the Rat has been ordered. Please handle this matter appropriately.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sasaki Tōzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Takeda Heitayū
○At each office in previous years, using allocated rice as collateral, financing silver handled by Yasaemon of Iri village and Rokubei of Kami-Sabae village has been borrowed annually with interest payments made. However, due to the current financial difficulties of the domain administration, extensions have been ordered for all debts. Therefore, though the financing silver handled by these two men has special circumstances, interest reduction has been unavoidably ordered, and three shu per year shall be paid. Though this causes extreme hardship for the creditors, please handle the matter appropriately.
　　　September 16th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○Export of soybeans to other provinces has been suspended, so handle as before
　　　　　　　October 5th

In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
○Regular internal allowances are all reduced by one-sixth as ordered