1. Regarding assistance funds and clothing funds for various official duties and internal affairs losses, reductions of 5 rin per silver bu from the monetary amounts
1. Losses given to various lower officials shall be reduced by 5 bu

Excluding duplicates　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
1. Expenses for ceremonial infant meals shall be handled with a 10% reduction from previous silver amounts
1. Ceremonial rice cakes offered at shrines, Buddhist altars, and shrines of the three estates shall be reduced by one-third
1. Year-round spirit offerings and Bon festival spirit offerings among the vouchers shall be reduced by one-sixth from October of the current Rat year, so arrangements should be made with consideration
1. When physicians from the shogunate and Hitotsubashi visit, one soup and three dishes were provided, but for five years this shall be changed to one soup and two dishes
1. All payments to retainers handled by the accounting office shall be reduced by one-sixth
1. Loss payments to accounting office investigators shall be reduced by 10% of the monetary amount
1. Regarding loss payments to Kusao Shōbei who serves as estate magistrate, due to special circumstances, payments shall continue without reduction for now
1. Regarding monthly accounting responsibilities for various offices according to policy, reductions of one-sixth shall apply from October of the current Rat year
1. Hakama allowances for inspector scribes shall be discontinued
1. Uniform allowances for tea ceremony monks and small monks serving as messengers at both estates shall be reduced by 5 bu from the monetary amount
1. Tea cloths and kettle covers for tea ceremony at both estates shall henceforth use old items
1. Guest meal allocation silver for magistrates and financial officials at the barracks shall be reduced by 10% from October of the current Rat year onward
1. For four male servants working in the meal preparation area, instead of high-quality hakama with lining given for summer and winter, hereafter cotton hakama shall be given once per year for both seasons
1. Annual New Year second day purchases of shrimp, clams, and vegetables, as well as New Year celebration meal expenses in Edo during residence in the domain, shall be reduced by 10% from previous amounts
1. Soup and sake given to inner palace ladies upon receiving leave and lodging, as well as packed delicacies given to attending ladies during extended palace visits, shall be reduced by 10% hereafter, so arrangements should be made with lighter provisions
1. When retainer children visit the inner palace, hereafter meals of one soup and two dishes shall be provided
1. Annual mochi rice given to inner palace ladies shall hereafter be provided as silver payment reduced by 10%
1. Similarly, regarding meals provided during audience visits and moving, portions that were one soup and three dishes shall become one soup and two dishes, and portions that were one soup and two dishes shall become standard two dishes
1. When merchant agents and craftsmen from various offices visit on official business and time passes, portions that were one soup and three dishes shall hereafter be one soup and two dishes, and other meal provisions shall follow this standard
1. Regarding the estate merchant Kaifuka Rokubei, who also previously performed money exchange duties, there are payments handled by the financial magistrate