should be investigated and reported.
　　　　2nd month, 25th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Construction Magistrate

○Regarding secret craftwork in rural areas other than official carpentry, this has been prohibited from long ago, but it has been heard that recently there are those who improperly engage in carpentry work. Therefore, it has been announced again to rural areas that secret craftwork should be strictly avoided in the future. Henceforth, inspectors from the Construction Office will make rounds, and if there are those who misunderstand, punishment will be imposed and matters will not be handled leniently according to the law.
　　Note: All craftsmen should understand this in the same manner.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Four Counties Magistrate

○In rural areas (abbreviated) this should be strictly observed, and furthermore, inspectors from the Construction Office will make rounds in the future. If there are those who misunderstand, they will be investigated and punishment will be imposed, so this should be observed even more strictly hereafter.
　　Note: All craftsmen should observe the prohibitions in the same manner.
The above should be communicated to subordinates.
　　　　　2nd month, 29th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ota Sarobei
　　　
○Since the previous Year of the Rat, strict financial controls have been successively announced, and the seven-year half-reduction rice loans have been exempted from this year. Although this term limit has expired, regarding various economies, understand that things continue as before, and matters should be handled so that there is no detriment to various offices. Due to the change of administration, if there are misunderstandings it would be problematic, so this is communicated as a precaution. Furthermore, regarding His Lordship's private intentions about frugality, it is as previously announced in deliberation. Understanding this point, each should communicate it accordingly.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate　　　Ota Sarobei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Construction Magistrate　Nishimura Senemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Works Magistrate　Sanada Gohei

○Regarding reception preparations and repairs in general for this summer's domain entry, there may be previous customs, but regardless of such matters, as we are in a period of exceptional frugality, His Lordship's private intentions have been announced to avoid wasteful decorations and practice economy. This point should be understood. Of course, for unavoidable places, repairs should be ordered after inspection. If officials cannot determine matters through inspection, we will go out personally, so reports should be made after examination.
　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain Omiya Hikoemon

○Regarding reception preparations and repair frugality for this summer's domain entry, instructions have been given to each as written in the separate document. Written instructions have been distributed for everyone's understanding. Also, there may be special arrangements for the domain entry, but such matters should be reported separately so as not to be confused with ordinary customs.
　　However, matters granted to retainers are the same.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Two separate documents as written above.