146 ryō, 2 bu, 8 monme, 5 fun, 5 rin - Amount determined for fixed contracts at various locations in the previous year of the Rat
　　　Among the above, regarding the fixed contract fees for割折所 (warisho) at various locations, there will be increases and decreases in silver amounts due to adjustments for栗木 (kuriki)
　　270 ryō - Annual fixed budget amount determined this time, undertaken by the construction office, calculated amount including both rice and silver
　　　　　　Attached Document
1. Regarding repairs at various locations under the construction department, recently exceptional efforts have been made in handling these matters, resulting in reduced expenses. However, the fixed budget amount ordered this time has been particularly reduced, so it seems unlikely that repairs can be adequately carried out. Even if there are unsightly conditions, as long as they do not result in future losses, there is no problem. With this understanding, all matters should be discussed and repairs and maintenance should be carried out within the allocated budget.
1. When temples and various offices request repairs from temples, even more detailed inspections should be conducted and handled with as much economy as possible. For matters that are unavoidable even after this, they should be handled after consultation with the magistrates.
1. For temples and all office departments, repairs related to residence changes, replacement of storage spaces, or changes to entranceways and the like shall not be handled. Things should be left as they have been traditionally.
　　However, matters that would interfere with temple duties at temples, or that would interfere with official business at government offices are exceptional, but there is no need for new repairs. Nevertheless, depending on the location, matters that would benefit the domain in the future should be handled after consultation.
1. Regarding tatami mat covering replacement, shoji paper replacement, wall replastering, fusuma and wallpaper replacement, etc., matters with unavoidable circumstances are exceptional, but others need not be handled even if requested by various parties.
【The above two articles transcribed from the next page】
　Besides the above, attention should be paid to all matters, and since even the slightest new work need not be handled, traditional repairs should be continued and care should be taken to prevent particularly damaged areas from developing.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Head Carpenter
○At the construction office, recently... and furthermore as stated in the attached document, matters should be discussed and handled.
　　　　　　Attached document same as above
　　　　　March 5th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakarai Dōsen
○Regarding the request about training arrangements for everyone in the nakagenma, it has been ordered as stated in the attached document. This should be understood accordingly.
　　　　Attached Document
1. A temporary medical school has been established this time in response to the request. The location should be decided through consultation.
1. Attendance by town and rural physicians shall be at their discretion.
1. Medical text lectures, acupuncture point meetings, and other training methods as well as medical practice protocols shall be established.
1. Daily attendance should be arranged in consultation with the domain physicians.
1. The location for the medicinal garden will be inquired about later.