3rd month, 8th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

○Regarding the import and export of domestic products and products from other domains at ports, although this has been announced from before, it has been heard that in recent years this has become lax and uncontrolled. Therefore, as a control measure, port inspection has been ordered this time, so appointments should be made after examining the character of foot soldiers. The method of service should be determined after thorough consultation among the various officials in charge for the first time.

1. When the aforementioned two foot soldiers make port rounds, since this is for official control, they should be ordered to carry swords while making their rounds.

1. The two men making port rounds should be stationed at the storehouse together with the minor officials dispatched to Mikuni.

　　　　4th month, 8th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Administrator
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

○Previously, silver was procured from Fukui townspeople using town taxes as collateral, and silver was procured using rice warehouse certificates as collateral ○ Special procurement silver by internal procurement agents and procurement silver supervisors ○ Procurement silver from Kawakita County using rice warehouse certificates as collateral ○ The same handled by chief village heads of the three counties, and other special procurement persons ○ The above principal and interest have been suspended from the previous Year of the Ox for seven years, but due to various expenses, borrowing from Edo, Osaka and other domains has again been extended, so all of the above will have deduction and extension for the time being.

　　　　　4th month, 13th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Administrator

○In the previous Year of the Snake, reform silver was lent to towns and villages through the bill office arrangement. The time for principal and interest payment is next 5th month, but as a measure, the principal silver will remain as is and be extended for three years from the coming 6th month. Interest should be paid annually by the end of the 11th month as before. This should be arranged.
　　However, late applications for borrowing should follow the same principle.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

○Regarding group joint borrowing, since this serves as a measure, upon application by the Chief Administrator, loans are made with the same intent, but the same applies.
　　However, the same.

　　　　　4th month, 16th day
　In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Chamberlain and others

○Although there will be domain entry this summer, regardless of precedent, all matters should be arranged according to recent practices.

　　　　　4th month, 12th day
　His Lordship's intention　　　　　　　To all samurai

○The Shogunate's prohibitions and family customs should be strictly observed. Also, the recent half-reduction rice loans have been paid without delay, which is satisfactory. Furthermore, regarding frugality, service should continue with the same understanding as before. This point is the same intention as His Lordship the Middle Captain.

　　　　　5th month, 15th day at the Main Castle　After formal greetings in various seats