The riverbank area shall be raised and supervised with care as ordered. However, there is no provision for providing additional regular laborers.
　　　　　Intercalary 8th month, 11th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspector (Metsuke)
　　　　　Memorandum
○Regarding those whose performance as group supervisors has been poor from before, investigations have been ordered for some time, but people should pay even more attention, and there may be those who think that poor group supervisors should have their stipends removed and be replaced before orders come from above. However, if orders come from above for each case, it would cause particular trouble for the heads, as was announced in previous years as shown in the attached document. However, recently, among those of lower stipend-receiving status, regarding matters such as adoptive parents, stepmothers, or succession of names to wives after husbands' deaths, household members arbitrarily make demands, and if adoptions or marriages do not suit their preferences, they create various difficulties, making claims for substitutions or private arrangements. Moreover, even when there are no improprieties in work performance and nothing that displeases the heads, when such household members make arbitrary claims, some group officials with mistaken understanding adopt these claims and petition for replacements or make difficult private arrangements, which is unacceptable. Therefore, from now on, everyone should investigate such matters, and those who do not comply should immediately receive strict punishment accordingly.
【The above article continues from the next page】
This should be communicated to all the various commanders (mono-gashira).
　　　　　Attached Document
○Summary of the directive issued in the 6th month of Genbun 2 (1737)
　　　　　Intercalary 8th month, 20th day
As announced above, all the various commanders were summoned to the residence of monthly duty officer Murata Jutayu, and one copy each of the directive was distributed.

Regarding punishments for townspeople and rural areas, this has been announced repeatedly from before, but since there seems to be some confusion recently, after deliberation among the Senior Councilors, the revised directive was distributed as follows. This should also be communicated to the supervisory heads.　　　　　To the Inspector
　　　Regarding Punishments for Town and Rural Offenders
1. House confinement, fines, shackles, house arrest, strict confinement, banishment elsewhere, imprisonment
1. Banishment from the castle town
1. Banishment from castle town and home village within 3, 5, 7, or 10 ri radius
When supervisory heads make inquiries about the above, if there are no issues, decisions can be made immediately through single-seat deliberation as requested.
However, if there are issues, or in cases involving townspeople or rural people of good standing and family background, deliberation with the Inspectors or Magistrates may be necessary.