up to that point shall be immediately announced.

1. When those banished from the domain return, when petitioning for tattooing and banishment, if there are no issues with the returnees, they shall be treated the same as the previous article.

1. For people from other domains, even for minor crimes, when petitioning for banishment from the domain, even if it involves tattooing and banishment, it shall be handled within a single council meeting. Should they ever return, regardless of the severity of their crime, it shall be equivalent to a death sentence.

1. For death sentences and above, even for people from other domains, they shall be handled after deliberation and seeking the lord's judgment.

End

The above was decreed in the 5th year of Kansei, Year of the Ox, but since there have been matters to communicate to the various magistrate heads afterwards, this is being revised after further deliberation and petition.
Bunka 2, Year of the Ox, Intercalary 8th month, 29th day

Four-District Magistrate
Honorable Magistrate

○ Regarding various petitions from rural areas, instructions were issued as per the separate document in Kansei 4, Year of the Rat. However, recently it appears there are some rural areas with misunderstandings, so the content of the separate document is once again being communicated to the magistrate heads.

Regarding various petitions from rural areas, because professional scribes are being employed to submit petition documents, the writing becomes overly ornate making the actual situation difficult to understand, and moreover the costs to the peasants become excessive. Therefore, henceforth the practice of employing scribes shall be discontinued, and even if inconvenient, if the villagers write themselves, all costs will be reasonable. If the villagers cannot write, they should speak orally at the government offices as they would in oral testimony.
September 16th

To the Honorable Magistrate

○ We have heard that the finances of the retainers are in difficulty, and moreover this year rice prices are also low, making their hardships even greater. Although there have been internal reports from guard commanders and magistrate heads about this increasingly difficult situation, since His Lordship also unavoidably has increased expenses and is in financial difficulty, there is no way to provide individual assistance. Therefore, after investigating the various tax payments due this winter, relief is being granted as per the separate document.

1. Regarding the loan silver from the card office payments from Kansei 12, Year of the Monkey, the principal due this winter is being deferred, and only the interest is to be paid as determined.

1. Regarding the loan silver from the policy office that was borrowed upon petition in the previous Year of the Rat, while the principal was set to be paid in seven annual installments starting this winter, the principal payment for this winter is being deferred and only interest is to be paid.

1. For the endorsement office loan silver borrowed upon individual petition, the rule was that after paying principal and interest this winter, one could petition again for borrowing from the coming 2nd month of the Year of the Rat. However, for those with stipends of 200 koku or less who are in extreme hardship this winter