To the Magistrate

○Since the previous Year of the Snake, village inspections have been discontinued according to His Lordship's policy, and tax assessments were left as they were until the previous Year of the Sheep. However, as crop conditions were difficult, they were handled with supplementary rice distributions, and while all were matters of concern, they were commendable. This year too, inspections will be discontinued and matters should be handled according to recent precedent.

　6th month, 11th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Subordinate District Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kajikawa Hanbei

○Since the landholders of the Matsumoto district are in difficulty despite having no problems with their land, they have been planning border adjustments in recent years. However, it is heard that among the residential landholders there are some who lack understanding, making thorough discussions difficult to conclude. In any village, if border adjustments are not made from time to time, it becomes one-sided, which is reasonable, so border adjustments must definitely be carried out. Therefore, investigation of this matter has been ordered, so the circumstances of those who do not consent should be examined and details should be reported.

　　　　　6th month, 16th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tagaya Gonbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Isono Tamiya

○On the occasion of this succession and other celebratory events, meals will be provided to the retainer band soon. It is heard that at such occasions in the past, there have been various complaints. Since it has been ordered that all matters be handled according to the established precedents and protocols, if there are those who make any complaints, meals will not be provided to them, so this should be understood.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

○Regarding the above, even if there are any complaints, it has been communicated to Tagaya Gonbei and Isono Tamiya that they need not be taken up, so this intent should be communicated to the administrative personnel so they understand.

　　　　　6th month, 23rd day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Administrator
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

○Regarding lamp oil throughout the provinces, since tree nut oil has been used for lighting from before, export of pressed oil to other domains has been subject to fixed port controls for both sea and land routes. If pressed oil were handled for export to other domains, oil cake would also serve as fertilizer for rice fields and farmland, but since allowing export to other domains might cause domestic oil prices to rise, this has been prohibited until now. It is heard that in other domains, rapeseed is being pressed in greater quantities, but it is unclear how the marketing is being handled. However, since oil merchants have been making successive petitions, after examination, as a trial measure from this year, export of rapeseed oil and cottonseed oil to other domains has been permitted. However, since inspection methods would be inadequate to determine whether tree nut oil and such are mixed in among the barrels when shipped by both sea and land routes, these two types of oil are permitted for offshore export limited to Mikuni port only. Accordingly, regarding oil prices for domestic trade, fixed prices will be established based on ten-year average prices for both rapeseed oil and tree nut oil. Trading below these fixed prices is at one's discretion, but if prices rise even slightly above the fixed prices, export to other domains will be prohibited.

1. Regarding tree nut oil, port controls will continue to be enforced as before at Mikuni port and all other ports. Therefore, rapeseed oil