Isono Tamiya
○ Regarding the petitions from members of each guard unit, it has come to attention that some are not reporting for duty in early spring, causing you concern. It is not proper for hereditary retainers to be in such a state, so they should be instructed to report for duty immediately. The matter of petitions will be decided upon your return to the domain. Also, for those who cannot report for duty due to impediments, if you examine each case and report accordingly, temporary allowances (sashikakari) will be provided. A direct letter was sent to Kuranosuke and others instructing them to communicate this matter, and Imamura Denbei was dispatched. This is a particularly important directive, so it should be well understood and communicated to everyone.

Kaifuku Kyuemon
Matsubara Shirobyoe
○ As stated in the separate document, this has been communicated to the members of the Great Guard chiefs, so please understand accordingly and ensure there are no misunderstandings when communicating to the members of the New Guard unit. The separate document is the same as that communicated to the Great Guard chiefs.
January 27th
Note: Colleague Imamura Denbei and foot inspector Iwasa Jiroemon were ordered to return on official business and arrived yesterday, the 26th, from Edo. Both departed back to Edo on February 2nd.

Monthly Duty Officer, Great Guard Chief
○ Regarding the recent directive about members of each guard unit who cannot necessarily report for duty due to impediments, temporary allowances (sashikakari) would be provided if each case is examined and reported. However, some may not request temporary allowances because they are already reporting for duty. Since there are still considerable days until your return to the domain, and it has been heard that finances have been particularly tight since last winter, those who are severely impeded should still be instructed to request temporary allowances (sashikakari), regardless of the collective petition that has been submitted. Also, the time for distributing the replacement rice stipends is approaching. In connection with this, there may be difficulties with mutual lending arrangements, so if creditors would extend payment deadlines this spring, it would naturally help with getting by. If there are creditors who cannot agree to this, that matter should be reported accordingly.

Keeper of the Edo Residence
Head of the Palace Guard
Head of the New Guard
○ The separate document given to the Great Guard chief is provided for reference.
February 8th

Great Guard Chief
○ Regarding this petition from the guard unit, various matters were brought to attention through Sano Naizen and Eguchi Genzaemon, and as communicated according to the direct letter received earlier, instructions will be given upon your return to the domain. This matter is communicated for your understanding.

Head of the New Guard