April 5th

Inspector (Metsuke)
○Regarding the sale and purchase of pine trees, this has been prohibited from long ago, but we have heard that it has been conducted carelessly in recent years. Henceforth, sales and purchases are not to be conducted as in the past. If anyone violates this, strict punishment will be imposed, so this matter must be firmly understood and strictly enforced among subordinates.

The above was ordered to the Kanazu Magistrate, Town Magistrate, Deputy District Magistrate, and Three-District Magistrate in Kyōwa 3rd year (1803), but recently it has been heard that enforcement has become lax and negligent. Therefore, each administrative head must be informed that this must be strictly observed without any misunderstanding.
April 20th

To be announced to those in official positions 《Margin note: Starting with senior councilors and officials》
○Both regular expenses and emergency expenses must increasingly observe economy. If there is unity and diligence with exceptional management, promotions and advancement will be granted. If there is negligent understanding or private greed, strict orders will be issued. Even the slightest matter can become an obstacle to promotion and advancement, so in times like these, all levels of personnel should work with increased diligence.

May 19th

Monthly duty officers
○This time we have received orders for fire guard duty at Zōjō-ji Temple. Since this duty has been suspended for a long time, the expenses for various equipment and preparations are excessive. Given the financial difficulties and tight budget, especially with recent pressing expenses, this creates even greater financial strain. Although this is a time of universal hardship, unavoidably a two-year tribute payment has been ordered starting this year. The allocation method will be communicated by the magistrates.

June 11th - To all subordinates at every level
1. For fief holders, all assessed at 28.44 monme per 100 koku per year
   Including salary supplements and stipends
1. Rice stipends, assistance allowances, and others converted to assessed value, same as above  
1. Those with five-person stipends or less are exempted from silver payments
   Total

Administrative heads - Also to Fuchū
○Same as above, two-year tribute payments have been ordered. Regarding this, although towns and rural areas are experiencing hardship due to various recent requests for assistance, unavoidably based on the precedent of town and rural household assessments from recent years, from this July to June of the Sheep year...