However, since strict supervision of all matters has now been ordered, they should be instructed to exert even greater effort in revenue collection.

1. Regarding irrigation construction and similar matters, since agricultural production is of primary importance, these cannot be neglected. However, if villages perform repairs for minor damage each year to prevent major deterioration, the number of construction sites will naturally decrease. Therefore, the irrigation magistrates should be instructed to exert even greater effort and handle matters according to this principle.

1. Regarding flood control construction expenses, after the great flood in the previous Year of the Rooster, annual expenses have become excessive, with heavy expenditures from above (the domain) and hardship in rural areas. Therefore, an exceptional policy was announced in the previous Year of the Sheep, and through the diligent efforts of flood control magistrates, construction expenses were reduced and proper supervision established. However, last year (Year of the Monkey) saw frequent flooding with many damaged areas, leading to increased subsequent expenses. The flood control magistrates should be instructed to handle matters so as to realize the policy announced the year before last.

To the Four-District Magistrates
1. Flood control and irrigation construction cannot be left unattended, but since the great flood in the Year of the Rooster, excessive expenses have increased and financial circulation has been hindered, causing difficulties for everyone in rural areas with flood control silver payments and increased construction. Therefore, a policy was announced in the previous Year of the Sheep, and through proper handling and supervision by the office, this policy was realized. Although construction expenses increased due to frequent flooding last year (Year of the Monkey), since exceptional supervision of all matters has now been ordered, efforts should be made to further reduce expenses. Regarding irrigation construction as well, arrangements should be made so that farmers understand to perform repairs for minor damage in villages as much as possible, reducing construction sites and costs.

To the Head Bird Keeper, Hiraoka Kinzaemon
1. Regarding hawking ground construction, since announcements about labor costs have been made in recent years, efforts should be made to prevent further increases. Of course, there may be instances where construction is inadequate, but this time it will be understood, so this should be kept in mind.

To the Head Cormorant Master, Tsutsui Niemon
1. Cormorant fishing had been suspended for seven years starting from the previous Year of the Ox, but from last year (Year of the Monkey), some cormorant breeding has been ordered. Of course, since the number of cormorants differs from before, there may be inconveniences, but such matters will be understood, so efforts should be made to avoid unprofitable outcomes hereafter.
3rd month, 7th day

To the Magistrate
Within Matsumoto District, landholder:
Chintoku-ji Temple
Kokushō-ji Temple
Suzu(?)-ya Jinbei