【Right page, upper section】
Practicing the Solitary Mahāyāna: According to the commentary, not mixing with the Two Vehicles is called "practicing the solitary Mahāyāna."

Four Eyes: Physical eye, divine eye, wisdom eye, dharma eye.

Five Supernatural Powers: Psychic powers, divine eye, divine ear, mind-reading, knowledge of past lives.

Three Perfect Knowledges: 1) Knowledge of past lives, 2) Divine eye knowledge, 3) Knowledge of extinction of outflows. Knowing the false and real matters of self and others is called "perfect knowledge."

Ten Powers: 1) Power of firm resolve, 2) Power of great compassion, 3) Power of great loving-kindness, 4) Power of vigor, 5) Power of meditation, 6) Power of wisdom, 7) Power of not being weary of birth and death, 8) Power of patience with the non-arising of dharmas, 9) Power of liberation, 10) Power of non-obstruction.

Four Immeasurable Minds: Loving-kindness, compassion, sympathetic joy, equanimity. According to the commentary: loving-kindness can give happiness; compassion can remove suffering; sympathetic joy gives beings superior results (the Treasury Commentary writes "happiness" instead of "results"); equanimity abandons afflictions and also abandons the above three minds.

Four Eloquences: Dharma, meaning, expression, delight - consider these.

Four Methods of Conversion: According to the commentary: 1) Giving draws faithless beings to enter faith, 2) Kind speech draws those who have already entered to practice, 3) Beneficial conduct enables practitioners to gain understanding and benefit, 4) Common work - bodhisattvas share their activities to draw them into the noble stage.

Vajra Extinction Samādhi: According to the commentary, the Tripiṭaka master says all ten grounds are called "vajra." Also, one attains the patience above the tenth ground. Also stated: "Vajra" is also called "Śūraṅgama Samādhi." Vajra obstructs all things but is not obstructed by all things. Bodhisattvas use this wisdom to cut afflictions

【Right page, lower section】
and are not obstructed by afflictions. In the Śāstra there are three types of vajra: 1) The vajra wheel that can destroy afflictions, 2) The vajra power that crushes mental relics, 3) The vajra samādhi, which is the vajra extinction samādhi.

All Merits Accomplished (possibly missing the three characters "general conclusion")

Again there are ten billion holders of the Five Precepts: Fourth, explaining the holders of the Five Precepts, namely the upāsaka assembly. According to the commentary: regulating the mind and cultivating the Way is called "worthy" (xian). Nominal practitioners are thus called "persons" (zhe). As Trapuṣa and Bhallika asked the Buddha: "Why do you not teach us four or six precepts?" The Buddha answered: "Five (the Treasury Commentary has the character 'precepts') is the great number of heaven and earth. In heaven they are the five planets (wood, fire, earth, metal, water stars). On earth they become the five sacred mountains. In humans they become the five organs. In yin-yang they become the five elements. In rulership they become the five emperors. In the world they become the five virtues. In form they become the five colors. In dharma they become the five precepts." Matching non-killing with the east: the east is wood, wood governs benevolence, benevolence has the meaning of nourishing life - consider this. Matching non-stealing with the north: the north is water, water governs wisdom - consider this. Matching non-adultery with the west: the west is metal, metal governs righteousness - consider this. Matching (possibly missing "non-") drinking with the south: the south is fire, fire governs propriety - consider this. Matching non-lying with the center: the center is earth, earth governs trustworthiness - consider this.

All Practice Arhatship: According to the commentary, "arhat" is a general term. It has the meaning of "no-birth" and "non-attachment" in part. Also, cultivating toward arhatship is called "practicing arhatship."

Ten Grounds, Dedication, Five-Part Dharma Body: precepts, concentration, wisdom, liberation, knowledge and vision of liberation - consider these.

【Left page, upper section】
Possessing Immeasurable Merits All Accomplished (possibly missing the three characters "general conclusion")

Again there are ten thousand female lay practitioners of the Five Precepts: Fifth, explaining the assembly of female lay practitioners. In foreign countries they are called upāsikā. Here they are called "pure faith women" - consider this.

All Ten Grounds Accomplished: beginning birth (entering ground) merits, dwelling birth (dwelling ground) merits, ending birth (fulfilling ground) merits. Thirty births (each of the ten grounds has entering, dwelling, exiting) merits all accomplished.

Again there are one billion householders of the Seven Worthies: Sixth, explaining the assembly of householder worthies. The Seven Worthies have two meanings. According to the Lesser Vehicle: 1) Five stopping-mind contemplations, 2) Individual aspect mindfulness, 3) General aspect mindfulness, 4) Heat, 5) Peak, 6) Patience, 7) Supreme worldly dharma. According to the Mahāyāna: 1) Initial aspiration person, 2) Conditioned practice person, 3) Unconditioned practice person, 4) Skillful means practice, 5) Habituated seed-nature, 6) Nature seed-nature, 7) Path seed-nature. All exist before the grounds. Summary intended. According to the commentary: "householder" means that in foreign countries, accumulating wealth to the full hundred million is called "householder." Regulating the mind and according with the Way is called "Seven Worthies."

Virtue and Conduct Complete in Twenty-two Categories: According to the commentary, the twenty-two categories refer to persons who exist before the path of seeing (possibly "exist" should be "are located"). They only possess the four foundations of mindfulness, four right efforts, four bases of psychic power, five faculties, five powers - the twenty-two categories of the path.

Ten Totality Entrances: According to the commentary, second, praising the ten totality entrances. "Entrance" means "sphere." Blue, yellow, red, white, earth, water, fire, wind, space-void, consciousness-void make ten. Consider this.

Eight Elimination Entrances: According to the commentary, third, praising the eight mastery spheres, also called "eight elimination entrances." 1) Having internal form-perception, observing few external forms, whether beautiful or ugly. 2) Having internal form-perception, observing many external forms, whether beautiful or ugly. 3) Having no internal

【Left page, lower section】
form-perception, observing few external forms, whether beautiful or ugly. 4) Having no internal form-perception, observing many external forms, whether beautiful or ugly. 5) Blue, 6) Yellow, 7) Red, 8) White. This should be thoroughly studied.

Eight Liberations: According to the commentary, fourth, praising the eight liberations. 1) Having internal form-perception, externally observing forms, 2) Having no internal form-perception, externally observing forms, 3) Observing pure forms, 4) Space-void, 5) Consciousness-void, 6) Sphere of nothingness, 7) Sphere of neither-perception-nor-non-perception, 8) Cessation-extinction liberation.

Three Wisdoms: hearing, thinking, cultivation - consider these.

Sixteen Truths, Four Truths: As explained above.

Four-Three-Two-One Categories: One interpretation: the four good roots are raised from lower to higher. One interpretation: four is the Four Truths, three is the Three Truths, two is the Two Truths, one is the One Real Truth. One interpretation: four is the four fruits, three is the three fruits, two is the two fruits, one is the one fruit.

Contemplatively Attaining Ninety Patiences: According to the previous three interpretations, they are not the same. According to the first interpretation: combining four-three-two-one makes ten categories. From the desire realm to the sphere of neither-perception-nor-non-perception (possibly "compassion" is an error), nine grounds become ninety patiences. According to the second interpretation: the three worthies before the grounds having lower, middle, and upper levels become ninety patiences. According to the third interpretation: from the previous twenty-two categories to four-three-two-one, combining makes eighty-one categories. From this dharma emerge the four dhyānas, four formless states, and extinction samādhi, totaling ninety patiences.

All Merits Accomplished