The fire stopped at one side of Kachi-machi. In Sanmaibashi-yokocho, the residences of Suzuki, Ishikawa, Sakamaki, Fukui, and Yamazaki were burned. From the corner of Sanmaibashi, Nakane's residence was half-burned, while Onuma, Otsuka, Yamaki, Ota, and Otsuka were burned. The residences of Minagawa and Matsui survived. Narita, Horie, Tamura, Iihara, Tonegawa, Matsuyama, Mashimo, Tsuda, Hirano, and Oiwa.

The residences of Matsue and Yamamoto were burned. Akai, Yamada, Totani, Fujikawa, and Okamura were burned. Ito's residence survived half in the fire. Ota, Sugita, Maeda, Shimizu, and Fujiyasu were burned. Mitani, Hasegawa, and Nakanishi survived. Funabashi, Tanimura, Watanabe, Rensui, Kawashima, Deguchi, and Murata were burned. Kano's residence was half-burned.

The fire stopped at Hirose's residence. On the east side of this location, three houses belonging to Minobe, Banzan, and Okubo were burned. In Ten-yokocho, Yanai, Morishita, Oyagi, Inoue, Hirao, Yoshikawa, Takagi, Hasegawa, Matsumoto, Teshima, and Mochizuki were burned. In Ueno-machi-yokocho's Fukuro-machi, Kido, Ishii, Yoshimura, Takada, and Nakamura were burned. In Aoishi-bashi-yokocho's fish shop street, Takayasu, Yamamoto, Miyagawa, Ogura, Yanai, and Ota were burned. In this fire, two houses belonging to Morita and Saigo survived. In Ueno-machi 2-chome yokocho, houses up to Ichida, Sakamoto, Yamamoto, Iida, Sakata, Ieki, and Kimura were burned.

In the same 1-chome yokocho, Kameyama, Akiyama, Sato, Kawara, Wakana, and Yoshida were affected, and the fire stopped here. On the opposite side of Choro-machi, Arita, Sakakibara, Komine, Sakaguchi, Ogura, Toooji, Ito, Sanma, Yoshida, Wakina, Uchida, Hashimura, Kuroda, Sato, and Ichida were burned. Kajiyama, Teshima, Yoshikawa, Fujii, Miura, Mitamura, Yukawa, Taguchi, Otani, Takai, Suzuki, Ito, Tanaka, Ezawa, Tawarada, and Takeuchi were burned. Anma and Takagi survived. Yamaguchi was burned. Shimura survived. Tsujimoto was burned. Hazama survived. The fire stopped at the southwest corner of Shin-yashiki at Kubota, Fujii, and Iihara.

8. On the west side of Onari-michi, Ishikawa Tonomo-no-kami and Kuroda Buzen-no-kami were burned. Most of the small residences in this area collapsed, and Iga was burned. On Myojin-shita street, the front row houses of Takebe Takumi-no-kami and Naito Bungo-no-kami collapsed. Myojin-shita Odaidokoro-cho, Dobomachi, Kanazawa-cho, and Hatago-cho areas were mostly damaged. Outside Shohei Bridge, there was some collapse. Yushima-yokocho and the same 1-chome had little collapse. Kanda Myojin was unaffected, and outside Sujikai Gate, in Hanabusa-cho, Naka-cho 1-chome and 2-chome, and Onari-michi townhouses, most collapsed from east to west including the back streets. Matsunaga-cho and Aioi-cho were similarly affected.