Houses can be seen collapsed in various places, up to Naito Shinjuku and Naruko-cho area,
but there is nothing serious. However, the stone wall of the Mannen-doi of Tamagawa Aqueduct was damaged,
and water is overflowing. From Tenno Yokocho to Samegahashi area, there is much damage.
Aoyama Zenkoji-mae Street is greatly damaged, as well as Dogenzaka-cho,
Shibuya, Kitazawa, Kirigaya, and Shimomeguro areas are slightly damaged. Also,
Chojagamaru and Kogai-bashi areas are slightly damaged, and Higakubo and Ryudo areas all show
places that collapsed little by little in various locations. Azabu has little collapse throughout the area.
Hiroo, Shirokane, and Meguro areas all have places that collapsed somewhat.

Fifteen: In Hongo and Yushima areas, places that collapsed little by little can be seen
in various locations, but nothing particularly serious, although koji rooms collapsed causing
tremendous losses. Koishikawa border, Kikusaka-shita, and Tamachi have many collapses.

Sixteen: Komagome and Sendagi areas have various small collapses, from Hakusan-shita
to Sashigaya-cho-shita, Tomisaka has many collapses, while Sugamo and Somei areas have
few collapses. Up to Oji and Itabashi areas, there are gradual collapses.

Seventeen: Outside Koishikawa Gate, the Mito domain residence, hundred-unit long houses,
and the residence on the opposite side all collapsed without exception, and five or six units burned. Ushitenjin-shita,
from Sudare-machi to Ando-zaka area, all have many collapses, Ryukei-bashi,
Lord Matsudaira Sanuki-no-kami's residence burned. From there, Denzuin
Street has few collapses, while Uramon Street has many collapses. Kohinata, Suido-cho,
Sekiguchi, Otowa show collapses in various places, while Mejiro and Shiina-cho have no
problems. Around Ushigome Temple, various collapses occurred, and Kaitai-cho had major collapse.
Furthermore, Ichigaya and Takada areas have many collapsed places only in low-lying areas.

Eighteen: Inside Wadakura Gate, the watchtower burned. Lord Matsudaira
Higo-no-kami (Aizu), Lord Matsudaira Shimosa-no-kami, Naito