The entire village or magiri shall deliberate together and make temporary advances for delivery, ensuring there are absolutely no problems with sugar delivery. Those who violate this and refuse without reason shall pay penalty fees of 5 to 10 yen.

Section 10: Sugar storage barrels must have branded marks for barrel wood weight inspection in three places: lid, bottom, and body. After packing sugar into barrels, the sugar master as well as the barrel maker, inspector, and village official shall sign and seal their names on the barrel body. Those who violate this shall each pay penalty fees of 5 sen to 1 yen 50 sen.

Section 11: For the sake of gaining trivial profits, three-strand rope and other items must not exceed the traditional manufacturing limits (1 kin 5 gō). Those who violate this shall pay penalty fees of 10 sen to 1 yen.

Section 12: When there are fraudulent acts in sugar production, the sugar master shall pay 5 to 10 yen, barrel makers and inspectors shall pay 2 to 7 yen, supervisors and village officials shall pay 1 yen 50 sen to 5 yen, and chief cultivators shall pay penalty fees of 1 to 3 yen.

Section 13: Inspection officers who recognize violators of the previous sections during their inspections but fail to take appropriate measures and tacitly permit such violations shall each pay penalty fees of 1 to 5 yen.

Section 14: Those who report violators of these internal regulations shall be awarded one-third of the penalty fee amount.

Section 15: Confiscated money and penalty fees must be paid in full within 15 days from the date of notification. Those who fail to pay after the deadline shall have appropriate property seized in the presence of officials, which will be sold at public auction. Any surplus shall be returned, and any shortfall shall be compensated by relatives and association members. If the person is destitute with no property to seize, relatives or association members shall provide compensation.

Section 16: Of the penalty fees collected from violators of these internal regulations, one-third shall be given to the informant, and two-thirds plus confiscated money shall be used for expenses at that time