【Right Page】
Hiraoka Mino-no-kami and Takai Shuzen-no-shō were seated in attendance, with a temporary station set up in front of them. The chief pages Kamei Suruga-no-kami, Ono Kawachi-no-kami, Taki Eijuin, and Katsuragawa Hoshū were seated in attendance. These men were commanded to conduct detailed questioning about the matter. Next were the inspectors Nakagawa Kanzaburō and Yabe Hikogorō, who served as today's administrators. Behind the [Shogun's] seat, young attendants were stationed, and to the left, pages were gathered. Two folding chairs were placed on the white sand. These were prepared for those two men. Then, around the beginning of the noon hour, Kōtayū and Isokichi were finally summoned. Kōtayū was forty-two years old, with his topknot braided in three parts and hanging down his back, wrapped in black silk. He held a felt hat under his arm, wore a small mirror-like golden ornament at his collar, and had peach-colored silver moiré fabric with buttons and cords, wearing hakama of the same fabric.

【Left Page】
He wore navy brocade undergarments, and on his feet, white merino stockings under black Persian leather deep shoes, carrying a walking stick made of malt wood. Isokichi was twenty-eight years old, with his topknot arranged similarly, wearing a silver version of the ornament that Kōtayū wore. He held his hat under his arm, wore a woolen overcoat with silver buttons, undergarments of bright red with black trim, yellow and black striped velvet hakama, and deep shoes over white merino stockings. These differed slightly from Kōtayū's shoes in that the part above the ankle was made of persimmon-colored leather, though the construction was similar. Both men placed their hats on the ground, made their obeisance, and sat on the folding chairs. Their appearance no longer resembled people of this country, but was similar in form to red-haired foreigners. Questions were then put to these two men. Their answers were accurate and truthful, without the slightest falsehood. This was truly a great wonder of a thousand ages.