There were such cases. Moreover, as I have repeatedly reported, the high mountain in the Sarashina District's Yamadaira Hayashi village area collapsed, and the villages at its base, along with massive rocks, were buried and pushed into the Sai River area for several dozen chō, blocking the flowing water. The water level increases daily, accumulating to approximately seventeen to eighteen jō in depth, with the water extending six to seven ri upstream, taking on the appearance of tidal waters. As a result, several villages along the river have collapsed or been destroyed by fire, and are now submerged under several jō of water. If the water continues to accumulate and rise for another five to seven days, there are successive reports suggesting that water may overflow the collapsed and buried areas. Additionally, there is a stream called Dojiri River, which is a small river from the Sai River, but this too has been blocked by upstream collapses. It had been dammed up until the 10th of this month, when in the afternoon of that same day, the collapsed and buried area burst through, and suddenly more than one jō of flood water rushed out. This gradually receded by evening. Originally, this was a waterway that joined with the Sai River, but perhaps because since the earthquake it has been flowing into a dried-up riverbed, there was damage from the river-depth flooding, but fortunately there was no particularly severe damage to the land. However, when the water that has been accumulating upstream in the Sai River for dozens of days suddenly rushes out, it is impossible to predict what kind of disasters may befall not only Kawanakajima but also the villages in the shogunal territories downstream. Particularly concerning is Makami Mountain in the northern section of the Koichi village ferry crossing at the mouth of the Sai River, which has also collapsed into the Sai River, significantly narrowing the river width. If the Sai River water currently accumulating suddenly rushes out and crashes into the collapsed area of Makami Mountain, it is impossible to predict what further calamities might occur. I have ordered immediate temporary measures and extensive construction work for this area, but...