Despite these efforts, the embankments burst all at once, so those who suffered house destruction and flooding are naturally at a complete loss. Not only is there no daily drinking water, but the immediate need for water channels to rice paddies and weir construction cannot be promptly addressed, which will inevitably cause disruptions and create public unrest, causing me great concern. Although I have specifically ordered relief measures, beginning with the castle interior, there has been damage to retainer residences, and in the castle town and domain villages there are numerous collapsed houses and casualties. The fields and roads have ground fissures and land elevation differences, and major disasters such as landslides and slope failures continue. This time there is major flood damage, and even now the rumbling continues day and night with earthquakes not ceasing - this is truly a worrisome situation that causes me great distress. Although I will investigate and report the details in due course, I hereby report this matter as well. The above from

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sanada Shinano-no-kami

　　Petition
My personal finances are in difficulty, and in recent years crop failures have continued in my domain, leaving me in particular hardship. Last year my residence was destroyed in a fire, and since then repairs to my living quarters have been hindered. I requested leave to gradually return to my domain last summer, and when my request was granted as wished, I began preparations for departure. At that time, the Honjo lower residence faced rare flooding, requiring Dōsei Kuranosuke and others to evacuate. Since there were no living quarters after the upper residence fire, I ordered rapid evacuation preparations for each, and due to flood prevention and other matters, the enormous extraordinary expenses have caused extreme difficulties and confusion both internally and externally. As I previously reported to the duty officer, on the night of the 24th of last month there was a strong earthquake, and the encampment as well as retainer residences and row houses suffered damage in several locations.