I will report details in due course, but I first submit this notification. The above.
　　27th day of the 3rd month　　　　　　　　Sanada Shinano-no-kami

At my residence in Takada, Echigo Province, from around the hour of the Boar on the 24th day of last month, there was a great earthquake. The residential quarters within the castle, turrets, and surrounding walls were damaged. In the retainers' residences, castle town, and villages in my domain, there were extremely many collapsed houses and damaged areas, with injuries to people and horses. There were collapses and cave-ins at various places along the Hokuriku Highway. My local officials have reported these matters. I will report the details later, but I first submit this notification. The above.
　　4th day of the 4th month　　　　　　　　Sakakibara Shikibu-no-taiyu

At my residence in Matsumoto, Shinano Province, from around the fourth hour of the night on the 24th day, the earthquake was strong. On the following 25th day, there was nothing of particular concern, and though the intervals have become longer, it has not stopped even now. The castle interior is without incident, but there are damaged areas in the samurai residences and various other places in the town. Regarding distant areas, I cannot yet determine the situation. I first submit this notification. The above. I will report the details later. The above.
　　□th day of the 3rd month　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Tamba-no-kami

Regarding my residence in Matsushiro, Shinano Province, concerning the great earthquake that occurred from around the hour of the Boar on the 24th day of last month, which I previously reported in advance - since then it has not ceased, shaking from time to time countless times day and night. On the morning of the 29th day and the evening of the last day of the month, there were three strong tremors on both days. While I cannot determine the situation in distant village areas, there are still collapsed houses in the castle town, and rocks have fallen extensively from the tops of nearby mountains. Moreover, regarding the location where the Sai River upstream has been dammed up, which I mentioned before, within Sarashina District...