【Page 32, Upper Section】
it reaches me. I now entrust it to you. There is the Laṅkāvatāra Sutra. This is the essential gateway to the Tathāgata's ground of mind. You should use it to illuminate the mind." He then went to Yumen Thousand Saints Temple, sat upright, and demonstrated nirvana. This was on the fifth day of the tenth month of the first year of Datong of Western Wei Emperor Wen (second year of Emperor Ankan in Japan). He was buried at Dinglin Temple on Mount Xiong'er. (The above is a summary) This can be seen in detail in Keimō vol. 9.

Works attributed to Dharma: "Six Gates of Shaoshi" (though authenticity is undecided; includes Heart Sutra Verses, Treatise on Destroying Characteristics, Two Kinds of Entry, Dharma of Pacifying Mind, Treatise on Awakening to Nature, Treatise on Blood Lineage)

△Biography of Eisai, Japan's founding patriarch (Genkō Shakusho): Eisai was called Myōan and was from Bitchū. Born in the first year of Eiji (corresponding to the 90th year of the Final Dharma), at age eleven he studied under Jōshin of Anyō Temple in his district, shaved his head at fourteen, and ascended Mount Hiei. In the third year of Nin'an, in the fourth month, he boarded a merchant vessel and entered Song China, departed from Siming and went to Danqiu, ascending the Tiantai peaks. He returned to Japan in the ninth month of autumn. In the third year of Bunji he again entered Song, remained in Song for five years, received intimate instruction from Xuan, transmitted the Zen school and returned in the second year of Kenkyū (reign of Emperor Go-Toba). That autumn on the eighth day of the eighth month, he first practiced Zen regulations (at age fifty), and propagated this for twenty-five years. On the fifth day of the seventh month of the third year of Kenpō, he died at age seventy-five.

○Mahā-śamatha-vipaśyanā vol. 1 lists twenty-three patriarchs. This is the lineage from the Golden Mouth [Buddha]. This comes from the Sutra of Causes and Conditions of the Dharma Treasury (translated by Kījikaya together with Tanyao of Later Wei).

1. Kāśyapa (divided relics into eight parts, compiled the Tripiṭaka) 2. Ānanda (entered wind-swift samādhi in the river, divided his body into four parts)
3. Śāṇavāsa (rained sweet dew from his hands, manifested five hundred dharma gates) Madhyāntika (appeared at the same time)
4. Upagupta (attained the fourth fruit as a layman, received precepts and attained the fourth fruit) 5. Dhītika (ascended the platform and attained the fourth fruit, attained the fourth fruit through three karman procedures)
6. Miccaka 7. Buddhanandi

【Page 32, Lower Section】
8. Buddhamitra (gave the Three Refuges to the king, subdued fortune-tellers) 9. Pārśva Bhikṣu (emerged from the womb with white hair, emitted light from his hands to take sutras)
10. Puṇyayaśas (defeated Aśvaghoṣa in debate) 11. Aśvaghoṣa Bodhisattva (composed the Raitawarāgī)
12. Vimala (composed the Treatise on Non-Self) 13. Nāgārjuna Bodhisattva (born from a tree in physical body, achieved Dharma body from a nāga)
14. Āryadeva Bodhisattva (gouged out his divine eye to give to ten thousand flesh eyes) 15. Rāhulata (knew and wrote ghost names, subdued heretics)
16. Saṅghanandi (tested arhats with verses) 17. Saṅghayaśas (traveled the sea and saw cities, expounded verses)
18. Kumārata (saw ten thousand cavalry, recorded horse colors, obtained people's names, distinguished robes)
19. Śayata (created fire pits for those who committed grave offenses, made them enter for repentance)
20. Vasubandhu 21. Manoratha (divided the Ganges sands into two parts, transformed one part himself)
22. Haklenayaśas 23. Siṃha (details below)

　　　　┌1. Doctrinal Zen (established based on Laṅkāvatāra, Śūraṅgama, Vajra Prajñāpāramitā, etc. Or the Platform Sutra says: In the biographies of eminent monks, those who rely on doctrine to awaken to the school)
　Three Kinds┼2. Tathāgata Zen (the Zen of Guifeng Zongmi. Yuanquan said: The perfect sudden Buddha-nature is called Tathāgata Zen)
　of Zen　└3. Patriarchal Zen (Twenty-eight patriarchs of the Western Heaven, Six patriarchs of the Eastern Land, silently indicating and transmitting this)

　　　　┌1. Foolish Person's Zen (Three Vehicles, namely Tripiṭaka Teaching) ※Asa said: These four kinds of Zen appear in the third volume of the Laṅkāvatāra Sutra
　　　　├2. Observational Zen (departing from self and other, attaining the non-self of persons. Also departing from heretics. This is the Shared Teaching)
　Four Kinds┼3. True Suchness Zen (knowing that thoughts do not arise. This is the Distinct Teaching)
　of Zen　└4. Tathāgata Zen (entering Buddha-stage. This is the Perfect Teaching) ○Combining the above, this is called Seven-Stream Zen.

【Page 33, Upper Section】
△Zhiguan Hongju vol. 3 states: "Moreover, Laṅkāvatāra people say: 'This sutra opens the provisional and has the same meaning as the Lotus [Sutra].' If so, why do all the texts before and after criticize the Two Vehicles and heretics? Therefore the third [volume] says: 'The zen of all foolish persons refers to the Two Vehicles' - this criticizes the Tripiṭaka. 'Second, observational zen means departing from self and other and attaining the non-self of persons' - though departing from heretics, is this not the Shared Teaching? 'Third, true suchness zen means knowing that thoughts do not arise' - is this not the Distinct Teaching? 'Fourth, tathāgata zen means entering Buddha-stage' - is this not the Perfect Teaching? Therefore we know that sutra still maintains provisional vehicles, using the great to criticize the small. This is also the same as the meaning of positions clarified before."

At the end of the volume (Four-Volume Annotated Sutra), it also says: "The One Vehicle Way is attained only by the Tathāgata. It is not what heretics, Two Vehicles, or Brahmā gods can attain." How could this be the same as the Lotus [Sutra where] the evil-viewed Severe King, the five-transgression Devadatta, the animal dragon girl, and the defective-seed Two Vehicles all receive predictions of buddhahood?

○Zhiguan vol. 1 says: "The people of the Dharma Treasury, beginning with Kāśyapa and ending with Siṃha, are twenty-three people. Since Madhyāntika was contemporary with Śāṇavāsa, counting him makes twenty-four people. All these masters were recorded by the Golden Mouth and are all sages. They can bring great benefit."

○Hongju vol. 1 says: "First clarify the gradual process of patriarchal succession and Dharma transmission. If we don't first point to the Tathāgata, the Great Sage, there is no way to list the twenty-three patriarchs. If we don't list the twenty-three patriarchs, there is no way to point to the thirteenth master. If we don't point to the thirteenth master, there is no way to have faith in Hengya and Taiyue. Therefore we first give a metaphor for this reason. Like tracing a source and investigating roots. Today's Zhiguan arose in the age of semblance and final [Dharma]. Like a stream, like fragrance. The Golden Mouth's Sanskrit sound is like roots, like a source."

【Page 33, Lower Section】
○The Dharma Treasury Sutra vol. 6 says: "There was also a bhikṣu named Siṃha who performed great Buddha-work in the country of Rābin. At that time the king of that country was named Mihirakula. His wrong views blazed fiercely and his mind had no respectful faith. In the country of Kashmir he destroyed stupas and temples and killed the community of monks. He then used a sharp sword to behead Siṃha (corresponding to the ninth year of Zhengshi of Emperor Qi of Former Wei, the forty-eighth year of Empress Jingū's reign in Japan). There was no blood in his neck - only milk flowed forth. The person who transmitted the Dharma was thus cut off." This is also seen in Tongji vol. 5.

○The Shenzhi Supplementary Commentary says: "The Kaiyuan Catalog says: 'Biography of Causes and Conditions of the Dharma Treasury,' sometimes without the characters 'causes and conditions.' Also called 'Dharma Treasury Sutra.' Six volumes, or four volumes. During the Northern Wei period, Kījikaya translated it together with Tanyao. Our school adopts the twenty-three patriarchs. How could there be any error? If someone establishes twenty-eight patriarchs, we have not yet seen the source translation. Recently there are those who carve in stone and engrave on boards, depicting the seven Buddhas and twenty-eight patriarchs, each with one verse for transmission and mutual entrustment. Alas! How extreme is this fabrication! If knowledgeable people have power, they should reform this abuse and make countless people all follow the correct teaching." This should also be examined in Tongji vol. 5. Also seen in Furao vol. 3 and below.

△Songming Jing (Yunmen) in "Treatise on the Orthodox Lineage of Dharma Transmission" says: "The Dharma Treasury Biography was composed in Later Wei, appearing after Emperor Zhenjun's destruction of Buddhism, translated by the Indian monk Kījikaya. Looking at the categories of each biography, the patriarchal generations seem to have sequence. But when examining their texts, the teacher-student transmission and reception, and the countries, territories and family names from which they came, have absolutely no source or foundation. Those that are somewhat detailed actually gathered from various parts of the Tripiṭaka, not being original." This is detailed in Keimō and Chūshō.