【Page 4, Upper Section】
This is the case. Ryochu's attempt to defend this is also unacceptable.
△In the Xiao Qi period, the Indian monk Dharmakatha-yasas translated the Infinite Meanings Sutra, Ten Merits Chapter, which says: "Those sentient beings who cannot hear this should know that they lose great benefit and will never achieve supreme bodhi even after countless, boundless, inconceivable asankhya kalpas. Why? Because they do not know the great direct path to bodhi and walk on dangerous paths with many obstacles." {Note: Text}
△The Treatise on Birth in the Pure Land {Note: 2nd sheet} says: "In the realm of Mahayana good roots, there are no names of reproach equally. Women, those with deficient faculties, and those of the two vehicles are not born there." {Note: Text} Although Tanluan's commentary attempts to reconcile with the treatise text, it distorts the treatise's meaning, so Genku (Honen) still need not use that reconciliation. Myogi Volume 1 {Note: 30 sheets}
○The Senjaku-shu, Volume 1 {Note: 6} says: "Among these, the difficult practice path is precisely the path of sages. The easy practice path is precisely the Pure Land gate. {Note: To here} Scholars of the Pure Land school must first understand this principle. Even if one has previously studied the path of sages, if one has aspiration for the Pure Land gate, one should abandon the path of sages and return to the Pure Land." {Note: Text}
○Great Master Miaole states in the Wenju-ki 9 {Note: End, 45}: "How could the treatise master Vasubandhu {Note: Lotus} be acting in vain? But probably the translator {Note: Bodhiruci} forced his private feelings into interpretation. Like the Mahayanasamgraha's division of consciousness into eight consciousnesses and the sixteen characters of the Vibhasha {Note: Xuanzang added these}, these advances and retreats depend on people - what relation do they have to the sage's intention?" {Note: Text}
○The Mohe Zhiguan 5 {Note: 38 sheets}: "Vasubandhu and Nagarjuna had clear inner illumination and externally adapted to the times. Each

【Page 4, Lower Section】
had their provisional basis. But when human teachers interpret partially and students cling obstinately, they become like arrows and stones, each protecting one side and greatly deviating from the path of sages." {Note: Text}
○The Fahua Xuanyi 6 {Note: 97 sheets} says: "Those who skillfully propagate sutras adapt their use to the times. Though their mouths speak of the provisional, their inner hearts do not contradict the true dharma." {Note: Text}
○The Senjaku-shu, final volume {Note: End} says: "Now I do not seek to receive reverence, and have no ground for apologies. Therefore I now barely collect the essential texts on nembutsu and additionally explain the essential meaning of nembutsu. I only consider the command's intention and do not consider my lack of skill. This is extremely shameless and without conscience. I hope that after it receives one high reading, it will be buried at the bottom of walls and not left before windows, fearing lest those who destroy the dharma fall into evil paths." {Note: Text. Composed in Kenkyu 9}
△The Lotus Patriarch's (Nichiren) Treatise on Protecting the Nation {Note: 2 sheets} says: "To refute this evil doctrine, there are also many books, namely the Pure Land Doubt Resolution Collection {Note: 3 volumes, by Sanmi Abbot Jitsuin}, Refutation of the Senjaku {Note: 1 volume, by Ryushin of Buddha Peak Hall, East Pagoda of Mount Hiei}, Crushing the Heretical Wheel {Note: 3 volumes plus Adornment Record 1 volume, by Myoe of Toganoo}, etc. The people who composed these books all have scholarly virtue and fame spread throughout the realm, but they probably have not revealed the root source of the Senjaku-shu's dharma slander, thus conversely increasing the spread of evil dharma. It is like when severe drought brings a small rain - the plants wither more; when fighting enemies, attacking weak soldiers first gives the strong enemy double strength. Lamenting this matter, I composed a one-volume book revealing the origins of the Senjaku-shu's dharma slander." {Note: Text} Now I say: The refutations by former worthies are so voluminous they cannot be judged. However, in the Crushing the Heretical Wheel, Honen is branded with sixteen different names: Great Thief, Beast, Madman, Evil Demon, Cutter of Wisdom-life, Most Extremely Worthless One, Heretic, Hungry Ghost, Great Evil Friend, Ignorant Foolish Child, Dead Person in the Dharma, Enemy of Buddha, New Doctrine, Great Affliction of the Final Age, Foundation of Dharma Destruction,

【Page 5, Upper Section】
Worm in the Lion's Body. Also called: Leader of Those Without Buddha-nature and Icchantikas.
○The Senjaku-shu, Volume 1 {Note: 8 sheets} says: "Master Shandao established correct and miscellaneous practices, abandoning miscellaneous practices and returning to correct practices. First, miscellaneous recitation practice: excluding the Contemplation Sutra and other Pure Land sutras mentioned above, receiving, maintaining, and reciting all the various sutras of the great and small, exoteric and esoteric vehicles is entirely called miscellaneous recitation practice. Second, miscellaneous contemplation practice: excluding the Pure Land's dependent and primary aspects mentioned above, all contemplation practices of the great and small, exoteric and esoteric, phenomenal and principled, are entirely called miscellaneous contemplation practice. Third, miscellaneous prostration practice: excluding prostration to Amida mentioned above, prostrating and showing respect to all other buddhas, bodhisattvas, and worldly deities is entirely called miscellaneous prostration practice. Fourth, miscellaneous name-recitation practice: excluding reciting Amida's name mentioned above, reciting the names of all other buddhas, bodhisattvas, and deities is entirely called miscellaneous name-recitation practice. Fifth, miscellaneous praise and offering practice: excluding Amida Buddha mentioned above, praising and making offerings to all other buddhas, bodhisattvas, and deities is entirely called miscellaneous praise and offering practice. Besides these, there are also countless practices like giving and precept-keeping, all of which can be completely included in the term miscellaneous practices. I personally say: seeing this text, one increasingly needs to abandon the miscellaneous and cultivate the exclusive. How could one abandon the exclusively cultivated correct practices that result in one hundred out of one hundred births, and firmly cling to the miscellaneously cultivated practices that result in not one out of a thousand? Practitioners should think carefully about this." {Note: Above abbreviated quotation} This is the "abandonment" proof.
△The Lotus Sutra says: "In the buddha-lands of the ten directions, there is only the one vehicle dharma. There is no two, nor is there three."
△Great Master Dengyo's Chapter on Protecting the National Boundaries {Note: Middle-lower, 24} says: "Saying 'no two, no three' is the divine sword that blocks provisional teachings and the south-pointing chariot that indicates true teachings." {Note: Text}

【Page 5, Lower Section】
○The Senjaku-shu, final volume {Note: 23} says: "Therefore know that various practices are not suitable to people's capacities and miss the time, while nembutsu birth fits people's capacities and obtains the right time. How could the response be in vain? One should know that before following others {Note: The Contemplation Sutra's teaching about birth through various practices is following others' intention}, the gate of meditative and scattered good is temporarily opened, but after following oneself {Note: Nembutsu birth is following one's own intention}, the gate of meditative and scattered good is closed again. What opens once and never closes again is only the one gate of nembutsu. Amida's original vow and Shakyamuni's entrustment - the intention lies here." {Note: Above} This is the "closing" proof.
△Honen's Great Plains Discussions say: "Even if one has superior wisdom, one should rely on other-power. How much more so for those of inferior wisdom. In the buddha-lands of the ten directions, there is only the dharma of birth. There is no two, nor is there three, except for what Buddha taught according to conditions. I earnestly wish that those of different schools and views, people of separate understandings and practices, would quickly change their heretical and miscellaneous attachments and enter the gate of exclusive practice." {Note: Above}
○The Senjaku-shu, final volume {Note: 33} says: "If one quickly wishes to escape birth and death, among the two types of excellent dharma, one should temporarily set aside the path of sages and choose to enter the Pure Land gate. If one wishes to enter the Pure Land gate, among the correct and miscellaneous practices, one should temporarily cast off the various miscellaneous practices and choose to return to correct practices." {Note: Text}
△Ryochu {Note: Honen's dharma grandson, master of Komyo Temple in Kamakura} in his Propagation of the Senjaku Tradition and Prohibition of True Distance, based on the two characters "temporarily" (shi), explained the curved interpretation that abandonment and closing are for those who seek the Pure Land and are not dharma slander. Based on this, Nichidai {Note: Chusei-ron 91 and following} and Nichtatsu {Note: Keiju-roku 7, beginning, etc.} vigorously criticized this. {Note: And so forth} Now I say: The character "temporarily" is an indeterminate word in writing, also a borrowed conditional word. The master says: Placing these two "temporarily" characters is merely a cunning scheme to protectively guide and lead the people of the world to universally enter the Pure Land gate. Our Lotus Patriarch was truly able to