【Right Page】
《Margin note: There are monthly deliberations, and now there are many barrier posts. The magistrate role is held by deputy officials. There are daily records of the annual barrier construction procedures.》
《Margin note: In the horse racing records, it states left is Masutō, right is Ujine》

One: There are precedents of riding in horse races when mourning ends on the first day of the month. Tenbun 22nd year, sixth race《Margin note: Left Ujine, Right Masutō》
Ōmi-no-kami Ujine rode when his mourning ended on the first day. Eiroku 3rd year, tenth race right Shuri-no-shin Hironobu; Kan'ei 6th year, tenth race right Minbu-no-taifu Hiroyuki's circular letter records the substitute's name. The substitute was Kurando-no-suke Ichiaki. Genna 4th year《Margin note: Second race right Shikibu-no-jō Yasushige enters mourning》
《Margin note: Therefore substitute Yasuwaka rides. In the arrival record, Yasushige is listed》

One: Recent examples of sudden requests to ride: Tenbun 18th year, seventh race left Izumo-no-kami Ujitomo, due to being in the countryside, came up on the 27th day of the 4th month to ride. Keichō 2nd year, first race left Echizen-no-kami Itsuhira from Gōshū

【Left Page】
came up at the fourth hour of the night on the third day to ride. There is a written copy stating this was irregular.

One: Eiroku 11th year, as the first rider Shuri-no-suke Yasuaki was in another province, his elder brother Kammon-no-suke Naoaki rode as substitute. Kan'ei 4th year, as the first rider Kaga-no-kami Shigemitsu《Margin note: Aratame-no-bō》was serving as deputy with upper judgment authority that year, Gyōbu-no-taifu Tomonao rode as substitute. Kan'ei 9th year, as Takumi-no-kami Tatsuaki was the first rider but in Edo, Hyōgo-no-suke Kunihisa rode as substitute. In the same 18th year, when Yasuaki was the first generation and during Yasukiyo's time, it was deliberated and stated: When riders report scheduling conflicts to the administrator, first establish the order and exclude those who are late. Although it is said that first riders may be late without problem, when many people have conflicts at the same time, this should not be allowed.《Margin note: so it is said》