[Right page]
　　Close it up (however, the crown should be taken out and placed on top of the box). Then turn the box sideways and place it in front (the crown is placed on top). Next, the shoshi (administrative officer) comes out to the cutting board and asks if there are any discrepancies with each item. If there are no discrepancies with each item, they answer accordingly. Next, the deputy brings out the riders' appointment documents and inkstone, divides them left and right, and distributes stipends in order from the top (there are ceremonial paper wrappings. The person in the upper seat opens them, passing them around as they open them in sequence, and the person in the lowest seat rolls them up and stores them)
　　After the right side of number one and all remaining right-side items are completed, the deputy comes out to the cutting board for the stipend distribution in order, and asks to which direction the deputy should send someone to collect the hair oil and tangled cord ties. Every year at this time, the presentation of end額 (matsukau), tangled cords, abstinence keepers, etc. also takes place together, as the riders have stated, but this year (Kanpō 3rd year) there was no such ceremony. Due to this, discussion arose at the vigil hall on the night of the third day, so upon inquiry and investigation, the deputies' position is that since there was no earnest request from any direction, there would be no presentation. The details are recorded below. After the presentation matters are completed, have the water service maids carry the boxes, and personally carry the crown when departing
　　Regarding abstinence keepers, end額, and tangled cords: In ancient times, these were delivered from each household to the deputies, and all of these were then delivered from the deputies

[Left page]
　　to the riders together - this was the ancient ceremony. Now they are delivered directly from each household to the riders. Looking at this ancient ceremony, it seems as though there should be notifications and presentations made from the preparing households to the deputies, but when inquiring with the household people this time as well, they said there was no earnest request or presentation made from this side to the deputies. Since the purpose above is to inform the uninformed riders, perhaps every year the first riders should earnestly request the deputies, and ask for the aforementioned presentations to be made in sequence with other presentations. In all matters concerning the riders, it falls under the care of the first riders. This is merely recorded based on Yoshiuji's humble opinion. Take heed.

1. Third day - today's shrine visit purification
　Today it shall be at one's discretion to invite close relatives and intimate acquaintances to a celebratory morning meal. Also, it is customary to call over the three servants (two in plain jackets, one in white court dress) who will accompany on the fifth day and provide them with a celebratory morning meal
　　　　　　　Menu