[Right page]
　　Grilled dishes (senba, salted mackerel)　　　Soup (butterbur, daikon radish, bamboo shoots, dried turnips, salted sea bream)
　　　　　　　　Pickled vegetables
　　Raw fish salad (fish, daikon radish, chopped)　　　　　　　　　Rice
　　　　　Followed by　Simmered dishes (skewered abalone, bamboo shoots, butterbur, konjac)　　Sushi (upright style)
　Side dishes: sushi, octopus, vinegared dishes as appropriate. Other dishes as desired.

1. From today, the third day, until the fifth day, place high-piled offerings for the riders (octopus, pickled vegetables) (simplified ceremony at discretion). In addition to this, there are also shaved bonito flakes. The high-piled offerings are kept in bamboo containers and also used for lunch at the riding grounds on the fifth day.

1. Kanpō 3rd year (Year of the Boar) - Details of the measurements for the sleeve width (yuki-hida) of newly tailored ceremonial garments this year are separately recorded in the appendix.

1. From around today, the third day, even when serving through a representative, the principal person should also wear the eboshi cap, large hunting robe, and formal hakama, and should wait to receive and greet the council of ten elders, discussion officials, and yin-yang masters.

[Left page]
1. After the morning meal on the third day, promptly consult with the attendants, dress in ceremonial garments, prepare the wrapped sea bream and handover items, place five grains on the three-legged offering stands, wrap even the iris flowers, hang the ceremonial garments on clean poles, and prepare everything to be ready for the purification ceremony by the yin-yang masters.

　　When dressing in ceremonial garments, the sleeve width of the sleeveless robe should be set at two shaku (whale measure) from the back seam, which works well for both adults and children (however, for the newly tailored sleeve widths of Kanpō 3rd year, uniform measurements shown to twenty people are recorded in the appendix). If the sleeves are too short, they will be tight; if too long, they will bunch up at the armpits and look unsightly - this is Hōkō's explanation.

　　The wrapped sea bream consists of two small salted sea bream, one piece of bonito flakes, and two myōga mushrooms - these three items layered together and tied at two points with paper cord.

　　　Three-legged stand (small corners with five pieces of noshi, small corners with five victory chestnuts, small corners with five pieces of kelp)　Wrapped sea bream (tail end, head end) [triple circle] (three earthenware vessels) (however, the sea bream should be placed on the stand with the belly side down and the fins pointing upward)