[Right page]
○In ancient times, the iris and mugwort exchanged today were brought to the vigil hall tonight, first purifying the whip in the sacred abstinence river, then decorating the whip with the exchanged iris and mugwort, and participating in the whip (ritual) after midnight, as seen in certain records.
In recent times, as recorded above, it has become customary practice for each lodging to bring the decorated tips wrapped.

1. On the dawn of the 5th day after the 4th, prepare four swords and short swords to be worn by the two people in suō robes.

1. At dawn on the 4th day, when going from the vigil hall to the bathhouse, do not forget to bring iris from the tutelary shrine. During shrine visit on the morning of the 5th day (at this time, from the first torii to the shrine within Seishinji temple, from above the grass west of the first torii, wave iris), offer iris-blowing to the tutelary shrine.

1. Prepare thick needles and some thread. Needed for tomorrow's costume fastening, etc.

1. On the morning of the 5th day before breakfast, as soon as the summoned servants arrive, send one person (dressed in suō robe, carrying a sword) with the lid of the document box and a sixteen-mon bucket as offering carriers (should be assigned and sent early in the morning).

Matsukau (decorative forehead piece)                    From Koichirō Nae Seike (son of the late Seitorа, Shige[tora])
Sacred abstinence, riding purification  Two colors      From Onmyō-dayū Genesō

[Left page]
Disordered cord ties, hair water in sixteen-mon buckets  Two colors  From the deputy officials (Furthermore, when raising costumes among the five people, should coordinate and send. However, there is an announcement about where to send to collect)

Silk shoes (commonly refers to something like waraji sandals)
Same, disordered cords (not called shikaito, this is called disordered cord)  From Jibu-no-taifu Yasutaka's house

1. On the 5th day, serve red rice and sake to the visiting group. Side dishes (dried cod, wakame seaweed), assorted sushi (and other items as appropriate)

1. On the 5th day, when the matsukau decoration arrives, prepare paste and immediately attach it to the crown.
Regarding the attachment method: the left side receives left and covers right. The right side receives right and covers left.
"Receiving and covering" means when overlapping at the base of the rear koji (crown part), placing left on top and right below. The same applies when receiving right and covering left.
(Is this about fine cords?)

1. (5th day ○) For sacred abstinence, insert the character "ta" between the fine cord and koji so that the character faces outward. Should tie it together with the fine cord using thread.