[Right page]
　is also acceptable. However, a few chicken eggs should be carried. After arriving at Kifu Shrine, do not send word immediately.
　Katabira (summer garments) should be worn. There are occasional requests that if wearing single-layer clothing, one should change clothes. Regardless of clear or rainy weather, everyone uniformly wears waraji (straw sandals). For umbrella bearers, servants are assigned from among the first riders, and they generally carry them themselves as far as Ōta.
　Worship proceeds from the west in order. If clear weather, gather and wait on the grass at Ōta; if rainy, assemble and wait at Ōta's worship hall.
　《Regarding fans, if one does not carry a horse-racing fan, this is sometimes questioned. Old ones are acceptable. The left should be blue, the right should be red.》
　　In the second year of Kanpō, during the shrine reconstruction, construction workers and magistrate officials were stationed at Kifune, so there was discussion about whether to bring additional attendants beyond the usual servants brought by the first riders. However, it was unanimously decided that this would be unnecessary since increasing the number beyond usual would also increase the expenses for the first riders beyond the normal amount for worship ceremonies, so no additional personnel were brought beyond the usual number.

[Left page]
　　Regarding the Umemiya celebration the same year: This year, due to the shrine reconstruction, construction workers constantly travel to and from Kifune. It was considered unseemly to display the spectacle of rough seating arrangements and crude sake ceremonies before Umemiya Shrine to all the people, so it was discussed whether it would be better to hold it at the edge shrine attendant's quarters. Since there was precedent for holding it at the edge during rainy weather, it was unanimously agreed that this would indeed be better. Thus, at Umemiya only the sacred sake offering by the first riders was performed, while each person's reception of sake was celebrated in the hearth room of the shrine attendant's quarters.

1. The sixth day Kifune worship - locations for divided offerings 《Two-layer offerings are divided one at a time. However, they should be divided one sheet at a time, twice》
　○ Sai-no-kami 《divided offerings》
　○ New Snake Pool 《At Okamoto entrance, the eastern edge of Kaizō-in's grove, facing toward the mountain. This is offered. Or perhaps a new shrine site - this should be further investigated》
　○ South of the Sacred Mud Pool (said to be offered to the pool's water deity) - at the town's edge, facing the hairdresser's shop, offered facing the auspicious direction (northeast)
　○ North of the Sacred Mud Pool's Kifune Shrine - at the town's edge, offered from the roadside facing the western mountainside