[Right page]
　   《Offerings to Hachiman, etc.》　　　　　　　　　　《Or called Misono Shrine, though this is not customary. Facing Benzaiten》
　○ Offered toward the east on the right side of Hataeda's grass path　○ Offered from the roadside to Shinmei on the right side of the road within Ichihara village
　○ Offered to the rain-prayer pond on the stone wall on the left side of the road in Nakanaka village. This is slightly south of Hachiemon's residence 《It is said there is a small pond of clear water near the small grove across the way. According to Suetō's theory, it is called Dragon Pond》
　○ Offered to Tatsuta Shrine 《Nakanaka village》　○ Offered at the southern end of Sugihara at the elbow bend before Kajitori
　○ From Kajitori Shrine to the inner area, offered to all small shrines and old sites without exception
　○ At the end of Tama Bridge at the edge, facing toward the mountain, offered to the old site of Ninbe Shrine
　Placed offerings are at Kifune edge shrine 《single layer》, the same authority hall 《single layer》, inner shrine 《single layer》 - three locations in total.
　　　For placed offerings at Mizuho Shrine, they are offered divided left and right on the altar table in the worship hall 《red on the left side, black on the right side》. In general, at this shrine too, the three-direction placed offerings are divided left and right in this manner. At the authority hall and inner shrine, they are offered at the earthwork.
　1. On the sixth day, the order of receiving sacred sake at Umemiya, Mizuho Shrine, and Inner Shrine at Kifune is that seating begins with the eldest, who receives the sacred cup and passes it in order. However, the three first riders do not take seats, but should greet from the upper seat first.

[Left page]
　The first riders are the host party, so from the Umemiya celebration through the victory/defeat cups, they do not take seats, but when there are standing earthenware vessels and greetings from the assembly, one or two may come forward and sit according to age order.
1. The same day 《sixth day》 celebration procedures at the inner shrine
　First: Receiving sacred sake 《Two sacred cups placed left and right on a three-legged stand 《This three-legged stand should be borrowed at the inner shrine》 Also, finely cut dried foods and round-cut chimaki are placed on a three-legged stand. White chopsticks included. Sacred sake is poured into a sake server》
　Second: Taking seats 《Cups are the third and fourth red bowls, each being individual sake cups. Sake accompaniments are dried squid or hot sake from a pot, side dishes are dried cod and wakame seaweed. Three-legged stand with chopsticks 《paper (Sugihara) spread》. Up to this point, the upper garment over court cap and pure white clothing is worn》
　　《Kanpō third year, from this point the upper garment over court cap and pure white clothing is abbreviated and removed. This theory is widespread. One should not argue according to one's own opinion but should follow the group》
　　《From this point, the upper garment over court cap and pure white clothing is removed》
　Third: Entering the bath 《Cups and side dishes same as above》
　Fourth: After the bath 《Cups and side dishes same as above 《The above goes around three times in addition to the sacred sake》》
　Fifth: Celebration meal service menu
Sushi 《Flat soybeans, placed in the fourth container》　　Soup 《Wakame seaweed, butterbur cut to about one inch, white beans》