[Right page]
　　　　　　Chopped items 《wakame seaweed placed standing in small earthenware vessels》　　Chopsticks 《these are cedar chopsticks》
　Mixed dishes 《butterbur leaves, lettuce》　　　　　　　　　Rice
　　　○Salt for sake is brought out later and hidden　　However, there are no pickled vegetables
　Multiple sake servings　　　　　Side dishes are dried cod, wakame seaweed, etc.
　　After the meal trays are taken away, the upper garment over court cap and pure white clothing is worn
　Sixth: Victory/defeat competition cups 《One three-legged stand, earthenware vessels, sake server 《however nothing is added》 side dishes on three-legged stand 《with chopsticks》 finely cut dried pine and plum. At this time, Jōjuin brings out split wood. There is debate over victory/defeat, greetings completed above》
　《There are calls during the passing of cups. The debate is initiated by the losing side. Cups are also offered by the losing side》
　Seventh: Standing earthenware vessels 《One three-legged stand, earthenware vessels, sake server 《however nothing added》, side dishes on three-legged stand pine and plum 《finely cut dried foods》 with chopsticks》
　《At this time Jōjuin brings out green plum branches and performs ritual words and actions. However, at this time the three first riders also take seats according to age, and since cups are passed in order, greetings should come from the upper seats. There are calls for each of the three献 servings. However, since the first riders are the host party, generally they do not take seats》

[Left page]
1. On the sixth day, at Kifune after the standing earthenware vessel ceremony is completed, the people in upper seats make rolled scroll greetings to the first riders, to both Kifune officials, to the council of ten elders, and to both lower ranks. Greetings to the four supervisors of Umadashi, etc.
　The above should be respectfully requested as first priority 《It is said this has also been done for the head priest in recent years》 After this, everyone withdraws.
　　For these greetings, on the seventh day during the rice bundling, one person serves as representative of the three first riders to go.
1. Same day 《sixth day》 on the return route from Kifune, there are celebrations at three locations: Nakanaka meadow, Hataeda meadow, and Ōta meadow.
　This is organized by the first riders. Cups 《red bowl covers》 individual sake cups, side dishes simply arranged 《dried cod, wakame seaweed》 sake 《poured by noon, it is cold sake》 with calls.
　　For Nakanaka and Hataeda, Gorō and Tarō have laborers bring white curtains and long platforms to set up seating. At Ōta, curtains are not needed, only Gorō and Tarō set up long platforms and wait 《this is organized by the first riders》.
　　　　Rice and money contributions during rice bundling 《to be presented when the first riders come to pay respects on the seventh day》
　　Left side