expenditure ceremonies shall be discontinued hereafter.

【Red ink notation: West-Central Group】Articles established during the West-Central Group's New Year assembly meeting at the council hall on the 17th day of the 1st month of Kyōhō 3, year of the Earth Dog (1718)
Article 1: In years when there is no attendance at prayer lectures for annual officials' exemption material fees, the previous amount of two to of rice has been insufficient, so hereafter it shall be fixed at five to regardless of circumstances.
Article 1: From this year, even if prayer lectures are not conducted, those who have served as purification leaders but have not yet taken their seats shall make their first participation during the accounting on the 11th day of the 2nd month. For those without stipend, it shall be at their discretion.
Article 1: Regarding the protocol for offerings when there are no prayer lectures, it shall be the same as when there is attendance.

Articles established following deliberation by the West-Central Group on the 11th day of the 2nd month of the same year
Article 1: Regarding the age limit for taking seats, while it has been limited to fifty-three years until now, hereafter one may take seats until age fifty-five.
Article 1: For first-time participants hereafter, one person per household shall take their seat by age twenty. However, if there is no attendance at prayer lectures in their twentieth year, they must take their seat as soon as they attend prayer lectures thereafter. However, for those under twenty years of age, it shall be at their discretion.

【Red ink notation: West-Central Group】Articles established during the West-Central Group assembly on the 26th day of the 8th month of the same year
Article 1: Regarding the customary assembly of the three groups on the ceremonial days of the 15th and 16th days of the 9th month, if there are scheduling conflicts at the council hall on both these days, even if it is afterward, within the 9th month they shall inquire about days when the council hall is available and in any case hold it at the council hall. After this was decided, there was also consultation with the East Group and agreement.
The aforementioned customary assembly has not been held in recent years.
Article 1: Even without attendance at prayer lectures, once lottery entertainment fees, field entertainment fees, and ceremonial sake fees have been paid, hereafter even in years without attendance, during the accounting on the 11th day of the 2nd month, the aforementioned