The treasury official, previous year's official, and current year's official shall issue one notice as soon as the accounting ledgers are completed. When prayer lectures are not conducted, accounting notices shall be issued before the morning meal, and notices for assembly after the meal shall be given.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established by the West-Central Group during the tea ceremony on the 22nd day of the 1st month of the same year
Article 1: Regarding attendance at age twenty, while it has been established that hereafter there shall be one person per household, there are differences of opinion, so it has been decided that it should be established as one heir per family.
However, even in cases of illness or financial hardship, heirs who hold traveling field rights shall not be refused.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Articles established during the West-Central Group assembly at the lecture hall on the 23rd day of the 1st month of the same year
Article 1: Hereafter, the fasting leaders on the 10th and 11th days shall be seated in order next to the shrine officials. However, when shrine officials are not present, the fasting leaders shall take the upper seats.
Article 1: First-time participants shall be seated next to the fasting leaders.
However, after the first-time participation ceremony is completed, it shall be as it has been traditionally.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Articles established by the West-Central Group during the tea ceremony on the last day of the 1st month of the same year
However, regarding the matter of sake cups, a sudden decision was made on the 10th day of the 2nd month, and this matter has been added to this text.
Article 1: Regarding the sake cup ceremony when these three people - master carpenter Jinnosuke's son Jinzo, woodcutter Shirobei (i.e., Gorobei's son Gonshiro, i.e., Shirobei), woodcutter Bunji's descendant, and paper merchant Sutesaburo - attend the assembly: in previous years when Jinnosuke attended, sake cups were offered casually from the lowest seat, but it was decided that this should be discontinued. However, since these people had previously received sake cups and earnestly requested on the morning of the 10th day of the 2nd month that this year's ceremony be conducted in the same manner as previous years, when this was announced, given their persistent requests and considering that cups had already been offered casually in previous years, it was decided that this year they should also be called forward for audience as in previous years and sake cups should be offered casually from the lowest seat.