to be communicated. This has been decided.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established by the West-Central Group during the accounting session on the 11th day of the 2nd month of the 19th year, Kinoe-Tora
Article 1: Hereafter, the term limit for serving as annual officials shall be until age thirty-three, and seating shall commence from age thirty-four. This has been decided.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established by the West-Central Group based on group discussion during the tea ceremony on the 4th day of the 2nd month of the 20th year, Kinoto-U
Article 1: Regarding the recording of pollution matters in the notification diary, only the names of those with seating rights shall be recorded, excluding annual officials and hall magistrates. However, in the accounting ledger, the names of annual officials and hall magistrates shall also be clearly written individually. This has been decided.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established during the West-Central Group New Year assembly at the council chamber on the 17th day of the 1st month of the 4th year of Genbun, Tsuchinoto-Hitsuji
Article 1: Previously, the term limit for serving as annual officials was extended, with service until age thirty-three and seating from age thirty-four as established in the 19th year of Kyōhō, Kinoe-Tora. However, in recent years there have been no attendees during assembly times, so from this year, returning to the previous practice, service shall be until age thirty, with seating from age thirty-one. This has been decided.
《Marginal note: On attached paper》Addition by Seiyō: At age thirty-one, seating begins from the accounting day. Those whose names appear in supplementary accounts shall be seated after the accounting is completed; hall magistrates without supplementary accounts shall be seated immediately.
The above, although there were no officials during last year, is perhaps just an example of honorable retirement.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Articles established during the West-Central Group assembly at the lecture hall on the 11th day of the 3rd month of the same year
Article 1: For both prayer lectures and accounting sessions on the 11th when prayer lectures are not conducted, regarding the offering of sake cups by annual officials: one portion shall be provided by shrine officials and one portion by elders. If shrine officials are not present, one portion shall be provided by elders and one portion shall be prepared and offered by fasting leaders. This has been decided.