Article 1: In addition to the exemption allowance of five tō of rice, thirty monme of silver shall now be provided as an additional allowance.
With these provisions, the annual officials may arrange matters as they see fit. For the evening meal, both warehouse officials, both book officials, and both former head annual officials shall be invited. After the meal, inviting the general hall officials and other dignitaries to offer sake is unnecessary.
From this spring, due to the shrine's economy measures, it has been decided that the West-Central Group should also implement such economy measures while the shrine maintains simplicity.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established by the West-Central Group based on group consensus during the New Year gathering on the 18th day of the 1st month of the 9th year, Tsuchinoto-U
Article 1: It has been decided that those of thirty-one years of age shall hereafter take their seats from the New Year gathering of that year, regardless of whether they have undergone additional examination.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established by the West-Central Group based on group consensus during the accounting session on the 11th day of the 2nd month of the 4th year of Meiwa, Hinoto-I
Article 1: While those of sixty years of age have previously retired after the accounting session, it has been decided that hereafter they shall retire only after attending the accounting session at sixty-one years of age.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established by the West-Central Group based on group consensus during the accounting session on the 11th day of the 2nd month of the 2nd year of An'ei, Mizunoto-Mi
Article 1: It has been decided that the offering of thirty copper coins when first summoning a head carpenter, which has been presented until now, shall hereafter be unnecessary.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established during the assembly on the 17th day of the 4th month of the 3rd year of An'ei, Kinoe-Uma
Article 1: During extraordinary assemblies of the West-Central Group, while it has been customary for seated members and former annual officials to wear only hakama and for annual officials to wear kamishimo, since assemblies at the West-Central Group are rare, there have been misunderstandings causing confusion. Therefore, it has been decided and added here that this should be recorded in the annual ceremonies to prevent future mistakes.

During the New Year gathering on the 17th day of the 1st month of the 5th year of An'ei, Hinoe-Saru, the West-Central Group also by group consensus