[Right page]
How great must Takeshima's anguish have been.
A scroll of poem strips by the monk Tenkai that had been stored in this house fell into a ditch while still in its box and was carried away by the current, but was found and retrieved the next day in perfect condition.
　"Let the world be as it may be, do not trouble your heart too deeply with worldly matters" (attributed to Tenkai)
○The Amida Sutra in the authentic calligraphy of Sugawara no Michizane, treasured as a gem of the pleasure quarter, was lost to fire - truly lamentable. A piece of colored paper by Lord Teika was also lost. Countless other famous calligraphy works, paintings, and precious treasures in the quarter were similarly destroyed.
○A hanging scroll painting of night cherry blossoms by Ōkyo, which had been a precious collection of a brothel, was burned.
○Nishimura of Kameiyen also lost a famous tea kettle, the Sanyū calligraphy collection, and numerous other ancient calligraphy pieces that the previous master Myakuan had collected due to his love of calligraphy and painting - all were completely lost. Kōrin's painting of Sanpei Niman (Okame masks)

[Left page]
and Hōitsu's scroll paintings with verses of the twelve months of Yoshiwara were also burned.

○A certain courtesan fell into a crack that had opened in the Yoshiwara embankment. Unable to climb out by herself, she cried out loudly: "I have three hundred ryō in gold! I will give half to whoever helps me!" Whereupon someone pretended to help her but snatched the purse hanging around her neck, pushed her away, and fled.
○A person from Yoshiwara heard a story from someone in the Kanda area about a fox-possessed person who, in late September, blurted out "There will be a great earthquake on the second of next month." People who heard this paid little attention, but indeed this earthquake occurred, and afterward the person said "There will be another great earthquake on the coming ninth day." Since the previous prediction had proven true, the people of Yoshiwara suddenly became agitated and moved their belongings to open ground, spreading out tatami mats and lighting tall lanterns while waiting.