[Right page]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The above from Fūen's account
○In Yamano-shukumachi in Asakusa, there was a greedy widow named Kashiwaya Soyo who made her living operating a boat inn.
　On the night of the second, she happened to be staying at a brothel called Ani Shōsuke (a small lattice house) in Yoshiwara-chō, but the house collapsed and became empty.　　　　　　　　　　　The above from Lord Murata Heiemon's account
○A certain Nagashimaya from a birthing house in Yoshiwara-chō was quite wealthy and had gone to his mistress's house in Tamachi. He encountered the earthquake and escaped, but did not return home. Though searched for afterward, he could not be found. When houses on both sides of the Tamachi highway collapsed, he must have been caught in this and greatly affected, resulting in his death. Also, Kiyomoto Iwato-dayū from Yoshiwara-chō had gone to an acquaintance's place in Tamachi and, startled by the earthquake, tried to return to his own house, but whether he died on the road or not, his whereabouts are unknown.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The above from a woman at the corner tea shop in Kikukawa-chō, Honjo

[Left page]
○Similarly, a certain Ikaya from a small lattice brothel was terrified during the earthquake and ran out to the garden, clinging to a plum tree. While he was there, the house collapsed and he lost his wife, children, the courtesans in his employ, and all the rest of his household.　　　　　　　　　　　　　　From the same person's account
○Hinoya Chūzō from Ikenohata Nakamachi (a wealthy family dealing in sundries and utensils) also went to the pleasure quarter on this day and did not return.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The above from Lord Kubo Keizō's account
○Three landlords from around Kyōbashi had gone to a brothel on their way back from a funeral procession for someone who had died nearby. When the house tilted, one of them tried to jump down first, but thinking it was high because it was the second floor, he jumped down only to find that the floor joists had somehow fallen, so he flew too far toward the opposite direction and hit his head against the tilted neighboring house, suffering pain. The other two, seeing this, extended their legs and barely reached the ground, so they escaped without jumping. In such times, people become frantic.