[Right page]
　it must be　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　From Bunpōdō's account
○At the east end of Ryōgoku Bridge, there was always something called "kōgu shibai" (prop theater), and they had hired actors who appeared in it to perform theater every night at the gathering place at Yoshiwara Suidō-jiri, with October 2nd set as the opening day. So many actors, musicians, and others connected to the theater went there, but due to some obstruction, no performance took place that night. However, a certain Musashiya brothel in Kyōmachi 2-chōme had a patron among these actors, so he invited them all to his house and was entertaining them with food and drink when the earthquake occurred and the house collapsed. The master and others including Ikuyo (an onnagata actor) and Umazō (a tachiyaku actor) perished. This Umazō lived in Rokken-bori in Fukagawa, but that house also collapsed and his wife and two children died at the same time, it was heard.　　　　　　　　　　　　　From the tea shop at Mukō-Ryōgoku purification ground

[Left page]
○Marugameya in Kyōmachi 2-chōme also collapsed. A merchant who happened to be staying there barely ended up on the ceiling boards, and noticing spider webs tangled above his head, he used all his strength to break through the attic and finally crawled out, running back to his own house. A customer from Kyoto who was traveling with him also crawled out together, but saying there was still time before the fire would reach them, he crawled back into this hole again and took out his own clothing, haori coat, personal items from his pocket, retied his obi sash, and even searched out all the change of clothes for his male companion and brought them back. People gossiped that the Kansai person showed characteristically calm judgment.　　From Hōzen-ji temple in Asakusa
○A courtesan named Mayuzumi (18 years old, also called Kane) employed by Genemon, the guardian of Sano Tsuchiya Sei, a brothel owner in Edo-machi 1-chōme, distributed 1,160 ceramic pots of various sizes (called yukihira-nabe) to the poor people at the five relief huts on November 25th and 26th (worth over 30 yen). In her childhood, her parents