[Right page]
The house and storehouse collapsed all at once, Mimasaka-no-kami's palanquin was crushed to pieces, and eighteen people including master and retainers died instantly, with only five surviving and rushing back to the residence. (From Yanagi-chō to the residence was over one chō) (One account says Mimasaka-no-kami was severely injured but managed to survive)

○Also, Doi Kazue, who served as fire patrol inspector with a stipend of 5,000 koku and residence at Koishikawa Gate front, had guests that night. After they departed around the hour of the boar, the master was about to go relieve himself, and retainers and lady attendants were bustling about putting away sake vessels, when suddenly everything shook and the entire residence collapsed without exception. The steward named Morita Genbei, unable to determine his master's safety, rushed toward the inner quarters when the entrance hall collapsed southward and he died instantly. His son Gentarō, seeing this situation, though greatly shocked, pressed forward and removed roof tiles and timber to pull out six people. However, Kazue and other men and women died instantly, and then he encouraged the servants

[Left page]
and rescued them from the collapsed areas, but altogether seventeen master and retainers died instantly, and nine were severely injured. Of these, three died the following morning.

○Kuze Masayoshi, a hatamoto with 3,500 koku stipend at Ushigome Ageba, lost his entire residence except for the front tenements which remained. The master was in his sitting room continuing to write when a cry of "Ah!" was heard from within the room. When he rushed to see, his wife's room had already completely collapsed, beams had fallen and his wife's abdomen was crushed open. As she was in her final month of pregnancy, a male child emerged from the wound but died instantly. When he had the residence inspected, there were six instant deaths and eleven injured. Then on the night of the fifth, my friend Ikuta Kingo, having business, passed in front of this residence around the hour of the rat, when he saw a woman holding a child standing at the gate. Her appearance seemed strange, so when he told this story at a local tavern called Uchida, the proprietor replied, "That was a ghost, and