[Right page]
While he was doing so, the earthquake caused the inner mansion to collapse, burying him under debris and inflicting six severe wounds on his head. However, he immediately escaped and encouraged his retainers to retrieve various items. Although his house was consumed in the spreading fire, he managed to save all his records and documents. 《Marginal note: This showed him to be a person of good daily preparedness.》

○Muroga Rokugōrō (ko-bushin rank, Ogawa-chō) had his residence, tenements, and storehouses completely collapse without a single building remaining. However, no one in his household died, not even the horses, dogs, and cats. This too was quite mysterious.

○Ōoka Hyōgorō (ō-goban rank, 35 koku stipend) found about twenty small crabs in his personal quarters on the night of the first day of the tenth month. Thinking they were spiders, he drove them out. When they appeared again the following night of the second day, he had a maidservant hold up a candle to look, and seeing they were indeed crabs, he tried to catch them, but they escaped somewhere. He later died instantly in the earthquake, losing three other people as well. Thinking back afterwards, this was surely a portent.

[Left page]
○Tominaga Yoshitarō (yaku rank, Ogawa-chō) had business and was visiting Fusaya Shinsuke in the same area for consultation when the earthquake struck. Greatly alarmed, he hurried home. Meanwhile, the sister of Kasuya Suō-no-kami, an elderly woman who was Yoshitarō's adoptive mother, had fled to the garden with her daughter called Yano-onna. The inner residence collapsed from the south and the storehouse fell from the east, trapping both mother and child beneath. When the master frantically removed the roof tiles and earth to look, he found the mother and child had died holding hands and embracing each other. From the night of the following third day, two ghostly fires burned, and there were rumors that the spirits of the dead appeared in the deep of night.

○Suzuki Shirōzaemon (o-metsuke rank, 1,200 koku, Honjo Itsutsu-me) was in a room examining documents when the earthquake collapsed everything from the entrance to the guest rooms. He sent his son Shirōji to summon his chief retainer, but when the man did not return, he himself started to go out when the storehouse wall