[Right page]
fell, killing the chief retainer instantly. Shirōji died instantly when trapped under a beam in the guest room on his way. In addition, chief retainer Itō Genbei and five other male and female retainers died. 《Marginal note: The estate buildings remained and were not burned.》

○Yanagise Shōzaemon (ō-ban-gumi-gashira rank, Koishikawa Suwa-chō, 500 koku stipend) died instantly with his wife in their bedroom on the night of the second day. His retainer Shimizu Heigorō rushed from his room to check on his master's safety, but was crushed by debris in the middle room, his legs extended about six inches, and died instantly. Four other men and women also died instantly.

○At the lower estate of Yanagihara Shikibu-daiyū in Honjo Itsutsu-me, about fifty people formed a mob and came, having heard rumors that relief was being distributed after the earthquake. Ōsawa and six others came out and refused them, saying no such thing was happening, but they would not listen. Eventually they beat down those seven men, went to the rice storehouse, stole more than sixty bales of rice, and disappeared without a trace. As a result, firearms were thereafter

[Left page]
displayed within the gates and security was made strict, after which these rioters no longer came.

○Seki Harima-no-kami (o-rusuban rank, Honjo Hitotsu-me, 5,000 koku stipend) was watching his retainers' archery practice on the night of the second day when the earthquake caused the northern storehouse to collapse, killing him instantly along with two retainers. Since fires broke out nearby, a certain chief retainer managed to dig out his master's corpse and evacuate, but fortunately escaped the fire. There were eleven injured people.

○Henmi Kai-no-kami (ō-ban-gashira rank, Honjo Mitsu-me) had ordered items made for this year's guard duty in the Year of the Dragon, and after completing business discussions with armorer Myōchin and others and everyone had returned home, when he was about to rest his body, the earthquake occurred. As he ran out into the garden, the western storehouse collapsed and fell, killing him instantly. The inner residence and one western tenement building collapsed, with seven people dying instantly and nineteen injured.

○The daughter of Noishiki Geki (Honjo Kikukawa-chō, 2,500 koku stipend), called Yao-onna, this year