[Right page]
Shirōbei, guardian of Chōbei △38 ryō 2 shu; Rokūemon, tenant of Yahei in front of Mishima Gate in Asakusa △37 ryō 1 bu and more including rice and other items; Jūrōbei, tenant of Kichibei in Ueno-chō 1-chōme △23 ryō and more; Sen'tarō, landlord in Asakusa Tahara-chō 1-chōme △21 ryō 2 shu; Yasunosuke, house owner in the same area △237 ryō 1 bu 3 shu and more; Seizaemon, house owner in Fukagawa Shimada-chō △51 ryō 1 bu; Seikichi, tenant of Zenhachi in the same town △23 ryō 1 bu and more; Seijirō, guardian of Iyo who is house owner in the same area △23 ryō 1 bu and more; Genzō, tenant of Zenhachi in the same town △53 ryō 2 bu 3 shu plus waiver of rent for 13 shops; Jirōemon, tenant of Isaburo in Asakusa Minami-Umamichi-chō △61 ryō 3 bu 1 shu; Sahei, tenant of Kozaburō in Kanda Matsuzaka-chō △48 ryō 3 bu 2 shu and more; Iemon, tenant of Kichijirō in Asakusa Moto-Torigoe-chō △22 ryō 3 bu 3 shu; Zenbei, tenant of Shōzō

In addition to these, among those who provided charitable aid to people in relief huts, 13 persons were summoned by the government and received rewards, and over 80 persons received commendations. Their names are omitted here.

[Left page]
○I saw a manuscript volume called "Hasō no ki" (Record of the Broken Window) that recorded the state of this earthquake, which the master of Bunhōdō lent to me. <<50 sheets of Mino paper, 9 lines per half page, no detailed annotations>> It detailed things that came to his attention and mostly described his own troubles, but since there were no passages worth quoting, I did not make excerpts. The author is Ichitei <<resident of the Nishi-gashi area>>, and the person who wrote the preface header is Furyūtei Satoru, also known as Mumotsu, from an antiquarian bookshop in the Nishi-gashi area. <<Said to be the house manager of Kurihara Sankurō in Fukagawa Nishi-Eidai-chō>>

○"Jishin Yobō-setsu" (Earthquake Prevention Theory), one volume published, translated and written by Udagawa Kōsai by command of the authorities. There is a preface by Ōtsuki Bankei.

○"Daijishin Rekinen-kō" (Consideration of Major Earthquakes Through the Years), one small volume, compiled by Yamazaki Yoshinari.

○Someone said that there is a painted scroll depicting in detail everything from this earthquake and fire to the aftermath of the disaster, painted by Mr. Mochino.