【Right page】
The Shi-machi and Shinagawa areas were severely damaged. The main hall of the Jodo Shinshu temple Shotoku-ji below Gotenyama collapsed.

At Shin-ohashi Bridge, a ship was pushed up into the grounds of Lord Ando Nagato-no-kami's residence. Also, a large ship struck Eitai Bridge, causing about two ken of the seventh building on the eastern side to collapse. {{Patrons who had been enjoying themselves at temporary brothels in Fukagawa and were departing in the early morning after spending the night, riding in palanquins or fearing floods and trying to quickly cross to the other side of the bridge, fell and were swept away because they didn't know the bridge had broken - there were many such cases}} The western side became concave, and passage was suspended from the 26th day.

The Fukagawa coast received southern winds, so houses were blown down and swept into the sea. Due to high tides they were drawn into the ocean, and those who lost their household goods are countless. The grounds of Susaki Kichijo-ji were flooded up to neck height, making walking impossible.

At Reigan-ji Temple, both the Jizo Hall and the monks' quarters were mostly destroyed.

Many temporary brothels in Fukagawa were severely damaged. Houses that had borrowed the curtain of Sano Tsuchiya and set up temporary establishments in Fukagawa

【Left page】
completely collapsed. Seven or eight other houses also collapsed, and business became even more unprofitable thereafter.

Within Eitai-ji Temple grounds, there had been a special exhibition of Benzaiten from Enoshima's inner shrine since the 9th day of the 8th month, but from the beginning there were few worshippers. When this storm hit, the temporary buildings collapsed and the shrine cabinet was also damaged, so it had to be relocated within the temple grounds. The temporary buildings for sideshows within the grounds were also blown down.

The warehouses of Fukagawa were flooded, rice bales got wet on the streets, and there was much waste of grain and other goods. At the lumber yard, timber was swept away and lost.

In Fukagawa Shinchi, the roof of Lord Matsudaira Shimosa-no-kami's gate flew off and fell directly onto Kumai-cho.

The Takahashi Bridge in the same area was severely damaged. At Lord Doi's lower residence in Sarugae, there was one shaku of flooding above floor level, and at the market shops about two shaku of flooding above floor level.

Many wealthy merchants of Edo who had stored their treasures in Fukagawa warehouses suffered water damage.