【Right page】
The flooding in the Honjo area was second only to this. The houses had already been damaged by the earthquake, and then encountered this great wind and rain, resulting in severe destruction. The御船蔵 (imperial boat storehouse) collapsed, and the imperial boats were also severely damaged. {{The ships Rin-maru, Ho-maru, and Naniwa-maru were damaged, and the gunpowder storehouse was also damaged}}

Lord Hosokawa Genba-no-kami's lower residence at Warishita-mizu completely collapsed. The wisteria flowers of Kameido bloomed in early July, and the Gobun-ichi cherry blossoms bloomed in May. The large main hall of Reizan-ji Temple in Honjo collapsed.

The Bettodera temple of Ushi-gozen collapsed. In front of the pharmacy by Genmori Bridge, an old zelkova tree was uprooted and fell over. About twenty ken of the railings of Azuma Bridge were blown off toward the west.

The kanaza fukisho (mint) at Hashiba collapsed.

The house of Shokichi of the restaurant Kinparo by Imado Bridge had collapsed in last year's earthquake and had been reduced to ashes by fire, but had just been rebuilt around July of this year when it was blown down by this wind and rain.

【Left page】
A one-legged crane fell in Saruwaka-cho. It died on the way to being reported to the authorities.

The Enma Hall of Kanetoku-in at Okura-mae collapsed, but the head statue was unharmed.

The bronze torii of Nishi-no-miya Inari at Sensoji Temple was broken. The bell tower had been severely damaged in last year's earthquake, but this time the roof was blown away and nothing remained above the eaves. The rinzo (sutra repository with rotating shelves) had not been completed due to construction delays, but it was severely damaged. The temporary brothel called Matsudaya outside Zuishin Gate completely collapsed, and there were injuries.

The temporary building for the living doll show at Okuyama collapsed. {{These were the second set of living dolls created, including the old woman of Hitotsuya, the night attack from Chushingura, and Kagamiyama kyogen dolls}}

In the Sunamura and Ochiai village areas, many houses were swept away. In Gyotoku, about twenty percent of houses were swept away by floods. Dead bodies were said to be lying on the main roads, and many drowned corpses washed ashore around Nakayama.