【Right page】
The long houses of the Kishu lord's residence in Aoyama were half-collapsed.

In the precinct of Kiō Gongen Yōhai-sha in Ōkubo village, a large cedar tree fell, measuring about fifteen ken in length.

Around Ōkubo area, many farmers' houses collapsed. These were thatched houses where the roof shape remained intact but the pillars collapsed, causing the buildings to fall. {{People are living underneath them, like toma-bune (straw-covered boats)}}

At the Honmachi Tsukegi-dana Omochi-gumi residence in Hongo, three people died instantly. {{The workshop roof of Tomioka Sahēji, a gunsmith residing in Oyumi-chō, measuring two and a half ken by three ken, flew away with the shaking and left no trace}}

At the Sakai lord's residence in Ushigome Tana-shita, over eighty tall trees broke and fell.

The Shisen-tei in Sendagi, a three-story building that had escaped the earthquake, this time had its pillars break and lean. The residence of Lord Matsudaira Oki-no-kami in Aoyama was completely destroyed.

On the 26th, all merchant houses ceased business. Although the buildings of food vendors and tea houses were unharmed, each suspended their commerce.

【Left page】
There are many funeral processions for those who died unnatural deaths in the streets.

Although it is the Higan period, there are absolutely no people at Roku Amida and other sacred places. {{The 25th was the middle day of Higan}}

In the city, not a single roofer can be seen. Many construction workers are demanding excessive wages, and they are gradually being arrested and imprisoned. {{The damaged kaki-buki roofing in the city consists of cedar bark board roofs and thatched roofs}} Timber merchants also face official inquiries regarding advance purchases and other matters. The prices of fish and vegetables are all expensive.

○ Around July, a bright star appeared in the east every night from about five o'clock.

The willows at Yanagihara sprouted new buds after the wind and rain, looking like spring willows. The maple leaves withered and there are no people viewing autumn foliage. The chrysanthemums are the same, and in October there were unseasonable flowers in various places.

The residence of Lord Egawa Tarōzaemon is currently the New Zeni-za (mint). At the coast, houses swayed dangerously due to strong winds and rain, but the drill inspection office has a raised floor and, moreover, the building is sturdy due to recent construction.