【Right page】
Perhaps sensing this, they newly replaced the ropes and lowered the anchor, and the commotion was extraordinary. Seeing this, he hurried even more urgently to return to his home, but since there was this great wind that night, he rejoiced that he had saved his life.

Many takase boats traveling between Edo and Sekijuku were severely damaged, and some cargo owners went insane because their losses were enormous.

Government vessels for travel between Edo and Hakone had been built at Atami, and in the autumn of that year, for the first time both vessels loaded with many belongings of various officials set sail. On this night, one vessel disappeared without a trace, while the other had its mast broken and the ship damaged, barely managing to reach the shore of Nambu, and after many days reported back to Edo.

Many takase boats traveling between Edo and Sekijuku were severely damaged, and the cargo owners' losses were not ordinary

【Left page】
and some went insane because of this.

A flying object entered through the window of a certain Ina residence in Fukagawa. The master became severely exhausted from seeing this.

At a certain Yokota residence in the Bancho area, the doors and paper screens were blown apart and a fireball from the household flew in. Though the master chased after it, it would not stop, and while he was doing so, it flew away outside. The master of this house died suddenly without reason on the third day. What kind of supernatural force had he encountered?

The residence of a certain retainer living at Lord Todo's lower mansion in Sugamo was mostly blown down, and while the family was hiding in the one room that barely remained, several fir trees on the grounds, each about two arm-spans in circumference, were blown down and broken. Though it was a dark night, the area around the fir trees became dimly bright and the shape of the trees could be seen.

In Sunamura, only the roofs of houses were swept away with eleven men and women riding on them. They were said to have drifted toward Oshima, and voices were