1. The Ryukyuan people will perform their duty of visiting the rōjū (senior councillors) tomorrow on the 19th, and will depart to perform their duty of visiting the Go-sanke (three branch families) on the 21st. The scheduled time is generally before 4 o'clock. There are thirty-six people in total including the prince and below, with four musical child attendants among them.

1. Retainers of Matsudaira Settsu-no-kami, retainers of Oda Shinano-no-kami, retainers of Sagara Seitarō, retainers of Kyōgoku Sado-no-kami, retainers of Inaba Ukyō-no-suke, retainers of Makino Suruga-no-kami, retainers of Sengoku Echizen-no-kami, and retainers of Bitchū Sakyō - all have made the aforementioned arrangements.

1. When the Ryukyuan people perform their duty of visiting the Go-sanke families and pass through the gate entrance, according to the number of monogashira (military officers) and kyūnin (stipended retainers), those ranked as ashigaru-gashira (foot soldier leaders) and above shall wear fukusa (silk cloth), kosode (short-sleeved kimono), and hemp kamishimo (formal dress), while those ranked as kogashira (minor officers) and below shall have their insignia inspected.

When Ryukyuan people pass through, there is no requirement to bow down. However, if the officials in charge - Kōno Buzen-no-kami, Nose Inaba-no-kami, Nakayama Gorōzaemon, or Tsuchiya Chōzaburō - come for inspection, the guards on duty must perform the bow without hesitation.

1. Upon arrival at the capital, the御徒目付 (infantry inspectors) along the route shall attend, and instructions have been given to follow the guidelines previously communicated.

1. Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami does not travel to his domain to see off the Ryukyuan people when they return, but assigns retainers to accompany them. Since Sō Tsushima-no-kami is assigned to accompany Korean envoys on their journeys, Satsuma-no-kami will likely be assigned this time as well. As some may be unfamiliar with this practice, it is recorded here.

1. Year of the Dragon, 12th month, 18th day: Ryukyuan people departed to return to their country

1. From the Chūzan King of the Ryukyu Kingdom:
Regarding the dispatch of Prince Gushikawa as an envoy due to the change of reign - audience at the castle

1. When Gushikawa reached the top of the entrance hall stairs, two ōmetsuke (senior inspectors) came forward to guide him and he took his seat in the lower section of the jōdan room. His attendants lined up in the adjacent room of the same location, while the lower-ranking officials gathered in groups in the front courtyard of the entrance hall.

1. Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami attended the castle audience and took his seat in the upper part of the lower section of the jōdan room.

1. Those in attendance wore hitatare (court dress), kariginu (hunting robes), daimon (formal crested garments), hōi (court robes), or suōu (plain robes).

1. The letter from the Chūzan King was received by two ōmetsuke.
Procedures for Gushikawa's formal audience