[Gushikawa] withdrew to the jōdan room, guided by two chief inspectors.
1. Satsuma-no-kami made a bow to the senior councilors and withdrew to the jōdan room.
1. In the jōdan room, two chief inspectors brought and handed to Gushikawa the catalog of items to be bestowed upon the King of Chūzan as well as the reply letters from the senior councilors.
1. The high-ranking families (kōke) were stationed in the Gan room, their eldest sons, the eldest sons of the ceremonial announcers in the Kiku room, and the eldest sons of related families sat behind the threshold edge on the south side of the third room, arranged in a curve from west to east.
1. The ceremonial announcers, bannermen, and group leaders were in the Fuyō room, while officials of cloth court dress rank and above were arranged from the west side of the southern veranda to the east side of the carriage entrance.
1. Satsuma-no-kami was served sweets, soup, and sake in the Teikan room, with senior councilors present for greetings.
1. Prince Gushikawa was served sweets, soup, and sake on the lower level of the jōdan room, with senior councilors offering greetings.
1. The retainers were served sweets, soup, and sake in the Yanagi room.
1. Satsuma-no-kami's retainers were also served sweets, soup, and sake in the Sotetsu room.
1. Lower officials at the main entrance bench and dismounting bench were served strengthening rice.
1. When Gushikawa departed, two chief inspectors saw him off to the top of the main entrance steps.
　　　However, there was no seeing-off by the senior councilors.
1. Fifty men from the page guards and library guards served at the library guard station.
1. One hundred men from the great guard served in the fourth room of the great hall.

　　　　December 15th
　　Procedure for the Ryukyu Chūzan King's envoy Prince Gushikawa's requested audience at the Western Citadel
1. As the Ryukyuans were to offer their respects, the antechamber hereditary daimyo, high-ranking families stationed in the Gan room, ceremonial announcers in the Kiku room, and related families, all fathers and sons together,
　Officials of cloth court dress rank and above from both the Main Citadel and Western Citadel completed their audience at the Main Citadel and moved to serve at the Western Citadel.