1. In the second room, masters of fourth rank among the hereditary daimyo and their eldest sons were arranged, and in the third room, officials of ho'i rank and above were seated in rows
1. Satsuma-no-kami sat facing south at the edge outside the sliding screens in the antechamber
1. Gushikawa was guided by two chief inspectors from the jōdan room to the Great Hall, where he sat facing west in front of the masters of fourth rank among the hereditary daimyo in the second room
　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami
　The above came forward and had an audience within the threshold of the lower dais, announced by the ceremonial presenter. He was summoned up to the fourth tatami from the upper part of the lower dais, and received the shogun's words: "We are grateful that you have brought the Ryukyuan envoys from such a distant land." The elders made their responses and withdrew to their respective anteroom in turn. At that time, Ukon-shōgen was summoned and ordered to present Gushikawa before His Lordship. In the deputy antechamber, Ukon-shōgen conveyed the substance of the lord's words to Satsuma-no-kami.
　　　Note: During Gushikawa's audience, Satsuma-no-kami waited outside the sliding screens
1. Various items presented by the King of Chūzan
　Before the lord's appearance, they were arranged in order from east to west on the southern wooden veranda for the lord's inspection
　　　Gushikawa's personal gifts were also arranged in the same manner
　　　Note: The presented horses were led out to the courtyard by two horsemen under Suwabe San-no-suke's supervision, with San-no-suke accompanying them
1. The ceremonial presenter brought out the catalog of the presented ceremonial sword and placed it on the third tatami from the upper part of the lower dais. The King of Chūzan's portion was announced, Gushikawa came forward and performed nine prostrations from the second tatami below the lower dais, then withdrew. The ceremonial presenter removed the sword catalog
1. Ukon-shōgen was summoned, and it was proclaimed that His Lordship was grateful that Lord Gushikawa had come from such a distant land. In the antechamber, this was conveyed by Satsuma-no-kami, who made his acknowledgment and relayed the substance to Ukon-shōgen
1. Gushikawa came forward again and performed his personal courtesy with three prostrations on the wooden veranda, which was announced by the ceremonial presenter. He withdrew and was guided by two chief inspectors to the jōdan room, where he was seated on the lower level with his peers. Satsuma-no-kami also withdrew to the jōdan room