Appendix to the Record of Ryukyu Tribute Envoys
Go Tournament

Inoue Inseki
Won by three-stone handicap,押碁　　　　Tanokashira Peechin

On the 25th day of the 12th month, a tournament was held at the residence of Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami, where the go player Inoue Inseki went and played against Tanokashira Peechin with a three-stone handicap, playing 188 stones, whereupon Tanokashira won by 押碁 (large margin). During the Shōtoku era visit to court, since the Hon'inbō was young, his uncle Inoue Inseki (younger brother of the 4th Hon'inbō Dōsaku and founder of the Inseki house) served as guardian and had been appointed as go-dokoro, so [the Ryukyu player] was given a three-stone handicap and won, thus the handicap was reduced to two stones. At that time, a person called Tsubota Kaseki, age 13, played with a two-stone handicap and won by two stones, whereupon he was summoned [to serve] and is still alive. Due to the Kyōhō era court visit, Hon'inbō Dōchi (5th from the founder) was appointed as go-dokoro, so [the Ryukyu player] was given a three-stone handicap and won, thus the handicap was reduced to the standard level. This time, since the Hon'inbō was young, Inseki played (however, there is no go-dokoro ■■■).

This time's go was one or two stones stronger than when the Ryukyu people came before. [Tanokashira] repeatedly requested to play as Black (first move), but due to precedent, played with a three-stone handicap. Inseki's go was also somewhat below his usual standard, and primarily because Tanokashira was strong, it became a 押碁 (large margin loss). (In go rules, a loss of 17 stones or more is called 押碁. This game was a loss of 20 stones.) This time's Tanokashira seems skilled enough to have his handicap reduced to two stones, but this has not yet occurred. Regarding Hon'inbō, he said there was no time for a sudden tournament arrangement, so no invitation was extended.

Hon'inbō Hakugen (8th from the founder, age 20 in the year of the Dragon)
Inoue Inseki (3rd from the founder Inseki, age 40 in the year of the Dragon)
Said to be at the skill level of a master's 楽先 (comfortable advantage)

1. A diagram of this go game exists separately.