Uzaemon, Tsuda Saburo-emon, Hisashita Basuke, Yamaji Seian and others came to pay their respects and were granted an audience, receiving gifts of food, sake and other items. In the inner quarters, to the senior lady-in-waiting Kamei and others below her were given various items, sake, rice and other things, while to the outer attendants, guards and others below, gift lists were respectively presented.

12th Month, Minor

3rd day, Kanoto-ushi, clear: All the ladies-in-waiting who had served the late Omandokoro departed to return to their home provinces, with Yamaji Seian accompanying them. They set out this morning.

5th day, Mizunoto-u, clear: From evening - I was invited to the residence of Iwai Mutsu-no-suke, the caretaker of Nikko-miya, at the actual home of the troubled Mino-no-kami. Fellow guests were Murata Kimatsu, myself, Murakami Jusawa and others. We dispersed around the hour of Ne. However, yesterday as well, about nine people including various dabu went there.

6th day, Kinoe-tatsu, clear: All the attendant roles and others of the late Omandokoro's quarters departed today to return to their provinces and clear out. As this will become Omuro-dono's residence, word came that it should be handed over. In the afternoon, stewards Sasaki and Murata, accounting officials myself and storehouse supervisor Ijichi, provisioning staff Kozaburo, Gonzaemon, Shozaburo, Nakaemon, and about three servants were summoned and went to inspect everything thoroughly before taking custody and receiving all the locks and keys. The number of rooms was considerable. For fire prevention as well, from tonight one provisioning staff member, one colleague, and one servant will be stationed to lodge in the building west of the service gate.

8th day, Hinoe-uma, afternoon: It was Kei-kei's turn for the daily visit to Kifune. I requested Tei-sei to serve as substitute.

9th day, Hinoto-hitsuji, clear: Namba Iyo-no-kami, who since last winter's 11th month had claimed illness and remained in seclusion, despite receiving repeated gracious imperial messages, had not reported for duty. Today he was commanded by imperial letter as follows:

Copy of the Imperial Brush:
"Due to certain convictions, I command the resignation from office and retirement. Note: the office in question is Shikibu-gon-shosuke."

Regarding this matter, his son Mino-no-kami has voluntarily refrained from service and submitted inquiries, which have been approved as requested.

14th day, Mizunoe-ne: Snow fell and accumulated about three sun deep. Household soot-sweeping day.

15th day, Mizunoto-ushi, clear: I was summoned from the office of various dabu and went out. In a meeting with the dabu and stewards, the following was announced, with a written copy as follows:

Oribe