Hinoe-Inu year, Rin-shō (6th month), first ten days to full moon (15th day)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Picked stems at Dōkan-yama and made sketches

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamato Honzō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Listed in [Medicinal Plants]



　　　　　　　　According to Tashiki-hen, Soft and Smooth Plants category:
　　　　　　　　　　　　Hyakugō (Lily)　Japanese name: Yuri《pronunciation: Han》　Kyōku《Betsuroku》　Sannō　Sho
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mara《Betsuroku》　Jūbako《same》　Chūhōka《same》　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Jūmai《Go-fu》　Chūtei《same》


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Kyūkō Honzō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hyakugō (Sasa-yuri)　　　According to Chikin-shō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hyakugō (Yuri)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　In Yamato and Kawachi provinces, it is called Yoshino-yuri
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Perhaps because it grows abundantly on Mount Yoshino. In the Kantō region,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　it is called Sasa-yuri. Perhaps it was named this because its leaves
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　resemble bamboo grass leaves. The dialects of various
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　provinces differ greatly.





Baien's observations:
　In herbalism, lilies with white flowers are used medicinally. Makitan (Tiger lily) is not used for medicine.
　It is only eaten as a culinary vegetable. Lily bulbs are white-yellow in color, and both taste bitter and are not particularly delicious to eat.
　Lilies produce bulblets below the roots, and also form round, elongated fruits after the flowers fall. Tiger lilies do not
　produce bulblets below the roots but form purple-black fruits between the leaves. When these are planted, they grow well.
　After three years they become suitable for food. In ancient times there were not many varieties of lilies, but in recent years people have come to appreciate flowers for ornamental purposes,
　so the varieties have become extremely numerous—one cannot know how many dozens of types there are, reaching over a hundred varieties. Some flowers face
　upward toward heaven, some face downward toward earth, and some face sideways. Those facing heaven are of the Tatsuta-tōru lily type. Those facing
　downward are of the Korean kasa-yuri type, and those facing sideways are of the Hakata lily type.