From "Honzō Wakai" (Japanese Interpretation of Materia Medica):
　　　Safflower (kōka)　《Alternative names》Red blue flower, Yellow blue
　　　　　　　《Japanese name》Beni no hana (safflower)

　　　　　　From "Wamyō Ruijushō" (Japanese Names for Things):
　　　　　　　　　Red blue

　　　　　　From "Honchō-shiki" (Japanese Court Regulations):
　　　　　　　　　Safflower　Used commonly by the people

　　　　　　　　　　　　From "Benshiki Ritsusei" (Establishment of Color Distinction):
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Red blue　Kure no ai　　Wu blue　Same as above

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Copied on the 27th day of the 5th month, Teigai year

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Medicinal category

　　　　　　　　From "Bencao Gangmu" (Compendium of Materia Medica): "Safflower was first obtained by Zhang Qian of Han from the Western Regions," etc.
　　　　　　　　Safflower is pressed to extract flower juice for dyeing silk cloth, and rouge is also made and stored,
　　　　　　　　which women use to decorate their lips.
　　　　　　　　Rouge originated during the time of King Zhou, and it is known to have been made from safflower, used to
　　　　　　　　decorate women's faces in Yan. It was named thus because it originated in the land of Yan. However, there are four varieties.

　　　　　　From "Tashiki-hen" (Botanical Nomenclature):
　　　　　　　　Red blue flower《Japanese name》Kure no hana, also called "Kure no ai." Upon consideration,
　　　　　　　　　　　　"Kurenai," also called "Beni no hana." Also upon consideration, Wu
　　　　　　　　　　　　blue is called "Kure ai." This is the so-called Japanese reading
　　　　　　　　　　　　of "red."

From "The Tale of Genji":
　　　Suetsumuhana (Lady Safflower)　This is named in Japanese
　　　　　　　That is, safflower

Genju examined "Benshiki Ritsusei" and various materia medica, saying: Wu blue is the same as safflower that came from the state of Wu. Korean blue (Kara-ai) is
called "Kara-ai" because it came from Korea. It is also called sweet blue. What is called Korean blue in "Nuiden-shiki" (Palace Sewing Regulations) refers simply to deep
red. Because dyeing in Korea produces a dark color, this refers to such dyeing methods, and the only dye type is safflower
itself. Wu blue and Korean blue are the same thing. What is explained in "Man'yō-kō" (Studies on the Man'yōshū) all refers to red blue. Blue refers to pine blue,
horse blue, water pepper blue, and indigo plant blue. These involve pressing leaves to extract blue juice to dye cloth. Wu blue and sweet blue are varieties of safflower
used for dyeing red colors. The Japanese name for red blue is "Kure no ai," that is, "Beni no hana."