4　　　　Bactericidal Power of Leukocytes
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
　Despite these experiments, Denys did not understand the cellular immunity theory. Despite being well aware of the indisputable significance of leukocytes, he did not believe that leukocytes were the sole source of bactericidal power, because according to him, bactericidal power could also appear in serum.
　However, since these new findings were clarified, Bastin's previous experiments on the neutralization of bacteria and toxins by bactericidal substances needed to be re-examined, and this was assigned to Havet, another of Denys' disciples.
　Havet observed that when bacteria are injected into blood, the bactericidal power of serum decreases; this decrease progresses in parallel with the disappearance of leukocytes, because the reappearance of this bactericidal power, when observed several hours after injection, coincides with the recovery of leukocytes in the blood. Similar correspondence was confirmed when soluble bacterial preparations were introduced into blood.
　Due to the existence of these facts, Bastin's research was inevitably unsupported. It was clear that any subsequent work on the bactericidal power of serum had to seriously consider the involvement of leukocytes. Buchner understood this and brought certain corrections to his initial concepts about immunity.
　　　　　　*　　*　　*
　Despite recognizing the primary significance of leukocytes in immunity, in 1894 Buchner declared that leukocytes could exert their action at a distance as well, that is, they could destroy bacteria located outside the cell, in the plasma.
　Repeating Denys' experiments, he acknowledged that it was sufficient to add leukocytes to inactivated serum to restore bactericidal power. Like Denys, he recognized the importance of intracellular processes. Studying leukocyte extracts, he also declared that they provided "extremely effective assistance to phagocytosis." However, this did not prevent him from reserving judgment about the part that should be attributed to this process in bacterial destruction. According to him, as we have mentioned, bacteria are destroyed by products secreted by phagocytic cells into plasma both outside and inside the phagocytic cells.

　　　　　Bactericidal Power of Leukocytes　　　　　　　　　　　　　５
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
　For example, did he not prove that leukocytes whose vitality was impaired by freezing, though they could no longer function as phagocytic cells, could still express their bactericidal action with equal strength?
　Buchner failed to understand that when he froze leukocyte extracts in freezing mixtures and then thawed them again, the protoplasm of leukocytes died when diffusing bactericidal substances into the surrounding fluid. Such mechanical extracts are normally produced and do not make us assume at all that they should be identified with physiological secretions from the protoplasm of living leukocytes. The only conclusion this experiment brings is that frozen leukocytes release bactericidal substances; from this conclusion to knowing about vital phenomena that govern all immunity problems, there is distance from what Buchner cited.
　Since 1894, quite a large number of works have been published from Buchner's laboratory; none of these works could bring confirmation supporting his theory. One of his disciples, Schattenfroh, even went so far as to declare that none of the facts asserted by Buchner and his co-authors (including M. Hahn) should be explained by the concept of leukocyte secretion.
　If leukocytes secrete in the living body, as Buchner believed, their secretory capacity should reach even higher levels during Pfeiffer's phenomenon. When the peritoneal cavity is treated with bouillon injection, shouldn't extremely violent extracellular destruction of leukocytes occur, followed by leukocyte proliferation? However, the result that occurs is the opposite: while the leukocyte system in the peritoneal cavity is at the peak of its activity, Pfeiffer's phenomenon is completely absent. Therefore, one should not speak of leukocyte secretion, concluded Metchnikoff; he added that in Buchner's experiments, it concerns only phagolyse (dissolution of phagocytic cells) based on the agony of phagocytic cells.
　　　　　　*　　*　　*
　Now let us leave the question of how leukocytes function and see how the active principle contained within them appears.
　Hankin and Kanthack showed that bactericidal substances are manifested by the eosinophilic granules of leukocytes