16　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
alkaline nature should be noted in passing.
　According to Bulloch and Hunter's experiments, the hemolytic substance adheres to the bacterial body. When comparing heat-sterilized whole cultures with the same cultures filtered through a Chamberland filter, the hemolytic power of the latter is recognized to be about 5 times weaker than that of the whole culture.
　The English authors are in conflict with Margaret Breymann on this point. The latter established that unfiltered cultures do not hemolyze more than filtrates, and therefore pyocyanolysin is not contained within the bacterial body.
　The most mysterious point in the history of pyocyanolysin is, of course, its resistance to temperatures that destroy numerous enzymes.
　All studies conducted with pyocyanolysin uniformly state that Pseudomonas aeruginosa can be heated at 100°C for 15 minutes without losing its hemolytic power. Filtered cultures would have less resistance according to Bulloch and Hunter. Experiments conducted by Weingeroff and later by Breymann on this question clearly showed that the English scholars must be mistaken: both whole cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and filtrates containing only pyocyanolysin undergo no change after heating at 120°C for 30 minutes. These same experiments showed that the toxicity of the filtrate also does not disappear at this temperature. Weingeroff believes that Pseudomonas hemolysin and Pseudomonas toxin differ in structure.
　None of these researchers touched upon the problem of antipyocyanolysin. In addition to the extreme thermostability of pyocyanolysin, the fact that old cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa are highly alkaline is regrettable, and some doubt should originally be placed on the enzymatic nature of pyocyanolysin.
＊　　＊　　＊
　Typholysin isolated by E. and Proper Levy is said by those on their side to be similar to pyocyanolysin; other authors say it is similar to staphylolysin.
　Filtered bouillon inoculated with typhoid bacilli already showed hemolytic activity after 2 days and became increasingly stronger with the passage of culture days. The optimal time of action is seen after about 2 weeks, as in the case of staphylolysin.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins　　　　　　　　　　　　17
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Dog red blood cells are extremely sensitive to typholysin, and 0.01cc is sufficient to cause hemolysis.
　Like pyocyanolysin, the hemolytic substance of typhoid bacilli is thermostable.
　Two dogs repeatedly injected with heated typhoid bacilli clearly obtained serum with antitypholysin: 0.25cc of this serum neutralizes twice the hemolytic amount of typholysin, whereas normal dog serum had no such property.
　This antitypholysin resists heating at 55°C. Let us concentrate all our knowledge on this substance, which is clearly one of the most tremendously interesting among all bacterial hemolysins. This is hoped to progress much further than new research has been undertaken and has not been done until today.
＊　　＊　　＊
　In concluding matters concerning the thermostable hemolysin group, it remains to show the properties of colilysin described very recently by Kayser.
　The problem of the medium is extremely important in this case. The bouillon must be acidic when inoculating bacteria, even if considerably highly so. The hemolytic value becomes maximum when the amount of acid contained in 100cc of bouillon corresponds to 8cc of decinormal solution of oxalic acid. Weakly alkaline bouillon produces only minute amounts of hemolysin; the same is true when bouillon is extremely acidic (acidity equal to 12.5cc instead of 8cc of 1/10N solution of oxalic acid).
　The appropriate indicator for testing colilysin is dog blood; horse, cattle, and rabbit blood cells do not dissolve very well; blood cells of other species (human, guinea pig, sheep, pig, pigeon, goose) dissolve very little or not at all.
　To give a concept of colilysin activity, it should be noted that the minimum amount to dissolve one drop (1/16cc) of dog blood is between 0.25 and 0.1cc.
　Hemolytic power appears on the 2nd day after inoculation; increases until the 4th day, soon reaches its maximum, and continues in this state until the end of 2 weeks.
　When examining the nature of bouillon daily, it is recognized that it is acidic for the first 2 days and becomes alkaline on the 3rd day; alkalinity increases until the 5th day and thereafter remains