24　　　　　　　　Is There One or Multiple Types of Streptococci?
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
and if we consider all of these and arrive at a clear and personal opinion on the current state of this issue, our efforts would be greatly rewarded.
　The papers in which authors give value to their hypotheses—either monistic or pluralistic—are, naturally enough, initially of a purely morphological nature. Later, with the perfection of analytical methods, papers derived from the biological properties of streptococci or those of specific sera were consulted.
　The objectives that mainly serve as the foundation for arguments in both domains have been satisfied by studies of the macroscopic and microscopic examination of streptococci, their origins, their biochemical properties, their hemolytic activity, their protective power, and finally, studies such as complement fixation reactions of anti-streptococcal sera.
　We shall enumerate each of these papers in sequence.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　We shall not elaborate too extensively on purely morphological identification.
　Pane believed that erysipelas streptococci and pyogenic streptococci could be macroscopically distinguished by the appearance of cultures in glucose-containing broth. The former forms a precipitate at the bottom of the broth tube, while the latter is hardly affected by the presence of glucose and grows in the same manner regardless of the presence or absence of glucose.
　Lingelsheim's opinion differs from this. According to him, streptococci always aggregate at the bottom of the tube when the broth contains glucose, and this is because glucose generates acid which causes the streptococci to agglutinate.
　According to Kurth, streptococci can be classified into 4 groups based on the macroscopic findings of broth cultures, and each of these groups appears to correspond with distinctive microscopic findings of the chains.
　Based on the findings of broth cultures, Pasquale believed that only three types of streptococci could be distinguished.
　Microscopic findings similarly participated in classification. In particular, it was proposed that two types of streptococci (longus et brevis) should be defined according to chain length. If this classification is adopted, it would acknowledge that long chains never become short chains, and vice versa.

　　　　　　　Is There One or Multiple Types of Streptococci?　　　　　　　　　　　25
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
In addition, should we mention that all these classifications, whether macroscopic or microscopic, are not based on any solid foundation? This classification method runs ahead of a certain endgame and serves only to prove the futility of similar attempts.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　The opinion of classifying streptococci by their source, that is, by the disease from which the bacteria were isolated, has been encountered more frequently. This was an idea that occurred to early researchers; it was also enthusiastically supported by Fehleisen, who stubbornly defended the specificity of erysipelas bacteria and would not acknowledge them as identical to streptococci from abscesses.
　Similarly, Rosenbach affirmed that cultures of pyogenic streptococci and cultures of erysipelas streptococci could be reliably distinguished.
　However, after Petruschky was able to cause erysipelas, abscesses, and systemic septicemia in both humans and animals with the same streptococcus, he had to completely abandon classification by disease.
　Clinicians reported more than one case demonstrating that erysipelas streptococci caused puerperal fever through the hands of careless midwives.
　Thus it was established that streptococcal infection can produce clinically different types completely unrelated to the nature of the streptococcus or its original source, depending on individual resistance and the internal structure of the inoculation site.
　Certainly, stimulated by Moser's reports, we saw the new emergence of a tendency to attribute special properties to certain streptococci encountered in scarlet fever or smallpox. However, among the few supporters, such a view has not yet gained definitive acceptance.
　The futile tendency to classify streptococci into numerous groups contributed greatly to inclining opinion toward the monistic hypothesis, and when Marmorek made a decisive declaration supporting the latter in 1895, he himself was almost a monist among bacteriologists.
This event did not, of course, pass without some protests. Van de Velde, Méry, J. Courmont found that streptococcal infections did not conform to Marmorek's monovalent serum...