IV
　　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy(1)
　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serotherapy

　Anti-streptococcal serum has been introduced into human therapeutics for several years, but has not yet obtained marketing authorization. On the contrary, since its discovery, there has been only criticism, and even recently it has not shown any prosperity at all. This fact shows that this serum has one weakness in addition to the imperfections it should share with the majority of anti-bacterial sera. This is something that can be seen essentially, and always stems from the uncertainty that should be attributed to the identity of streptococci.
　Marmorek, who has been engaged in anti-streptococcal serum therapy for many years, has supported until recently that all streptococci, regardless of their origin, are of one and the same species.
　This opinion, though not unanimous, was the generally advocated opinion: that is, among internists and even in bacteriological practice, they commonly call it "du Streptocoque" (i.e., with the singular article).
　Today, the opposite opinion seems to prevail. It appears that no two similar streptococci exist. Streptococci not only vary from one disease to another, but also differ from each other even in the same disease that is sufficiently clinically determined, such as scarlet fever.
　I believe that such a great difference of opinion cannot fail to have a reaction on anti-streptococcal serum therapy. I will describe below why this point required so many years to pave the way in the clinical field.
　It is undoubtedly true that our knowledge regarding the biological properties of streptococci is still incomplete. The current tendency to see variant streptococci everywhere is quite certainly no more profound than the opinion of monists who have been hypnotized by the morphological similarity of chain-forming cocci.
　The problem currently posed is to find means to classify streptococci. I think this is a problem on which the future of anti-streptococcal therapy depends. Until this problem is solved, we will be groping in the dark and will have to rely on somewhat fortunate empiricism.
　Today we are not in a position to classify streptococci by purely scientific methods. Since quite a large number among many scholars still believe in the monistic theory of streptococci, while others hold the opposite opinion, all that remains for us at present is to inject horses with as many strains of streptococci as possible. Even if the large number includes many identical strains that act similarly on horses, the harm from this is not so great.
　On the contrary, the more the number of strains increases, the more opportunity we have to obtain a true polyvalent serum suitable for daily practical use.
　Having discussed the problem of the unity or plurality of streptococci and indicated the main "types" of sera currently used as means to be taken, let us now describe the serum we are producing at the Pasteur Institute.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　The problem of culture media has always been one of the problems that most troubled bacteriologists regarding streptococci. Marmorek, who tried numerous culture media, finally settled on ascitic fluid-enriched bouillon. On our side, when Aronson wanted the most active serum, he used glucose-enriched bouillon, which is an excellent culture medium, but extremely variable. Other bacteriologists used somewhat complex culture media, but always based on bouillon.
　We opposed the use of bouillon: that is, we treated streptococci cultured on solid culture media. On agar, streptococci are extremely small