40　　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
colonies, and often—as in the case of Marmorek's strains—can hardly be distinguished from the traces of the platinum loop used in culturing. Since large quantities of bacterial bodies are required to immunize horses, we relied on the following method.
　All streptococcal strains—we have more than 40—were inoculated and preserved in our culture medium consisting of equal amounts of Martin's bouillon and heated horse serum. In this culture medium, streptococci live long and well preserve their biological properties.
　After accustoming them to survival in the presence of serum, streptococci grow extremely abundantly on agar if a small amount of horse serum is carefully applied in advance.
　We cultured in Roux flasks measuring 22 cm in length and 11 cm in width. One hour before performing the transplantation, we added 1-2 cubic cm of heated horse serum to each flask containing agar. On the agar thus treated and then broadly inoculated, we obtained after 24 hours such abundant culture that about 100 cubic cm of physiological saline was needed to dilute it for intravenous injection into horses.
　This serum-agar culture medium, since large quantities of bacterial bodies can be obtained, provides the advantage of being able to measure quite accurately the amount of bacteria to be injected. This advantage is an important point because it gives horses intense sensitivity during the only intravenous injection we perform for immunization.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　For each injection, we administered 10 different types of streptococci. Except for one, all were isolated from human streptococci (scarlet fever, erysipelas, puerperal fever, abscesses, septicemia, etc.). Streptococci obtained from humans generally have no toxicity to laboratory animals, so serum titer measurement is hardly possible. For this reason, we add one strain of streptococci that has become highly virulent to mice or rabbits through serial passage.
　This is only a hypothesis—if we accept that the horse is immunized approximately equally against all streptococci inoculated into it, the virulent streptococcus, namely the serially passaged streptococcus, can serve as a measure of the horse's immunity to streptococci as a whole.

　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy　　　　　　　　　　　41
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Each injection causes a severe febrile reaction (above 40°C). This does not last long; after 48 hours, everything returns to normal.
　We sometimes observe the following: a horse that appeared to have completely recovered its health develops a new fever 10 to 15 days after injection. Sometimes it shows joint discomfort, and sometimes it presents inflammatory symptoms a little away from the joints. In the latter case, serous fluid is found in the swollen muscles. This disappears if an external pathway is opened. The animal becomes thin and becomes useless within a few weeks. In some cases, the horse becomes ill for several days and dies. Upon autopsy, we see that the muscles in the lesioned area are infiltrated with gelatin-like substance and immersed in sterile serous fluid. Similar changes were observed in horses that showed similar symptoms and were euthanized.
　These accidents of unknown cause occur suddenly at all stages of the immunization procedure; these accidents are clearly related to our immunization method. However, even though this method—the intravenous immunization method—is accompanied by suffering, it also has valuable advantages, because serum with extremely remarkable preventive and therapeutic effects can be obtained in a short period.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Here I will cite a few figures to give a concept of the therapeutic effect of the anti-streptococcal serum from the Pasteur Institute.
　Quantity measurements are performed on mice and rabbits.
　Mice that have been injected subcutaneously with more than 10 times the lethal dose of streptococci can be protected if 1/1000 cc of serum is injected intraperitoneally 18 to 24 hours later. With 1/40 cc to 1/400 cc of serum, under the same conditions, protection can be achieved against at least 2,000 times the lethal dose. The lethal dose taken as a unit in our experiments corresponded to 1/16,000,000 cc of 24-hour culture in bouillon serum. In practice, mice can be killed with much weaker amounts; we limited ourselves to the above figures to avoid excessively large dilutions.
　Regarding the preventive effect of serum, there was already a remarkable effect with an amount 10 times smaller than that required to obtain a therapeutic effect.