V
　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Endotoxins(1)
Microbial Endotoxins
　Bacterial endotoxins refer to toxins within the bacterial body that form part of the bacterial cell and cannot be separated unless the bacteria are destroyed to a considerable degree.
　Bacterial endotoxins differ from extracellular toxins, that is, so-called inherent toxins, for the following reason. The latter are also related to bacterial strains, but they are secreted into the surrounding culture medium as they are formed, without significantly impairing the bacteria's vitality.
　The release of bacterial endotoxins is a post-mortem phenomenon, as it is preceded by the breakdown of bacterial cells. The production of extracellular toxins is compatible with bacterial life, thus it is a physiological action, a secretory action.
　The differences between endotoxins and extracellular toxins do not stop here: we recognize these differences in the physicochemical properties, particularly the biological properties, of these two substances, as we shall see in the following description.
　Even today, the properties of bacterial products are still misreported. At that time, it was less than 20 years ago. It can be believed how difficult it was to distinguish the toxic substances secreted by bacteria in that era. Even if some progress was made with this idea, it only demonstrated value to R. Pfeiffer, who had long been a proponent of the bacterial endotoxin theory.
　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Let us describe here how Pfeiffer established the boundary between bacterial endotoxins and extracellular toxins.
　In his research on cholera vibrios, he confirmed that young bouillon cultures filtered through a filter are hardly toxic even in relatively large amounts: in contrast, old bouillon cultures that had been stored for several months produce remarkable active toxins when filtered.
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) Bulletin de l'Institut Pasteur, Vol. XII, pp. 145, 193; 1914

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　53
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Then what is this soluble toxin present in old cultures? Is this an inherent toxin secreted by cholera vibrios, or is it another toxin?
　To solve this problem, Pfeiffer used young vibrios cultured on agar instead of bouillon. After killing these vibrios with chloroform or by heating at 55°C, he injected several milligrams of these dead bacteria into the peritoneal cavity of guinea pigs.
　The guinea pigs died within 18 hours of injection. Control experiments showed that among the large quantity of vibrios injected in this way, only one bacterium remained alive. Therefore, the guinea pigs did not die from infection, but from a kind of poisoning. Since we cannot claim secretory products in this case, the death must inevitably be attributed to toxins contained within the vibrios.
　Therefore, it was found that what kills guinea pigs injected with bouillon filtrate from old cultures is intracellular toxin, that is, bacterial endotoxin. This must necessarily contain breakdown products of bacteria.
　Since the existence of intracellular bacterial toxins became an established fact, bacteriologists' efforts turned toward extracting these toxins from bacterial bodies in a somewhat pure state, and finally being able to study these extracts outside the bacterial body.
　Most of these studies were first conducted on vibrios, particularly on Massawa vibrios, which had long been considered the bacteria of choice for these studies. Soon after, other vibrios and other bacteria were studied.
　To extract bacterial endotoxins from bacteria, various physicochemical factors (various temperatures, autolysis, pressure, grinding, shaking, chemical preparations) were applied. It was during these experiments that Pfeiffer and Wassermann adopted the terms "first toxin" and "second toxin."
　According to these researchers, the toxins contained within bacterial bodies are extremely fragile;