56　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
If this glucose-supplemented culture is filtered, he proved that the filtrate kills guinea pigs in 12-18 hours with a dose of 1cc, and sometimes shows the same result with a dose of 1/2cc.

This filtrate, which clearly contains cholera bacterial endotoxins in particular, is heat-resistant. When this soluble toxin was heated at 60° for 1 hour, or when it was placed at boiling point, Horowitz could not observe any decrease in toxicity. On the other hand, the author performed cross-vaccination tests with heated cultures of vibrios and confirmed the specificity of this toxic substance.

Besides bacterial endotoxins, whether vibrios can secrete true cholera toxin, which is another substance, has not been examined. This problem is outside the scope of our investigation. What we want to resolve here is the purification methods and significance of bacterial endotoxins during infection.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Supporters of the cellular theory will recall that they declared under the microscope that vibrios introduced into the peritoneal cavity of guinea pigs are digested inside white blood cells. In contrast, supporters of the humoral theory argued that vibrios dissolve like sugar in water, that is, extracellularly, as soon as they invade the living body. On this theory of extracellular dissolution of bacteria, Pfeiffer and his school built their entire immunological theory, as is well known.

According to these researchers, the danger of pathogenic bacteria is not the fact that bacteria multiply, nor that they secrete toxins, that is, not because bacteria live and proliferate in the invaded living body; the real danger, according to them, begins only when bacteria die; because they die and dissolve in the body fluids of the infected organism, releasing bacterial endotoxins that cause the animal's death. Therefore, bacterial infection should be attributed to intrabacterial poisoning.

Do such things occur in nature, as Pfeiffer believed? If so, how serious would be the position that bacterial endotoxins occupy in infectious diseases?

Without going into details, it is sufficient to recall that opinions on infection and immunity have since developed, and nowadays there are few scholars with a tendency to build what we have agreed to call "Pfeiffer's phenomenon" into general laws.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　　　57
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

Those who most opposed the cellular theory found it convenient to bridge the gap between the two extreme theories.

No matter how exaggerated, the significance of bacterial endotoxins was unclear. Bacterial endotoxins are certainly involved during infection. Bacterial endotoxins are involved in very small amounts when bacteria dissolve in body fluids. However, what should also be counted is when bacteria are digested inside white blood cells. When considered separately, no one has proven the existence of extracellular dissolution prior to phagocytosis by white blood cells. What is important is that all digestion of bacteria is necessarily related to the release of bacterial endotoxins; all interest arising from this is in understanding bacterial endotoxins.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Do all pathogenic bacteria possess bacterial endotoxins? We do not know how to answer this question uniformly. What can be affirmed is that the majority of bacteria possess these toxins; the quickest way to confirm this is to examine the toxicity of dead bacteria.

When it is confirmed that dead bacteria are suspected of causing toxic symptoms, one should not hesitate to conclude that certain bacteria possess bacterial endotoxins. However, what should we think when staphylococci or streptococci are killed and given in large amounts to animals thought to be susceptible to them, yet nothing happens? Should we conclude that these bacteria have almost no bacterial endotoxins? We dare not affirm this.

We simply believe that streptococci do not release bacterial endotoxins in test tubes after being coagulated by heating, but in animal bodies they release toxins if means are used that only living cells know the secret of.

In the current state of knowledge, it is premature to generalize the action of bacterial endotoxins, that is, to extend it to all pathogenic bacteria. In our opinion, many bacteria possess bacterial endotoxins, but among them there are some whose bacterial endotoxins are still unknown. Since we only discuss bacteria whose bacterial endotoxins have already been studied, we reserve judgment on the latter point.

In 1905, we described methods for extracting typhus and plague bacterial endotoxins. The following year, we proposed an even simpler method. According to this, bacterial endotoxins