62　　　　　　　　　　　　　Plague Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
This is sufficient. Mice can tolerate up to 400 times the lethal dose of bacterial endotoxin treated in this manner without showing signs of distress.

Unheated dysentery bacterial endotoxin shows extreme toxicity to rabbits, rats, and mice; this is the most active of all bacterial endotoxins we possess.

With 1/80cc of bacterial endotoxin injected intravenously, we killed an 1,800g rabbit in 2-3 days; with 1/20cc, we killed it in 24 hours. The symptoms before death are identical to those observed when injecting dysentery bacterial culture filtrates.

A 50g rat dies in 4-5 days when 1/200cc is injected intraperitoneally; with 1/80cc it takes 2 days.

The animal chosen for studying dysentery bacterial endotoxin in our experiments is the white mouse. Since it is already extremely sensitive to subcutaneous injection (1/640cc), this animal becomes even more sensitive with intraperitoneal injection. To reach the minimum lethal dose, we had to go down from 0.0006 to as low as 0.003cc. Death generally occurs in 48 hours. Sometimes the agony is prolonged; in other cases death comes suddenly. Often, after inoculation, when we picked up a mouse that still appeared vigorous and turned it on its back, it would soon become rigid and die within seconds.

The addition of normal horse serum delays the action of bacterial endotoxin but never completely eliminates it. In contrast, with anti-dysentery serum (1/16cc), we were able to neutralize up to 150 times the lethal dose.

Plague Bacterial Endotoxins
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Endotoxine Pesteuse

Yersin, Calmette, and Borrel were the first to confirm that when plague bacterial bouillon cultures are filtered, they cause no harmful effects to animals. In contrast, bacterial bodies, even when heated to 58° for 1 hour, can easily kill guinea pigs and rabbits when injected intraperitoneally or intravenously.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Dysentery Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　63
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
This fact was first demonstrated by Wernicke and subsequently confirmed by numerous experimenters.

Lustig and Galeotti studied the extraction of plague bacterial endotoxin, treating 12-24 hour cultured bacteria with dilute potassium solution, then precipitating the liquid with acetic acid or hydrochloric acid. The precipitate formed under these conditions contains bacterial endotoxin, which can be proven by the precipitate's ability to cause severe fatal disorders in rats, guinea pigs, and rabbits.

Albrecht and Ghon recognized that bouillon culture filtrates become toxic at certain periods; this toxicity increases with the number of culture days and eventually stops. This fact was explained by certain authors (Dieudonne and Otto) as the formation of true toxins. This explanation does not agree well with our own research, in which it is undoubtedly the same as plague bacterial extracts and has the characteristics of bacterial endotoxins.

As with typhus bacteria, we continued to apply our two methods to liberate bacterial endotoxins in plague bacteria.

The bacteria we used were heated to 60°, dried, and killed mice when injected subcutaneously at a dose of 5 decimilligrams.

The first extraction method involves mixing bacteria (0.02 centigrams), physiological saline (1cc), and horse serum (4cc) in fixed proportions, allowing them to contact overnight, then centrifuging the mixture. One part becomes a clear liquid containing plague bacterial endotoxin, while the other part becomes a paste-like bacterial sediment composed of plague bacterial bodies that is non-toxic.

This plague bacterial endotoxin shows considerable activity against mice: namely, at a dose of 1/4cc. It was easy to make it even more active by concentrating it.

The bacterial endotoxin produced in this way could be stored in a refrigerator for several months. Heating at 55° for 1 hour causes no change; at 65° (1 hour) it is slightly reduced. The toxin is completely neutralized by anti-plague serum.

In the opposite test using bacteria remaining at the bottom of the test tube after centrifugation, this material showed that it had lost most of its toxicity. When horse serum and physiological saline were brought into contact