66　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pertussis Bacterial Endotoxins　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
to obtain a uniform powder. Next, distilled water was added to this powder in small amounts. Bordet and Gengou quite frequently observed the formation of flocculent matter similar to that which we had already described for other bacterial endotoxins in the turbid liquid thus obtained. Pertussis bacteria that had been ground and then made into a suspension in physiological saline were left in the refrigerator for 24 hours, then centrifuged. The supernatant liquid was transparent or showed an extremely slight opalescent color.

When injected intraperitoneally into guinea pigs at doses of 1/4 to 1/2cc, this liquid containing pertussis bacterial endotoxin kills the animals within 24 hours. Upon autopsy, lesions similar to those produced by intraperitoneal injection of pertussis bacteria are observed: extremely large amounts of hemorrhagic peritoneal exudate, numerous subperitoneal hemorrhages, severe intestinal congestion, and extensive pleural congestion. This congestion explains the severe dyspnea that animals exhibit in the hours before death.

The same symptoms are observed in rabbits when bacterial endotoxin is injected intraperitoneally. Intravenous injection kills these animals in about 18 hours with doses of 1-2cc.

With subcutaneous injection of pertussis bacterial endotoxin, extremely interesting facts can be confirmed. To kill guinea pigs by this route, according to Bordet and Gengou, large amounts of bacterial endotoxin are required. Small amounts (for example, 0.2cc) already cause a degree of severe local lesion; by the next day, hemorrhagic edema develops and increases the following day; then this edema subsides, leaving behind an enlarged black scar that becomes gangrenous and forms a large ulcer that caves in.

This explains why, when pertussis bacteria are inoculated into guinea pigs and rabbits, severe and even fatal disorders occur even when bacterial reproduction does not occur or the injected bacteria almost completely disappear. Bordet and Gengou state: "The lesions determined by pertussis bacteria fully acknowledge that they are due to toxins released when parasitic bacteria are probably destroyed by the animal. It is also theoretical to consider that the same types of lesions we observed in laboratory animals similarly occur in children affected by pertussis."

An interesting fact related to what we observed in the plague bacterial endotoxin problem

　　　　　　　　　Pfeiffer's Coccobacillus Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　67
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
is that vaccination of animals against pertussis bacterial endotoxin is extremely difficult. Guinea pigs that first received subcutaneously a small amount (0.2cc) of bacterial endotoxin and whose resulting ulcers had healed respond to future injections in the same way as initially, i.e., the amount of bacterial endotoxin cannot even be increased.

When heated at 55° for 30 minutes, pertussis bacterial endotoxin is greatly weakened. Chloroform, toluene, thymol, and especially alcohol almost completely rob it of its activity. Filtration through Chamberland filter tubes removes most of the bacterial endotoxin.

Heat alters it to the extent that it cannot create local lesions. Heated pertussis bacterial endotoxin, exactly like heated plague bacterial endotoxin, produces no protective effect against unheated bacterial endotoxin.

Horse serum prepared by repeated injections of pertussis bacteria does not neutralize pertussis bacterial endotoxin.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pfeiffer's Coccobacillus Bacterial Endotoxins
Endotoxine du Coccobacille de Pfeiffer

Numerous attempts were made to extract bacterial endotoxin from Pfeiffer's bacterial bodies; despite the well-known toxicity of killed cultures, they consistently failed to achieve results.

Following the technique we described in 1905 for bacterial endotoxin extraction, Slatineano succeeded in obtaining liquid bacterial endotoxin starting from Pfeiffer's bacteria and studied its properties.

Pfeiffer's bacteria cultured on blood agar for 24 hours were dried (0.25g) and distilled water (5cc) and normal horse serum (5cc) were added. The mixture was placed in the refrigerator for 12 hours and then centrifuged. After centrifugation, the supernatant showed toxicity and caused symptoms in animals similar to those of Pfeiffer's bacteria itself.

When injected into the brain, this bacterial endotoxin kills guinea pigs in 6-10 hours at a dose of 1/20cc. To kill guinea pigs by intraperitoneal injection, no less than 5cc is required;