68　　　　　　　　　Micrococcus Melitensis Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
The animals die in 4-5 days exhibiting fatty degeneration of the liver and marked enlargement of the spleen.
　The effects of bacterial endotoxin are similar to the results produced by live bacteria or bacteria heated at 55°.

　　　　　　Micrococcus Melitensis Bacterial Endotoxins
　　　　Endotoxine du 『Micrococcus Melitensis』

　Starting from cultures of Malta fever cocci, P. Noel Bernard obtained a toxic extract having selective affinity for nerve cells.
　1g of dried bacteria produced from 4-day agar cultures was ground together with 0.20 NaCl to obtain a fine powder. This powder was suspended in 25cc of distilled water. This mixture was shaken vigorously. After being left in an incubator for 20 hours, this mixture was heated at 58° for 1 hour, then placed in a refrigerator for 12 hours. Above the precipitate that forms, an orange opalescent liquid can be seen floating, which contains dissolved bacterial endotoxin. This liquid kills 450g guinea pigs by intracerebral injection in 8-10 hours at a dose of 1/100cc. To kill by the intraperitoneal route in 18 hours, no less than 10cc is required for a 300g guinea pig.
　This bacterial endotoxin is resistant to 58°. Near the coagulation temperature of proteins (78-80°), its toxicity decreases. At 100°, the clear liquid separated from the coagulum has 10 times less toxicity than the original bacterial endotoxin. Further continued heating completely destroys the bacterial endotoxin. Filtration through filter tubes weakens it.
　Guinea pigs are 1000 to 2000 times more sensitive to intracerebral injection of bacterial endotoxin (lethal dose = 1/100cc) than to intraperitoneal injection (lethal dose = 10 to 20cc). The relative immunity of animals in the latter case is because it is difficult for the toxin to reach nerve cells for which it has specific affinity; this affinity explains the presence of neurological symptoms in severe cases of Malta fever.

　　　　　　　　　　Diphtheria Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　69
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　　　　　　　　　　Diphtheria Bacterial Endotoxins
　　　　　　　　　　Endotoxine Diphtérique

　Rist proved that within Loeffler bacteria, besides diphtheria toxin, bacterial endotoxin exists, which becomes lethal to guinea pigs especially when injections are repeated. Most frequently, sometimes paralysis, sometimes pseudomembranous peritonitis lesions are observed. In rabbits, Rist was able to determine death within 3 weeks by injecting 0.05g of diphtheria bacteria intraperitoneally or 0.002g-0.003g intravenously in a single dose. Adding anti-diphtheria serum did not prevent this death.
　Research on diphtheria bacterial endotoxin was conducted with extreme precision by Cruveilhier. This author started with 24-hour agar cultures. The bacteria were washed and then heated to destroy all traces of soluble toxin.
　During research on the toxicity of dead bacteria, Cruveilhier found that the intracerebral route gave the most consistent results. Guinea pigs that received intracerebrally 1/4 of a solid culture slant, i.e., an amount equivalent to 1cg of dried bacteria, died within 24 hours.
　In no case did anti-diphtheria serum provide protection or even delay death by several hours.
　Aviragnet and his co-authors Bloch-Michel and Dorlencourt started with bacteria from 15-day cultures sterilized at 105-110° and dried in vacuum to powder form. A dose of 0.05g of this powdered bacterial endotoxin killed guinea pigs in 6-10 days. Even a thousand times this amount of bacterial endotoxin could not accelerate death, clearly because the diffusion rate of bacterial endotoxin taken up intracellularly is extremely slow.
　These authors studied lesions produced locally and at distant sites by diphtheria bacterial endotoxin: they observed hepatic gangrene, parenchymal nephritis, and hemorrhage in the adrenal glands.
　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Victor C. Vaughan and his disciples, Andrew Detweiler, Max Wheeler,