72　　　　　　　　　Fungal Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
attributed the failure of so-called bactericidal sera in human treatment to the impossibility of obtaining anti-endotoxins. "The unsatisfactory results of sera are due to the impossibility of forming antibodies against bacterial endotoxins in living organisms. ...Until today, all efforts to obtain anti-bacterial endotoxins have been in vain, and we can only believe that the same will be true in the future."
　However, from our experiments we found again that anti-bacterial endotoxins do indeed exist; these were equivalent to known antibodies. To produce them, the most reliable and fastest method is to immunize animals intravenously using whole cultures.
　Here we will not go into the details of this problem that we particularly studied regarding typhus immune sera. What should only be reported is that by this method we succeeded in producing anti-bacterial endotoxin typhus immune sera that neutralize more than 30 times the lethal dose of soluble typhus bacterial endotoxin in quantities of 1-2 cc.
　Subsequently, based on our research using plague bacilli and dysentery bacilli, we concluded that all bacteria having bacterial endotoxins recently—typhus bacilli, E. coli, plague bacilli, cholera vibrios, dysentery bacilli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and other bacteria—when bacterial bodies are sent directly into the general circulatory system, demonstrate reliable anti-bacterial endotoxin properties in the serum. On the other hand, when prepared in this way, by producing all other antibodies, this is the immunization method that provides the most effective sera. This fact that we obtained experimentally in 1906 was confirmed by numerous experiments conducted thereafter. Today, immune sera for typhus, dysentery, cholera, streptococcus, and gonorrhea are produced by intravenous administration. Furthermore, to reliably confer active immunity in a short period, the intravenous method is the only way to form anti-bacterial endotoxins. We limit ourselves to reporting Pfeffer and Friedberger's experiments on typhus bacilli, and furthermore, the extremely interesting vaccination trials that Ch. Nicolle and his co-authors Conseil and Conor conducted on humans in recent years.
　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　In summary, what is the significance of soluble bacterial endotoxins? What practical knowledge can be derived from this? There is no doubt that the significance attributed to them by Pfeiffer and his school during the course of infection is exaggerated. These researchers saw only

　　　　　　　　　　Fungal Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　73
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
one aspect of the phenomenon; they did not consider that bacterial bodies themselves, being living organisms, are capable of defending themselves, multiplying, and secreting toxins.
The problem of immunity that governs all our efforts should not, of course, be reduced to the struggle against bacterial endotoxins. Certainly, this should not be underestimated during the course of infection, but its importance is only secondary.
　Besides theoretical interest, the preparation of soluble bacterial endotoxins is also important from a practical standpoint. When attempting to determine the identity of new toxins—whether for typhus, plague, dysentery, or other toxins—one merely refers to the standard properties of bacterial endotoxins to determine whether they belong to bacterial endotoxins or true toxins.
　Finally, one of the considerable uses that can be made of soluble bacterial endotoxins is that they can generally be used with live bacteria for measuring the efficacy of anti-bacterial endotoxin sera.

――――――――
References Cited
Mémoires Cités

R. Pfeiffer, Zeitschr. f. Hygiene, 1892-1896.
Bürgers, Hygienische Rundschau, 190, p. 169.
Hahn, München mediz. Wochenschr., 1910, p. 736.
Macfadyen et Rowland, Proceed. Royal Soc., t. IV, p. 30.
Carrière et Tomarkin, Zeitschr. f. Immunitätsf. I. Origin., t. IV , p. 30.
Besredka, Annales de l' Inst. Pasteur, juillet 1905, avril, 1906.
Horowitz, Zeitschr. f. Immunitätsf., t. XIX, p. 44.
Bordet et gengou, Annales de l' Inst. Pasteur, 1909, p. 415.
Slatineano, Centralbl. f. baktr. I. Origin., t. XLI, 1906, p. 185
Noel bernard, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. LXIX, 1910, p. 37.
E. Rist, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. IV, 1903, p. 978.
Cruveihier, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. XLVI, 1909, p. 1029.
Aviragnet, Bloch-Michel, Dorlencourt, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. LXX, 1911, p. 325.
Victor C. Vaughan, Transaction of the Asssociat. of Americ. physic., 1902, pp. 1-89.
H. Roger, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. LXVII, p. 161.
Gougerot et Blanchetière, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. LXVII, p. 159.
Wolff-Eisner, Centralbl. f. Bakter. I. Origin., t. XXXVII, 1904, p. 319.