78　　　　　　　　　Chapter One　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
confirmed that they died from "typhus" or "cholera" infection just like control animals that had not been prophylactically vaccinated.
　That is, the immunity conferred by sensitized "vaccines" is extremely rapid, appearing 24 or 48 hours after injection.
　Is this persistent? This continues at least as long as the immunity following injection of ordinary "vaccines."
　It is impossible to determine the duration of immunity with extreme numerical precision. Not only must one consider the nature of the vaccine, but furthermore the amount of vaccine, injection site, animal species, and vaccine preparation method are, needless to say, variable factors that alone can change the immune period.
　However, when "plague" prophylactic sensitized "vaccine" is injected subcutaneously or intraperitoneally in guinea pigs, immunity lasts only about a month and a half. This is approximately the same as the time when immunity following injection of non-sensitized heated "plague" bacterial bodies disappears.
　This differs, for example, in "mice": these maintain immunity against "plague" for 4-5 months or longer after receiving sensitized "vaccine."
　"Typhus" and "cholera" prophylactic "vaccines" confer immunity lasting more than 5 months to guinea pigs. This immunity is markedly stronger than that conferred by "plague" prophylactic "vaccines."
　Therefore, sensitized "vaccines," though few are problematic, become harmless, rapid and reliable means, capable of achieving long-term active immunity.
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Since our first publication, a certain number of works have appeared with the purpose of confirming our research and extending the principle of sensitization to other viruses besides those we studied.
　We shall first say a few words about Paladino-Blandini's research published in 1905.
　This author published important experimental work on all materials used for "typhus" prophylactic vaccination methods. Not satisfied with recording publications made in various countries, he himself undertook the work of investigating all vaccines, examining points of efficacy, local reactions and fever, immune duration, etc.

　　　　　　　　　　Chapter One　　　　　　　　　　　　79
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Paladino-Blandini studied 17 types of vaccines: 1) "Bouillon" culture live bacteria of high virulence; 2) live bacteria attenuated by heating at 40° for 3 days; 3) Pfeiffer and Kolle's vaccine; 4) Wright and Semple's vaccine; 5) Chantemesse's toxin; 6) Werner's toxin; 7) Rodet, Lagriffoul and Wahly's toxin; 8) filtered peritoneal exudate; 9) "typhus" bacterial nucleoprotein; 10) Macfadyan and Rowland's extract; 11) Brieger and Mayer's extract; 12) Balthazard's toxin; 13) Shiga's extract; 14) Wassermann's extract; 15) Berne's "typhus" prophylactic serum; 16) Jez's extract; 17) Besredka's vaccine.
　We shall limit ourselves to stating the conclusion of this "monograph" in which the author summarized the results of his comparative study.
　"Besredka's 'typhus' prophylactic 'vaccine' not only has the advantage of conferring immunity in merely 24 hours, but is further considered the best among all immunization methods. That is to say, it causes neither local nor general symptoms, does not become a predisposition to infection, and gives animals more persistent immunity than that obtained by all other known vaccines."
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Now let us discuss other sensitized "vaccines."
　The first to be performed was rabies prophylactic vaccination. Soon after our initial report, A. Marie of the Pasteur Institute had the blessed idea of applying our method to rabies virus.
　The method of rabies vaccine preparation imitated the method generally used for sensitized "vaccines": a suspension of fixed virus is mixed with anti-rabies serum: the mixture is left in contact for 24 hours, then washed with physiological saline to remove excess free serum.
　Such a preparation consisting of rabies virus impregnated with specific sensitizing substances constitutes a rabies prophylactic sensitized "vaccine" (1).
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) If we call all these vaccines—"typhus" prophylactic, "plague" prophylactic, rabies prophylactic and others—by the name of sensitized "vaccines," and do not call them by the name Virus-Serum (serum vaccine) as some scholars make, then to precisely note their main characteristic, it is the point that they contain no free serum. In our opinion, the term Serum-Vaccine should be limited to mixtures of virus and serum used in mixed prophylactic injections.