86　　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
When this quantity is injected intravenously into calves, it immunizes the calves in a few hours. However, even in this case, living bacteria are still found in the bronchial lymph glands for 120 days after inoculation.

These facts are what always occurred when using bile-added sensitized bacteria.

Calmette and Guerin observed that even when injected in large quantities, these bacteria are easily absorbed. The question then arises whether sensitization might prevent the active absorption of living bacteria during test inoculation.

According to experiments, in this case, bacterial absorption becomes clearly active, and therefore absorption proceeds completely.

Female cattle that were prophylactically vaccinated with bile-added sensitized virus and then received test injection (3mgr of highly virulent bovine-type bacteria) 30 days later contained almost no bacteria after 90 days; after 120 days they contained none at all. In contrast, controls that were prophylactically vaccinated with non-sensitized bile-added bacteria still contained living, highly virulent bacteria in the bronchial and mediastinal lymph glands even 120 days after testing.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

F. Meyer's experiments, conducted several months before Calmette and Guerin's experiments, attempted large-dose injection of sensitized tuberculosis bacteria compared to ordinary bacteria. This showed that sensitized bacteria were easily absorbed. A further noteworthy point is their prophylactic vaccination capability.

He proved that sensitized tuberculosis bacteria could tolerate doses more than 5 times greater than those of non-sensitized ordinary bacteria in tuberculous guinea pigs.

He further observed that healthy animals could withstand repeated injections of sensitized bacteria without any obstacles, but generally died from repeated injections of non-sensitized bacteria. Sensitized bacteria generally produce local reactions, mostly minimal reactions, and are then rapidly absorbed.

Regarding the prophylactic effect of vaccines, F. Meyer confirmed the following: guinea pigs treated with sensitized bacteria for long periods and then injected with ordinary tuberculosis bacteria do become infected, but develop disease 8-10 times later than controls.

Even in guinea pigs already in a tuberculous state, treatment with sensitized bacteria, according to him, clinically improves them to the point where the animals appear to be cured.

　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two　　　　　　　　　　　　　　87
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

Meyer acknowledged that he did not succeed in eliminating bacteria from lymph glands; what is possible is to stop weight loss and extend life by several months. He succeeded in giving animals treated in this way survival 9 months longer than controls.

Having obtained these promising results, Meyer decided to use this sensitized vaccine therapeutically in humans. He treated 47 people in various stages of tuberculosis. The effect was particularly remarkable in cases of localized tuberculosis: fistulas or "abscesses" that resisted all treatment rapidly formed scars under the influence of sensitized bacteria. No less favorable results were shown in tuberculosis infections of bones, joints, and eyes. In pulmonary tuberculosis, favorable effects were seen in fever, emaciation, night sweats, cardiac disorders, that is, toxic symptoms. In contrast, the characteristic lung lesions and bacterial content of sputum showed no change at all. Of the 47 patients treated in this way, according to Meyer, 40 patients became markedly better. (1)

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Tuberculosis bacterial extracts, or "tuberculin," are similarly suitable for sensitization.

Vallée and Guinard studied the properties of "concentrated and sensitized tuberculosis bacterial precipitates" and found these substances to be harmless even to tuberculous animals. That is, guinea pigs inoculated with tuberculosis bacteria for more than 6 weeks resist injection of sensitized precipitates in amounts equivalent to 0.5-2gr of crude "tuberculin." The same was true in cattle. Cattle infected for several months showed no reaction fever when receiving precipitates in amounts equivalent to 1-2gr of crude "tuberculin," representing 10-20 times the amount that would cause fever.

Having learned that sensitized tuberculosis bacterial toxin is harmless, Vallée and Guinard tried it in humans. This test was conducted on 30 women affected by pulmonary tuberculosis to various degrees. The authors state: "While injection of the smallest amounts of Koch's 'tuberculin' (1/100, 1/50, 1/10mgr) causes unpleasant symptoms, injection of sensitized precipitates in amounts equivalent to 1/2-4mgr of pure 'tuberculin' precipitated with alcohol produces no fever reaction

――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) In Germany, sensitized tuberculosis bacteria are used under the name tuberculosis prophylactic serum "vaccine" "S.B.E."