90　　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
was used. Although it cannot be proposed in clear terms, the authors consider this treatment to be active and, at any rate, regard it as having good effects in that it appears to be completely harmless even in the most severe cases of sepsis.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

We have not yet touched at all on what happens when purely toxic bacteria are sensitized. Thanks to Dopter's research, we learned that dysentery bacilli, which are both toxic and infectious, acquire high preventive efficacy after sensitization.

It is interesting to conduct this type of research on toxic bacteria, such as diphtheria bacilli and tetanus bacilli.

Regarding diphtheria bacilli, we have only known since Rolla's experiments that their toxicity is reduced when sensitized. In his research on various types of problems, the same author accidentally found that, just like other viruses, sensitization of Loeffler's bacillus results in protecting animals against certainly lethal amounts in 4-5 days, whereas non-sensitized bacteria do not.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The armory of sensitized "vaccines" is recently rich in products of great theoretical and practical interest. We intend to discuss sheep pox prevention vaccine.

The sheep pox virus is an invisible virus that can be sensitized with specific serum (Borrel) without hindrance, forming an extremely potent vaccine from it.

According to the sanitary regulations implemented in Algeria, sheep to be exported should be inoculated with sheep pox or treated with anti-sheep pox serum before boarding. Prevention by serum has the disadvantages of being expensive and short-term. Sheep pox inoculation itself is not dangerous from the viewpoint of easy breeding in sheep pox endemic areas.

Bridré and Boquet fortunately had the idea of trying sensitized virus from the perspective of sheep pox inoculation. Like other viruses, the sensitized virus should simultaneously confer rapid, solid, and long-lasting immunity to sheep; furthermore, it should be completely harmless, that is, not cause the dangers arising from ordinary

　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two　　　　　　　　　　　　　　91
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

viruses. Indeed, experiments showed that sheep pox bacteria brought into contact with anti-sheep pox serum and then separated from the latter by centrifugal precipitation acquired all the expected properties.

When 0.25cc of sensitized virus is injected subcutaneously into sheep, it causes mild fever symptoms and somewhat severe local symptoms in animals. On days 2-4, subcutaneous edema disappears, leaving only gradually decreasing infiltration. An important fact is that the vaccine inoculation site remains closed.

Bridré and Boquet first vaccinated more than 1,200 mature sheep and 8-10 month old lambs. According to their observations, prophylactic vaccination with sensitized sheep pox virus gives more reliable immunity than vaccination with ordinary virus; at the same time, it results in no danger to the vaccinated animals. Since the inoculation site closes, all opportunities for contagion are eliminated. When implemented on animals during the sheep pox incubation period, prophylactic vaccination with sensitized virus appears not to alter the development of the disease; therefore, when used in infected areas, its application would immediately stop epidemics among livestock.

Finally, an important fact resolved by Bridré and Boquet's experiments is that immunity forms rapidly; immunity already occurs after 48 hours. The duration of immunity conferred by this prophylactic vaccination method is over 11 months.

Synthesizing their research, the authors conclude: "Sheep pox prophylactic vaccination with sensitized virus provides all guarantees of safety and effectiveness that can be called, without exaggeration, an effective prophylactic method. When applied in regions like Algeria where sheep pox exists as an endemic disease of livestock, the result would be to limit sheep pox foci and consequently eliminate the disease." (1)

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

―――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) "Ovine animals from Algeria, Tunisia, and French Morocco cannot be imported into France unless they have been prophylactically vaccinated against sheep pox (using sensitized vaccine) within a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 11 months before loading" (Decree of February 5, 1921).
Egypt similarly declared mandatory prophylactic vaccination of all ovine animals imported into the country with sensitized sheep pox vaccine.
From 1913 to 1926, 15,852,604 doses of sensitized sheep pox prevention vaccine were distributed from the Pasteur Institute in Algeria.