92　　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

For reasons that make understanding easier, the sensitized virus most frequently used in vaccine production is first killed by heat or disinfectants. The immunity created by living bacteria is more reliable and solid than that conferred by dead bacteria. However, in practice, especially in humans, we prefer not to use living bacteria.

However, dead bacteria are far more effective than living bacteria—and this fact has been proven by experiment. This is particularly the case with typhus bacteria.

It is well known that during research on experimental typhus fever, Metchnikoff and Besredka could not successfully vaccinate anthropoid apes using ordinary vaccines, namely dead bacteria or bacterial extracts. After repeated failures, they even began to question whether anthropoid apes could be immunized against typhus fever at all. While conducting these studies, the authors were led by unexpected circumstances to experiment with solid typhus prevention immunity when using living typhus bacteria.

Since injection of living typhus bacteria was accompanied by severe local and systemic symptoms, they conceived the idea of sensitizing the virus.

The experiments did not hesitate to show that sensitized living typhus bacteria were practically a complete typhus prevention vaccine. The anthropoid apes that received this vaccine showed no fever symptoms: the local reactions following this injection were minimal, and the immunity that followed was absolute. When subsequently made to swallow large amounts of typhus bacteria, these animals resisted the test and showed no reaction whatsoever, while control animals similarly infected developed fully typical typhus.

This is one example—and certainly others can be found in other cases—namely, this example shows that dead bacteria have almost no effect, and the use of living bacteria with reduced virulence through sensitization is the only thing that achieves the purpose.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

What is true in anthropoid apes should naturally be so, but must also be so in humans. But can we dare to inject living typhus bacteria into humans? Is it not dangerous to inject living bacteria? We can now confirm that fears regarding this problem can be fundamentally eliminated.

　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two　　　　　　　　　　　　　　93
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

Following our fearful and trembling trial of injecting sensitized living typhus bacteria into two people, we requested Broughton-Alcock to continue these experiments. The author confirmed that this prophylactic vaccination was a harmless procedure in 44 people.

The personnel to receive prophylactic injection were divided into three groups according to the amount of vaccine they received.

The first group consisted of 14 people: these were inoculated with 1cc of 24-hour agar culture diluted 100-fold. After 18 days, a second injection twice as large as the first injection was given. There was no recognizable local reaction: body temperature was normal; there was no pain at the injection site; and on the day of injection, the inoculated individuals could engage in their work without any discomfort.

The second group consisted of 10 people; these received 1.5cc of the same dilution as mentioned above for the first injection, then received 3cc after another 9 days. Reactions appeared particularly in people with small physiques; they showed local redness the size of a 5-franc coin. No systemic symptoms were observed in them.

Finally, the third group consisted of 20 people; these first received 2cc of vaccine, then received a second injection of 3cc after 8-10 days. All showed mild local reactions. In 2 people, the inoculated individuals complained of headache and general fatigue. In an extremely small woman, body temperature rose to 38°; however, not one of these 20 people stopped working.

For comparison, 4 people were inoculated with the vaccine used by Leishman. In all of these people, according to Leishman's own description, it was proven that after the first injection there was a slight elevation of body temperature, painful redness lasting 2 days, accompanied by general and head fatigue in all.

From these observations, it can be seen that sensitized living bacteria produce much weaker systemic and local reactions than vaccines composed of dead bacteria in the same amounts.

Very recently, about 700 people were inoculated with sensitized living typhus bacteria; in all of these people, systemic symptoms were not notable and local symptoms were almost absent; therefore