94　　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Therefore, the harmlessness of this vaccine is beyond doubt.(1)
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

At present, there are not many pathogenic bacteria that have escaped attempts at sensitization, and many of these vaccines are already widely used in practice.

Those who have critically evaluated their effectiveness both in the laboratory and in practice have all agreed in recognizing that they are superior to ordinary vaccines. This superiority is first known through their harmlessness, and secondly through the fact that their action is rapid while being reliable and sustained. However, as often happens, as the field of their application expands, the principles governing their manufacture are neglected. We have also sometimes witnessed errors that easily complicate the method.

Since we confirmed these errors even among people belonging to us, we believed it necessary, in collaboration with Basseches, to undertake new experiments, thinking it would be good to decide our opinion before guiding manufacture. We used paratyphus B bacteria; in the case of pathogenic bacteria, it is rare for them to remain unsensitized. We did not regret this choice, as this research was able to confirm facts of general interest.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In order to know the advantages and disadvantages of various vaccination methods, we tested the following preparations bearing the name of vaccines in mice:
　a) Paratyphus living or dead bacteria, non-sensitized;
　b) Paratyphus living or dead bacteria, in the presence of various amounts of anti-paratyphus serum
　c) Paratyphus living bacteria, sensitized.

All these preparations were used by subcutaneous injection. To avoid going into detail, let us note that these experiments demonstrate the following points:

　1) Paratyphus B bacteria decrease in virulence through sensitization, the ratio compared to non-sensitized bacteria being more than 100-fold.

―――
(1) Thousands of people were subsequently vaccinated with sensitized typhus living bacteria vaccine in various countries (Les Annales de l'Institut Pasteur, August 1913).

　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two　　　　　　　　　　　　　　95
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

　2) Sensitized paratyphus living bacteria protect against several times—up to 50 times—the lethal dose of ordinary virulent paratyphus bacteria;

　3) The immunity conferred by sensitized paratyphus bacteria is active immunity; this is formed the day after vaccination;

　4) In contrast to these preparations that create active, solid immunity lasting several months, those mixed with anti-paratyphus serum confer temporary immunity the more serum the preparation contains. In other words, although a vaccine may contain extremely large amounts of bacterial bodies, even if it contains traces of serum, the immunity ceases to be active: it becomes passive.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In concluding this chapter, let us speak a little about the method of action of sensitized "vaccines."

At the beginning of our experiments, we studied to understand what happens at the injection site. We saw that these vaccines, soon after entering the living body, become a favorite food of white blood cells. Also, in our first publication, we considered whether the secret of the properties they display might lie in the phagocytosis of sensitized bacteria that occurs almost immediately.

While we limited our research to the early period of the process, the research of Garbat and Meyer extended to future periods. This research pursued more deeply problems that we ourselves could not address. These researchers turned their attention to the properties acquired by the serum of vaccinated persons; this research contains noteworthy and valuable facts.

Garbat and Meyer worked with rabbits. One group of rabbits was vaccinated with ordinary typhus bacteria, and another group was inoculated with sensitized typhus bacteria. In both cases, injections were given intravenously, and the bacterial amount, injection intervals, and blood collection were the same for all animals. Depending on the case, serum was tested after the first, second, or third injection of bacteria.

Here we describe the results confirmed by the authors.

Among the animals in both groups, there was first a difference in fever response: in sensitized rabbits, body temperature had already risen 2-3 degrees one hour after injection, then dropped rapidly (6-10