100　　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
This is merely inference. Pasteur himself had already given importance to chemical preparations during the course of infectious diseases. Had he not been able to inject cultures filtered through pottery and cause certain symptoms of fowl cholera? From a similar way of thinking, he attributed the action of rabies vaccination to substances other than living rabies virus.

Of course, in order to grasp the essence, the concept of chemical vaccines required the addition of clear experiments. And this was satisfied during the research on septicemia by Roux and Chamberland. Let me describe this here.

Even before these researchers, Charrin had already reported the important fact that rabbits injected with large amounts of filtered Pseudomonas aeruginosa cultures thereby showed a certain degree of resistance to Pseudomonas aeruginosa. At the same time, Salmon was able to prevent swine against hog-cholera in America by injecting sterilized cultures. Independent of Salmon and contemporary with him, Roux and Chamberland published research on septic vibrio that was suggestive to us, under the title that well showed their intention: "On immunity against septicemia by soluble substances." Indeed, the work of Roux and Chamberland should be considered as the starting point for all subsequent achievements related to killed bacterial immunity. According to the appropriate evaluation by Chantemesse and Widal, this research on septicemia constructed a new field in bacteriology. What we see at the beginning of Roux and Chamberland's paper is: "If animals can be rendered insusceptible to highly toxic diseases merely by injecting chemical substances from which all living bacterial bodies have been removed into the living body, we believe that the cause of immunity should become clear." At the same time, they provided experimental proof and were able to render animals insusceptible to one of the most highly virulent diseases, namely acute septicemia.

Guinea pigs that had received three inoculations of heated cultures of septic vibrio (105°-110° for 10 minutes) and the same number of control animals were simultaneously inoculated with highly virulent vibrio. The control animals died within 18 hours, but the pretreated guinea pigs survived. This simple yet eloquent experiment became the basis for all preventive methods using killed bacteria.

About several months after the publication of research on septic vibrio, Chantemesse and Widal published research on typhoid bacilli.

　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination　　　　　　　　　101
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Like Roux and Chamberland, both researchers relied on vaccination methods using cultures sterilized at high temperature. That is, they repeatedly inoculated typhoid bacilli heated at 120° for 10 minutes into the peritoneal cavity of mice, then inoculated them with a reliable lethal dose of typhoid bacilli. Of the 12 mice thus vaccinated, 4 died during treatment, and the surviving 8 proved to be reliably protected.(1)

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The fact of typhoid vaccination established in animals appears to be only one step away from performing it in humans. However, to take this step, it was necessary to wait from the publication date of Chantemesse and Widal in 1888 to the publication date of Pfeiffer and Kolle in 1896, followed by Wright in the same year.

In Pfeiffer and Kolle's research, two facts that appeared important at the time are notable. 1° A special substance that acts bactericidally against typhoid bacilli appears in the serum of typhoid patients during the recovery period. 2° Similar properties are also found in the serum of goats immunized with increasing amounts of typhoid bacilli. In other respects, artificially immunized animals possess the same substance that confers immunity to typhoid convalescent patients against new infection. Pfeiffer and Kolle said, if this is so, could we not create that substance by injecting typhoid bacilli into humans? It should be noted that at this time, the idea of vaccinating humans had already made much progress thanks to Haffkine's persistent fight for cholera eradication in India.

Pfeiffer and Kolle collected agar cultures, made them into suspension in bouillon, then subcutaneously injected typhoid bacilli heated to 56° into two individuals. Six days later, the serum of these people contained the same bactericidal substance that the authors had identified several months earlier in the serum of goats injected with vaccine and in convalescent patient serum. This typh-
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) The question often arises that it is effective not to heat typhoid preventive vaccine to extremely high temperatures. Other issues had already been discussed earlier by Roux and Chamberland in research on anthrax bacilli. Here I quote verbatim what the authors stated on the subject of anthrax vaccination: "It is necessary to lower the temperature as much as possible to a degree that kills the bacteria but does not destroy the vaccine substance, that is, it must be maintained between 55° and 58°" (Annales de l'Institut Pasteur, t. II, 1888, p. 410).