106　　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
As we have pointed out, intravenous injection also has its advocates.

While Pfeiffer and Kolle, Wright and especially Leishman sought to heat vaccines at as low a temperature as possible, Loeffler recommended exposing bacteria to temperatures of 120-150°. Of course these bacteria are first dried and then dry-heated. It is well known that even thermolabile enzymes can withstand extremely high temperatures after drying without losing their properties. The same applies to dried typhoid bacilli. That is, animals inoculated with bacteria heated to 120° form bactericidal and agglutinating antibodies.

According to dosimetric experiments conducted by Friedberger and Moreschi, from the standpoint of antibody formation, Loeffler's antigen showed equal value to that of Pfeiffer-Kolle.

Having made this demonstration, the authors held the opinion that dried, high-temperature heated bacteria should be used for intravenous injection in humans instead of "typhoid preventive vaccine." Indeed, since we proved the existence of anti-endotoxins, it is clear that the most reliable and fastest method to produce them is to inject the entire culture intravenously. Serum obtained under these conditions has the same properties as other sera - preventive effects and agglutination ability - but also has the advantage of anti-endotoxins; that is, intravenous administration can maximize antibody acquisition.

Friedberger and Moreschi were satisfied with heating bacteria to 120° rather than 150° as Loeffler recommended. This was because at 150° the bacteria partially lose their antigenic capacity, and it becomes difficult to create homogeneous suspensions.

Incidentally, it is noteworthy that during these experiments Friedberger and Moreschi recognized the contradictory fact that the amount of antibodies in serum does not necessarily increase in proportion to the amount of antigen injected. That is, the authors obtained the same amount of antibodies with 1/100 platinum loop as with 1 platinum loop.

Thirteen people received intravenous inoculation of dried, heated typhoid bacilli. Injection amounts varied from 1/50 to 1/4000 platinum loop; this was 6,000 to 24,000 times weaker than those injected by the Kolle-Pfeiffer method.

　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination　　　　　　　　　107
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
However, according to the authors' opinion, the results were as good as those obtained by the Kolle-Pfeiffer method. The use of this vaccine, according to them, has great advantages. Namely, this vaccine can be preserved for a long time without autolysis; it is suitable for accurate quantity measurement; finally, intravenous injection avoids local reactions. Regarding systemic reactions, they are no more pronounced than with Pfeiffer and Kolle's vaccine.

Ch. Nicolle, A. Conor and E. Conseil, having gained courage from attempting intravenous injection of live cholera and dysentery bacilli, sought to implement this with typhoid bacilli. However, the difference in the latter method was that they injected bacteria heated at 52° for 30 minutes. Typhoid bacilli suspended in physiological saline were heated, then centrifuged several times for thorough washing. The final suspension contained 400 to 500 million in one drop. Initially they injected one drop of suspension diluted in 10cc of physiological saline, then 15 days later injected 2 drops. Sixty people were vaccinated by this method. The reactions caused by this were no more pronounced than usual. (1)

As we have demonstrated, vaccines used to date almost always consist of bacterial "extracts" or bacteria killed by disinfectants or heat methods. These were killed bacteria. Since 1905, Castellani has tried using live bacteria attenuated by placing them in a 49-50° water bath for one hour in humans. According to this author, temperatures of 49-50° kill only a small number of bacteria. The vaccine thus prepared is injected in amounts of 500 million for the first dose, with double that amount for the second dose. Local or systemic reactions are not very pronounced and do not continue for more than 24-36 hours.

There are other living "typhoid preventive vaccines" of similar nature. These are sensitized vaccines. Before studying this last problem, let us investigate the problem of vaccine control in general.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) Very recently, these scholars used live typhoid bacilli for vaccination purposes, bacteria simply heated at 46° for 25 minutes. All of these bacteria were injected intravenously twice in amounts of 400 to 1,200 million.