120　　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
vaccination does not protect against intoxication in living organisms. Therefore, it is readily believable that animals sufficiently vaccinated against cholera bacilli introduced into tissues cannot resist intoxication by toxins produced in intestinal contents.'

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Through these experiments on young rabbits, which have now become "classic," the rationale for cholera preventive vaccines appears to have become, if not entirely meaningless, significantly precarious.

However, this did not prevent new trials on humans from the standpoint of blood cells or other aspects. Everywhere we heard voices rising in favor of vaccination, initially with fear and trembling, then gradually and positively.

Under their pressure, Metchnikoff became doubtful and in 1910 decided to repeat his experiments that he had been observing on young rabbits for fourteen years. He entrusted Choukevitch with their implementation.

As Metchnikoff established in 1896, young rabbits are susceptible to cholera through swallowing pathogens for the first 20 days after birth.

Choukevitch prepared his experiments so that immune manipulation would be completed within the first 20 days. He then subjected the rabbits to tests by oral method and allowed several more days to observe the effects of inoculation.

Newborn rabbits received subcutaneous injections twice: the first injection was performed 2-3 days after birth; the second injection was performed 4-6 days later.

The animals were then given 7 days of rest, then subjected to testing. Vaccinated rabbits as well as control rabbits from the same litter received the same amount of live vibrios orally around the 15th day after birth.

A total of 31 rabbits were used in the experiment, with 19 as treated animals and 12 as controls.

Of the 19 inoculated animals, 14 died after testing, i.e., 73%.

Of the 12 control animals, 6 died after testing, i.e., 50%.

Therefore, Metchnikoff was justified in affirming in 1896 that subcutaneous injection was powerless against true cholera. This matter was the only conclusion drawn from this new experiment conducted on newborn rabbits.

　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination　　　　　　　　　121
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

If anyone wishes to object that the animals used in the experiment were too young to receive vaccination, Metchnikoff has another decisive answer: newborn rabbits of the same age in question that received two subcutaneous injections of heated vibrios show complete protection when testing is performed intraperitoneally instead of per os.

Through this new experiment, it was declared that cholera vaccination by subcutaneous inoculation is ineffective in intestinal cholera, which is practically the only type relevant to humans.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Laboratory research on cholera preventive vaccines was pursued considerably. Furthermore, in 1902, when the theory of vaccination with sensitized vaccines was written, one of the first bacteria used was the cholera vibrio. Since then, numerous pathogens have been sensitized and widely put to practical use in medicine or veterinary medicine. Only sensitized cholera vibrios, based on the reasons we explained, did not leap over the laboratory entrance. However, research in animals showed that sensitized cholera preventive vaccine acquired immunity with extremely few or no local and systemic reactions. Moreover, this immunity was shown to have the advantage of being solid and arising extremely rapidly without being preceded by the so-called negative phase.

Since the generally prevailing opinion became increasingly unfavorable to the use of cholera preventive vaccine in humans, we were satisfied with recording these facts without going further. (1)

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

This state stagnated for 16 years. As a result, we must jump from 1902 to 1918 to find new research on sensitized curved bacteria again. These studies were carefully conducted by three Japanese bacteriologists: K. Shiga, R. Takano, and S. Yabe. Regarding the details of their experiments, recording them here

―――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) Vaccination with sensitized cholera vibrios is now used almost exclusively in Japan.