126　　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
The experiments are, in some respects, more valuable than animal experiments. This can be judged by citing two or three examples regarding the quality and number of materials available for experimentation.

A certain regiment comprising 4,500 men was severely afflicted by the epidemic: namely, within 10 days, 386 cholera patients were registered, of whom 166 died.
Vaccination was then commenced. Between the first and second injections, new cases continued to occur. The sanitary conditions remained the same. The second injection was administered. Two days later, the epidemic ceased abruptly. Subsequently, no new cases were reported. (Observation II)

In another unit, during the early stage of the epidemic, 280 patients were counted with 120 deaths. The first injection of vaccine led to no improvement whatsoever: namely, about 13 new patients were registered daily. Around the 6th day, everything stopped abruptly; not a single patient appeared except for one company commander who alone refused vaccination. (Observation III)

In a barracks housing 180 men, vaccination was performed for preventive purposes. Only four orderly officers did not receive vaccination. After some time, three cholera patients were reported in the barracks; these were three of the four who had not received preventive injections. All others remained unaffected. (Observation V)

In a certain regiment, the regimental commander opposed vaccinating his subordinates. A Jewish military unit of 200 personnel was compelled to receive preventive injections and complied accordingly. Subsequently, this regiment produced 450 cholera patients. Not a single Jewish soldier who received preventive injections fell ill (Observation VI).

In a hospital assigned to soldiers suffering from typhus, there were Russians and Romanians. Only the Romanians received cholera vaccination. A particularly severe cholera epidemic broke out; the mortality rate reached 40%. Only the Russian soldiers fell ill. Not a single Romanian soldier was affected, except for one sergeant who cleverly evaded the preventive injection (Observation IX).

The observations of the above several cases that we have summarized present circumstances that would compete with even more beautiful experiments than those achievable in the laboratory.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
Is cholera vaccination always harmless?

　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination　　　　　　　　　127
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
This question is not aimed at the local or systemic reactions following each bacterial injection. These reactions, even if criticized, would not be taken into account in the face of the threat of contracting cholera. What is important is to know whether there are dangers when implementing vaccination during a major epidemic.

What epidemiologists have come to believe is that it is not uncommon for epidemic recurrence to occur in the 2-3 days following the first vaccine injection, during which time there is simultaneously an increase in the number of patients as well as an exacerbation of symptoms in people who have already been vaccinated.

We see numerous facts of this kind in the same report by Cantacuzène.

Two women who appeared outwardly healthy received cholera vaccination. Within 6-10 hours after injection, both women suffered severe cholera infection.

Another example records 270 cholera patients and 28 deaths in a certain regiment over several days. Preventive injections were promptly administered to all personnel. Within 3 days after the first cholera vaccination injection, there was a marked increase in both morbidity and mortality rates.

Based on this regiment's suggestion, Cantacuzène acknowledged that "this exacerbation was observed by various physicians in other regiments as well, and this fact draws attention to objections regarding the negative phase and the dangers of conducting vaccination in epidemic areas." He further emphasizes that vaccination should not be avoided during major epidemics for this reason, just as the use of anti-diphtheria serum should not be abandoned for fear of anaphylactic accidents.

Even during the peak of a cholera epidemic, vaccination should naturally be performed, but is it not our duty to research how to minimize the risks of exacerbation that occur in such cases? How can this be achieved?

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
All suspected reasons that reduce individual resistance or prolong periods of weakened state favor strengthening the negative phase.

The shorter this negative phase, the sooner immunity develops, the better suited it is to avoid the disasters of vaccination performed during major epidemics.