130　　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
It is certain that this caused dissatisfaction. Next, there are also theoretical reasons. Namely, since cholera is mainly due to intoxication, it was concluded that using anti-bacterial vaccines is not very justified. However, there was also the history of young rabbits.

The facts established by Metchnikoff are firm: namely, newborn rabbits are the only laboratory animals that can contract cholera orally, that is, they can develop true intestinal cholera; on the other hand, it is certain that young rabbits can hardly be vaccinated by subcutaneous injection.

Corresponding to young rabbits, there are clinical cases: namely, it is noted clinically that one does not contract cholera twice. Therefore, cholera should be included within the category of diseases that can be prevented by vaccination.

Can a person protected by natural infection of the disease be considered the same as one artificially inoculated by the subcutaneous route?

Of course, in each case we recognize that there is bactericidal capacity in the serum. However, this property has value in the complex assembly of elements that govern immunity!

As we investigate immune mechanisms more deeply, we increasingly recognize that Metchnikoff was truly justified in not placing primary importance on bactericidal capacity and not seeking to find the significance of immunity against infectious diseases therein.

Of course, what can provide measurement of immunity or indicate the efficacy of the vaccine used is not the proportion of bacteriolysins present in each individual's serum.

Metchnikoff himself concluded that the efficacy of vaccines should be calculated from their ability to protect animals against intestinal cholera. This is why he conducted little research on preventing peritonitis or septicemia from cholera bacteria, and why he concluded that the only legitimate true cholera preventive vaccine should possess such properties regarding bacteria found in the intestinal tract.

As we shall see, recently obtained facts clearly justify Metchnikoff's thinking. These facts also very satisfactorily explain the contradiction that has existed for a very long time between reality and the laboratory.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination　　　　　　　　　131
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
What we have hinted at has its origin in the new direction felt soon after research on immunity.

Avoiding going into the details of these studies, I will limit myself here to stating the main points.

When guinea pigs are injected subcutaneously with a lethal dose or several times that amount of live bacteria, and death occurs in 12-18 hours, if autopsy is performed as quickly as possible, we see that the bacteria are distributed in the same state as in newborn rabbits inoculated orally, namely the bacteria are always present in the small intestine, and there often in a state of pure culture; also in the cecum and large intestine we see them sometimes in pure state, sometimes mixed with E. coli—in about half the cases. It should be added that bacteria are sometimes seen in the blood, rarely in the peritoneal cavity and gallbladder, but never in the urine.

Even when guinea pigs are inoculated with cholera toxin by the route most distant from the digestive tract, their death occurs mainly due to intestinal infection, namely due to true cholera.

When we see that cholera preventive vaccine protects guinea pigs from toxin inoculated subcutaneously, this prevents true cholera infection, so in practice, the animals are vaccinated. Therefore, it is not at all surprising that vaccines show effectiveness against cholera in humans.

Thus, for this reason, after 25 years of controversy, bacteriologists and epidemiologists have been able to cooperate.

Today, even bacteriologists no longer doubt the efficacy of cholera vaccination, but they demand whether these vaccinations can be made even more effective.

That live bacterial vaccines are superior to killed bacterial vaccines has been sufficiently proven for the majority of bacteria. If we limit ourselves to using live bacteria, there are concerns about unforeseen disasters and systemic infection—which are often realized. However, in the case of live cholera bacteria, these concerns are unnecessary, especially when using pre-sensitized bacteria.

The experiments of our colleague Masaki provided new proof of live cholera bacterial injection after sensitization. According to these experiments, even when live cholera bacteria in amounts of 1/50 of the culture are injected intraperitoneally