132　　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Whether killing guinea pigs by injection or killing guinea pigs by subcutaneous injection of 1/30 the amount of culture, once sensitized, the same bacteria cannot kill guinea pigs even with a full culture or double the culture amount.

The sensitized bacteria maintain their viability, which can be easily demonstrated, but their toxicity to living organisms has been weakened to such an extent that Masaki could not find a lethal dose through subcutaneous injection.

The important findings are as follows: namely, when inoculating large amounts (2-3 cultures) of sensitized live bacteria, when killing guinea pigs by the intraperitoneal route, it was confirmed that the mechanism of death differs from that recognized in the case of non-sensitized bacteria. Even when transplanting intestinal contents, not even traces of bacteria are recognized: that is, instead of quickly leaving the injection site and attempting to localize in the intestines, once sensitized bacteria do not exceed the injection site, as Masaki confirmed. Guinea pigs die immediately due to peritonitis or due to the release of intracellular bacterial toxins, not due to septicemia.

That is, even when inoculating with large amounts of sensitized live bacteria, there is no danger of making the inoculated subjects carriers, nor is there any danger of seeing systemic infection in them.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Should the current vaccination method by subcutaneous injection be considered as the definitive material for "cholera" vaccination? Is it acceptable not to research oral vaccination methods?

At present, laboratory research has not yet reached the point of making this vaccination method appropriate. However, the similarity in infection mechanisms between the typhus-dysentery bacterial group and cholera bacteria allows us to infer that the same mechanism applies to "cholera" vaccination. Above all, anti-cholera immunity, exactly like anti-typhus and anti-dysentery immunity, leads us to believe first and foremost that it is of a local nature (1). If this idea is confirmed in the future, it would be more rational to vaccinate against cholera by the direct route of oral-enteral administration rather than by the long, circuitous route of subcutaneous injection.

――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) See Chapter XII

　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination　　　　　　　　　133
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　　　　　　　　　　　　　References Cited

 Metchnikoff, Annales de l'Institut Pasteur,t, VIII, p, 529,
 Choukévitch Ibid,, t, XXV,p,433,
 Cantacuzène, Ibid,t, XXXIV,p, 57,
 Masaki, Ibid,, t, XXXVI,pp, 273, 399,