IX
　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
　　　　　Role de la Peau Dans l'Ifection et l'Immunité(1)

The majority of bacterial preventive vaccines are introduced into the organism parenterally: that is, by subcutaneous, intramuscular, or intravenous routes. What cannot be overlooked about this vaccination is the presence of antibodies in the blood, so until recently it was believed that there was virtually no other immunity. Upon this confirmation, all current theories of acquired immunity as well as active and passive immunity were built.

In a series of studies begun before the war, we learned that it was possible to form immunity by administering orally or percutaneously. We demonstrated that the sera of animals immunized in this way contain extremely small amounts of antibodies or contain none at all. From this we concluded that immunity does not have an inseparable relationship with the presence of antibodies.

If this is so, one of two things: either two methods of immunity exist in nature, or only one exists, and in this last case, antibodies should be deprived of giving it decisive significance. What we would choose is this second hypothesis.

If we strictly investigate the mechanism in cases of percutaneous or oral infection, we must attribute it to the inherent autonomy belonging to certain cell groups. If the entire organism is completely an individual, we thought that these cells must possess the ability to infect and defend against their own specific hosts. From this idea came the concept of local infections such as skin infection and intestinal infection,

――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) Bulletin de l'Institut Pasteur, t, XXIII, No 20; 1925

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　135
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

and the concept of local immunity. These two means were considered to be related only to so-called "Cellules réceptives" (receptive cells). The antibodies that should replace them are, according to our hypothesis, of little significance or meaningless against the causative pathogens.

What is called Immunisation locale (local immunization) is not necessarily what is called Immunité locale (local immunity). Until today, aside from the local immunity given by abrin from the results of eye immunization methods, we knew nothing else. Now we know that toxins applied locally can spread throughout the body and confer immunity. As will be described later, this is the case with anthrax bacillus immunity: namely, even when acquired by intradermal inoculation, that immunity is systemic and even more robust. Similarly, though mild, intradermal inoculation against staphylococci or streptococci, and intestinal immunization against typhus-paratyphus-dysentery or cholera pathogens confer immunity that spreads throughout the body.

The immunity that should be caused by Immunisation locale (local immunization) is always strictly limited to the cell groups that, from a local anatomical standpoint, should directly contact the vaccine. However, from a physiological standpoint, what should occur is whether the immunity is systemic or not. Yes, if live bacteria are used, their action, even when applied to a localized point on the body, progresses from one to the next and extends to all receptive tissues. Similar things can occur when using killed bacterial vaccines: in the case of wet compress bandages of staphylococcal or streptococcal preparations applied to the entire abdominal wall of guinea pigs, the area involved by bacterial substances spreads extremely widely, and eventually what was local immunity achieves systemic immunity.

Whether Immunisation locale (local immunization) results in Immunité locale (local immunity) or Immunité générale (general immunity), in any case, this method is completed intracellularly, separate from antibodies, in both cases.

We shall examine, in the following description, the significance of skin tissue during the course of certain infectious diseases and the elements by which this tissue participates in the mechanism of immunity.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Even if, in the eyes of physiologists, the action of skin provides good harmony among various organs,