140　　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
such as the scales of fish and reptiles in particular. Humans are not very advantageous in this respect. If they can most often avoid bacterial invasion, it is especially because keratinized cells regularly exfoliate and are replaced by new cells. As Sabouraud said, "the gangrenous layer constantly exfoliates, and if this layer is bacterial, there is constant expulsion of bacteria living on it." In other words, the skin, if we may say so, constantly sheds epithelial cells and removes the types of bacteria that invade them.

In addition to this purely mechanical defense action, the skin has a phagocytic cell system at that site. As soon as a pathogenic bacterium invades the skin, connective tissue thickens and a fibrous capsule forms, which imprisons the pathogen. Infection is then localized there.

This operation is mainly the action of local macrophages already discussed earlier. For example, in the case of tubercle bacilli, it is the action of macrophages that gather in giant cells and give them extremely remarkable development of connective tissue fibers.

Lymphatic elements, namely the migratory cells found inside the epithelium and dermis, similarly migrate during infection. Around the pathogen, these cells gather and become somewhat larger, sometimes forming masses visible to the naked eye. Groups of leukocytes imprisoned in the dermis come to be extracted and finished. The living body is freed from both the pathogen and the phagocytic cells that devoted themselves to its rescue by this method.

An infection that initially was limited to a localized point on the skin sometimes spreads and expands its territory. In this case, local phagocytic cells cannot sufficiently fulfill their duties. The living body then sends migratory phagocytic cells to the rescue: thus directing cells with similar properties, without specificity, to combat all organs threatened by infection.

The immunity of skin tissue is therefore due on one hand to its special structure, and on the other hand to the phagocytic cell system that uniformly bestows its benefits on all tissues that require it.

Recently obtained facts have enlarged this concept. We are satisfied to describe here this concept regarding bacteria such as staphylococci and streptococci.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　141
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Anthrax, previously known as "splenic blood" or "black disease," caused losses amounting to millions of francs annually before Pasteur. Cattle, sheep, horses, and mules died in alarming proportions from anthrax. As is known, very few species do not contract this disease. Even laboratory animals are extremely susceptible; in guinea pigs, often a single bacterium injection is sufficient to kill them. What is notable in autopsy findings is that all organs—without exception—are swarming with bacilli. Blood is as rich in bacilli as in red blood cells. Therefore, anthrax has always been considered a prime example of septicemic infectious disease.

Pasteur's vaccine discovery can protect cattle, horses, and sheep. Only laboratory animals, especially guinea pigs, could not benefit from this discovery. Despite numerous trials, they could not succeed in providing immunity comparable to or even inferior to that so easily obtained in large animals. Experimenters re-experimented with guinea pig vaccination and sought the cause of failure in the explanation of this animal's extremely great susceptibility.

The true cause, as is known today, lies elsewhere.

We will not describe the experimental details here, but according to them, it was found that in guinea pigs, the only organ where bacteria multiply and produce toxins from within is the skin. Outside this organ, bacteria, even if highly virulent, are like contaminant bacteria that neither infect nor can be vaccinated against.

When injecting pathogens while avoiding skin contamination, no danger is given to guinea pigs. We were also able to inject 100 times the lethal dose of virus into guinea pigs intratracheally, intraperitoneally, intragastrically, into the brain or other locations without seeing any障害.

Guinea pig susceptibility to anthrax is therefore not systemic; this animal has skin tissue as a major site, or rather an absolute site. The edema that occurs following pathogen inoculation is—whether it is the portal of entry or not—proof of true skin infection. Experimenters damage the skin because they undoubtedly contaminate it when inserting and withdrawing the pathogen injection needle. According to autopsy, the animal of course develops typical septicemia; however, the initial cause of death is rather skin intoxication than skin infection. In any case, to see that bacteria do not appear in the blood until the end, one must pursue the infection hourly