142　　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
there is no other way than to pursue it. Bacteria are seen to invade the bloodstream only in the few minutes preceding the moribund period. Therefore, what is characteristic of anthrax is intoxication; septicemia comes only later.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

If guinea pigs appear to be very susceptible to anthrax bacilli, according to us it must be due to their skin tissue. Tissues and organs other than the skin actually have no susceptibility.

If this is so, as we say, if we make every effort to vaccinate the highly susceptible tissue, we should be able to vaccinate guinea pigs against the bacteria.

Experiment justified this expectation. By application or, even better, by intradermal injection to immunize the skin, we succeeded in giving guinea pigs very strong immunity against anthrax without great suffering.

It need not be added that skin vaccination has not only the effect of creating skin immunity. The guinea pig simultaneously becomes resistant to anthrax systemically. This can be easily understood above all else. Since guinea pigs have only one highly susceptible organ, the skin, they become resistant to disease from the time this organ is vaccinated. Then, against bacteria injected intraperitoneally, intratracheally, intragastrically, or elsewhere, guinea pigs counter with first the immunity of the initially vaccinated skin, then the innate natural immunity of other organs.

Without trying to support a contradiction, we can say that in our long laboratory experience, we have rarely encountered examples of immunity as solid as that we succeeded in giving guinea pigs against anthrax. The necessary condition for effective vaccination is to perform it percutaneously; other routes, including subcutaneous routes, are ineffective.

When performing the method called "intradermal inoculation in layers," that is, when performing multiple intradermal inoculations simultaneously on various parts of the body, one obtains particularly solid and rapid immunity. Thus, when the immunization method is applied to a large surface, maximum immunity is expressed in minimum time.

In guinea pigs or rabbits, when Pasteur's vaccine is applied to freshly shaved skin,

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　143
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
good results can be obtained. By using the first and then the second vaccine consecutively, these animals can be immunized fairly quickly against large amounts of lethal doses of pathogen.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Few diseases present symptoms of general infection to the same degree as anthrax. Clinical symptoms and bacteriological proof are completely consistent that anthrax causes systemic septicemia. However, only the skin is involved in this infection process; only the skin participates in the development of anthrax immunity.

If vaccination against anthrax can only be realized percutaneously, it is clearly because bacteria secrete toxins only when in contact with the skin. According to us, it is also anthrax toxin that realizes anti-anthrax immunity. Against cells other than skin cells, bacteria should not be able to secrete their toxins; furthermore, it is impossible to vaccinate guinea pigs via intraperitoneal, intratracheal, or intragastric routes.

Anthrax bacilli, in our view, are toxin-secreting bacteria like botulinum or diphtheria bacilli. Furthermore, they multiply after the body's natural resistance is broken: like infantry leaping to assault from positions destroyed by cannon. What we habitually attribute to bacterial virulence is the result of toxins. For this reason, in cases of so-called super-virulent bacteria, i.e., super-toxic bacteria, edema cannot be demonstrated at the injection site.

As we have seen, only the skin participates in vaccination. Although it is of course difficult—vaccination can also be achieved by subcutaneous routes, but immunity obtained thus is far less solid than immunity obtained by intradermal routes.

The history of experimental anthrax in guinea pigs can be summarized in two points: one is that susceptibility is limited to skin cells and other body cells lack it; the other is that immunity is established by vaccinating the receptor cells of skin tissue.

It should be noted that when searching for agglutinins, complement-binding substances, and precipitins in the blood of animals given intradermal inoculation, results are negative or show only traces of antibodies.