144　　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
ble.

As will be described later, the facts observed in anthrax apply, if not entirely, at least in large part to certain other bacteria. Despite using conventional routes, subcutaneous or intraperitoneal, for vaccination, they fail; when abandoning the idea of creating antibodies and aiming for vaccination of receptor cells, immunity is immediately achieved.

The portal of entry for vaccines is therefore extremely important. Hence we disagree with Wright. He asserts without touching on the nature of vaccines that "the subcutaneous route is effective, but the intravenous route is the route of choice." What Wright considers important is the formation of "opsonins"; therefore, from this point of view, all routes have approximately equal value. We believe, on the contrary, that selection of the portal of entry is not as important as selection of the vaccine itself. Since receptor cells are specific, the route by which one wishes to vaccinate must likewise be specific. That is, it must conform to the nature of the vaccine - this is a point that people have forgotten to take into consideration until today.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

If the facts observed in animals given intradermal inoculation for anthrax do not represent particularly biologically peculiar characteristics in guinea pigs, and if they apply to other species of animals as recent observations in rabbits, horses, and cattle seem to confirm, how can we explain Pasteur's excellent results achieved by subcutaneous injection in sheep? Given that Plotz's recent experiments all show how difficult, if not impossible, it is to immunize rabbits against anthrax by subcutaneous injection, the above facts seem even more inexplicable.

Plotz enclosed large amounts of virus (1cc to 3cc = 1,000 to 3,000 times the lethal dose for rabbits) in glass ampoules, and after incising the skin, inserted them into subcutaneous cellular tissue. After 4-5 days, i.e., the time necessary for wounds to form complete scars, he destroyed them in situ, i.e., subcutaneously. When surgery was skillfully performed, rabbits infected by this method did not die. However, we see that none of the rabbits became immune: that is, when later tested by intradermal inoculation of relatively small amounts of virus

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　145
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1/500-1/1,000cc), these rabbits died of anthrax within the same time limits as control animals, even though they had received the surprising large amount of 1cc of virus subcutaneously.

That is, by the subcutaneous route, in rabbits, anti-anthrax immunity is not conferred; this fact is completely established.

Plotz described in his studies an interesting failure. In a few cases where inserted ampoules were destroyed before scar formation in rabbits was sufficient, the rabbits contracted anthrax and died: that is, even very small wounds in the skin are sufficient to attract bacteria and sufficient to manifest lethal anthrax.

According to this observation, if large animals such as sheep are extremely successfully vaccinated against anthrax by subcutaneous inoculation, could this not be attributed to injection needles that create "canals" (sinuses) between cellular tissue and skin? Or should we not recognize that bacteria carried by lymphatic flow can flow back through the long path of subcutaneous "tunnels" to infect receptor cells (cutaneous infection), immunize them (cutaneous vaccination), and confer anti-anthrax immunity (cutaneous immunity) to animals?

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Are the matters we have described regarding anthrax problems specific only to anthrax bacilli? Are there no cases where similar phenomena are observed in other infections of humans or animals?

First, I think diseases where phenomena of the same order might be seen are those caused by staphylococci and streptococci.

It is well known that most of these infections are almost entirely related to the skin. The serum of these patients, even when it has antibodies, generally has very few. However, this belongs to the class of diseases where "vaccine" therapy is most effective - this is an established fact. If so, what we require - that which bears the entire burden of infection, ensures the burden of vaccination, and reliably confers immunity to the organism - would this not be skin tissue?

The possibility of experimentally producing skin lesions caused by staphylococci and streptococci is this