148　　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Due to our summarized experiments becoming clear, the problem of vaccine therapy in humans is now evident.

This treatment method occupied territory in clinical practice day by day. In English-speaking countries, the use of vaccines spread particularly widely. There, they treat almost all infections by injection, from the mildest nasal catarrh to the most severe septicemia. In France, subcutaneous injections are not performed as much. They rely on this especially for infections caused by staphylococci: furuncles, carbuncles, otitis media, acne, osteomyelitis, periostitis, abscesses and others. This treatment does not give satisfaction in many cases. For certain types of streptococci, for certain lesions caused by pseudodiphtheria bacteria, pneumococci, and Friedländer's bacteria, they use vaccines or autovaccines that are uniformly commercially available. The relatively favorable results of this treatment are attributed to the opsonic action of antibodies produced by the patients themselves. Because these actions are added to the actions of antibodies already formed in the living body, and thus the combined antibodies form powerful weapons against infection. This is how people explain vaccine therapy. This is today nothing more than almost a dogmatic theory with no proof whatsoever.

However, in this explanation of vaccine therapy, there is something that cannot be reconciled with known facts. Those who have used staphylococci in laboratories know how powerless their antigenic capabilities are. Few bacteriologists can boast of possessing effective anti-staphylococcal sera in their hands. Without being blamed for exaggeration, it can be affirmed that pathogenic bacteria with poor antibody formation like staphylococci are little known. Nevertheless, clinicians - though not habitually but uniformly - affirm that they are not unaware of cures as remarkable as those obtained by vaccine therapy treatment.

Should practical clinical success be attributed to antibodies that are difficult to manifest and often problematic? Does simple reasoning not force us to reserve judgment on this point? Assuming that staphylococci are cured thanks to antibodies, when the living body is already affected by an extremely large number of living bacteria, is not the importance of supplementing millions of bacterial bodies injected subcutaneously too exaggerated?

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　149
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The discrepancy between laboratory and clinic disappears if we acknowledge that vaccine therapy is based on methods localized to receptor cell layers.

According to Wright, "vaccine therapy" is the cooperative action of bactericidal substances, opsonins, and phagocytes, but according to what our experiments with staphylococci and streptococci prove, we consider that this treatment arises from local immunity.

Clinicians did not hesitate to be inspired by this new idea of vaccine therapy. As soon as the possibility of protecting guinea pigs against staphylococcal and streptococcal infections was proven, simply by using special wet bandages, they endeavored to quickly apply these attempts to humans. There is no time here to detail the results obtained clinically. I will only mention the following: that at present thousands of patients with conditions localized to skin and mucous membranes have been successfully treated with antibacterial compresses.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In many cases, cultures passed through filters - that is, non-toxic liquids containing no bacterial bodies - were used. Furuncles, carbuncles, whitlows, osteitis, osteomyelitis, various purulent discharges with or without traces of fistulas, pleurisy, peritonitis, puerperal fever, etc., were treated with results that could not be achieved with ordinary vaccine inoculation.

The therapeutic effects obtained in humans were based on experiments in animals. And this proved the opinion that rational vaccine therapy should be based not on antibody formation but on vaccination of affected organs or tissues.

Here we must consider how to think about the mechanism of vaccine therapy. This treatment method is not based on antibody formation as people believe. To avoid being eroded, the living body exerts its maximum possible effort during illness. Vaccine therapeutic agents do not cure diseased cells, but simply protect cells that have not yet been affected.

During the course of already developed disease, vaccines have the power to saturate the affinity that receptor cells not yet impaired feel toward viruses: that is, vacci-