150　　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
The vaccine makes these cells non-susceptible, thus making it impossible for them to interact with viruses.

Vaccine therapy considered in this way is guided by the prevention of healthy receptor cells; its purpose is to make it impossible for these healthy cells to become prey to new infection, thereby localizing the infectious focus. Regarding already infected cells, in the case of phagocytic cell types, the therapeutic properties are sufficient if limited only to the bacteria that have invaded them.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The similarities recognized between the mode of action of anthrax bacilli and that of staphylococci and streptococci seem to be initially reserved for laboratory research. This is because, even though in guinea pigs the affinity of anthrax bacilli and staphylococci for skin tissue is firm, in humans the parasitic sites of staphylococci differ markedly, so it cannot be said that the same applies to all humans.

Therefore, it would be premature to deduce that staphylococci or streptococci have the same affinity for human skin as seen with anthrax bacteria for guinea pig skin. In this case, it cannot be said that there is no certainty that skin is also the initial organ of infection in humans. In many cases, what constitutes the entire disease at some stage of infection is infection of the skin or mucous membranes.

Therefore, let us trace back to the origins of the majority of human staphylococci and streptococci. Although these bacteria have joints, pleura, kidneys, or other organs as their dwelling places, most frequently they find the same origin for their pathogens: namely within the scope of skin and mucous membranes. It is from there that cocci depart to migrate to blood or visceral organs. Furthermore, exactly as in guinea pigs, in humans too, it is no exaggeration to say that the pathogenicity of most infections caused by staphylococci or streptococci is dominated by skin infection. This pathogenicity is clear for furuncles, folliculitis, whitlows, blepharitis, mastitis, bartholinitis, endometritis, keratitis, and certain oral infections. This pathogenicity is not prominent in bone and joint, cardiovascular, or renal parasitic sites; but even there, the significance of the primary skin lesion is beyond doubt.

Among osteomyelitis cases, is not the initial cause often a furuncle, abscess, or mere skin

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　151
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
abrasion? Is not infective endocarditis, however doubtful, sometimes due to staphylococcal infection of skin or mucous membranes? Even septicemia with miliary abscesses in the kidneys - is not its cause continuously resolved from skin contaminated by staphylococci? Sometimes it is a facial furuncle, sometimes a cervical carbuncle, sometimes angina, and apparently benign conditions open the gateway to septicemia.

In summary, from benign labial herpes to ulcerative endocarditis, the clinical changes derived from staphylococci are diverse, but in many cases, the initial skin infection cannot be overlooked.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The role of skin is not only to serve as the very first stage in the essence of disease, but also similarly in immunity. It is almost impossible for us to say that skin tissue has no relation to vaccination methods in anti-anthrax immunity. The good results obtained by applying skin inoculation methods in sheep, cattle, and horses are too numerous to count.

The same kind of facts have recently been observed in swine cholera disease. This recalls the unsuccessful vaccination trials conducted by Salmon and Smith, Schweitzer, and Citron's research on "aggressins."

In recent research, our colleague Jeney showed that swine cholera bacteria are far more virulent by the percutaneous route than by all other routes; in other words, in guinea pigs, as if swine cholera were particularly a skin infection, the skin is an excellent receptor organ.

Based on this, Jeney performed skin inoculation. By this method, merely applying bandages soaked with special "antivirus" to the abdomen, he was able to establish even stronger immunity. Guinea pigs bandaged in this way obtained immunity superior to that given by specific serum. That is, these bandaging methods showed that they protect animals against pathogens injected subcutaneously, but are powerless to protect against injection of pathogens into the abdominal cavity - this clearly proves that protection against swine cholera is skin immunity.