156　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
of which 2 were during the vaccination process and 2 were post-inoculation, representing 0.45%.

However, in the five years from 1919 to 1923, during which period other vaccination methods were implemented, there was an average annual loss of 88 animals, representing 8.1%. Thus, the intradermal inoculation method reduced the five-year average mortality rate by approximately 20-fold.

Here I will describe with what words the chief veterinarian reported to the army colonel: "This is an unprecedented success in the history of anthrax preventive vaccination in horses. The success should be attributed to the almost completely harmless nature and effectiveness of the intradermal inoculation method."

The same inoculation method was applied the following year (1925). "These recent implementation results clearly validated the 1924 results described in our report to the minister, namely that vaccination by Besredka's method showed few reactions—no fatal disasters from vaccination were observed at all—and conferred solid immunity lasting one year to horses."

In 1925, of 6,994 horses and donkeys, 5 died, representing 0.72%; this result is even more remarkable considering that 1925 was the "year of anthrax" in Syria (1).

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In our country, the animals said to benefit most from anthrax vaccination are sheep and cattle. Within 1924 in Morocco, at the initiative of Monod and Velu, 21,640 vaccinations were performed on cattle and sheep (14,405 cattle, 12,520 sheep, 4,640 pigs, and 75 horses).

An important point to note is that these vaccinations were implemented in areas with extremely high pathogen concentration. An equally important point is that vaccination was performed in a single dose instead of twice as in the Pasteur method, which is a great advantage for veterinarians and farmers.

The veterinarians in Morocco, having adopted this intradermal inoculation method, came to uniformly acknowledge its harmless

――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) Report from the chief veterinarian to the army minister. See Revue Vétérin. milit., 1926,

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　157
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
nature, its implementation even in already infected herds, its effectiveness, and even that it should be adopted as the superior method.

Since then, over 500,000 vaccinations have been performed in Morocco under the direction of Monod and Velu.

Here I will describe what knowledge was gained from the synthesis of vaccination results.

"The general experiments and practice undertaken in Morocco proved, contrary to commonly held opinion, that a single intradermal injection is sufficient to determine the development of solid immunity without causing fever reactions, local reactions, or systemic reactions.

"Immunity is obtained almost immediately. A single intradermal inoculation provides almost explosive immunity, because vaccine interference can, in the majority of cases, suppress even the most severe epizootic within 48 hours, though this is quite rare. For this reason, there is no need to perform expensive serum injections on animals in previously infected livestock herds.

"Immunity is solid, because one-fifth of the minimum immune dose for subcutaneous injection is sufficient for intradermal injection vaccination, and therefore five times this amount can be used for vaccination.

"Immunity is intense, because animals vaccinated in this way resist subcutaneous injection of 1,000 times the minimum lethal dose of virulent anthrax bacteria, remaining as calm as animals that received 2-3 subcutaneous vaccine injections in infected areas.

"Immunity is lasting, because in most cases where this was implemented, no case of anthrax disease was observed in animals vaccinated for one year, and this appeared to be the same even when these animals were in infected areas where epizootics had occurred.

Finally, Velu has derived the following conclusions from his summary of observations, which we will reproduce verbatim.

"The single intradermal inoculation method against anthrax bacteria is a simple and economical method. Its harmless nature and reliable efficacy, the explosive development of immunity that can eliminate serum injection, and the possibility of simultaneous vaccination, place it in a position for extensive breeding areas