158　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
have clearly become necessary. That is, in such places veterinarians are extremely distant, animals are semi-wild and difficult to handle, herds wander, and it is difficult to gather them all together for 2 or 3 successive times.

"Therefore, research on intradermal inoculation methods cannot demand a technique simpler than this, more harmless in its implementation, or more reliable in its results. Such a method can be declared to contribute to colonial implementation."

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

For therapeutic purposes, vaccination through skin or mucous membranes is used in numerous and diverse ways in human and veterinary clinical practice. We shall borrow from the papers of Bouchaud, Cacan, Coignete, Latil, Laseigne, Philippeau, Ravina as well as research published in various periodicals by Bass, Bonneau, Chevalley, Demetriadès, Gerlach et Kralicek, Hababou-Sala, Kandyba et Natanson, Kissine, Levy-Solal et Simard, Lobre-Francillon, Lotheisen, Naudin, Nicolas, Nicolaewa, Normet, Ribadeau, Roux, Schlein, Tonnat, Tron, and report a certain number of observations.

　　　　　　　　　　　Furunculosis
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Furonculose

Whether furuncles are isolated or clustered, whether on limbs, trunk, within the external auditory canal, or on the face, recent experiments have achieved excellent results by substituting special bandages with anti-staphylococcal filtrate for wet compress bandages, ointments, and iodine tincture applications.

If treated early, furuncles are aborted. If treated when sufficiently mature, they progress rapidly. In either case, special bandages quickly stop pain and promote scab formation as soon as the purulent core disappears.

　Observation I　P... Developed a furuncle with severe pain in the coccygeal region, preventing almost all sleep.
　Since May 7, the patient cannot move and remains bedridden. The pain is extremely severe, requiring the patient to endure to avoid crying out.
　On May 10, anti-staphylococcal bandage was tried for the first time. Pain soon decreased, then completely disappeared

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　159
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
and the patient slept.
　After 4 hours, the compress dried and pain recurred. At 8 PM, new bandaging; pain immediately disappeared. At 4 AM on May 11, then at noon, bandages were renewed. The purulent mass was removed.
　May 12, inflammatory symptoms decreased. The patient's condition became increasingly satisfactory.

　Observation II　G... Furuncle developed on left thigh; central part strongly congested and cyanotic. Without pus discharge, a small opening is visible. Infiltration is deep and hard. Pain severe. Patient walks with difficulty using a cane.
　January 29, anti-staphylococcal wet compress bandage was applied for the first time. Next day pain disappeared. Redness faded and inflammation decreased.
　February 1, no redness or edema observed. Final specific bandage applied.

　Observation III　Lathe worker, suffering from furunculosis for 3 months. Large furuncle on neck; opening of purulent core only seeps; neck pain and induration continue for several days despite usual treatment.
　Wet compress bandage with bouillon-vaccine applied; within hours, patient noticed relief. Next day, upon rising, "patient rotates head completely freely without feeling bad at all." Within 24 hours, furuncle became depressed and discharge stopped.

　Observation IV　Young man, for two months, a series of furuncles developed on neck. Various treatments tried without effect. At onset, 17 furuncles were scattered on his neck, 4 of which were large. Patient cannot move head or sleep. After cleaning pustules and incision, pressure bandage soaked with anti-staphylococcal filtrate applied.
　Direct effect known by pain relief. Next day, inflammatory symptoms disappeared. Neck showing wine-lees color returned to normal appearance. Lymph gland swelling reduced in volume. After three wet compress bandages, purulent masses of large furuncles were removed and small furuncles dried.

　Observation V　30-year-old man, upon morning awakening, tip of nose red, swollen and painful. Hard small mass felt on inner surface of right nasal wing, painful when pressed. Wet compress bandage soaked with staphylococcal antivirus applied. Almost immediately, patient relieved; redness and pain quickly disappeared. Specific bandage renewed in afternoon and next day. At this time, patient recognized cure. Furuncle disappeared and no recurrence occurred.

　Observation VI (Self-observation by Dr R... of Montpellier)　For several days, I have been affected by a large furuncle in right nostril: suffering painfully for 3-4 days. I placed a cotton tampon soaked with bouillon-vaccine in contact with the furuncle in the infected nostril all night. I confess I was somewhat doubtful of the results. However, upon rising I was completely relieved