162　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
complained of pain. Since there was concern about involvement of the tendon sheath, we applied bandaging with vaccine. This was changed the next day, but edema, redness and pain decreased, and pus was induced subcutaneously. Complete healing was obtained in 9 days.

　　　　　　　　　　　Mastitis
　　　　　　　　　　Mammite

　In cases of mammary gland inflammation presenting itching, redness, and painful swelling, immediate use of specific bandaging very often promotes absorption without suppuration. When pus formation occurs, after incision, washing with filtrate and insertion of gauze soaked in filtrate rapidly forms scars.

　Observation I　L... (Françoise), admitted to Saint Germain Hospital on January 5 for breast abscess that developed 18 days earlier. Extremely severe local pain. Temperature 39°. With a 2cm incision, large amount of purulent discharge was drained; streptococci were found in this.

　The abscess cavity was firmly packed with gauze soaked in vaccine filtrate. Almost immediately, disappearance of pain and fever was recognized.

　Complete healing in 20 days.

　Observation II　Massive breast abscess, four incisions made radially like wheel spokes, requiring major drainage with tubes. The gland became the site of inflammatory induration, deep and hardened, finally about to suppurate.

　Through drainage tubes, performed steam nebulization filled with bouillon-vaccine, inserting gauze soaked in this same solution as deeply as possible.

　What normally requires a long period when infection involves almost the entire breast progressed remarkably rapidly: within 20 days, the breast returned to normal appearance, with its flexibility requiring a wait of 5-6 weeks.

　　　　　　　　Influenza-related Suppurative Otitis
　　　　　　Otite Suppurée Grippale

　An ear abscess perforated on January 13. Prescribed ear baths with mercuric glycerin followed by boric acid alcohol. This washing was performed daily until February 5 with no significant effect; the infection threatened to become chronic.

　February 5, used ear baths with several drops of bouillon-vaccine added; applied cotton soaked in the same solution to the

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　163
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
auricle.

　February 6, discharge completely dried.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Middle Ear Abscess
　　　　　　　　　Abcès de l'Oreille Moyenne

　Middle ear abscess, tympanic membrane perforated and mastoiditis about to begin, patient was about to visit a specialist to receive bone drilling surgery.

　After application of bouillon-vaccine, patient soon improved; slept soundly the first night and recovered without surgery.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mustache Sycosis
　　　　　　　　　Sycosis de la Moustache

　Mr. M... regularly contracted mustache sycosis twice a year. Ordinarily, despite using pomades and various washing solutions, infection would soak extensive areas of skin and continue for several weeks. When the patient came, lesions had appeared the previous day occupying a 2-3 square centimeter surface area. Cauterized the most prominent suppurative lesions with fire and performed hair removal with tweezers; applied bouillon-vaccine bandaging over this. That evening passed extremely well; itching healed within a few hours. The next morning, while removing the bandage, the patient was very surprised to recognize "that it had healed." Clearly, the depilated skin had become clean and could be completely compared to surrounding healthy skin. The excellence of skin inoculation that we had Dr. N recognize in this patient shows it surpasses all disinfectants used previously.

　　　　　　　　Neonatal Pyodermatitis
　　　　　　　Pyodermite des Nourrissons

This widely spread disease is hopeless due to its stubbornness and strong resistance to various treatments.

　Observation I　V.R... 6 months old, admitted to Professor Marfan's ward on October 13, 1925. She presented with secondary malnutrition, mild rickets with beaded ribs, and small multiple adenopathy of neck, axilla, and inguinal regions.

　October 23, showed numerous eruptions limited to the neck consisting of pemphigus-like lesions. Other areas, face