166　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
gave good results, particularly effective when bile was applied to the mucous membrane in advance.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Infected Wound of the Cornea
　　　　　　　　　　Plaie Infectée de la Cornée

　F.G. received a foreign body in the cornea on October 8. Soon after, he developed a serpentine progressive abscess, followed by hypopyon. The patient suffered severely and could not sleep at all.
　October 20, first bouillon-vaccine application. On the 21st, despite discontinuing atropine, pain subsided, there was no longer hypopyon; the abscess was cleansed. Only a cleansed deep ulcer remained at the abscess site. This good progress continued until the 27th, when adequate adhesion occurred, infection disappeared, and vision was restored.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Chronic Abscess of Lacrimal Sac
　　　　　　　　　　Abcès Chronique de Sac Lacrymal

　Occurred in a diabetic patient where therapeutic surgery was hesitated to perform. The lacrimal sac was washed four times with antivirus filtrate, causing all suppuration to subside.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Dacryocystitis
　　　　　　　　　　　Dacryocystite

　Observation I　16-year-old young girl, December 4, 1924, came for lacrimal sac infection. She had been ill for 3 years. Large amounts of pus flowed from the right lacrimal sac. This pus formed extremely rapidly. In childhood, she contracted a cold and was treated with catheter and injection of various substances into the lacrimal sac. Within two years, an abscess formed at the lacrimal sac site.
　Bacteriological examination proved pneumococci. December 18, first instillation of autologous antivirus into the lacrimal sac. Treatment with autologous antivirus continued until December 30; a total of 6 injections were given. January 10, the patient was cured and discharged. She was observed for 2.5 years with no recurrence.

　Observation II　38-year-old woman, February 24, 1925, visited for right dacryocystitis. She had been ill for 4 years. Large amounts of pus flowed from the lacrimal sac. The patient was treated by specialists but without success. Recently surgery was recommended but she refused to comply.
　Bacteriological examination found diplococci forming short chains. March 12, autologous

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　167
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
antivirus was injected into the lacrimal sac. Injection was repeated seven times. March 31, the patient was cured and discharged. She was observed for two years.

　Observation III　45-year-old woman, March 3, 1925, visited for lacrimal sac inflammation. She had been ill for 6 years. Thick, copious pus flowed from the right lacrimal sac. The patient had received various treatments; was frequently irrigated with catheter.
　Bacteriological examination found pneumococci. March 21, the first injection of autologous antivirus into the right lacrimal sac was performed. This was followed by 11 more injections. April 18, the patient was cured and discharged; she remained for observation for another 2 years.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Ulcerative Blepharitis
　　　　　　　　　　　Blépharite Ulcéreuse

　Observation I　35-year-old male; suffered from blepharitis for 2 years; redness and infiltration of eyelid margins, adherent crusts with deep ulcers at hair follicles. Staphylococcus aureus was found. The patient had a tendency toward furunculosis. Wright's method vaccine therapy was performed; the patient then received a course of subcutaneous arsenic injections and took brewer's yeast orally, but none were effective.
　Following application of compress bandages with staphylococcal antivirus, the eyelids quickly returned to normal appearance. The patient was observed for 5 months with no recurrence.

　Observation II　Eczematous blepharitis of the right eyelid with typical exudative ulcers covered by thin skin; small ulcers were noted along the eyelash margins; in the eyelid area, the red skin became cracked showing tendency to ulcerate. On the left side, redness spread further with bran-like scaling, and two styes with white centers existed.
　Before this infection became chronic, compress bandages with antivirus were applied. After 5 bandages, i.e., one week after treatment, all symptoms were removed and wounds closed. "The styes disappeared as if by magic after two bandages."

　Observation III　14-year-old boy; had crusts adhering to eyelid margins for one year. When removed, small hemorrhagic ulcers were exposed. Eyelid margins were congested and mildly infiltrated. Staphylococcus aureus was identified. Compress bandages with staphylococcal antivirus led to healing. The patient remained for observation for 2 months.