170　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
with antivirus, the abscess reduced in size and healed completely in 6 days.

　Observation V　Post-operative phlegmon, following hernia surgery, temperature rose, reaching 38.5° on the 3rd day; on the 4th day, temperature reached 40°. No symptoms of peritonitis; however, at the surgical wound site, there was erythema, pain and swelling covering an area the size of a palm. Sutures did not heal; two drainage tubes were placed. The next day, suppuration and separation of the abdominal wall showed characteristics of large phlegmon. Inflammatory appearance became markedly extensive; temperature reached 39.5°. The next day, the same inflammatory symptoms discharged large amounts of pus from the drainage tubes, with a tendency to constantly worsen.
　At this time the drainage tubes were replaced with gauze soaked with antivirus; compression bandages soaked with the same solution were applied to all areas of red edema. In the evening, temperature dropped to 38.5°. The patient complained of no distress; clearly evidencing improvement. The next day, temperature became normal; rose no further. Inflammatory symptoms disappeared. Incision allowed drainage of pus from lower connecting tissue that had become gangrenous and formed drainage openings. Complete healing in 6 days.

　Observation VI　Contaminated puncture of hand, massive swelling, lymphadenitis, axillary ganglion, threat of phlegmon formation, severe pain, inability to move fingers. Two hours after first bandage with antivirus, pain disappeared and fingers became mobile. On the 3rd day, after two more bandages, healing was complete. The treating physician, reporting this patient's case history, concluded with these words: "Nothing in this world is perfect, but this treatment seems to me almost that."

　Observation VII　Patient stepped on a rusty nail in the foot, presenting foot phlegmon and concurrent lymphadenitis of the leg and buttock. After receiving antivirus bandages, the patient saw inflammatory symptoms disappear in 48 hours. Began walking after 4 days.

　Observation VIII　Farmer crushed his hand while engaged in building a manure cart: multiple open fractures of finger bones, tissue lacerations, invasion of soil and manure. Normally, amputation would seem unavoidable.
　With special bandages, the patient healed very well with no notable suppuration.

　Observation IX　Mrs. J, admitted to the gynecological ward in Hué (Annam) for multiple ulcers around the vulva - suppurative spongy ulcerative lesions with tendency toward gangrene of surrounding tissues. All treatments with antiseptics failed and bacterial culture proved the presence of staphylococci and Pseudomonas, so special bouillon-vaccine was used in bandage form twice daily. Very rapidly, pain weakened, ulcers became clean and the tendency toward gangrene ceased. On the 5th day of treatment, epithelialization began and granulation appeared; on the 7th day the infectious state improved enough to discontinue special treatment and switch to saline solution bandages. Healing proceeded without any abnormality.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　171
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　It should be added that this local treatment method was completed by general therapy performed in the form of anti-suppurative "lipo-vaccine" injections.

　Observation X　Le Thi C, large ulcer on the posterolateral aspect of the neck, severely suppurating, deep, with tendency to cause gangrene in surrounding tissues, treated at the Hué quarantine station. Fever fluctuated between 38° and 39.2° for 4 days: severe weakness, pulse rapid and weak; inflammatory edema occupied the entire same-side face. Culture made from the wound site yielded pure streptococcal culture, so on the afternoon of the 4th day, simultaneous with local bandaging with special preparation, 15cc intravenous injection of streptococcal bouillon-vaccine was performed. The next day, fever dropped from 39.2° to 37.8°; pulse improved; wound surface began to become clean. From this day, injections were stopped and only local therapy in the form of twice-daily bandaging was performed. Very rapidly, the tendency toward gangrene ceased, inflammatory edema disappeared, and temperature remained normal.

　　　　　　　　　Whitlow in a Bull
　　　　　　　　　Panaris Chez un Bœuf

　5-year-old bull developed whitlow at the tip of the left forelimb. There was a fistula in the coronary band area. The animal was severely lame; the animal lay down and refused food. Despite application of ointment for 14 days, the animal's condition only worsened. Recovery was no longer expected. Pulse was 90, completely lost appetite. Due to impending death, decided to slaughter.
　Prior to this decision, wet compresses with antivirus were applied to the affected area and changed at 30-minute intervals for 12 hours. Encountered surprising effects: soon, the animal rose up and remained standing. Bandaging was continued for several more days, leading to complete healing and rapid return to normal weight.

　　　　　　　　Chronic Phlegmon with Multiple Abscesses 
　　　　　　　　in a Horse
　　Phlegmon Chronique Avec Abcès Multiples Chez Cheval

　Horse, for 3 months, suffered from chronic phlegmon with multiple abscesses at the distal portion of the hind limb. Formed a massive tumor the size of a human head. Hair loss; serous-purulent secretions; fluctuant collections in various places. When one abscess was incised, large amounts of pus flowed out. Severe pain in the leg; loss of appetite; temperature 39.6°.
　Despite treatment (incision of abscesses, antiseptics, bandages, application of iodine tincture), new abscesses and worsening dermatitis were observed. Decided to sacrifice the horse. However, before killing it