176　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Streptococci were recognized in it. Blood was sterile. Tampons soaked with streptococcal filtrate were inserted into the uterus and vagina. In the afternoon, the patient experienced chills and rigors lasting 10 minutes.
　8th day, uterine height was two finger-widths below the navel. Tongue was coated and dry. The uterus continuously secreted purulent brownish fluid. Third tampon.
　10th day, wound surface became clean; edema almost disappeared. Fourth tampon.
　11th day, wound became completely clean; edema of reproductive organs disappeared; secretions markedly decreased. Fifth tampon. The next day, wound healed rapidly; patient was discharged cured on the 24th day.
　In summary, in women affected by severe systemic infection or intense local inflammation, tampons with streptococcal filtrate have the effect of dispersing edema extremely rapidly and healing wounds considerably quickly.

　Observation II　Primipara, 26 years old. Day after delivery, temperature rose to 39.3°. Edema of labia majora. Chills and rigors. 3rd day, temperature 39.7°; pulse 110; abdominal distension; uterine pain present.
　5th day, abdominal distension, tension, pain. Foul-smelling brownish fluid flows from uterus. Temperature 40°. Perineal laceration, edema, covered with membrane. Cervix covered with fatty material. Streptococci in uterine secretions. Blood sterile.
　As vaginal and uterine tampons, first mixed filtrate (before bacteriological examination), then streptococcal filtrate method was employed. Afternoon, chills and rigors continued for 30 minutes.
　5th day, i.e., day after first tampon was applied, temperature was 39.6°; new application of streptococcal tampon. 6th and 7th days, uterine secretions decreased in amount, but temperature remained elevated, reaching 39.6°.
　8th day, following profuse sweating, fever broke and dropped to 37.2°. Uterus no longer painful. Two days later, secretions became serous. Patient discharged on 13th day.
　In this case, chronic septic endometritis due to streptococci complicated by pelvic connective tissue inflammation was affecting. Due to antivirus influence, peritonitis symptoms disappeared; membrane weakened with first tampon; pain and fever disappeared after four applications of filtrate.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Cystitis
　　　　　　　　　　　　Cystite

　Observation　Mme N... had her first attack of cystitis after using a sound following appendicitis surgery at age 18. This cystitis never completely healed; during pregnancy the patient developed pyelonephritis (Pyélonéphrite). During this period, and in the future, local treatment of cystitis was not appropriate. When bladder pain appeared following fatigue or during dampness, only urotropin was given. In 1921,

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　177
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　after swallowing beverages containing some alcohol, the patient had a severe attack of cystitis; after examining urine, washing with Argyrol was performed. At this time, examination of urine and pus revealed E. coli and enterococci.
　On Dr. M...'s recommendation, autogenous vaccine of E. coli sodium was injected; washing was also continued. The attack stopped, but recurred several months later; and urine was always turbid even when urination caused no further pain.
　In 1923, I performed intravenous injection of bacteriophage on the patient. I injected 20cc into the bladder; simultaneously injected 10cc subcutaneously, and the patient orally took 20cc of bacteriophage. Following this treatment, urine became clearer than before, but emitted an intense, extremely unpleasant carbolic acid-like odor. This intensified when new bladder attacks appeared; despite treatment, new attacks appeared in 1924 and 1925.
　September 1925, the patient continued to suffer from the carbolic acid-like odor of her urine. Bacteriological examination proved staphylococci, so intravesical injection of staphylococcal filtrate was performed. After retaining the filtrate for 3 hours, the patient excreted urine, filtrate, and thick purulent fluid.
　The next day, the carbolic acid-like odor disappeared from the urine. Eight days later, antivirus was newly injected; liquid was retained for 3 hours, with no pain after urination. Five days later, new injection was made; this time a temporary painful attack occurred after urination. Thereafter there was neither pain nor urinary odor.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pyelonephritis
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pyélonéphrite

　Observation I　Mme G..., 30 years old, second pregnancy. During first pregnancy, the woman developed proteinuria due to pyelonephritis, which caused eclamptic attacks during delivery.
　Patient at 4 months pregnancy, has pyelonephritis. Kidney pain. Cystitis. Proteinuria containing pus. Temperature not high: 37.5°. E. coli.
　Upon first intravesical injection of antivirus, recovery was remarkable, pus in urine decreased, temperature lowered, and kidney pain and cystitis disappeared.
　The patient completely recovered her vitality.

　Observation II　Mme J... 25 years old. First pregnancy; 5 months; temperature elevation.
　Patient has extremely severe pain in right kidney region and pain after urination. Urine is scanty, thick, leaving thick purulent sediment at bladder base.
　General symptoms quite poor. Patient vomits, doesn't sleep, suggesting possible pregnancy termination.
　First intravesical injection of antivirus. That afternoon temperature dropped and continued to decline. Patient improved: without suffering, could eat, and after one week could get up for several hours