182　　　　　　The Role of the Intestine in Dysentery, Typhus and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
when attempting to do so, one faces a defense system represented by various secretions that are almost impossible to remove. However, to prove that animals are not defended, it is sufficient to choose an indirect gateway of infection: their intestines are exposed, and pathogens are completely free to reach there.
　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Let us begin with dysentery bacilli.
　Wishing to avoid the oral-pharyngeal-gastric barrier that results in futile infection despite all attempts, we inject Shiga bacilli into the marginal ear vein of rabbits. We select an amount of pathogen that kills in about 48 hours.
　We perform autopsy immediately after death; this is the only means to accurately understand the distribution of bacteria in the living body. If delayed even a little longer, of course, dysentery bacilli rapidly autolyze and bacterial culture may fail, leading to erroneous results.
　Already in macroscopic examination, we are surprised by the selective sites that have changed along the intestinal tract. This selectivity is even more remarkable when examined microscopically. When culturing the interior of organs and body fluids on agar, the inoculated bacteria show extremely unequal distribution, and this is always the same. Neither blood nor urine contains traces of Shiga bacilli; the spleen, lungs, kidneys, and adrenal capsules contain very small amounts or none at all. In contrast, intestinal contents naturally harbor various bacteria, but completely change the bacterial species. When sampled at a certain height of the intestine, almost only Shiga bacilli are recognized; throughout the entire surface of the intestine from the gallbladder to the cecum, Shiga bacilli are very often in a state of pure culture; only these appear where colonies of E. coli should be.
　This is quite an unexpected fact: the bacteria were injected directly into the general circulatory system; one would expect to see bacteria distributed somewhat unequally in the animal's organs or fluids. In reality, something entirely different occurs: even though they entered the circulating blood, all dysentery bacilli end up taking refuge in one organ. If bacteria go to the intestines with an almost unchanging regularity, they are clearly attracted by an irresistible force coming from this organ.

　　　　　The Role of the Intestine in Dysentery, Typhus and Cholera　　　　183
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　When there exists selectivity in the sites where bacteria localize when injected intravenously, how can we not consider the existence of affinity for the intestines, much like the affinity of anthrax bacilli has specificity for skin cells?
　This affinity appears even more remarkably when dysentery bacilli are introduced not into the blood but into subcutaneous solid cellular tissue.
　In fact, animals thus injected are sacrificed during the course of their illness or just before death. Culture all organs, blood, bile, and urine! Even in this case, except for the intestines, we do not recognize the inoculated bacteria anywhere. Therefore, this organ exerts an attractive action on the bacteria, causing them to arrive despite all obstacles encountered throughout their entire journey. However, these obstacles must not be taken lightly, as bacteria must pass through various tissues and cut their way before reaching their final destination, the intestinal tract.
　Not all bacteria reach there; some fail. Many of them get lost on the way; they collapse and autolyze. Those that escape the filtration action passing through the host finally end up stranded in the gallbladder and small intestine. Therefore, it is useless to search elsewhere; not even traces are found in the blood, urine, or any important organs.
　Is it not quite significant to recognize bacteria that started from such distant locations in the jejunum and duodenum—and uniformly so? Does not this discovery provide sufficient evidence to affirm the right that the intestine is an excellent organ with affinity for Shiga bacilli, and that the relationship of the intestinal wall to this bacterium is the same as that of skin to anthrax bacilli, vaccinia virus, or staphylococci?
　Therefore, while animals show no or almost no susceptibility to swallowing pathogens, their intestinal tract must be considered to have affinity.
　In summary; if anthrax, vaccinia virus, and staphylococci are skin infections, dysentery should be recognized as an intestinal infection. If the intestinal wall is the organ that becomes impaired, efforts should be made to make it insusceptible and confer immunity to the animal. To choose immunization methods against dysentery, it is natural to discuss its susceptibility.