186　　　　　　The Role of the Intestine in Dysentery, Typhus and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
and in the cecum, but not in blood, bile, or urine.
　Similarly, vibrios injected subcutaneously never fail to head toward the intestinal mucosa, which can be demonstrated as early as 6 hours after inoculation at that site.
　Therefore, the distribution pattern of bacteria becomes roughly the same whether bacterial inoculation is performed intraperitoneally, subcutaneously, or intravascularly. The pathway by which vibrios migrate within the living body always converges toward the same destination; the selective attraction that the intestinal wall exerts on cholera vibrios determines this direction.
　Following the research we described, E. Glottof re-attempted studies on experimental cholera. This experimenter sought to study the localization sites of pathogens, the significance of bile sensitization, and the possibility of oral prophylaxis. By implementing procedures to ensure death and systematically culturing from each organ, Glottof reported on the nature of lesions and the state of vibrios distributed within infected organs. These studies showed that, based on anatomical lesions and bacterial distribution findings, the symptoms observed in cholera mimic the symptoms we described in dysentery and paratyphus: vibrios introduced into the bloodstream come to reside mainly in the intestinal tract. The author was able to confirm that sensitizing rabbits with bile and then administering vibrios orally could induce cholera infection similar to that observed during intravenous vibrio injection. Thus, the author concluded that in cholera infection, the intestine is the susceptible organ, exactly as in cases of dysentery and typhus-paratyphus infection.
　Horowitz-Wlassova et Pirojnikowa provided similar proof in guinea pigs; these authors observed that when pathogens are administered per os in animals previously sensitized using bile, intestinal cholera can be induced in these animals.
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Extending these descriptions regarding the problem of anthrax, the fact we wish to report requires a re-examination of the concept of virulence and the inevitable consequence of the concept of specific cellular binding.
　Until today, bacterial virulence has been considered entirely in relation to animals. However, this concept proves to be contradicted by experiments. It is clear that certain bacteria are toxic to some animal species but lack toxicity to others: anthrax bacilli, which are quite feared in guinea pigs, appear almost harmless to mice. The history of anthrax infection has further taught us that virulence varies not only by animal species but also by cell groups within the same individual.

　　　　　The Role of the Intestine in Dysentery, Typhus and Cholera　　　　187
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Anthrax bacilli that are extremely toxic when in contact with skin become like saprophytic bacteria when placed in the peritoneal cavity, trachea, blood, or subcutaneous cellular tissue. Their toxicity disappears immediately without prolonging their vitality at all. The single act of replacing skin cells with other cells to which anthrax bacilli show no affinity is sufficient to reduce their virulence to zero.
　Since bacterial virulence results from the action of two factors, it can be enhanced or weakened through their mutual interaction. By performing animal passage and promoting bacterial binding capacity in the animal kingdom, that is, by strengthening their affinity for cells, virulence increases. Conversely, by placing pathogens under the coagulating action of physical or chemical factors, that is, by weakening their reactive energy, virulence decreases.
　If pathogens are left unchanged and only the receptive cells are acted upon, exactly the same results can be obtained. Similarly, when resistance is reduced by trauma (contusion, razor, fire) or when mildly impaired by bile, bacterial virulence is enhanced: amounts of pathogens that would not kill become lethal.
　On the other hand, when the resistance of receptive cells is strengthened, the action of highly virulent bacteria is rendered ineffective: this is what we observe when the susceptibility of receptive cells is weakened or when their action is clouded by prior contact with pathogen-vaccine, as in cases of skin immunity or intestinal immunity.
　Therefore, it is not merely a matter of inoculating animals with highly virulent bacteria; furthermore, these bacteria must exist within the living body they are to attack, that is, the bacteria must encounter receptive cells.