192　　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
cidal power that could play a role in typhus immunity had to be determined; in other words, it was necessary to see whether this represented all or part of this immunity, or whether it was merely an accompanying phenomenon, i.e., unrelated to immunity.

Pfeiffer and Kolle did not spend a long time on this research. Fortunately, having discovered a specific substance in the blood of vaccinated people that had not been suspected before, they did not resist the temptation—naturally a completely natural temptation—to attribute all typhus immunity to this substance. To artificially vaccinate animals or humans, according to them, it was necessary to imitate nature, that is, to produce bactericidal substances in the blood, and to achieve this, they simply injected typhus bacilli subcutaneously. This is the reason that became the origin of current typhus vaccination techniques.

This technique, now widely used, is based on insufficient motivational and hasty explanations, since it merely arbitrarily speaks of bactericidal power and its significance in typhus immunity.

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

We know today that bactericidal ability represents merely one attitude that the living body can react with; furthermore, this reaction appears in only a limited number of infectious diseases. On the scale of immunity, bactericidal substances have no more weight than agglutinins or complement-binding substances in the presence of corresponding antigens.

What gives Pfeiffer and Kolle's explanation an important and plausible appearance is the survival of guinea pigs in Peiper and Beumer's experiments.

Even if we acknowledge that this survival is proof of bactericidin, the problematic argument is that guinea pig infection responds very easily to subcutaneous vaccination against human intestinal typhoid peritonitis, but this peritonitis bears little resemblance to human intestinal typhus. Only the pathogenic element is the same in both diseases; naturally, these diseases are completely different in terms of their progression and the location where the virus exists.

　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera　　　　193
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

Humans uniformly become infected with intestinal typhus or cholera orally. Guinea pigs, like all other laboratory animals, are absolutely insensitive to oral infection. Only anthropoid apes—orangutans, gibbons, and monkeys—as Metchnikoff showed, become ill from oral infection exactly like humans. Therefore, to know whether typhus preventive vaccines as advocated by Pfeiffer and Kolle, i.e., subcutaneous injection, are effective in humans, anthropoid apes, not guinea pigs, are appropriate for resolving this question. This experiment was conducted by Metchnikoff and ourselves. Here we will only state the conclusions without going into details: chimpanzees inoculated by subcutaneous route and then infected orally became infected with intestinal typhus: the same vaccine injected subcutaneously in guinea pigs protected guinea pigs from fatal typhoid peritonitis.

Therefore, conclusions from guinea pigs should not be transferred to humans. Even assuming that the survival of guinea pigs is based on the presence of bactericidin, the proof is insufficient; it cannot be said that this substance has utility value that should be evaluated in humans.

The above are the experimental arguments that can be made against subcutaneous vaccination in humans.

Against these facts from the experimental field, one can certainly object with arguments derived from numerous favorable statistics compiled during typhus or cholera epidemics.

We are prepared to place importance on valuable statistics. Subcutaneous vaccination has certainly been effective in many cases; we will explain this problem later. However, we must not overlook statistics that are not very satisfactory because they were conducted under strict laboratory supervision in many cases. Indeed, we know of many examples where people inoculated subcutaneously under good conditions became infected with intestinal typhus within 2, 3, or 4 months after vaccination.

From what has been stated above, in our opinion, this should not now be supported: subcutaneous vaccination for typhus, even if effective, is not inevitable; it will be improved to make the preventive method complete.