194　　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

To summarize: the three widely practiced points of subcutaneous vaccination—bactericidin, protective power in guinea pigs, and statistics in humans—do not provide the solidity that one has the right to expect from them. Therefore, we must seek the solution to other problems.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The problem of vaccination—typhus prevention, cholera prevention, and others—although it may not have followed the trail of bactericidin in the early days, and although it may have merely grasped the example of smallpox prevention methods, now appears before us under a completely different aspect.

In smallpox, the symptoms that govern the disease are localized to the skin and mucous membranes. The site that Jenner chose to perform the most solid and effective vaccination now known is the skin.

In intestinal typhus, as in cholera, as in dysentery, the main site of localization is in the intestines; that is where typhus or cholera plays the main part of the drama. Therefore, the site that should logically be targeted to perform effective vaccination is the intestines.

This conclusion has been confirmed not only by analogy, but also clinically and experimentally.

Clinically, doesn't it teach us that there is no immunity to the degree acquired by people who have previously suffered from intestinal typhus, that is, people whose intestines have come into contact with typhus bacilli? Doesn't such remarkably solid immunity encourage us to imitate nature and implement preventive methods by the same route that causes infection?

This suggestion from the clinical field finds sufficient justification in the facts that experiments teach us.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

First of all, to resolve the affinity of the virus for the intestinal wall, we examined living bacteria. However, it is almost certain that the same bacteria, once killed, do not become almost like different bacteria: why should we assume that bacteria do not preserve their affinity? Moreover, from experiments, we can prove that this should be the case. If we inject killed cultures of dysentery or cholera vibrios intravenously into rabbits, we see, upon macroscopic examination, the same localized presence and intestinal lesions as when living bacteria are injected. If this is the case,

　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera　　　　195
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

we will come to ask whether vaccines—of typhus, dysentery, or cholera—injected subcutaneously for the purpose of immunity reach the intestines or not. Of course, they do not reach there in a tangible form, but probably in the form of bacterial endotoxins or antivirus. Before entering the intestines, they probably come into contact with so-called receptive cells.

If we clarify this hypothesis, we understand why vaccines injected subcutaneously give good results: that is, the method of action is completely different from what we attribute to them. If these vaccines are effective when injected subcutaneously, it is not because they produce antibodies, as people generally think, but because they reach the intestines and are absorbed by receptive cells: local immunity of the intestines is established there.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

If the susceptible organ in dysentery is the intestines, from the standpoint of vaccination,

――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) It is not uninteresting to describe here what connections led us to embrace the opinion of local intestinal immunity. Already before the war, during research on paratyphus B vaccination in collaboration with Mlle Basseches (Ann, Inst, Pasteur, t, XXXII, P, 193), we observed a strange fact, which we describe here. One day, having no new mice for control experiments, we had the idea of using mice that had received paratyphus bacilli orally a month earlier. When we injected these mice with 1/100 of a virulent paratyphus culture the day before, that is, a certainly lethal dose, and recognized that they were chewing their grain as if nothing had happened, our surprise was great. Believing there was some mistake, we examined other mice in the same group. These also survived. Due to this unexpected result, we repeated the study on a certain number of mice, changing the experimental conditions. However, we had to succumb to the fact that virus introduced per os conferred immunity, which until then had been considered the exclusive domain of virus injected subcutaneously. Since we thought the mechanism of immunity was the same in both cases, we stated that the intestines should have the same share as in the case of subcutaneous injection. If this were so, virus injected subcutaneously should, given the opportunity, pass through the intestinal wall and emerge into the intestinal tract. The war came, and with the war, all research was interrupted for four years. As soon as we returned to the laboratory, we resumed other research on rabbits based on our initial ideas; the results of these studies became our first publication after the war (C,R,Acad, Sciences, t, CLXVII, p, 212, 29 juillet 1918).