198　　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
The oral dysentery vaccination method has today exceeded the scope of laboratory research. This method has been actually applied in France and foreign countries during numerous epidemics. Before moving to practical use, we must describe the experiments conducted on humans by Charles Nicolle and Conseil in Tunis.

Two volunteers from their vicinity swallowed dysentery vaccine, namely Shiga bacilli killed at 72°-75°, continuously for 3 days. On the 15th and 18th days after the last swallowing, these 2 individuals as well as 2 untreated controls swallowed 10 billion live virulent Shiga bacilli. The 2 controls contracted typical dysentery and excreted Shiga bacilli in their feces, while the 2 treated individuals did not become ill.

This human experiment, added to numerous experiments on laboratory animals, led to planning numerous trials during human epidemics.

This trial using oral immunization seemed increasingly supported, especially since in the case of dysentery, subcutaneous injection methods are almost prohibited due to the local or systemic symptoms observed in humans after subcutaneous injection of dysentery vaccine.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Here I will present reports of several epidemics selected from many.

In July 1923, an epidemic of bacterial dysentery broke out in the barracks at Versailles. The first three cases died quickly. As the number of new patients increased to an alarming state, it was decided to implement oral immunization. I will not discuss the details recorded by Anglade at that time. Here I will describe what the results recorded at the end of the epidemic were:

In the group of non-vaccine takers, dysentery patients were 27.75%;
In the group of vaccine takers, dysentery patients were 7.6%.

Of considerable reference value are the results of dysentery vaccination undertaken in Greece under the supervision of the League of Nations Commission on Epidemics. This concerned Greek refugees surrounded by camps known as areas particularly conducive to epidemic spread.

Here I will describe several episodes from these camps that we have excerpted from the commission's report.

　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera　　　　199
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

a) In May 1923, a severe dysentery epidemic exploded among 700 refugees housed on Hydra Island.

Already 22 patients and 3 deaths had been reported. Vaccination of all refugees was then carried out. The epidemic soon subsided. No new patients were reported thereafter.

b) In August 1923, 2,800 refugees from Sicily landed at the Saint-Georges port quarantine station. During the 7-day voyage, 36 people died of dysentery and were buried at sea. In the first 48 hours following landing, there were 44 new deaths, almost all from dysentery. General vaccination of the refugees was then carried out. After 8 days, the epidemic completely ceased.

All of these refugees were moved to Salonika, where not a single new dysentery patient was seen.

c) In August and September 1923, a dysentery epidemic exploded in the Kokinia camp. Over 400 patients developed in this communal living situation consisting of 4,800 refugees. The epidemic was reported to be as malignant as before, because by the time preventive injections were given, 50 deaths had already been counted. Vaccination by oral immunization was ordered. However, this vaccination was applied to only two-thirds of the population; the latter served as controls for the others, as in laboratory experiments.

Soon after vaccination, the epidemic ceased in the vaccinated group; the epidemic continued in the non-vaccinated group with continued casualties, and 194 new patients were reported.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In the cases we have reported, dysentery vaccine was used for prevention. This vaccine is also used therapeutically. Here are several examples.

At the infectious disease institute in Niš, Alivisatos attempted vaccine therapy on 117 dysentery patients. A vaccine consisting of mixed cultures of Shiga, Strong, and Flexner bacteria heated at 58° was administered orally. The cultures were centrifuged and the sediment suspended in physiological saline; 1cc of the suspension contains 10 milligrams of bacterial bodies. Adults received 20-30 drops of this suspension on the first day, 2 or several times; on the 2nd day