220　　　　　　Role of Mordants in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
wouldn't it?

Before examining the research we conducted on oral immunization, let us briefly describe the already outdated experiments that were within the scope of this idea at the beginning; this goes back more than 15 years. This was the first oral typhoid vaccination; this was performed on anthropoid apes by Metchnikoff and ourselves.

When studying anthropoid apes with the purpose of testing the value of various typhoid preventive vaccines, we made orangutans ingest living virulent typhoid bacilli. This animal had already previously received heated typhoid bacilli orally. However, we considered it—this was in 1910—a normal animal, because we could not for even a moment admit that the fact of ingesting heated bacteria could be considered as merely a trace of immunity. Our orangutan should therefore—in our thinking—have contracted intestinal typhoid as if it were completely naive. However, this proceeded without causing any disturbance.

Since the concept of local immunity could not influence our expectations at that time, this result completely perplexed us. The facts were quite clear. Since it was possible to obtain other orangutans, all that remained for us was to record the facts. Even if observing the first example of experimental vaccination by oral route was thus left to Metchnikoff and us, this was completely unexpected and our case had no value regarding it.

The following year (1911), similar experiments in oral vaccination were repeated on laboratory animals by J. Courmont and Rochaix, and three years later (1914) by A. Lumière and Chevrotier. At that time, similar tests were pursued in Germany by a series of scholars—Loeffler, Kutscher and Meinicke, Wolf, Bruckner—using cultures of paratyphoid bacilli. All experiments were performed on mice, animals particularly sensitive to these ingested bacteria.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Synthesizing these studies, we came to know that under certain research conditions, oral vaccination was feasible. Determining these conditions precisely and examining more rigorously what occurs during the immune process in animals is reserved. Due to prevailing general ideas, we must particularly pursue the antibody content of serum. Since mice with their small stature are unsuitable for this type of research, we decided to use rabbits.

At the first step, we encountered great difficulties. We found that unlike mice and orangutans, rabbits are not vaccinated orally against typhoid or paratyphoid infection. We made rabbits swallow not only heated bacteria but also living virulent bacteria in vain, but the rabbits refused to acquire immunity. The swallowed bacteria pass rapidly through the intestine without any retention, just as in the case of extraneous bacteria.

Regarding the significance of the intestinal wall in paratyphoid infection, this was absent from our previous experiments; on the other hand, knowing methods by which bile addition can be made, we finally arrived at the idea of using bile for immunization. We therefore proposed to first polish the intestinal epithelium, thus changing the permeability of the intestinal wall, then administer living paratyphoid bacilli orally.

Clearly, the intestine treated with bile showed it could adsorb the swallowed bacteria, and thus rabbits so treated became able to resist lethal doses of bacteria forcibly introduced into the blood.

This result was extremely rewarding for numerous points. First, prior swallowing of bile is extremely necessary for immune formation; second, the same mechanism by which this immunity was obtained orally showed us new horizons.

Regarding the practical value of this experiment, it was of course zero. Its interest was purely theoretical, no one harbored the idea of recommending the ingestion of living bacteria as a means of vaccination.

However, encouraged by this experiment, we wanted to know what would happen if, keeping all other conditions identical, we used dead bacteria instead of living ones. To our surprise, the experimental results showed remarkable similarity. Actually, the experiment showed that paratyphoid dead bacteria in contact with intestines sensitized with bile

　　　　　　　　　Role of Mordants in Infection and Immunity　　　　221
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――