224　　　　　　Role of Mordants in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
were vaccinated against cholera, and others were conducted against typhoid infection. It would be tedious to describe the details of these experiments here; the only thing to note is that the conclusions derived from these studies agreed with our conclusions and Masaki's conclusions. The mordant substance revealed by cultures of Shiga bacilli is superior to bile in conferring anti-dysentery immunity simultaneously with anti-cholera or anti-typhoid immunity. Based on the fact that the authors faced certain failures when they omitted performing intestinal sensitization, they argue as follows: regarding the problem of vaccination against typhoid infection or cholera infection, immunity can only be obtained per os when rabbits are previously sensitized.

Similar facts were advocated by Brocq-Rousseu, Truche and Urbain during their research on vaccination of chickens against Bacterium gallinarum: they showed that only chickens treated with ox bile could well withstand several times the lethal dose of virus by intravenous injection.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Even if we had long been fixated on the importance of preliminary intestinal sensitization from the standpoint of vaccination methods, this was because the fact was confirmed at the beginning of our research. Some scholars declare that the small amount of ox bile administered could have no importance in animals other than the large amount of bile normally secreted.

There is a gap in arguing that preliminary sensitization is indispensable whenever one tries to cause infection or whenever one tries to achieve vaccination orally. In our first experiments—which were conducted on experimental dysentery—we found that Shiga bacilli can abrade the intestine by their inherent properties, so preliminary ingestion of bile is unnecessary. Similarly, we showed that especially in highly susceptible animals, the use of special mordants is not absolutely necessary. That is, we succeeded in vaccinating mice against paratyphoid bacilli and guinea pigs against typhoid bacilli without performing preliminary sensitization. Endotoxins contained within bacteria are similarly used; in the animals concerned, endotoxins substitute for bile under other circumstances. However, we evaluate that even in susceptible animals, the use of mordants is effective. Gastrointestinal fluids are remarkably variable: their fullness,

　　　　　　　　　Role of Mordants in Infection and Immunity　　　　225
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
state, their reaction, and enzyme content can change moment by moment. When bile is administered, by making these conditions uniform within measurable range, intimate contact between the intestinal wall and vaccine is made more certain. With the viruses we are concerned with, humans are far more susceptible than laboratory animals; humans are even more susceptible compared to anthropoid apes. Therefore, one might have inferred that humans could be vaccinated orally without relying on artificial mordants. However, if one relies on epidemiological observations, one can hardly prevent harboring some doubt; on the other hand, since preliminary sensitization allows more certain immunity to be obtained, we have the opinion of implementing this in humans as well.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Even if the role of mordant substances is proven necessary in infections where the intestine is the main site, this proof seems useless when it comes to infections arising from the skin. As long as the skin is healthy, it counters all viruses with almost infinite resistance. Even viruses with selective affinity for skin tissue, such as streptococci, staphylococci, plague bacilli, tubercle bacilli, and anthrax bacilli, can deposit on the skin in a completely safe and harmless state when there is no continuous damage to the skin. To create skin susceptibility, the skin must first receive physical or chemical damage; the same kind of susceptibility can be caused by extremely various factors, as we have already shown at the beginning of this lecture.

The similarity between skin and intestine is not limited to infection mechanisms; this similarity extends to immune mechanisms to the same degree. That is, even if skin and mucous membranes are brought into intimate contact with large amounts of vaccine, the result does not strengthen natural immunity at all. However, when mordant substances are first applied to the skin in any form, conditions suitable for the manifestation of artificial immunity are created. The entire history of antiviruses, as the target of their use, necessitates preliminary sensitization of skin or mucous membranes to obtain acquired immunity, needless to say.

To summarize: the integument of skin and mucous membranes that encloses organs serves as a defense system in the normal state and prevents all invasion of bacteria that should pass through skin or mucous membrane tissue.