230　　　　　　　　　Dressings and Immunity　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
As we often encounter in such cases, just as some new inventions do not achieve widespread adoption, new methods cannot be established without seeing the emergence of a combination of jealousy and incompetence directed against them. In Lister's case too, many years were required to allow his bold discovery to be accepted. During that time, he published a series of works on irrigation, on carbolic gauze and catgut, and on carbolic baths for instruments. In his thinking, bacteria existing in the air were no longer to be feared before such use of carbolic acid. Also, he did not wish to completely banish suppuration from the operating room.

Clearly, antiseptic dressings were seen to eliminate hospital gangrene, erysipelas, and pyemia. Post-operative mortality rates rapidly decreased for both trauma patients and surgical patients to previously unknown proportions. Surgeons gained confidence in operating on critically ill patients. The boldness of surgeons amazed the medical world precisely because their operations proceeded without complications.

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊	　　　＊　　　＊
During the following decade (1875-1885), antiseptics reigned supreme without any doubt. Of course, there was no one researching to perfect the method by substituting for carbolic acid, mercuric chloride, and iodine compounds. Lister's doctrine ruled considerably over the surgical world in both hemispheres throughout this entire long period.

Even if we say that surgical operations very often succeeded before Lister, it would be wrong to believe that there were no fortunate exceptions here and there. Namely, in France, Koeberlé succeeded in operations for uterine fibroids and ovarian cysts without using antiseptics. In England too, Lawson Tait succeeded very well in his operations without relying on carbolic acid water. The latter hardly hesitated to consider his compatriot Lister's method an unnecessary procedure during surgery.

Why did these surgeons succeed when other surgeons failed so miserably? This could not be explained at all. These surgeons were clean. That was everything. They used plenty of soap and boiling water. They boiled their sutures and sponges. They did not perform autopsies.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　III
Even the allies convinced by Lister could not help but be moved by the results achieved at that time by Koeberlé, Lawson Tait and

　　　　　　　　　Dressings and Immunity　　　　　　　　　　231
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
their disciples. Just as they had always praised the use of carbolic acid or mercuric chloride, they were amazed by these results. Due to the toxicity of these substances and their unpleasant effects on tissues, especially during operations involving the peritoneum, surgical patients often became discouraged and wound healing was severely impaired.

Note that the principle of antiseptic application approaches bodily defense from a chemical rather than biological perspective. We know that the essence generally does not work through antiseptic action: the secretory products that the body produces to protect the skin or mucous membranes generally do not have bactericidal action. To remove bacteria, the skin and mucous membranes very often utilize secretions from their glands - that is, not through purely chemical means.

Since contemporaries still live among us but few recall those times, it is interpreted that the advanced ideas created by Lister's research and especially Pasteur's must have already matured toward asepsis. What we mean is that what was implemented by surgeons like Koeberlé was not related to this empirical asepsis, but to rational asepsis based on undeniable laboratory experiments. Also, carbolic acid, mercuric chloride, and other germicides gradually yielded their position to high-pressure steam: Lister's gauze dressing method dissolved before the excellence of aseptic dressing methods.

What about the 1885-1890 period?
Tampons, pressure bandages, sutures, and instruments were sterilized by steam or dry heat. Only the surgeon's hands, which could not receive similar treatment, were washed with soap and brush, then with mercuric chloride, alcohol, and potassium permanganate. One day, it was recognized that bacteria survived even though hands had been sufficiently brushed, washed, and disinfected. Furthermore, the effect of such operations, if prolonged, was merely to roughen the hands. Therefore, the idea arose to use rubber gloves sterilized with high-pressure steam. The principle of asepsis was realized to the widest extent possible at that time.

Today, we can affirm that aseptic dressing methods are generally adopted, even excluding the few faithful who still hold "carbolic banquets." Our tissues