242　　　　　　　 Immunity and Antivirus　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
When applied to the skin, this immunity is particularly enhanced. In this last case, it is clear that immunity is obviously not the action of antibodies that cannot be found in the serum.

When staphylococcal or streptococcal vaccines are applied to the skin surface, what acts is not the bacterial body itself, being solid matter, but especially its soluble derivatives. Moreover, this can be confirmed by direct methods. Guinea pigs are immunized against skin lesions caused by staphylococci or streptococci by filtering old cultures through filters and using them in the form of wet compress bandages.

The active cause of these filtrates has received the name Antivirus, as is known. These Antiviruses are non-toxic and specific. Due to their affinity, which is the same affinity as the cocci from which they are derived, Antiviruses are adsorbed by receptive cells, that is, they are remarkably easily adsorbed by the covering of skin mucous membranes. When saturated with Antivirus, these cells appear to increase their natural immunity, that is, when infection subsequently occurs, they act as if they were acting against foreign bacteria. Susceptible cells become non-susceptible: they are immunized, we say.

In addition to this main action, Antivirus exhibits another action that is less important but cannot be overlooked, namely the action of paralyzing the proliferation of viruses at the infection site.

These two actions of Antivirus have found many applications in internal medicine and surgery. Specific bandages or washes based on Antivirus are currently used for extremely various diseases. Regarding this problem, please refer to Chapters IX and X.

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　　　＊　　　　＊

Now, if we describe viruses that have selective affinity for the intestinal wall, we would find the same law: that is, optimal immunity is immunity resulting from preventive vaccination of susceptible organs. In dysentery, in cholera, in typhoid infection, it is intestinal immunity that creates immunity; this immunity is established independently of antibody manifestation.

Experiments on laboratory animals easily allow oral preventive vaccination against dysentery. Soon after the first intake of dysentery preventive vaccine, due to endotoxins contained in the bacterial body,

　　　　　　　　　　 Immunity and Antivirus　　　　　　　　　　243
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
specific ulcers reminiscent of crude dysentery are produced in parts of the intestine, and due to these superficial ulcers, part of the vaccine passes through the intestine and invades the bloodstream where it generates antibodies, especially agglutinins. Shortly after the first vaccine ingestion, the lacerations caused by the vaccine form scars. From this time onward, the intestinal wall becomes non-susceptible to endotoxins: that is, the intestinal wall provides an insurmountable barrier against dysentery antigens; and antibodies are no longer formed. As for those already existing in the blood, these are gradually removed and disappear. Therefore, this occurs following the second intake of vaccine, and becomes even stronger following the third time, that is, while immunity is extremely high, antibodies are not recognized in the blood. Since this disappearance of antibodies coincides with the development of solid immunity, we may consider that anti-dysentery immunity, if not entirely, at least largely is obtained at the site of the intestinal wall; in other words, it relates to local immunity.

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　　　＊　　　　＊

Oral preventive vaccination against typhoid and cholera infections was not without difficulties, as we have already described elsewhere.

In the case of dysentery, endotoxins contained in the vaccine act to expel the mucus covering the surface of the intestinal wall and prevent bacteria from approaching the cells to be vaccinated. In the case of typhoid or cholera infection, it is not the same: neither typhoid preventive vaccine nor cholera preventive vaccine has, at least in animals, exfoliative capacity in the intestine. Therefore, for these vaccines, it is impossible to reach receptive cells through their own means. Also, when administered orally, these vaccines slide down along the intestinal wall and are excreted without creating abrasions on susceptible cells.

Therefore, it is unclear whether these vaccines exert useful actions by themselves.

On the contrary, experiments in rabbits have shown us that if the epithelial layer is exfoliated by treating the intestine with bile, oral immunity can be obtained without difficulty. Animals such as rabbits or guinea pigs that have swallowed bile on an empty stomach and then, after some time, have swallowed typhus-paratyphus vaccine or cholera vaccine