248　　　　　　　 Immunity and Antivirus　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
is also impossible.

Injection of larval emulsion subcutaneously or intraperitoneally does not form immunity; on the contrary, if this emulsion is applied to the skin, it can confer immunity.

What is interesting is that when larvae invade skin sites where skin immunity has been established, the larvae usually disappear within 40 hours, that is, at this time the larvae are still in the superficial layer of the skin and therefore far from the vascular network.

When a piece of skin excised from a non-susceptible animal is immediately transplanted to a new animal, it preserves its immunity, and this immunity subsequently spreads to adjacent skin areas. Conversely, a piece of skin excised from a new animal and then transplanted to a vaccinated animal becomes more susceptible to acquiring immunity.

In animals that have become non-susceptible, the invasion of larvae into the skin is accompanied by severe skin reactions at the immunized sites; this skin reaction is absent at skin sites of new animals.

There is no need to add anything more to the conclusion by the British authors that local immunity exists, which is entirely comparable to the antibody-free immunity we have described for bacteria. This is the first example of local immunity known today for multicellular protozoa.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　　＊　　　＊

We have enumerated the most representative infectious diseases. We have seen how little antibodies maintain the balance of immunity. This has made it easy for us to extend the catalog and mention other diseases: plague, syphilis, pneumonia, cerebrospinal meningitis, diseases caused by protozoa, and other diseases belonging to the same category. Except for diphtheria, tetanus, and botulism—it would be almost safe to say that there are few diseases where the action of antibodies against viruses becomes the main cause of immunity.

In most of the infections described so far, the cause of immunity appears to be more prominently related to the presence of antivirus at receptor cell sites than to the presence of antibodies in the blood.

In summary, antivirus therapy—preventive or therapeutic—is based on the principle of local immunity without antibodies, and occupies a prominent position in numerous pathological processes where current serum therapy escapes the action of vaccine therapy.

　　　　　　　 Immunity and Antivirus　　　　　　　　　　249
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　　　　　　　　References Cited
J. Bordet, Immunité, Traité de Physiologie normale et pathologique, publié sous la direction de H. Roger et Binet, 1927, Masson et C.
Lee Hazen, Journ. of. Immunol., t. XIII, mars 1927, p. 171.
de Georges, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. XCV, 1926, p. 1096.
Biglieri et Villagas, C. R. Soc. Biologie, t. XCV, 1926, p. 1176.
Remlinger et Bailly, C. R. Biologie, t. XCVI, 1927, p. 826.
Blacklock et Gordon, Lancet, 30 avril 1927, p. 923.

【Jules Bordet: Born June 13, 1870, in Soignies, Belgium, died April 6, 1961, in Brussels, Belgium. Received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1919. (Wikipedia)】