Matsuchiyama Shoten-gu shrine remained safe. This area suffered severe damage with many collapsed houses. North of Sanyabashi bridge at the same location, around Imado bridge, and the front and back of Zenza collapsed and then burned. Even in areas that survived the fire, there were many collapsed houses. The eta-machi in the same area remained. From here to Masaki Inari shrine, there were many severely damaged houses. Torigoe-cho districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, Sanya-cho, Asakusa-cho, Kozukappara-cho, Senju Ohashi, and Osenju all had many severely damaged houses. Instant deaths in this area numbered about 360 people, with the number of injured unknown. Kozukappara-cho was also severely damaged and then burned. From there, the main hall of Asakusa Higashi Honganji temple remained safe, though the roof on the eastern side was slightly damaged. However, the temple grounds were severely damaged. Seigan-ji monzen-cho had particularly many collapsed houses. Nichirin-ji temple's main hall was damaged, and the entire temple grounds completely collapsed. The Shinbori-bata area was severely damaged. From there, about half a block of Gyoan-ji monzen-cho beyond Kikuya bridge burned down. Similarly, on the western side, about one cho from the opposite side to Shinbori-bata also burned. Zaimoku-cho in the same area was severely damaged and burned. The Namiki-cho area was also severely damaged. Komagata-do hall remained safe. Fire broke out from a corner in the middle of the western side of the same town, and both sides of Suwa-cho and Kurofune-cho were completely severely damaged and burned. During this time, four storehouses survived the fire. The fire was stopped at Onmaya riverside. Instant deaths in this area numbered about 180 people, though the number of injured is unknown. The riverside area of Miyoshi-cho survived the fire. On Okura-mae street, Hachiman shrine remained safe up to its torii gate. From here to Asakusa go-mitsuke, there was gradual damage throughout.

　　　Shitaya Sakamoto Minowa area
Sakamoto districts 1, 2, and 3 completely collapsed and burned. The same town's 4th district, Kanasugi districts 1, 2, and 3, Minowa street, and Shin-cho all suffered severe collapse. From there to the Oyuki-no-matsu area in Negishi, there were many collapsed houses everywhere. Instant deaths numbered about 200 people, with injured beyond counting.

　　Shitaya Ueno area and
　　Soto-Kanda area