Item: On the same day, upon visiting Edo Castle (a written notice bearing the joint signatures of the Senior Councillors [Rōjū] had arrived from the Duty Councillor [Goyōban] the previous day, the 24th), in the presence of the assembled Senior Councillors, it was announced that, due to the upper residence [kami-yashiki] being too cramped, an additional plot of land would be granted. The notification was delivered in writing as follows:

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Hyōbu-no-taifu

　As the upper residence is too cramped, more than 6,620 tsubo from within the upper residence of Sakai Saemon-no-jō is hereby granted as additional land.

In gratitude for the above, [the lord] visited the Nishinomaru, and thereafter made courtesy calls to the Senior Councillors and Junior Councillors [Wakadoshiyori].

Item: On the 26th day of the 6th month, there was a summons from Duty Councillor Sakai Uta-no-kami (Tadayuki), and the caretaker magistrate [Rusuī] Katō Chōuemon (Masatoshi) attended. He was informed by written notice that [the lord] was relieved of the fire-watch duty at Tōeizan [Kan'ei-ji Temple in Ueno].

Item: On the 27th day of the same month, word came from Ogasawara Nuisuke, and the caretaker magistrate Katō Chōuemon (Masatoshi) attended. He was presented with the following written notice from Sakai Uta-no-kami (Tadayuki):

　　　Hitherto, when submitting a petition to adopt an heir or provisional heir, [petitioners] have not stated that there is no suitable person among their close relatives and therefore they wish to adopt this particular person. Henceforth, this explanation must be clearly written and submitted. Furthermore, even if there are younger brothers, nephews, cousins, or the like among close relatives, if there is reason not to request adoption of such a person, it must be stated whether the relative in question has previously declined, or whether the petitioner has their own reasons for not wishing to adopt them. The reason must be written out in detail and submitted accordingly.

　　　　　6th month