[Right page]
27th day
1. At the castle, between the 4th and 9th hours, the rice purchase money was distributed, and immediately the portions for both subordinate officials were received and handed over to Ryōzō.

28th day
1. Regarding firewood, it will be distributed to the upper and lower retainers at Harukawa, Natsukawa will be postponed, and plans for Fuyukawa were discussed. Today this matter was also reported to the duty officer.

29th day
1. Yosōji reported that he returned last night. The snow is still deep and it is difficult to reach Ise Valley. He also made a rough inspection before returning and gave a detailed report.

Last day of the month
1. Gizaemon reported that he returned from Kainuma Village last night and that all the fence construction was completed. He reported that eighty workers were employed.

1. Uemon, Ryōzō, and Yasuzaemon reported that they went to Kurokawa to investigate the remaining matters from this period. They departed early morning on the first day of the next month.

[Left page]
　　　　　Fourth month　　Magoemon-sama　　　Tōbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Makita as monthly duty officer from the 6th

1st day
1. It was reported that through consultation with the county magistrates, twenty bamboo pipes were provided, and through consultation with the construction magistrates, sixty bamboo poles of various sizes were distributed.

3rd day
1. It was reported that Uemon and Ryōzō returned. Regarding Yasuzaemon, he remained at Kurokawa, and it was also reported that he planned to cut timber up to the firewood relay station in consultation with Yūji.

5th day
1. It was reported that Sugi Saemon and Gizaemon went to Hirasawa Village on forest business.

6th day
1. Notice was given that Tōbei was indisposed due to illness. Therefore, from today Makita will serve as monthly duty officer, and moreover, after consultation, will continue to serve as relief officer for this month.

1. It was reported that Uemon and Ryōzō departed just now to cross the mountain for Nakamura Yoshihara.