[Right page]
After review, it was returned. The names mentioned are as follows:
　　Petitioner Kinjiro from Kono village in Lord Chiku Tosho-no-suke's domain, Noda
　　Petitioner □□ from Tajima within Katagiri village in Lord Matsusaburo's magistrate territory, from our
　　domain Nakazawa-go Shimotakami village, opposing party: village headman Toemon, group leader Shichiroemon
　　and Yozo, mediator Jusaemon. This is the settlement certificate of these individuals.

1. Regarding the remaining timber from the above transaction, the people of Takami village took it over, and while it should be transported from the mountain this year of the Rooster, they reported that they wish to petition for three more years of cutting rights. Juroubei reported that a petition should definitely be submitted to the official authorities.

15th day
1. A person named Kujiro from Yabuharajuku in Kiso, Owari domain, wishes to cut barrel timber in Okubo valley of Kurogouchi. A petition with joint seals from Kurogouchi village officials and endorsed by Kurogouchi Zenyemon was submitted.

[Left page]
　　Along with a petition from a person named Yasuke of Shirakiya inn from the same post town, who petitioned regarding the Todaiyama area of Kurogouchi, two petition documents and one name register were submitted and presented to the duty officer for consideration. As it was heard and approved in the same manner as last year, the petition documents were returned. The petition was approved and instructions were given to notify Kurogouchi Zenyemon accordingly. The names in the register are as follows:
　　　Petitioner Yasuke, woodcutter Kumekichi, Petitioner Kujiro, woodcutter Chuzaemon - 4 people total

1. It was reported that Giyemon will go tomorrow to Shimomaki village and Nakagoshi village to distribute construction timber tools and to inspect Otagiri forest.

18th day
1. It was reported that Uemon and Ryozo completed the cutting work for firewood up to both ferry crossings at Katsuma riverbank and Benzaiten and returned.

19th day
1. Giyemon completed the distribution of timber tools at Shimomaki village and Nakagoshi village and returned last evening...