[Right page]
　　The report was submitted and heard. However, regarding the substitute timber delivery from Shimomaki Village last spring, while this delivery was completed, the inspection of Otakiri Forest
　　　　was not conducted due to inconvenient circumstances, which was also reported.

20th day
1. Regarding the petition for extension of Inoko-iri Forest [logging rights], from four villages: Ryotakami Village, Motosokura Village, and Nakaso Village,
　　with joint seals of village officials, the petitioner being Jusaemon from Shimotakami Village. When this petition was submitted for examination and inquiry,
　　it was immediately approved, and after consultation with the district magistrate, instructions were given to Sugisaemon's office regarding summoning both parties.
1. Regarding the petition for land exchange in Itayama Village, submitted today with joint seals of village officials, it was immediately examined and
　　approved. There was also consultation from the district magistrate, but since this is the season for land development
　　and there would be interference with village affairs, it was arranged that both parties would submit for inspection when there is no interference.
　　Of course, if the inspection is completed without issues, then at that time

[Left page]
　　after consultation between both parties, the completion of the petition would be announced and it was arranged to obtain a written pledge from the village.
1. Name registers of woodcutters from Hiranoya Gizaemon and Wataya Gizaemon were submitted and received. As follows:
　　　Kiso Nagawa, head woodcutter Jisuke; same location, woodcutter Heishichi; same location, woodcutter Izaemon
　　　Matsumoto domain, Kamihata Village, woodcutter Fusaemon; Hishu Shingo Village, woodcutter Tarozaemon
　　　Total of five people listed.
　　These two persons submitted a petition for small timber mountain expansion up to the base of the peak through Nakayama Nishi-no-tani in Mitsumune River area,
　　which was received and kept.

22nd day
1. Regarding the petition for undergrowth [collection rights] in Hokoji Village Sugasawa Forest, it was reported that Gizaemon went for inspection.
1. Notice was received that Tōbei's illness has recovered and he will return to work from tomorrow.