[Right page]
　　Upon separate verification, there was a discrepancy with the town office documents, so the same person returned to make corrections.

1. Heiya Gihei privately informed us about three mountain sites for augmentation, but first he will petition for two sites.
　　Moreover, since we also heard his intention to petition for mountain augmentation at Mitsumine River area, we instructed
　　Ryozo to petition through proper channels.

8th day
1. We dispatched Shiga Haemon, both subordinates of Kobayashi Sugiemon, and the forest inspector for inspection of
　　the Mitsumine River area and the river front, and sent word to the duty officer and the county magistrate's head clerk.
　　Regarding the county magistrate, we discussed that for village provisioning matters, one village official representing
　　the nine villages of the lumbermen's district should attend.

1. Regarding laborers for the above inspection, since the villages are busy at this time, small white timber
　　hunters should be dispatched. Moreover, combining this with small white timber mountain patrol duties, after consultation with the small white timber head clerk,

[Left page]
　　we conveyed the message accordingly.

1. Regarding the mountain climbing on the coming 11th, we informed Haemon's group and also instructed the subordinates. Moreover,
　　we should also instruct Yosoji, and Kurokawachi Zenemon should also attend - we conveyed
　　that this should also be communicated.

1. Regarding the mountain climbing of the two subordinates mentioned above, we consulted with head clerk
　　Fujemon about Okoshiba Yuji's temporary subordinate position and also informed the duty officer.

1. We reported to the ceremonial duty officer that Shiga Haemon has been performing both roles with exceptional diligence,
　　and privately consulted with the monthly duty officer among the officials, Rokurosaemon-dono, requesting special
　　consideration for this exceptional matter.

10th day
1. Regarding the roof repair of Mizo Ryozo's building, roof boards and other materials from the construction office