[Right page]
1. Beyond Aoishi, crossing over differently for official use, zelkova [...] [...] confections
   For the breakdown, instructions were given through the construction office and timber procurement, as reported
18th day
1. Returned from inspection of Nishikawa, and regarding the particulars of hand-selected timber inspection, official [...] [...] conveyed
   Also consulted with the district magistrate staff and supervisors
1. This town's Higashino-ya Asabei, regarding Koshiraki Shioyama Nishikawa Nishidani Koyokogawa area, from Rinzawa direction
   Wishes to see through to Kagebana, and also regarding Kurokawa Irio-katsu area, Kuroyona
   Two locations at Minamisawa, submitting both petition documents
1. Ono-sawa village Zenzaemon, same as above for mountain expansion petition, from Nishikawa Nishidani Yanagisawa direction
   Seeing through to Aoishi, submitting petition document
   Regarding the above western route petition document, Kobayashi Sugirzaemon submitted it, indicating that consultation with colleagues should be conducted
[Left page]
   The above investigative document, after consultation between western route district magistrate staff and head supervisors, was submitted for inquiry to the duty officer
1. Spring area Miyata Kurokawa mountain, until the coming 20th day depending on weather conditions,
   Nine people will climb the mountain, requesting that the deputy officials provide ceremonial coats, consulted with district magistrate staff
1. At Himochi enclosed mountain, timber has become rotten, made into Kurobe cypress wood, collected [...] construction contractor
   Submitted notification, discussed plans for official use of wood shingle boards, particularly for areas with much rotten timber suitable for official use
   Plans for cutting and removal, regarding the mountain document submission and laborers, consulted with district magistrate staff and head supervisors, particularly regarding mountain extraction laborers, arrangements from Nishi-himochi village [...]
   Regarding entry matters, discussed consultation groups for that occasion
1. At Himochi enclosed mountain, three-year cutting notification [...], regarding this, five-five divisions [...] boxes