[Right page]
　　　The above matters should be announced. End
　　　　　　June 3rd
　　　　　　　　Mountain Magistrate Office

1. Regarding the contents of the official notice, it was announced to the three men at the monthly duty officer's residence. Both of us and Uemon attended, and there was a grateful exchange. The three men were ordered to make their courtesy rounds to the council of elders according to precedent. We also visited both men's residences.

1. Regarding the delivery of official notices for Tōkyō and Makitaū, we went to the duty officer's ledger and made the record.

1. It was announced that Shiga Uemon's rank became gochū-koshō (middle page) with a stipend of 24 hyō and provisions for three dependents. We went to the duty officer's seat regarding the outline of this matter and both offered our thanks. We also exchanged greetings with the chamberlains since there had been prior informal discussions.

[Left page]
4th day
1. It was reported that Sugi Zaemon had gone to Ashizawa village to cut bamboo for construction office duties.

6th day
1. Sugi Zaemon reported that regarding the thin bamboo discussed by the construction office, 30 pieces were cut at Ashizawa village, and the remainder was cut from both government groves at Toshigamisaka, totaling 100 pieces, which were immediately delivered.

8th day
1. For repairing the horse path to Benzaiten, there was a conference with the district magistrate about wanting to receive 13 pieces of slatted wood 9 shaku in length. It was arranged to have them cut at Mukayori and delivered, and this was communicated to Giemon's group.

1. Regarding the land exchange delivery for Itayama village, there was a conference with the district magistrate that tomorrow they would also send inspector Koike Jinzaemon and present Akabane Danji at Hirakata. Therefore, [...] [...] subordinate Yasuemon was ordered to go and, after thorough examination by both parties, establish the boundaries.

1. Regarding wanting to receive the timber for Benzaiten bridge as well as temporary bridge and wooden tools within the near future...