【Right page】
　　Regarding the sale of timber from Ozawa forest, instructions were given to make a decision after renewed examination this time.
13th day
1. Shiga Uemon was instructed to go to Mizoguchi village to inspect the conduit wood. There was a report of entry/exit, and since it was mostly completed, it was acknowledged that laborers should be assigned to the conduit site.
1. Sōji was dispatched to patrol the enclosed mountain at Himochi-yama. He reported that there were no particular changes.

14th day
1. Sugizaemon reported that he instructed the village headman of Himochi-yama village regarding the final count of pack-horse loads for the timber sale at Kurobe in the same location. The district magistrates were summoned for the time being.
1. The bean-supporting wood was cut and delivered to the construction office, but since there was wood oil, there was a request to receive about five more pieces of somewhat thicker wood.
1. Instructions were given to Uemon and Sugizaemon's offices regarding the cutting of 35 pieces of bamboo grating for Hokomi seal-pattern bridge.

【Left page】
　　They were informed that these should be provided from Nishi-no-iri official forest.
16th day
1. Since official markings were placed on the said official timber, both men reported that Sōji should be instructed to cut it as much as possible.
1. Mikoshiba Yūji was instructed to place official markings and inspect the cutting sites of conduit wood in Mizoguchi village, and also to go to Miyashita Masushichirō's place for official business coordination regarding procurement. The report was immediately acknowledged.

18th day
1. The announcement in the great hall was as follows:
1. It was announced that communications to the chief inspectors should be made between 4 o'clock and 9 o'clock.
   Retainers of 2-shu rank, regardless of their commuting, should withdraw when 9 o'clock strikes even if there is no official business for their duties, as this naturally applies to those receiving castle stipends.
   It was ordered that this matter be strictly communicated.