【Right page】
　　Regarding the price of 7 bu 5 rin, there may be □. There was an agreement among the main officials,
　　and they were told that the official department should further consider arrangements for the timber sale. Furthermore, after discussion,
　　greetings should be made. Ryōzō was instructed to arrange the timber sale using the aforementioned price.
23rd day
1. Regarding Matoba village □ Hisazoe official forest, there was a request for timber sale in the same village, and Sugizaemon and Ryōzō
　　made an inspection. Since they wanted to receive payment in a lump sum □ and there were also small trees,
　　both reported that the price seemed reasonable. After consulting with colleagues and finding no □□ issues, instructions were given to
　　Sugizaemon to proceed with the timber sale immediately.
1. Regarding 5 support logs cut from Matoba village official forest and delivered to the construction department,
　　both reported this. It was acknowledged.
【Left page】
1. Regarding the transfer of Gonnozawa Shiraiwa mountain under contract by Washi of Mikkacho village within Iijima town,
　　since there had been no application until now and it was a matter requiring investigation, instructions were given to
　　Sugiemon and Ryōzō to summon and inquire. However, when the situation changed, the woodcutters caused inconvenience □
　　and the investigation was completed with apologies. The request was to allow mountain transfer during spring.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sugizaemon
　　Ryōzō reported this. Regarding this mountain matter, since applications within the domain territory have been completed, until next spring
　　continuing □ is inappropriate, so instructions were given to both to gradually proceed with mountain transfers.
1. The aforementioned two reported that this year's output of small hardwood pack loads was somewhat limited for the small hardwood mountain.
　　Until that time □, next year the application period will also end,
　　so instructions should be given to Sugizaemon to temporarily contract and produce pack loads.