【Right page】
　　This was also at the district office, so it was immediately received and handed over to the mountain affairs office. The above matter was
　　also reported to the duty officer. In total, there are now three seals.
1. The aforementioned firewood affairs seal was not in the chief inspector's seal register, as reported by the chief inspectors.
　　Therefore, arrangements were made to submit seal impressions of the two official seals this time.
15th day
1. There was an order for Giyemon and Yuji to go for mountain inspection to Yamamuro Imperial Forest Village, and
　　both reported that they would depart tomorrow.
1. Seal impressions of both firewood affairs official seals were prepared and submitted to the duty officer for inspection and to the chief inspectors.
　　Of course, the mountain affairs official seal was not submitted as it is recorded in the standard seal register.
17th day
1. It was reported that Giyemon and Yuji completed the mountain inspection of Yamamuro village's imperial forest and have just returned.
1. Since Kinemon came from Edo, Kinemon, Shosuke, and the monthly duty officer were called to Suteta's residence
【Left page】
　　Two attendants and subordinate officials from the mountain affairs office attended, and upon hearing the details, regarding timber extraction from Edo,
　　it was reported that Akatsuka Gennosuke had well arranged the detour route. Of the nine pieces of temple and shrine timber from Hatsukawa,
　　two pieces were also to be provided, and foundation timber and horizontal timber totaling several pieces were to be provided accordingly. From the next river, red pine and
　　various other timber would also be provided gradually, as was reported.
1. It was reported that Ryozo returned from Irinoya district recently.
18th day
1. What Kinemon and Shosuke reported yesterday, as well as details of what Kato Hachizaemon had undertaken,
　　were reported to the duty officer for the first time today. It was also
　　reported that Kitahara Hachiro's place was also visited yesterday. Regarding imperial forest matters,
　　arrangements should be made according to instructions after inquiry, but regarding temple and shrine timber,
　　it is believed that this should be reported by the district magistrates. When this was reported, regarding temple and shrine timber,
　　since neither side can easily give instructions, this should be handled through direct negotiation in each village