【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Makita
　　　　　12th month　　Lord Sukedayu　　　Forest official Kitahara Giemon
1st day
1. Yosoji returned from Sakurai Village last evening and reported that all prison wood tools for official use 
　　have been completed. This was also reported. Eight pine logs are to be cut and delivered 
　　at Hachimochiura Village Nishinoiri Imperial Forest as instructed. 
　　The forest officials were instructed about this some days ago.
3rd day
1. Regarding the above collection matter, plans for collection were discussed at the village level, 
　　and it was again reported to be completed when consulted with the district magistrate.
1. It was reported by Uemon's office that twenty laborers are needed for transporting the above wood tools from the mountain.
4th day
1. Yosoji's stipend rice receipt and dismissal officer certificate, as well as lunch rice certificate were stamped with the official seal
　　and sent to the rice storehouse through the subordinate officers.
【Left page】
1. For the forest official duty rotation, instructions were given to the forest officials that there should be a public notice
　　in the district for tax payment at Makita's residence on the coming 9th and 10th days. 
　　Of course, this notice was issued through the subordinate officers.
1. There were delays in timber and plank delivery, but since the rock placement survey was completed quickly,
　　plans were issued for next spring, and only the portions where rock placement surveys were completed at Iwaire 
　　were ordered for river transport this year. Ryozo was instructed to go for river transport of those timbers and planks,
　　and he reported that he would depart on the 5th day tomorrow.
6th day
1. Woodcutter Yosoji requested an advance on next New Year's stipend rice, so the subordinate's receipt certificate
　　was immediately stamped and sent. The rice amount: 3 to 3 sho
1. For the remaining prison wood tools, pine logs are to be delivered with written documentation at Nishinoiri to Giemon's office