【Right page】
This temple belongs to Chion-in in Kyoto, and its principal image is Amida Nyorai, carved by Eshin Sozu.
The founding priest is called Zen'o Shonin. 《Side note: The inscription on the temple's large bell mentions Ichigaya-no-sho, and because there are statues of Enma and the Ten Kings in the Kannon Hall, many worshippers visit on the 16th days of January and July》

Shimizu Slope - refers to the slope between the Owari domain residence and the Ii family residence. The area called Shimizu Valley also
refers to this vicinity. 《Side note: The area down to the slope leading to Kojimachi 8-chome is also within Shimizu Valley》 The well here is called 《Ruby text: Yanagi-no-i (Willow Well)》, named after the meaning of an ancient poem "clear water flowing in the willow shade." Fujimi Slope
refers to the area in front of the Matsudaira Dewa lord's residence, and Tamagawa Falls is located in the same garden. Komai Koji
is in the upper area of Fujimi Slope. It is said to be named after the Komai family who resided there.

Sakurada - This is an ancient village name. The "Wamyo Ruiju-sho" also records it as Sakurada in Ebara District 《Side note: Sakurata》 and
this name is very old. 《Side note: It now belongs to Toshima District. In the land register of the Odawara Hojo family, it appears in the holdings of Ota Genshichiro, Ushigome Kunai-no-shoyu Katsuyuki, Okitsu Kaga-no-kami, Aida Nakatsukasa-no-jo, and others》
《Side note: The place name Sakurada is frequently noted and added. Places like Sakurada Kubo-cho, Kenbo-cho of the same area, Bizen-cho, and also what is now called Sakurada-cho south of Azabu Roppongi, and Hyakusho-cho of the same location - all of these had their locations changed after the lord's entry into the domain》

The "Musashi-no-kuni Fudoki" states: "Sakurada Village in Ebara District, public rice 463 bundles and 3 tan of fields. It is called Sakurada because there are many cherry trees on the hills and fields of this village."

《Side note: The "Taiheiki" states: In the third year of Genko, fifth month, under the section on the Musashino Battle, "On the ninth day there was a military council, and the next day after defeating the forces of Kazusa and Shimosa, as a rear attack against the enemy, Kanazawa Musashi-no-kami Morimasa with over 50,000 horsemen was dispatched to Shimokawabe"》

【Left page illustration】
《Ruby text: Yanagi-no-i (Willow Well)》