【Right Page】
In ancient times, this was a temple founded in imitation of Nankiの Koyasan (Mount Koya in Wakayama), and initially it was an excellent region for Shingon esoteric Buddhism. However, in the first year of Jōei, Mizunoe-Tatsu (1232), Master Ryōkai converted to the teachings of Saint Shinran and changed the sect. There are more than ten branch temples. 《In the land registers of the Odawara Hōjō family's domain, the place name "Iikura-uchi Sakurada Zenpuku-ji-bun" is added among the lands of Shimazu Magoshirō. This likely refers to this temple.》

Zaō Gongen Hall 《Located on the hill south of the main hall, this is the temple's founder's hall, also called Ryōkai Hall or Azabu Gongen. According to tradition, when the founding master Ryōkai was alive, Zaō Gongen would often appear in the form of an old man to meet the master and listen to Buddhist teachings. On one occasion, he declared: "You now proceed on the great path of the Original Vow and One Reality. I also rejoice in this. Therefore, I give you one facial form. You should also carve your own image and place this within its interior." Accordingly, Master Ryōkai himself took up an axe to carve his own image, and following the divine instruction, placed the mask within the statue's interior. This is called the guardian deity of this place, and every year on July 15th there is a grass wrestling festival ritual, and on November 3rd there is a ceremony called "Founder's Body Cleansing," which is the founder's memorial day. On this day, a new water basin is made, the wooden statue is bathed, and placed on a flat seat. During this time, the monks recite the Amida Sutra.》

Staff Ginkgo Tree 《Located in front of the founder's hall, surrounded by stone walls. According to tradition, after Saint Shinran transmitted the Dharma to Master Ryōkai and was departing this place, he stuck his walking staff into the ground as a sign and said: "The propagation of nembutsu and the rebirth of ordinary people - is it also like this?" Thereupon, this tree suddenly sprouted roots and buds in reverse, eventually flourishing with luxuriant branches and leaves, becoming lush and green. Therefore, it is also called the "Reverse Ginkgo Tree."》

Kashima Spring Water 《Located between the main gate and middle gate. It is said to be the sacred water well that Kōbō Daishi obtained by petition from Kashima Myōjin in Hitachi Province. Local people say that in Kashima there are seven wells called sacred springs, but one of them is "empty water." In the past, there was a willow tree beside it, so it was also called "Willow Water."》

【Left Page】
According to the temple records, the revival founder Master Ryōkai was a descendant of Emperor Toba and the son of Left Minister Fujiwara no Nobuzane. Lord Nobuzane was exiled to this province for certain reasons and lived in a village near Shinagawa. 《Present-day Ōi Village is that old site. Details are in the section on Kōfuku-ji Temple in Ōi in Volume 2.》 Lord Nobuzane was troubled by having no heir and prayed to Zaō Gongen. His wife then dreamed of swallowing white cloth and became pregnant, giving birth to a son on the 15th day of the 6th month of the first year of Kennin, Kanoto-Tori (1201). 《This was Master Ryōkai.》 At that time, a clear spring suddenly bubbled up beneath a pine tree in the rear garden. 《For this reason, Master Ryōkai's childhood name was Matsukimi (Pine Lord), and the village was called Ōi. Further details are in the section on Kōfuku-ji Temple in Ōi.》

Therefore, everyone considered it miraculous. At age seven in spring, this child told his father that he had the aspiration to leave worldly life. Consequently, he was entrusted to律師 Hanken of Jissō-ji Temple, had his hair shaved, and was given the name Ryōkai. 《One text says he climbed Mount Hiei and studied both exoteric and esoteric Buddhism under 僧都 Jōei.》 Thereafter, he frequently devoted himself to study, traversed various sects, and finally returned to his hometown seeking to establish a foundation for propagating the Original Vow. He then visited a small shrine to Zaō Gongen to pray, and through divine signs came to this place where there was a hermitage. 《This is the present Zenpuku-ji Temple.》 Knowing this to be divine guidance, he resided here for many years. Then, in the first year of Jōei, Mizunoe-Tatsu (1232), when Saint Shinran was traveling through the eastern provinces, he happened to enter this temple, whereupon Master Ryōkai...