【Right page】
A two-foot statue of the Thousand-Armed Kannon (Senju Kannon) was added, and the previous small statue was enshrined within its Buddhist interior. Long ago, when the Buddhist sculptor Jōchō was staying at Zenkōji Temple in Shinano Province, that temple burned down. At that time, one pillar remained unburned among the ashes. When he asked the temple monks about it, they said this pillar was called the "worm-eaten pillar," and that during the original construction, an old man had carried this wood on his back and it was used as the western pillar. After saying this, his whereabouts became unknown.

However, this pillar emitted light every night, and within the worm-eaten traces, characters naturally formed:

"Tell them I wait in resentment - why do all people hurry me, asking 'when, when?'"

Therefore it is called the worm-eaten pillar. This pillar survived three temple fires and exists to this day, and the same happened again, so they say. That night, all the monks in the temple had the same dream: to use this pillar as material for statues and have the Buddhist sculptor Jōchō carve two Kannon statues - one to remain at Zenkōji and one to be placed in a portable shrine for Jōchō to carry on his back as he traveled through various provinces to form religious connections. Perhaps for this reason, it was passed down in the Uesugi family, but was later transferred to this temple.

【Left page】
Hanagi Tenmangū (Flower Castle Tenman Shrine) - Located to the south of the same area, enshrined in a Zen temple called Shōkyūji.
The sacred body (3 sun 8 bu in height) is said to be carved by Sugawara no Michizane himself. According to tradition, in the second year of Ninna, when Sugawara no Michizane was forty-two years old, he carved it himself in spring for protection from misfortune. (At age fifteen, for the fulfillment of a vow, he created a 1 sun 2 bu statue of Eleven-Faced Kannon which serves as the inner sacred object. It is now separately enshrined.)

It is also said that this statue was given as a memento when, in the first year of Engi, he was demoted to Governor-General of Dazaifu and stopped to visit his aunt who lived in Haji village in Kawachi Province on his way there. (During the Bunroku period, it was enshrined in this temple by someone named Yamada from the Katō family's retainers.)

Tomb of Hanabusa Itchō - About two chō south from the same location, on the left side of Nihon-enoki Street, at Shōkyōji Temple. Itchō's family name was Taga, his given name was Nobuka, and he also went by Chōko. Gyōun, Suisa, and Rinshō were among his pen names. From childhood he studied painting under Kanō Yasunobu, and was especially noted for his novel and witty style, later establishing his own school. However, during the Genroku period, he was exiled to Miyakejima in Izu Province for some offense. After residing there for over ten years, his skills improved even more. In Hōei 1 (1709), he was pardoned...