【Right page】
[The text refers to someone] moving to Horie-chō. Also establishing hermitages in Shinmei-chō and Kayaba-chō in Shiba, etc., as recorded in the Gogen-shū and other haiku collections. Died on the last day of February in the 4th year of Hōei (1707), year of the boar. Died at age 47. The haiku collections he authored number approximately twenty-some volumes, each circulated in the world.

Kōya-san Lodging Temple: Called Shōgaku-in. It is the head temple (furegashira) of the Shingon Orthodox sect. Commonly known simply as Kōya-ji Temple. Located about one chō south of the same area. The principal image is a statue of Kōbō Daishi. 《Said to have been carved by the Great Master himself when he was 42 years old》 Upon entering the gate, to the right of the main hall is a shrine to both deities Niū and Kōya. In front of the hall stands the Three-pronged Pine. The Mieku memorial service is held every year on March 21st.

Kishi-no-miya Shrine: Located at Sakaguchi in Saru-machi of the same area. 《This vicinity is within Yatsuyama Village. According to certain official documents, it is called Ōsaki in Kita-Shinagawa territory》 During the Keichō era, when imperial hawking was taking place, a pheasant flew into this shrine. When the deity's name was inquired, the local people replied that it was a shrine to the mountain god, whereupon imperial command was given that henceforth it should be called Kishi-no-miya. The festival is held annually on September 15th. The supervising temple is Hōtō-ji.

【Left page】
　Bird tracks　At 《Kishi-no-miya》
　　　Even those who come to hunt at the nameless Kishi shrine must wonder if this distant field is where they should lodge　　Mobui

　　　《Upon reflection, this shrine may be what is called Ebara Shrine in the Musashi Province Gazetteer. The same book records that Ebara Shrine enshrines Ame-no-Tajikarao-no-Mikoto as its deity, and that divine rites first began in the 6th year of Emperor Tenji. That this shrine is called a mountain god is likely because it has worshipped the deity of Togakushi in Shinshū since ancient times》

Ganzan Daishi Hall: Enshrined in a Tendai sect temple called Hakuchi-zan Hōtō-ji in the same area. This temple serves as the supervising temple for Kishi-no-miya. The principal image is a true portrait painted by the same brush as the image of Ganzan Daishi at Tōei-zan, possessing brilliant spiritual power. There is an exposition on the 3rd of each month. This area is called Ōsaki. In ancient times it was by the seashore, and the area from here eastward to Shinagawa resembled the shape of a sleeve, so it was also called 《Sode-ga-saki》.

Shiun-zan Zuishō-ji Temple: Located in Shirokane-dai-machi. A Zen temple of the Ōbaku sect, founded by Monk Mokuan during the Kanbun era. 《Monk Tetsugyū also resided at this temple》 In the Buddha hall are placed statues of Shakyamuni Buddha with attendants Kashyapa, Ananda, and others. The Great Hungry Ghost Festival is held annually on July 15th.

Previous inscription reference:
　　Musashi Province, Ebara District, Mita Manor, Shirokane Village, newly opened land, Shiun-zan Zuishō Zen [temple]