【Right Page】
The temple is located more than two ri from the castle, in a vast area facing the Eastern Sea in front and connecting to Meguro in the back. However, the one who initiated its founding was through the devoted efforts of Aoki Kai-no-kami Tanzan Koji. From the mountain gate, great hall, and abbot's quarters to all the large and small lodgings on both sides - all were established through Tanzan's solicitation of donations. However, without having planted great roots of virtue early on, how could one sacrifice personal wealth to such an extent? Here, Chōshō-in donated money to cast a great bell to protect the mountain gate, and entrusting this meritorious cause, offered memorial services for the late father, the venerable layman Kūin, and loving mother, Lady Shinkō-in, to assist their spiritual welfare and help them transcend to sublime bliss, extending also to the souls of spirits, villagers, and others. They specifically requested an inscription. Such merit is inconceivable, and therefore, without declining due to lack of talent, I respectfully compose this inscription.

The inscription says:
Making Mount Sumeru into charcoal and the great earth into a furnace, casting forth a great bell, empty within and without. The perfect sound pervades universally, the striking tone is gentle, hearing it awakens enlightenment, wondrous realization dispels all delusions. Transcending the realm of darkness, true nature returns to its origin. The ten directions of the dharma realm together realize complete liberation. Such merit is supremely great - what can compare to it? For those who remain and those who depart, blessed peace is eternal.

Kanbun 11th year, cyclical year Kanoto-I, first month of spring, auspicious day
Opening mountain successor monk Mokuan Shōtō respectfully inscribed

Re-casting Inscription with Preface
At this time, in Enkyō 2nd year, cyclical year Kinoto-Ushi, spring second month, fire struck and the temple buildings burned down, the great bell also melted. Based on this, the mountain monks made a vow and solicited from all quarters, now recasting it.

The inscription says:
One fire casts one giant bell - fresh ritual music for the ancient Zen temple
Morning and evening striking resolves troubling dreams - underworld suffering ceases, proving dharma-emptiness
The teaching essence is clear without gradual stages - pure sound perfectly penetrates
The nation endures long with people in peace - eternally guarding the mountain gate, transformative influence flourishes

Enkyō 2nd year, same year, mid-autumn auspicious day
14th generation mountain resident successor monk Myōso Gen respectfully recorded

【Left Page】
Casting craftsmen: Obata Takumi
                 Fujiwara Katsuyuki

Buddha Hall (Butsuden)
《Note: On a plaque hanging from the eaves of the double roof: "Enshrines Shakyamuni Buddha. 33rd generation of Rinzai orthodox transmission, Ōbaku Mokuan Shōtō, mountain monk's calligraphy"》
Plaque
Great Hero Treasure Hall
《Note: Enpō Kanoto-Tori auspicious day, calligraphy by founding master Mokuan Shōtō》
Zuishō-ji
《Note: Hanging from the eaves. Erected Kanbun Kanoto-I first month auspicious day, calligraphy by founding master successor monk Mokuan》

Heavenly Kings Hall (Tennō-den) 《Note: Located above stone steps in front of the Buddha Hall》
《Note: Inside are statues of Hotei Oshō of Kinzan-ji, Indra, the Four Heavenly Kings, etc.》
Plaque
Purple Cloud Mountain
Couplet 《Note: Hanging on left and right pillars of the Heavenly Kings Hall》
Recorded as calligraphy by Mokuan Shōtō

"Gate opens, long viewing the tranquil rivers and mountains"
"Superior location, not minding the noise of carriages and horses"

Ceremonial pole flags
《Note: Erected in front left and right of the Buddha Hall》

Bell Tower (Shōrō) 《Note: Located to the right of the Buddha Hall. In the hall are Manjushri and Kannon》
《Note: and other statues. The inscription text was composed by Master Mokuan》
Bell Tower
《Note: Calligraphy by founding master Mokuan》
Couplet 《Note: Same hall interior》
《Note: Hanging on left and right pillars, calligraphy by Juzan》
"Purple clouds pile up revealing compassionate investigation"
"In Zuishō gate's midst, wondrous forms shine"

Sutra Repository (Kyōzō) 《Note: Lined up to the left of the Buddha Hall. Inside enshrines a Shakyamuni Tathagata statue from the Ryōgon. This is Zuishō-ji's former main deity. There is also a statue of Fu Daishi. This sutra repository was built in Enpō 8th year by the founding ancestor Ryōō Sōzu of Kintai-en at Shitaya Ikenohata》
《Note: It houses Chinese editions of the complete Buddhist canon. It is said to be what Inaba Mino-no-kami Masanori had imported. In addition, they have collected and stored over 5,000 volumes of various books》

Study Quarters (Kangaku-ryō) Located beside the sutra repository 《Note: Two by five ken. Within this, five sections are prepared and one building constructed, placed for the benefit of scholars》

Buddha Selection Hall (Senbut-sujō) 《Note: Lined up at the same location. Inside is placed a statue of founding master Ingen Zenji. Couplets hang on the left and right pillars》

Osmanthus trees (Mokusei) 《Note: Located to the left and right in front of the Buddha Hall》