【Right page】
Buddha Selection Hall
(There is a calligraphy by Huangbo Mokuan hanging from the eaves)
Couplet (There is a calligraphy by the 33rd generation of this temple, Jakuchū-ei)
"When great function manifests, even silver mountains and iron walls must be penetrated
Where complete mechanism operates actively, even stone sparks and lightning are still slow"
Plaque of Memorial Hall　Hōon Hall　Calligraphy by Unshū

This temple was established in Kanbun 11, year of the Metal Boar (1671), when lay practitioner Tanzan (also known as Aoki Kai-no-kami) followed imperial orders to establish a hermitage on this land (this is the current temple). He invited Master Huangbo to be the founding abbot, and on the day of the hall opening, he had Master Tetsugyū serve as head monk to expound the Dharma. In autumn of Kinoe-Tora (1674), Master Huangbo resided again at Zuishō-ji and commanded the master to give joint Dharma talks, which delighted both humans and heavenly beings. In Kinoto-U (1675), March, following the master's orders, he made the teacher the successor of Shiun. Monks and laypeople from far and near came seeking precepts in numbers too many to count on one's fingers. In spring of Hinoto-Mi (1677), the Great Qing's Left Governor-General Yang Taishin, admiring the master's spiritual transformation, presented three inscriptions (the first saying "33rd generation of the authentic Rinzai lineage," the second "Opening Dharma at Chōkō," and the third "Tetsugyū's seal"). Monk Myōkei painted images of five hundred great arhats in over fifty scrolls as well as a portrait of the master.

【Left page】
These are still treasured as protective treasures today. This temple imitates the scenery of the head temple, and its management is quite different from others. It is the first Ōbaku sect temple built in Edo.

Myōken Daibosatsu　Located about three chō west of the same place, on the left side from the road, at Nichiren sect Myōen-ji temple. It is said to be the devotional Buddha of Ashikaga Shōgun Takauji.

Kamatsukuri Kanzeon　Located about one and a half chō west on the opposite side, at the corner of Rokken-chaya-machi, at Shingon sect Kōun-ji temple. According to tradition, during the Jinki era (724-729), when Bodhisattva Gyōki was traveling and teaching throughout the provinces, when he first stayed in Sarashina, Shinshū, this principal image emerged from a pond in a place called Hirayama. Also, a transformed being appeared from the sky, descended carrying a sickle and sacred robes, carved this statue of Kannon, and bestowed it upon Gyōki (this is that principal image).

Tanshō Hachiman-gū　Located on the same side, separated by about one chō in Nagamine-machi. It was transferred from Umi in Chikuzen during the Bunmei era (1469-1487). The enshrined deity is Empress Jingū alone (the honji-butsu is a work by Kōbō). The steward temple is called Kōfuku-in of the Shingon sect. August 15th is designated as the festival day.