【Right page】
During the time when the Buddhist teaching was being spread, in order to protect both Buddhist law and royal law, and desiring to make the benefits of harmonious illumination widely available to all people, one shrine each was selected from the upper, middle, and lower ranks of the twenty-one shrines of Hiyoshi Sannō at Wagatatsusoma, and the three sacred deities were invited to that place. Thus many years passed. However, during the Bunmei era, Ōta Dōkan moved these three Sannō deities from Seiya-san to Edo. {{Note: At that time, the shrine grounds were around what is now Bairinzaka, alongside the Kan shrine, according to the theory of Elder Daidōji Yūzan. Someone says that the Ōta family records state that on June 15, Bunmei 10, the Sannō Gongen Hall, Kōjin shrine, and Kan Shōjō shrine were built within Edo Castle. The Kan shrine refers to what is now Hirakawa Tenjin.}}

{{Note: Until the early days of the realm, both shrines were within the castle grounds, but the Kan shrine was moved outside Hirakawaguchi Gate, while Sannō was relocated to Momijiyama as the castle's guardian shrine.}} From the Tenshō era onward, when Edo was permanently established as the location of our lord's castle, a new shrine was constructed at Momijiyama and revered as the birth deity. Later it was moved to the Kaizuka area west of the castle. {{Extended notes about various historical theories and locations follow...}}

【Left page】
After the great fire of Jōō 3 (1654), because the artificial hill at Tameike was an excellent location, by imperial command the shrine was finally relocated to its present location, and with the construction of the shrine buildings, it became the foremost shrine residence in Edo. {{Note: Various theories about the exact dates of relocation are discussed...}} The golden halls and jeweled towers shine in the heavens, while the painted beams and vermillion blinds are reflected on earth. {{Note: This location was formerly the residence grounds of Matsudaira Tonomo.}} From this time forward, the benefits of harmonious illumination with the world have been profound - internally preserving the teachings of the Round School, externally bestowing virtues for pacifying the nation and benefiting the people. Especially as the tutelary deity of our lord's house, it receives the deepest reverence, and prayers for peace under heaven and tranquility of the state continue without cease for all eternity.

Former grounds of Narita Shimōsa-no-kami Nagatai: Adjacent to Nagata Baba Sannō, said to be the grounds of the Niwa family. In ancient times, he was the lord of Oshi Castle in Musashi Province.

Dairokutensha Shrine: In the same area, located on the grounds of the Kanematsu family. It is said to have been established by Ōta Sakingofu Dōkan.