[Right Page]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Kimitoki, Court Noble
After years have passed, what colors the same cherry blossoms must be the heart itself.

　　Composed on the theme "Flower Melancholy"　　Fujiwara no Morotsuna, Court Noble
If only the flowers were not limited to spring alone, then perhaps the melancholy of autumn could be completely forgotten.

　　Composed on the theme "Guest Arrives to Mourn the Flowers"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Taifu
Do not scatter so severely out of season, cherry blossoms! Today it is only this melancholy master who mourns you.

　　On the theme "Mountain Cherry, Windless"　　Hōin Genshō
The flowers of the deep mountain paths, where truly no one comes to mourn them, even the wind does not beckon away.

　　Composed on the theme "Flowers by the Water"　　Kakukō, Buddhist Priest
When I gaze upon cherry blossoms reflected at the pond's edge, though they do not scatter, they return to the waves.

　　Composed on the theme "Flowers After Rain"　　Dainagon Takasue

[Left Page]
This morning I see the form of flowers beaten by rain, drooping as they return to the waves.

　　Composed on the theme "Viewing Mountain Flowers from Afar"　　Shinshin, Buddhist Priest
Today again I would mistake them for clouds, were there no wind to carry the fragrance of the mountain cherry.

　　Composed when Kamo no Shigeyasu invited people to view flowers at Shirakawa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shun'e, Buddhist Priest
Since ancient times when we rejoiced knowing there would be future springs, there has never been a year when we did not mourn the flowers.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Daughter of Ōe no Korejun, Court Noble
The treetops where the wind naturally does not pass give the feeling of seeing the very first blooming flowers.

　　Composed on the theme "Flowers in the Old Capital"　　Taira no Tadanori, Court Noble
The waves of Shiga and its capital have fallen to ruin, yet the mountain cherry remains as it was of old.

　　Composed on the theme "Home Cherry Blossoms Surpass Famous Places"　　Gyōchū, Buddhist Priest
Upon the incomparable cherry tree of my dwelling, throughout spring I gaze with a heart that will not let it scatter.