【Right page】
Have the flowers on the ridges of Mount Yoshino bloomed? Leaving the pines aside, such white clouds hang there
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monk Tōren
If there were signs of the heart being dyed anew each year, in what color would the flowers bloom?
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Councilor Tsunemasa Ason
If I think spring is melancholy, even the wind is not harsh. Could there be winds that blow even when dividing flowers?
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Minamoto no Moromitsu
On Mount Yoshino, it is clear in the clouds that do not bloom—that the cherry blossoms on the ridges are in full flower
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Minamoto no Nakamasa
Do they spill forth and give off fragrance? Mountain cherry blossoms hidden in the sky by white clouds
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Koretsuna
If for one year the cherry blossoms remained fragrant without scattering, and it were the seven days when flowers do not bloom
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Minamoto no Suehiro

【Upper margin】
From Shikashū Miscellaneous, Lower, poem by Monk Tōren:
The moon at dawn hidden in the sky by the melancholy clouds of people's hearts in this world

From Sankashū:
If they were flowers of clouds on high peaks that I think of, I would think the seven days without scattering were clear

【Left page】
Since flowers will not stay no matter how much we lament them, what is enviable is the spring mountain wind
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Taira no Tadanori Ason
Do the flowers scatter while looking as if they intend to make beneath the trees their dwelling and residence?
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monk Shun'e
Since the cherry blossoms of Takama in Katsuragi bloomed, spring has been the unclearing white clouds of the peaks
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Taira no Narimori
Relying only on the heart that dwells in flowers, under how many trees have I slept during my travels?
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monk En'i
From the moment of thinking of barely budding flowers, they probably become things of the wind
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Suetsune Ason
I cannot distinguish which mountain cherry is which—should I distinguish the rising smoke as clouds?
　　Composing with the sentiment "Waiting to Obtain One Branch of Flowers"　Hōgen Chōtei

【Upper margin】
From Sankashū:
Since flowers bloom in colors that could be mistaken, Mount Yoshino in spring has white clouds on peaks that never clear

From Fubokushō, poem by Minamoto no Nakamasa:
Making myself into a flower that buds in vain, being waited for anxiously by someone

Lord Hama says: This "mono" appears frequently as "monoshiu" in tales. It is the same as that, and also the same as "mono yori mo," meaning "more than other things." By extension, it also carries the meaning of being distant and aloof in a standoffish way