【Right page】
When mistaken, it is a joyful single branch of flowers—should even the lament of scattering take the lead?
　　Composed upon seeing flowers at Shirakawa　　　Monk Dōin

Do not sweep the garden where flowers scatter. There may be winds that naturally return them to the treetops
　　Composed on flowers at Shigeyasu's poetry contest at Kamo　　　Major Counselor Tokitada

Making the entire year into flowers, is there a way to see cherry blossoms constantly?
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Palace Minister Naganori

With a thoughtful heart, move to the flowers, O warbler. Even scattering with wing-beats is a precious fragrance
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Major Counselor Sanefusa

Cherry blossoms, after you have finished scattering, show us your transformed appearance, white clouds of the peaks
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Councilor Koremori

The breaks in the white clouds trailing on the peaks of Mount Yoshino—are they the late cherry blossoms?
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Narika

【Upper margin】
Lord Hama says the opening phrase "machietewa" is probably a corruption of "machi-etewa" (having waited and obtained)

Lord Hama says "hafuri" is "haburi" (wing-beating) and is the same as saying "habuki." "Habuki" is the ancient word for "hafuri." The ancient word for "furu" (shake/wave) was "fukifuku"

【Left page】
Looking today at Kamo's water fences in flower season, what could even Mount Yoshino amount to?
　　Composed on flowers at the house poetry contest　　　　　　Minister of the Right

Everyone laments as if they were their own, but flowers indeed have no determined master
　　Composed on flowers at Major Controller of Kyushu Shigeie's poetry contest　West-traveling Monk

On the continuous peaks of Nakara Mountain by the rippling waves, I would show people the height of flower season
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Interior Minister

Would there be a heart that abhors even temporarily? If this were a world where flowers bloom without scattering
　　Composed upon seeing flowers at Shirakawa　　　Monk En'i

How did the heart dyed by flowers remain in my body that I thought I had completely abandoned?
　　Composed on "entering a neighbor's house to see flowers"　　　Fujiwara no Chikamori

Making my dwelling a neighbor's and gazing, would people call me the master of flowers?
　　Composed on flowers among the hundred poems of the Minister of the Right's house　　　Monk Shunnao