Kaei 7, Year of the Wood Tiger, 11th month, 4th and 5th days
Illustration of the Great Edo Earthquake and Fire - Officially investigated

Tōkaidō Route:
Ōtsu - Safe
Kusatsu - Same
Ishibe - "
Minakuchi - "
Tsuchiyama - "
Sakanoshita - "
Seki - "
Kameyama - "
Shōno - Severely damaged
Ishiyakushi - Same
Yokkaichi - Great earthquake, ground fissures
Kuwana - Great tsunami, earthquake
Miya - Great earthquake, 8/10 collapsed
Narumi - 7/10 collapsed
Chiryū - Great earthquake, great tsunami
Okazaki - Completely collapsed
Fujikawa - Great earthquake, 7/10 collapsed
Akasaka - Completely collapsed
Goyu - Severely damaged
Yoshida - Great earthquake, 6/10 collapsed
Futagawa - Same, half collapsed
Shirasuka - Great earthquake, 8/10 collapsed
Arai - Checkpoint damaged
Maisaka - Great earthquake 4/10, collapsed
Hamamatsu - Great earthquake, 6/10 collapsed
Mitsuke - Great earthquake, 6/10 collapsed
Fukuroi - Great earthquake, completely burned
Kakegawa - Same
Nissaka - Safe
Kanaya - Great earthquake, 7/10 completely burned
Shimada - Same, half collapsed
Fujieda - Upper area, 6/10 burned
Okabe - Great earthquake, completely collapsed
Mariko - Same
Fuchū - Fire from Egawa-chō, 4/10 burned
Ejiri - Great earthquake, completely burned
Okitsu - Great tsunami earthquake, 4/10 burned
Yui - Safe
Kambara - Burned from tonya-ba eastward, completely collapsed
Yoshiwara - Great earthquake, completely burned
Iwabuchi - 6/10 collapsed 4/10 burned, landslide, no river water
Fuji River
Hara - Slight shaking
Numazu - Same
Mishima
Hakone - Right
Odawara
Ōiso
Hiratsuka - Same
Fujisawa
Totsuka - [cut off]
Hodogaya
Kanagawa
Kawasaki
Shinagawa - Great earthquake

Edo Fire:
On the 5th day of the 11th month of this Tiger year, at the hour of the Boar, fire broke out from Asakusa Saruwaka-chō. The three theaters of San-chōme, Shōten-chō, Yamano-shuku-chō, and Hanakawado-chō were completely destroyed. To the west up to Kita-bamichi, to the east up to Ōkawa Bridge, and from there to Mukōjima and Koume village, sparks flew to the Mito lord's lower residence. Town houses in an area of about 10 chō square burned down. The earthquake was the same as in Osaka. The Rokugō Chikuzen lord's residence was near the fire.

Illustration of the Great Edo Earthquake:
On the 4th day of the 11th month of Kaei 7, Year of the Wood Tiger, at the morning hour of 5 and a half, the great earthquake began shaking. Marunouchi, Tatsu-no-kuchi, Minami-Daimyō-kōji, Nishi-Gomaru-shita government office residences, and magistrate residences were safe. In the southern part of town, near Shiba, Nishi-no-kubo, Akasaka, Imai-ya, Aoyama, Azabu, Kanasugi, Atago-shita, and Tamachi areas were severely damaged, and houses were greatly damaged but none collapsed. Zōjō-ji and Tentoku-ji temples were safe. Hongō 6-chōme was severely damaged, also Nezu, Yanaka, Shitaya, Kanasugi, Yamashita, western Kōji-machi, and Yotsuya were slightly damaged. Also in Marunouchi, more than 10 buildings near the Bizen lord's storehouse had large ground fissures. 3-4 residences near Sakurada were slightly damaged each, the Nabeshima lord's residence lost its foundation wrapping, the Nambu lord's residence's long house collapsed, the Yanagisawa lord's entrance was greatly damaged and had large ground fissures. Also in Ōhō-chō and Hongō 6-chōme, roof tiles fell for about half a chō. There are many other things to record, but I abbreviate here. Also, when the people in the city were in great confusion due to the great earthquake, there was another fire from Asakusa at the 4th hour of the night on the 5th, causing some confusion.

[Map labels - East of river]
Susaki village, Koume village, Shōsen-ji temple, town houses
Kawara-chō, Mimeguri Inari shrine, Mito lord's lower residence, Matsudaira Echizen lord
Sumida River, Azuma Bridge, bridge length 78 ken

[Map labels - West of river, upper right]
Keiyō-ji temple, town houses, Eda-chō, town houses, Torigoe-chō town houses
Kawara-chō, Matsuchiyama Shōten, town houses, Shōten-chō, actor district town houses, chō houses, Anraku-in, Yakushi-shindō, puppet theater, same, same 3rd district, same 2nd district, Saruwaka-chō 1st district
Kawarazaki-za theater, Ichimura-za theater, Nakamura-za theater, small street
Theater teahouses, Bamichi street

[Map labels - Lower right]
Ubaga pond, Mandara hall, Iroha tenements, Kuhonji temple
Ichi-no-gongen shrine, town houses, Kita-bamichi, Yamano-shuku, Shinshō-in temple, town houses, Minami-bamichi, Hanakawado, town houses in this area
Boundary, Hirokōji, Kaminari-mon gate

[Map labels - Upper left]
Town houses, fields Tamachi, Muryō-in temple, Renjō-in temple
Inari shrine, Ōta Daigaku lord, Rokugō Chikuzen-no-kami, fields
Main hall, Udaijin gate, Niō gate, Sensō-ji temple, Kinryūzan Sensō-ji temple, Denpō-in temple, temple grounds, town houses, Tawara-chō