Oral Statement

We are grateful for your recent kind consideration. Regarding the lacquer matter, I went to the Bureau of Products yesterday and arrangements were made as detailed in the separate document. I have seen a copy of the official letter that was distributed to the capital (Kyoto). It has been announced that departure will definitely be tomorrow, the 6th. Please give your approval for the homecoming matter according to your convenience. I was supposed to go myself, but since Enjuro has business going up to Osaka and went to the Bureau of Products on the 3rd of this month for various reasons, I think it would be better for Tokubei to go. Please make appropriate arrangements. Depending on the weather, I will go out for potato digging. At that time, I will consult with you on various matters. Enjuro has also asked me to convey the same. In closing, please give my regards to your family. Above

September 5th

〆

[According to the 'Report,' Goto Rihachiro, Hattori Yasuemon, and Hattori Enjuro are guardians of Kinokuniya Tokubei of Daiku-machi.]

[Estimated Chronology of Documents]

['Official Business' (first half of 'Oral Statement' document) (year of writing unknown) February 19th, order from Bureau of Products to Goto Rihachiro to appear on February 22nd, purpose unknown]

['Copy of Petition to Bureau of Products' Bunsei 5 (1822) March, from Kinokuniya Tokubei to Bureau of Products, report of lacquer coating technique completion and application for lacquer appraisal permission]
['Copy of Petition to Bureau of Products' Bunsei 5 May, from Yamashiroya village headman Fukagawa Genbei to the division office, application for lacquer bucket transport permission]
　　　↓
['Petition' Bunsei 5 August, from Kinokuniya Tokubei to office, application for lacquer sales permission]
['Report' (Bunsei 5, year of the Horse) September 4th, from Bureau of Products to Yamashiroya village headman Fukagawa Genbei (copy, no Bureau of Products seal), advance notice of sending Goto, Ogawa Tokubei, and Kondo, order for approval, response to 'Petition']
　　　↓
['Oral Statement (final page)' (year of writing unknown) September 5th, from Hattori Katsuemon to Goto Rihachiro and Zensuke, copy enclosed, request for approval, (advance notice of appointment to Goto?)]

　　　↓ [During this period, Bureau of Products internally approved the appraiser license]

['Memorandum Report' (Bunsei 6?) February 4th, from Kinokuniya Tokubei, addressee unknown, Bureau of Products accepted appraiser application, notification of approval]
　　　↓
['Regarding Lacquer Sales' year of the Sheep (Bunsei 6?) March 9th, from Naraya Risuke to Goto, communication of bucket specifications]
['Regarding Lacquer Sales' (Bunsei 6?) June 7th, from Kasuke of Osaka Minami-honmachi to Tokubei, sales channel change, confirmation of tribute money amount]
　　　↓
['Humbly Submitted Memorandum by横切 (Regarding Yamashiroya Lacquer Purchase Silver Matter)' (Bunsei 6?) year of the Sheep June, from Goto Rihachiro to office, Goto Rihachiro's additional investment in Yamashiroya, report of recession and losses, application for tax payment delay.]
['Humbly Submitted Memorandum' after spring of year of the Sheep (Bunsei 6?), almost identical text to 'Humbly Submitted Memorandum by Yokogiri (Regarding Yamashiroya Lacquer Purchase Silver Matter).']