Gonbei had previously learned through a divine oracle from Inari that the young moxibustion seller was actually Lord Yoritomo. He thought to somehow secretly arrange meetings between him and the Hōjō princess, and eventually have him emerge into the world as Tokimasa's son-in-law. Conspiring with the lady-in-waiting Sekiya, he petitioned the chief retainer to have Dōi appointed to provide moxibustion for the princess's treatment.

[Gonbei]
Cut moxibustion is extremely useful medicinally, and moreover, the preparation method is exceptional.

[Chief Retainer]
What an unusual medical request. Shingozaemon also agrees. Tell that Dōi fellow immediately to bring plenty of cut moxibustion right away. That is indeed fortunate.

Gonbei came to the moxibustion shop and told Dōi in detail about Princess Masako's illness and being appointed to provide moxibustion services. For the first time, he revealed to Dōi everything up to how he learned through Inari's oracle that the young man was Lord Yoritomo. He suggested they should take advantage of this opportunity to work together and help Lord Yoritomo emerge into the world.

Moved by Gonbei's devotion, Dōi took out the white banner entrusted to him by Lord Yoritomo, showed it to Gonbei, and revealed his true intentions.

[Gonbei]
We are both originally from retainer families. Let us join hearts and serve with loyalty for the sake of our livelihood. Though I have abandoned bow and arrow in my current station, my heart remains sharp. Even a thousand awls, when thrust into thick bags, can immediately cut through - I have not forgotten the spirit of defeating the Taira, and I speak no lies. That is why I am a bookseller.

[Dōi]
This situation is like that of the monk Dōnen at Yaguchi crossing, but since we have now become townspeople, we have no intention of engaging in violence again. We simply wish to help you (Yoritomo) emerge into the world. Therefore, our "cutting and pasting" now means cutting moxibustion and pasting paper on containers.