【Right page】
Conversely, if it reaches the extreme, it becomes difficult to cure. According to the "Treatise on Disease Origins," jaundice disease is caused by excessive indulgence in alcohol and sex, and also by being struck by wind-dampness, resulting in these symptoms. Also, people with deficiency-taxation who drink much alcohol but eat little food will generate heat in the stomach. If one becomes greatly intoxicated and is exposed to wind or enters water, the body and eyes manifest yellow color, the heart center becomes vexed and painful, the shins swell, urine becomes yellow, red spots appear on the face, one cannot eat, and sometimes wants to vomit. According to the "Three Causes Formulas," among the five types of jaundice, only alcohol jaundice has the most variable symptoms. Alcohol is produced through brewing and has great heat toxicity. It penetrates into the hundred vessels and not only manifests yellow color, but overflows into the skin causing blackness and swelling, and when it flows into the air passages, the eyes become yellow and carbuncles form on the nose,

【Left page】
with various different manifestations. Also, flesh jaundice involves little drinking but much urination that is the color of white rice water. This is said to be caused by alcohol. According to Dai Yuanli's theory, if one drinks alcohol and immediately sleeps, the alcohol toxicity fumigates the lungs and spleen, causing yellow disease. There are many other theories as well. Now, why is this disease mostly caused by alcohol? First, the five types of jaundice are: yellow jaundice, yellow sweating, grain jaundice, alcohol jaundice, and sexual exhaustion jaundice. Yellow jaundice and yellow sweating are caused by alcoholic food or wind-water and damp-heat; grain jaundice is caused by heat in the spleen and stomach with hunger leading to overeating; sexual exhaustion jaundice is caused by great heat and great taxation while engaging in sexual desire. Generally, those who drink heavily create damp-heat in the spleen and stomach, and after drinking cannot eat, but after sobering up become hungry instead.