【Right Page】
Eisō《Marginal note: Descendant of the Tenson clan, grandson of Keiso Seshu, reigned 40 years, died at age 71｜Yuan Taizong Dade 3rd year, Japanese court: Emperor Go-Fushimi Shōan 1st year》
　Eisō was born with auspicious signs, and by age twelve his reputation was known throughout the country. At twenty he mastered the classics and histories, becoming the Iso Aji (lord). At thirty-three he ascended to the throne. At this time, the northwestern islands came to pay tribute, and Ōshima is said to have first paid tribute.
Taisei《Marginal note: Eisō's heir, reigned 9 years, died at age 62. Yuan Wuzong Zhida 1st year, Japanese court: Emperor Hanazono Enkyō 1st year》
Eiji《Marginal note: Taisei's second son, reigned 5 years, died at age 46. Yuan Renzong Huangqing 2nd year, Japanese court: Emperor Hanazono Shōwa 2nd year》
Tamagusuku《Marginal note: Eiji's fourth son, reigned 23 years, died at age 41｜Yuan Shunzong Zhiyuan 2nd year, Japanese court: Emperor Go-Daigo Engen 1st year}}
　During Tamagusuku's reign, the world declined and government deteriorated. Internally there was debauchery, externally there was excessive hunting, the various aji ceased to pay court, and the country divided into three. The Ōzato Aji became the Sannan King, with eleven magiri following him.《Marginal note: Sashiki, Chinen, Tamagusuku, Gushichan, Kochinda, Shimajiri｜Kyan, Mabuni, Makabe, Kaneshiro, Tomigusuku, with》

【Left Page】
《Marginal note: above eleven｜one》The Nakijin Aji became the Sanhoku King, with eight magiri following him.《Marginal note: Haneji｜Nago}}
《Marginal note: Kunigami, Kin, Ie, Ōgimi,｜Nakijin, Onna and other countries》Chūzan possessed only the Shuri royal castle, Naha, Tomari, Urasoe, Hokama, Nakagusuku, Goeku, Yomitanzan, Gushikawa, Katsuren, and Shuri's three hira《Marginal note: Nishihira, Minamihira, Majihira｜these are called the three hira}}
　《Marginal note: so called》and other countries. From this time, Chūzan, Sannan, and Sanhoku would periodically raise armies and fight each other for several decades.
Sai-i《Marginal note: Tamagusuku's first son, reigned 14 years, died at age 23｜Yuan Shunzong Zhiyuan 9th year, Japanese court: Emperor Sukō Kōō 1st year》
　Sai-i ascended the throne at age ten, entrusting government to his mother the queen dowager, resulting in a situation like "the hen ruling the roost." At this time, Urasoe Aji Satto possessed great virtue and the people submitted to him. When Sai-i died, the people deposed the heir and enthroned Urasoe Aji Satto as king.
　　From Eisō to Sai-i, a total of five generations spanning ninety-nine years.