【Right Page】
Before the investiture envoy had yet arrived, the king again dispatched tribute envoys and congratulated the New Year of the following year, but still called himself heir apparent (seishi). In the 9th year, tribute was sent four times, and the envoy Liang Hui memorialized requesting one sea vessel to be used for seasonal tribute missions, which was granted. In the 10th and 11th years, tribute was sent twice each year, with banquets and rewards given as usual.

Sho Shitasu 《Son of Sho Chu, reigned 5 years, lived to age 42, died in Ming Yingzong's Zhengtong 14th year, corresponding to Hotoku 1st year of Emperor Go-Hanazono in Japan》
Sho Shitasu succeeded to the throne at age 38. In Zhengtong 12th year, he had the senior official Liang Qiu report his father Sho Chu's death and request succession to the title. In the third month, Emperor Yingzong invested heir apparent Shitasu as successor king. That year, he presented tribute of horses and local products. In the 13th year he sent tribute. In the 14th year he sent tribute twice. The king's uncle Sho Kinpuku also sent tribute and was granted clothing, silk, caps and belts. 《In this year, King Sho Shitasu died》 In Ming Emperor Jingtai's Jingtai 1st year, Sho Kinpuku ascended the throne, but

【Left Page】
without reporting Shitasu's death, he dispatched envoys to pay tribute. Emperor Jingtai bestowed an edict along with brocade and colored silk to the king and queen. The interpreter Cheng Hong said, "Our ship is damaged and we cannot return to our country. We request to use the bestowed silk to build a ship." The Ministry of Rites petitioned: "Send a directive to the three offices of Fujian to allow them to build it themselves, and not trouble the people," and this was approved. Soon they sent tribute again. In the 2nd year they sent tribute and again requested to prepare their own materials and labor to build a ship. The Ministry of Rites said: "Now the Fujian region suffers from bandits and the people are in distress. They should wait for the return date of the tribute mission and interpreters from their country and have them return by taking passage on that ship," and this was followed. Soon they sent tribute again.

Sho Kinpuku 《Sixth son of Sho Hashi, reigned 4 years, died at age 56, in Ming Emperor Jingtai's Jingtai 4th year, corresponding to Kyotoku 2nd year of Emperor Go-Hanazono in Japan》