Therefore, he received (the scroll) and placed it on top of the saddle box on the floor of the entrance hall. Shōzaemon said, "This is a scroll that determines the fate of a great matter. Do not treat it carelessly," and returned home. After one day had passed, he came again, so I instructed a servant to claim I was absent and took the scroll from the top of the saddle box in the entrance hall, giving it to Shōzaemon with the seal still intact. Therefore, I do not know what was written in that scroll, he reported. When Izu-no-kami questioned Shōzaemon, it was exactly as Hyōbu had stated. The seal was completely intact. However, if it had been kept in his possession for two or three days, he might have devised some way to examine it without breaking the seal, he added. Through investigation, he was added to the list of conspirators. Nagashima Gyōbu-Saemon must have reported this. At that time, Bungo-no-kami questioned Hyōbu, saying, "Why did you not examine that scroll?" Hyōbu fearfully replied, "I found it suspicious, so as a test I placed the scroll on top of the saddle box. At that time, Shōzaemon said not to treat it carelessly and returned home, so I became even more suspicious and, without examining it, instructed a servant to return it." Bungo-no-kami again said, "Since you were

so alert and found it suspicious, why did you not bring that document and show it to me? Even if you did not show the document itself, why did you not report these circumstances to me? This is truly disloyal. The crime is certainly not light. Being aware yet not reporting it is equivalent to being an accomplice." Hyōbu was scolded, hung his head, and prostrated himself.

1. Regarding the party faction: When Ishibashi stated that there might be as many as 300 people who had signed the agreement, they tried to determine the number through torture and questioning, but no confessions were obtained. The aforementioned document was said to be a strategic writing intended as a means to recruit people.

Twenty-first day: The crimes of the party faction were determined and they were sentenced to punishment:
　　Toki Yozaemon　　　　　Ishibashi Gen'emon
　　Betsuki Shōzaemon　　　Hayashi Toemon
　　Fujioka Matajūrō {{Note: Former master Kanamori Sakyō, masterless samurai with forelocks}}　Miyake Heiroku {{Note: Former master Hōjō Dewa-no-kami, masterless samurai with forelocks}}