【Right Page】
Demon-face crab　Takebungani　Heikegani (Heike crab)
　Shimamuragani　In Buzen and Nagato, it is called "Kiyotsunegani"
　According to the Crab Chronicle: "The back shell resembles a demon's form, with eyebrows, eyes, mouth, and nose
　clearly distributed, and it is constantly treasured as a precious object."
　It lives in the seas around Kyushu, and is completely
　absent east of the western provinces. The claws are of different sizes on left and right, and it has four flat, elongated
　legs. Between them are four extremely short legs
　attached. Though crab species are numerous and varied, this creature
　has a very strange appearance. Dried specimens are sent to distant places
　as tribute gifts and are considered precious.
　What the Taiwan Prefecture Records call "demon crab, shaped like
　a puppet" refers precisely to this creature.
　This crab is sometimes caught in Owari Province as well, called "Ozosagani"
　or "Osada crab." It is said to be the transformed spirit of the magistrate of Osada.
　It is not called Heike crab there, and people say it exists only on the Mojigaseki seashore of Choshu.

【Left Page】
A eulogy for the Heike crab kept as a temple treasure at Amidaji Temple in Nagato Province
Said to be written by Lord Yoshimitsu, Great Minister of State,
when one looks at a copy of his original calligraphy, it reads:
Alas, how sad! Due to the karma of asura in the cycle of three worlds, cast down into the flow of the Bhadra River, sinking and floating in the waves of the sea of suffering, transformed into the form of crabs - how pitiful! Mistaking the long-past Genryaku era as if it were today, frail tears overflow our sleeves. Reflecting deeply on human rise and fall, this does not even compare to a moment's dream in Handan. The Heike's mere twenty-odd years of luxury appeared within the dream of "the mighty must fall," finally crushed by the martial power of the eastern barbarians. In the autumn of Juei, poling with a single leaf on the waves of the western sea, entrusting themselves to drifting waterweeds - truly a pitiful sight. Just then, in the spring of Genryaku 2, the imperial forces, defeated in battles everywhere, headed toward Tsukushi