【Right Page】
The fallen emperor, along with the court nobles (moon ministers and cloud guests), shed tears in the leaking cabin of a single boat, leaving their sails to the drifting waves and landing at Yanagigaura in Buzen Province. For a while the sovereign rested his collar, so the imperial forces felt some temporary relief. At such a time, around the twenty-second day of the third month, unexpectedly Noriyori and Yoshitsune approached with thousands of warships, unfurling banners in the spring wind, shooting arrows like rain, the sound of oars and weapons reverberating to heaven, and the war cries startling the sea bottom. Though it is said that "weapons are instruments of ill omen, warfare goes against virtue," the warriors who had taken refuge in the imperial land showed no mercy, surrounding the former emperor's imperial vessel and the dragon countenance of the Son of Heaven seven and eight layers deep without reverence. Though the imperial forces fought desperately as their final battle, heaven's mandate had grown weak, and they were immediately defeated. When the empress dowager was taken alive, the Nun of Second Rank stepped forward, thinking "this is the end," embracing the eight-year-old young Emperor Antoku at her side, and grasping the sacred sword in her right hand

【Left Page】
Drawing the sacred sword, she leaped into the depths of the sea. The various ministers, hundred officials, thousand functionaries, and the Taira nobles and clansmen all sank into the same current, disappearing in an instant like foam on water, leaving no trace except the waves that continued to wash ashore as remembrance. How is it that each of these hundred officials transformed into these crabs? Unaccustomed to naval warfare, they used every means with "seven hands and eight legs," their vengeful anger and stubborn resentment never fading. Carried on the boat of Buddha's great vow, as the waves of conditional suchness arose, they sank into the sea of eight sufferings, drifting in the turbulent waves of worldly desires. Unable to return their souls to the celestial source, they finally underwent transmigration in the depths of the water. Having no place to rest, they transformed into insects and became these crabs. Seeing their present form brings even more sorrow than the tragedies of old, wetting our sleeves with tears:
　The gatekeeper of Moji (Mojigaseki) who preserved the names
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　of those who sank in past sorrows
　Bodies with nowhere to turn are now reborn as crabs,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　sinking pathetically in the waves' sorrow