【Right Page】
On the 27th day of early autumn in the year Mizunoto-Mi (1823), an unusual insect was presented by Satō Saemon, its name unknown. From the tip of its nose to the end of its wings measures about 4 bu (approximately 1.2 cm).
I illuminated it with a microscope and sketched its form. The wings are transparent with very clear and beautiful fine vein patterns. It resembles a brown cicada. The nose is long and pointed, similar to a grasshopper. Upon examination, this may be a variant species of leafhopper.

【Left Page】
Sea cucumber (namako) has the Japanese reading "namako." It is not recorded in the Bencao Gangmu (Compendium of Materia Medica), but it is the sha-ken recorded in Feng Shike's Yuhang Zalu (Miscellaneous Records of Rain Navigation). Also called sha-suan. That book states: "Sha-ken is a lump-like object resembling the intestines of cattle and horses, with a head length of five to six sun, having no eyes, skin, or bones, but capable of peristaltic movement. When touched, it contracts to the size of peaches or chestnuts, then gradually returns to its swollen state. Local people rub it in sand basins to remove its slime and fishy smell, then cook it with five seasonings, making it crisp, delicious, and of superior taste." It is also recorded in the Ningbo Fuzhi, called "sea man" in the Wuzazu, "sea maggot" in the Yaoxing Cuanyao, and "mud shoot" in the Wenzhou Fuzhi. Also, the Gezhi Jingyuan quotes from the Yinshi saying "mud, also called sha-ken, is a boneless creature that is active in water but becomes sluggish like mud when it loses water." The Zhuwu Yishu also mentions this, all referring to this same creature. The foreigner Hübner's book calls it Holothuria, saying that when this creature is crushed and placed on areas of various pains or swellings, it provides great relief. In our country too, when this slime is applied to frostbite, chaps, swelling and pain of hands and feet, the pain is relieved and swelling subsides. This creature comes in several colors: blue, black, yellow, and red. Simply calling it "Ko" is like the practice of collectively calling onion-type plants by the single character "Ki." The roasted and dried ones are called "Iriko," and those dried on skewers are called "Kushiko." In the Wamyō Ruijushō, regarding sea cucumber (Japanese name: ko), it quotes Cui Yuxi's Shijing saying "resembles a leech but larger." If so, calling it by the name Ko is an ancient practice, and even now the intestines of sea cucumber are used as sauce