【Right page】
Scorpion <<marginal note: One type that is extremely small is a rare specimen. It is a highly venomous insect - would it be suitable to classify as a fire scorpion? For now I present this theory on the left>>
Shōzō respectfully notes: In the "Guixin zazhi bieji" by Zhou Mi of Biyang in the Song dynasty, it states: "Among the venomous stinging creatures of the north, there is what is called the 'fire scorpion.' Compared to ordinary scorpions, it is extremely small, but its venom is intensely virulent. Some travelers were resting in summer at Panshui when one suddenly felt a strange pain in his thigh that penetrated to his heart and was unbearable. He immediately jumped up to search but found the stone surface was smooth with nothing else visible initially. After walking just a few steps, his whole body swelled and festered, and he died. His companions found this strange and thought there must be something unusual under the stone. They immediately looked and saw an extremely small black scorpion. When one person struck it with a bamboo staff, the bamboo exploded and the hand holding it also swelled and festered, causing immediate death. Recently Master Du used incantations to drive away this menace, and it has somewhat subsided."

Uorunbe
Drawn by Shibue Chōhaku in Ezo territory
Size as shown. When stones in swift-flowing water are lifted, these attach and come up.

【Lower right page】
Unbekikiri
Lives under stones in flowing water in Ezo territory. Size as shown in the diagram. Shape like a scorpion, with pincers on both hands like crab claws. Has a long tail with a stinger. Some are earth-yellow color, others reddish-brown, and some are vermillion colored. Extremely venomous. The Ainu people are said to include this creature when preparing medicinal compounds to coat poison arrows.

【Left page】
The Zhenjiang Prefecture Gazetteer states:
The qiú is commonly called "heavenly ox" (longhorn beetle)
A poem by Poxian says: "Though both horns grow long by themselves, flying in the sky brings no submission. What benefit is there in making the box an ox? With sharp mouthparts it bores holes in withered mulberry." Thus the heavenly ox is what gnaws mulberry. Generally, wherever there are mulberry trees, it is there to gnaw the mulberry.

Sugimushi - This is the reddish-brown type of golden beetle