【Right page】
Kyōrō (Dung beetle) - Called Koganemushi. It flies during summer months. Its shell is extremely hard. When it hits a board, it retracts its legs and falls into a state of apparent death, not moving. When walking, it folds its wings and stores them under its shell. When about to fly, it first extends its wings outside the shell, opens the shell, and flies. Its speed is fast. The shell and abdomen rise up plumpily. When turned on its back, if you flick it with your nail, it spins round and round on the board. After a while, it extends its legs and assumes a prone position. Its entire form has a luster like something painted with black lacquer. When pinched with fingers, it emits a foul odor. Since it is said to prefer unclean places, in Kyoto it is called Senchikogane. Some fly carrying small reddish-brown young on their undersides and legs. They are like small mites. Hence the name "child-carrying insect." These young run very swiftly over this smooth shell. This is also quite a marvel. This insect is said to have the habit of rolling dung balls, but I have not yet seen where it rolls these balls. Its front two legs are flattened like a mole cricket's hands, and seem well-suited for rolling balls.

"The great bell rises and drifts in the dark room, tiles fall and ■ within. Who would say that the ball-rolling hands can create the sound of rolling thunder?" <<A poem inscribed by Scholar Yong on a scroll of seven painted grass insects>>

Someone says that this insect is very numerous underground in western regions like Kyushu, but rare in the Kantō region. Those occasionally found in Kantō are all small in form, while those from western regions are said to be mostly large. It is called Senchikogane and despised. According to Shōzō's investigation, in autumn months this creature sometimes rolls balls. This is when it is producing its young. It does not roll dung and soil in vain. There is evidence for this. In the Huichun, in the section on stomach reversal: "Qiu are the pellets rolled by dung beetles; under the dung and soil there are always these pellets, and those pellets containing white insects are finger-sized and identical to grubs," and so forth. From these words, it is clear that they are its offspring.

【Left page】
Since they are rare in Edo, no one has personally observed this ball-rolling behavior.