【Right page, upper section】
Tsuchi-batta (Ground grasshopper)
　Found in sunny places and jumps well
　Not easy to capture
　There is one species that is extremely small with a black body having a green-blue or dark blue luster. It lives in sunny spots of swept gardens, can jump about one shaku (30cm) in a single leap, and is difficult to catch
　Resembles horse ants (uma-ari) but
　is smaller
　When caught by hand

　it emits a foul odor
　that cannot be removed even by washing with water
　The smell does not go away. It probably has poison
　There are also ones twice as large, and there are probably many varieties of this species

【Right page, lower section】
Yabu-kiri (Bush cricket)　Also called Kusamaki
　　　　　It belongs to the katydid family

【Left page】
Inago (Locusts)　They attach to rice ears. When many attach, they cause damage. When roasted and eaten, the taste is sweet. They are given to small birds as good medicine. Some people say they work as a laxative for small birds. It is good to use them for about a day when birds have constipation in front of bird shops. They should not be used regularly.　　　　In the mountainous areas around Yonezawa in Dewa Province, local people collect many of them, store them, and eat them roasted. They also use them as drinking snacks, it is said.

　　　　Yamato-suzu　Lives in the deep thickets of my own garden. It is the smallest among crickets. Though small in form, its call can be heard surprisingly far away. For many years I heard this insect's voice but never saw its form. In the autumn of Bunsei 5, year of the Water Horse (1822), Sato Saemon caught this insect and gave it to me as a gift. For the first time, I kept it in a small gauze cage. I presented it to the New Palace. One specimen was placed by my pillow from the end of July until August 30th, singing night after night continuously without pause, with elegant tones that comforted my autumn sentiments. I do not know Mr. Sato's given name, so I provisionally call this "Chōsei" (Long Voice). I also name it Chōsei from its sound.
　　　　There is a poem:
　　　　　"Small creatures are hard to see, unknown yet they have names
　　　　　Voice after voice singing without rest, as if celebrating longevity"