【Right page】
《Hirotaka says: These poems about suzumushi are very old. However, there are no word plays with expressions like "furi idete" (to begin)》

Tale of Genji, Suzumushi Chapter
Though I generally find autumn melancholy, the voice of suzumushi is hard to cast away
Though I deliberately shun this grass dwelling, the suzumushi's voice still does not cease
Even exhausting the full range of suzumushi voices, tears fall unsatisfied through the long night

《Hirotaka says: From these poems onward, the word "furu" (to fall/shake) was incorporated into the composition. Here too we should understand the evolution of nomenclature》

Emperor Horikawa's One Hundred Poems
　Insects　　　　　　　　　　Kuninobu
Do the suzumushi of the fields where the imperial hunt takes place cry out with voices of love, stirring up their calls?

Fuboku Wakashū Volume 14, Insects
　New Six Volumes, Suzumushi　　　　Minister Ienao
Did the traveler hurrying through the mountain at night abandon the suzumushi's voice?

Shōji Era Year 1 Shingu Poetry Contest　　Minister Norimitsu
They seem to sound with familiar confidence, the suzumushi voices of Kagura Hill, stirring up their calls

《Hirotaka says: From these onward, all later poems follow the same pattern》

【Left page】
According to a person from Satsuma Province, when Lord Yūsai saw Toyotomi Taikō's beard and said "Twist and open those old whiskers with a chinchirolin," our domain's Niiro Musashi Tadamoto responded with "Around the nose, suzumushi cry."

《Hirotaka says: From this we can clearly understand that until around the Tenshō era, insects that cried "chinchirolin" were called suzumushi》

A ditty called "kakurenbo" (hide-and-seek) 《composed in recent times in the capital》 says "At night matsumushi chinchirori"

《Hirotaka says: From this it's clear that even in the capital, after the Keichō era, some people called insects that cry "chinchirolin" matsumushi》

　　Name Explanation
Matsumushi 《A type of cricket. All poems in the Kokin Wakashū and Kokin Rokujō connect this with "waiting for people," and since Lord Tadamine's waka preface connects it with "moon matsumushi," perhaps it meant "waiting insect." The sound of a koto. However, this was the name from the Engi [era]. From around the time of the Tale of Genji onward, people heard it as the sound of a ringing bell and changed the name to suzumushi, as seen above. However, that was only in the capital. The provinces still call it matsumushi today. The Yamato Honzō says "matsumushi resembles kirigirisu but has luster." Hirotaka says: This is the insect that cries "chinchirolin." Someone said that Lord Tadamine's error about the koto sound should match "rin-rin" crying. Hirotaka says: That's not so. The "chinchirolin" cry is uniform and resembles the sound of a bell. Without rotation, it could hardly resemble the sound of strings. Moreover, many poets have compared it to bells. Ming dynasty Gao Qixwen in his Cricket Rhapsody wrote "the sorrowful melody of the disordered vermillion se," Lu Kejiao wrote "not silk or bamboo, naturally palace and shang" and so forth, and also "Wang Qiang's se and pipa night performance." This》