【Right page】
《These should also be considered together. There are differences between ancient and modern times, and even separated by thousands of miles of waves across lands, the correspondence of metaphors from that era is fascinating.》

Kinbiwa (Golden Lute) 《The secret tradition Hanakyō states: "Finally determining their detailed names, we call them oil-colored, crab-shell blue, golden lute, red gauze, blue gauze, navy blue, jujube-kernel shaped, and dirt-wasp shaped as first class, etc." Hirotaka says: In Ming dynasty Wu Qi's Cricket Fighting Rhapsody, it appears "having already fought... iron cavalry mutually holding, then called golden-named lute fragrant, lion wearing my head coming, satisfied with your fist." Perhaps the name golden lute also derives from this.》

Suzumushi (Bell Cricket) 《A type of field cricket. Based on the wording in poems recorded in Kokin Rokujō and the preface to Lord Tadamine's waka comparing it to the sound of water, perhaps it was named after hearing the "rin-rin" cry as resembling bell sounds. However, this was the name from around the Engi era. From around the time of the Tale of Genji onward, people heard it as resembling pine wind sounds and changed the name to matsumushi, as seen above. However, that was only in the capital. The provinces still call it suzumushi today. Yamato Honzō states: "Suzumushi is shaped like watermelon seeds, black and flat with a small head lacking luster, and has two white stripes on its back." Hirotaka says: The black-colored ones make "rin-rin" sounds. This is the ancient name, differing from names since the middle ages. When discussing these two insects without knowing their historical evolution, some say the black ones are suzumushi while others say they are matsumushi - both are partial views that fail to understand the distinction. Someone said, "How can certain insects make pine wind-like 'chinchirolin' sounds when only bell-like 'rin' sounds can be heard?" Hirotaka says: Bells are not limited to the round ones hung at shrines; both "rei" and "rin" sounds are from bells. Wind chimes are exactly this. Since their cry sounds "rin-rin," it originally matched well. Particularly, Chinese people also named them golden bell insects (kinshōji) because their cry resembles bells, which should be considered. Also, the meaning of matsumushi in ancient times was not based on pine wind. This theory about certain insects dates from the Tale of Genji era. People from Mutsu say: "Suzumushi from Miyagi fields have voices superior to others. They are even presented to Edo. Their voices cry 'rin-rin.' There are absolutely no insects that cry 'chinchirolin.'" This testimony from the renowned Mutsu region is sufficient to verify the name.》

Kinshōji (Golden Bell Insect) 《Yuan Hongdao's Cricket Records, Liu Dong's Cricket Records, Secret Tradition Hanakyō ○ In the Enpō 8 Complete Dictionary of Daily Use, it was read as suzumushi. Yuan Hongdao says: "Similar to field crickets but with elegant and melodious tones like metal and jade. Capital people call them [unclear]." Liu Dong says: "Black colored with sharp front and full rear, whiskers and tail all forked. They leap and fly, singing with their wings. Their voice is resonant. They are named [unclear]." Hanakyō says: "They drum with their wings to sing. Their voice is resonant like small bells, further intermixed with the sound of spinning insects."》

Reichū (Cold Insect) 《Keichō edition Dictionary of Daily Use. Hirotaka says: This is a provisional character.》
Getsurei-ji (Month Bell Insect) 《Enpō edition Complete Dictionary of Daily Use》

【Left page】
This "Study of Two Insects" is one section from the "Ancient and Modern Overview" compiled by Hirotaka. Mr. Kurimoto has spent years collecting illustrations of insects, numbering in the hundreds and thousands, which are to be presented for viewing by an exalted personage. When earnestly requested to write this study as an accompaniment, refusing would seem narrow-minded. Moreover, when encouraged that Hirotaka's name should also be included in the register, I completed this writing while enduring drowsiness under lamplight or stealing time between other editorial work. I only fear that the handwriting is not proper and not in clean-copied form.
Written on the seventh day of the ninth month, Bunka 8 [1811] by Minamoto Hirotaka

On Distinguishing the Names Matsumushi and Suzumushi
To forcibly investigate and seek out uncertain names of things is quite maddening. Even though it's unclear what Lord Shunzei's "shinano leaf grass" refers to, simply because the name has elegant associations...