【Right page】
"Don't let it go" would have been composed. This should become a teaching of the elegant and beautiful way. However, when Priest Tōren saw "makomo no susuki" (wild rice grass) and hurriedly went to investigate, he too had such refined sensibilities, which is also charming.

Recently, according to that court lady, in the capital what they call matsumushi (pine cricket) is black in color, and suzumushi (bell cricket) refers to the red ones. People from the eastern provinces mostly use these names differently. Though asked to distinguish which is correct and why, with the boundless foolishness of one from Musashi Plain, how could I possibly distinguish the differences in these appellations? Nevertheless, finding it difficult to refuse outright, thinking I might discover something naturally, I have untied and scattered books around my desk until there is no room.

Originally, it was during the reign of Emperor Horikawa that insect sounds were particularly cherished, when he had the Head Chamberlain and others stroll in Sagano to present matsumushi and suzumushi. This appears in Emperor Juntoku's [title unclear] Commentary, and the same is recorded in the "Origins of Court Ceremonies" regarding the matter of selecting insects.

【Left page】
The same is recorded similarly. Also in the topics of Emperor Horikawa's Jirō Hyakushu (120 poems), matsumushi and suzumushi were included. For matsumushi, based on Tsurayuki's poem "hito matsumushi" in the Kokinshū, Shunzei, Tadafusa, and other poets all composed about the night cold of fields and the loneliness at the foot of Mount Tokiwa. For suzumushi, Akinaka composed about "mistaking it for bells on falcon's tail tuft," and Nakasane composed "wondering if it's bells on post roads," among others. In addition, in various anthologies throughout the ages, beginning with the Wamyō Ruijushō, and in Shūchūshō, Yakumo Mishō, Moshiogusa, and others, they only collected numerous poetic words relating to "pine" and "bell" associations. Regarding their actual form and appearance, and detailed descriptions of how their cries sound, there is absolutely nothing to be found. Moreover, in Chinese texts, beginning with the Bencao Gangmu, they clearly record only the sounds of weaving insects, but regarding these two insects