●The Mikawa Moshiogusa states: The old site of Toyokawa village became farmland in medieval times, and the area is called Miyoita. The banks of the old Shikasuga ferry crossing still remain today. From this place, people took ferry boats to cross to Imabashi village. It is in the geographical line of Toyokawa, around the southwest of Sanmyōji Temple.
●The Sōroku states: The water source comes from Mount Dando and the waters of Nagura and Tsugu, which merge with the Kurose and Sakute rivers to become the Taki River. Also, water flowing from Mount Kawai divides Yana and Shitara districts, flows west of Ōno, and what meets at Nagashino is called the Miwa River. It flows between Hōi and Yana districts, and finally enters the sea at Maeshiba in Hōi District. This is today's Yoshida River, which is now also called Toyokawa or Ane River. In ancient times, from Kusakabe there was another major river that flowed along the banks of Toyokawa village, hence also called Toyokawa. However, due to the great flood on the 10th day of the 8th month of Meiō 6 (1497), the depths and shallows changed and this river was cut off. It is said that even now the traces of that riverbed remain as deep fields.

●Fuboku (Volume 24, Miscellaneous 6)　　Six-Book Topic: Toyo River (Mikawa)　　　　Minister Kinugasa
　　If the hunter lodges tonight at Yahagi, tomorrow he shall cross the waves of Toyokawa
　　
　　●Thus passing Honno Plain, the weariness that had been troubling [the traveler], the bracken renewed its spring spirit, and though the autumn colors were faint, the horse pushing through appeared deer-colored. When the sun hid behind Mount Shigeyama and the moon and stars appeared faintly,
　　　hastening the dawn, [the traveler] stayed at Toyokawa inn. Going out to look in the deep of night,
　　　this river flows wide and deep, truly an abundant crossing. The sound of waves falling on the stone rapids of the river was clear in the moonlight. The sound of wind passing by the riverside was white in the night colors. And in the dwellings by the water's edge, there was nothing familiar to contemplate other than the moon.
●Jōō Kaidōki
　　No one knows, only the waves come to the shore, while the familiar moon's light comes streaming in

　　Toyo River (Fusō Shūyōshū)
　　●Passing in front of the inn called Yo River, hearing what someone said, this road is...

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ancient Poem Study, Volume Two, Part Two