○According to the Izu Diary, on the 20th day of the 3rd month of Eiryaku 1 (1160), departing the capital for the place of exile in Izu, on the 25th day of the 3rd month lodging at Yahagi, on the 26th day resting at the mansion of Ōe Nyūdō Jōgon in Toyokawa, and on the same day lodging at Hamana. This is a record from when Lord Minamoto no Yoritomo was exiled to Izu, written by Fushimi Hiroyuki who served in his retinue at that time.

●The Genpei Jōsuiki (Volume 23, folio 9, section on the Taira clan's eastern expedition) states: On the 4th day of the 10th month of Jishō 4 (1180), arriving at Yahagi in Mikawa Province; on the 5th day arriving at Toyokawa; on the 6th day arriving at Hashimoto in Tōtōmi Province.

●The Azuma Kagami (Volume 32, folio 5, section on Shogun Lord Yoritsune's journey to the capital) states: On the day Mizunoto-Hitsuji arriving at Hashimoto station; on the 8th day Kinoe-Saru, arriving at Toyokawa lodging; on the 9th day Kinoto-Tori, entering Yahagi lodging.

●The same work (Volume 32, folio 31, section on the return journey) states: On the 18th day of the 10th month, Tsuchinoto-Hitsuji, entering Yahagi lodging; on the 19th day Kanoe-Saru, at the first hour of Inu arriving at Toyokawa station; on the 20th day Kanoto-Tori, wind and rain, at the hour of Tatsu departing from Motono-hara with severe rain and violent wind. Nevertheless, the people before and after the palanquin did not need to hold up umbrellas, all wiping their noses; from the hour of Uma onward it cleared up, and at the hour of Tori lodged at Hashimoto.

●Considering these historical traces, the ancient road connected Yahagi (with Miyaji-yama in between), Toyokawa (with Motono-hara before and after), and Hashimoto. According to the accounts of elders, in ancient times the road went around the north of present-day Akasaka lodging, exited at Sagi-saka, passed through Uwa-juku (said to be the ancient Goyu lodging), Yahata (this entire area was ancient provincial government land), emerged at Toyokawa, and from the vicinity of present-day Sanmyōji Temple, passed through Tōko, Wada, Kanda, Iwasaki and others, crossed mountain slopes, emerged at Unoya, and reached Hashimoto. This is said to be the ancient Tōkaidō. Considering this, in works like the Jōō Kaidō-ki and Jinji Michi no Ki, in the route descending eastward from the capital, Motono-hara is said to be west of Toyokawa, but in the Azuma Kagami it is to the east, so the ancient plain was extremely vast, with the present area called Noguchi being the entrance to the plain from the west, extending to what are now called Suwa, Furo, Zōshi, Yamasawaki-bara (perhaps these are Sue-no-hara-no or Hikuma-no), reaching south and extending very widely north from the vicinity of present-day Motono-hara to the east of Toyokawa lodging. This is because in the village names near present-day Motono-hara, there are many village names related to plains such as Nagakusa, Nishihara, Shinoda, Matsubara, and Makino. Now, what was called Toyokawa lodging was centered on present-day Furujuku village, extending to the vicinity of present-day Toyokawa village, and was very extensive and prosperous.

Ancient Poem Study, Volume Two, Part Four