appears to have been a prosperous lodging station, but according to the Jinji Michi no Ki, "Recently travelers have suddenly begun taking the new road via Watafu-zu (meaning ferry crossing), so now even the residents of that lodging station are moving their homes elsewhere." As stated, from that time onward the number of travelers decreased, and it gradually became as it is today, with finally only the name Furujuku (Old Lodging) remaining. This matter is discussed in the Koseki Zakkō under the section on lodging stations and in the Wamyōshō Gungō-kō under the section on provincial capitals, so here I will only mention the main points.

○Motono-hara (Original Plain)　●According to Mikawa Moshio-gusa, it is located in Hoi District, and there are many villages and hamlets belonging to this plain.
　　　　　　　●According to Wakun Shiori, Motono-hara is a name that derives from Hoi District, and today there are still the names Motono village and Motosaka. The Hongu-san of Toga Myōjin is probably the same thing.

●Upon consideration, since Hōi District was originally Ho District, the reading of Motono-hara as "Motono-hara" in the Azuma Kagami (Volume 32, folio 31) and as "Motono-no-hara" in the Gessei Collection is incorrect, and it was anciently pronounced "Hono-hara," meaning "Plain of Grain Stalks." If so, Motono village would be the original territory of this district. This matter is discussed in detail in the Wamyōshō Gungō-kō under the section on Hōi District.

○According to the Jōkyū-ki (Upper volume, folio 23), when the vanguard of the Tōkaidō force, Governor of Sagami, reached Hashimoto in Tōtōmi, it was reported that a force of nineteen horsemen had entered Takashi-yama, whereupon the Governor of Sagami (Hōjō Tokifusa) said, "What manner of men would pass ahead of the vanguard?" Uchida Shirō, Uchida Rokurō, Niino Umanosuke and others, totaling over sixty horsemen, gave chase. The force of nineteen horsemen galloped through Takashi-yama and attacked Miyaji-yama, then dismounted at the edge of Otowa River (according to Hakuun, this would be Goyu River), thinking "Now there should be no pursuing enemies," and rested their horses' legs while fanning themselves on one side of the peak. There Uchida's men came galloping up and, keeping across the valley, sent a messenger saying, "What manner of persons are you to pass ahead of the vanguard? Are you enemy or ally?" When told "We are retainers of Governor of Sagami, residents of Tōtōmi Province, Uchida's men have come," they replied, "Indeed, we are kinsmen of the Governor of Shimōsa, one called Miura Tsutsui Shirō Tarō." Uchida's men, over sixty horsemen, pressed forward in attack. Tsutsui and his men ran into a small house, cut down the fences on all four sides, and six men took defensive positions with shields, untied their arrow bundles and launched fierce attacks. Uchida's men shot at them from the valley

Ancient Poem Study, Volume Two, Part Five