○Suenohara-no (Suenohara Field)　　●According to "Mikawa Moshiogusa," it is located within the territory of Ichiba village in Shitara County, colloquially called "Harafu-no." In "Moshiogusa," it is written as "Suehara-no."
　　●Master Haku says: One theory places it as a field in Hekikai County, but this is doubtful. In contrast to Honda-ga-hara, could Sue-no-hara-no refer to the seaside area? This should be investigated.
　　●"Sanpo Matsu" states that in contrast to Honda-ga-hara, the seaside direction is called Sue-no. It was an ancient highway.
　　●Upon examination, according to these theories, it would be present-day Sawakibara. Also, upon investigation, north of Futagawa in Atsumi County, there are villages called Hara and Nakahara. If these correspond to hon (original), naka (middle), and sue (end), it might be the field around Komatsuhara, southeast of that Nakahara. However, "Suehara" and "Matsuhara" are phonetically similar. This is merely a tentative suggestion. Further investigation is needed.
　　●"Matsuba-shū" volume 15 states "Suehara-no, Mikawa," and both "Yakumo Goshō" and "Moshiogusa" list it as being in this province.
　　●Upon examination, "Yakumo Goshō" volume 5, folio 17, only contains "suenohara-no" (in Man'yōshū with azusayumi totkarisuru) without recording the province name.
　　●"Ruiji Meisho Hoyoku-shō" volume 7 states "location unknown." ●"Moshiogusa" volume 3, folio 29 has no province name.
　　●Master Motoori's "Kojiki-den" volume 7, folio 40 states: Following examples like reading Furi-yama as "Otome no sode furi-yama" and Nara-no-sato as "Furu koromo ki Nara-no-sato," up to "sue no" is a makura-kotoba (pillow word), and "hara-no" is the actual place name. He questioned what kind of famous place "Sue-no-hara-no" might be.

●Man'yōshū volume 11
　　　Azusa-yumi (catalpa bow), sue no hara no ni (at Suenohara field), tokarisuru (where falcons hunt), kimi ga yuzuru no (your bowstring), taen to omohe ya (do you think will break?)
　　　●This poem appears in "Shin Chokusen-shū" volume 14, Love 4, with the second line as "sue-no no hara," attributed to an unknown topic and unknown poet.
　　　●"Man'yō Ryakkai" volume 11 suggests it is Sue-no-hara field in Soegami County, Yamato Province. ●"Man'yō Kenan" volume 2, folio 52
　　　　also suggests it might be a field in Suhei (or Waka?) County in Kazusa Province.

●"Zoku Gosen-shū" volume 7, Late Autumn　　　Topic unknown
　　　In the ninth month, at Suenohara field, the first autumn leaves have colored without waiting for winter showers.