●Upon consideration, in "Nihon Shoki" volume 30, folio 21, it is recorded that there was an imperial progress to Ise in the third month of the sixth year of Empress Jitō's reign, and in the fifth month of the same year she stayed at the Ago temporary palace in Shima. This refers to that time.

●Elder Kamo's "Man'yō-kō" volume 1, folio 19 states: "Irago is a cape in Mikawa Province. This cape extends very far out and faces Tabushi Cape in Shima across the distance. In the sea gate between them are islands called Kamishima, Ōtsuzumi, Kotsuzumi, and others. Collectively, these were called Irago Island in ancient times. However, this area around the island strait is where fearsome waves constantly rise, and even ordinary boatmen barely manage to cross, so it is not a place where court ladies would go pleasure boating. This was composed merely based on general hearsay in the capital and conjecture." ●"Man'yō Ryakkai" volume 1, folio 36 says the same, ●Hisaō Shrine Priest's "Man'yō-kō" volume 3, separate record page 21 also discusses this imperial progress in detail, saying "From the temporary palace at the river mouth in Ise Province, they departed toward Ōyodo, took the imperial boat to Futami-ga-ura, viewed Irago Cape from behind, turned south at Tabushi Cape, and likely arrived at Ago temporary palace."

●"Man'yōshū" volume 1　A song composed in sorrowful lamentation by people of the time when Prince Omi was exiled to Irago Island in Ise Province

Beating hemp, Prince Omi, are you now a fisherman? harvesting seaweed at Irago Island,

●Same　A reply song composed by Prince Omi upon hearing this in sorrowful emotion

Ephemeral life, cherishing my life, wet by waves, harvesting seaweed of Irago Island,

●The left annotation states: "Examining the Nihon Shoki, it says: In the fourth year of the Emperor's reign (Emperor Tenmu), fourth month, first day Boshin, day Otsu-u, Prince Omi of Third Rank committed a crime and was exiled to Inaba, one son was exiled to Izu Island, and one son was exiled to Chika Island (Chika Island is in Hizen). What is said here about exile to Irago Island in Ise Province - if one doubts this, perhaps later people mistakenly recorded this based on the song lyrics."

●Upon examination, "Nihon Shoki" volume 29, folio 7, in the entry for the fourth year of Emperor Tenmu's reign, fourth month, first day Kōshin, day Shin-u, records "Prince Omi of Third Rank, etc." This prince appears only here, and in "Kōtō Shōun-roku," "Teikō Keizu," "Dai Nihon-shi," etc.

Ancient Song Studies, Part Two, 16