[Right page]

The Shishō-zu states: "In ancient times, the residence of the provincial governor was called fu-no-kanfu (official府). The name fuchū still remains today. In later warring states period, there were ōryōji (military commissioners)." There are various theories about this.

○The site of the ancient fu probably extended from the present-day area of Hachiman Hakuchō Kubo to the vicinity of the present Kokufu. According to the accounts of old people, the ancient highway passed north of present-day Akasaka and reached Sagi-saka (even now, a small hill in Hachiman is called Sagi-saka. The Taiheiki records a battle at Sagi-saka in the tenth month of Kenmu 2 [1335]). It connected to Kami-juku (within Hachiman territory; said to be the ancient Goyu post station), Hachiman, and led to Toyokawa post station (from present-day Furujuku village to Toyokawa village was probably the ancient Toyokawa post station). From the vicinity of present-day Sanmyōji, it passed through Tōko-wada (where there is a shrine to the tutelary deity Kuragake; Lord Yoritomo dedicated a saddle there during the Kenkyū period) and others, crossed mountain passes, emerged at Unoya (at Shinmon-ji there are remains from when Lord Yoritomo traveled to the capital during the Kenkyū period), and reached Hashimoto. This is said to have been the main highway in ancient times.

○In the Izu Nikki, under the entry for the second month of Eiryaku 1 (1160) when Minamoto no Yoritomo went to his place of exile in Izu: "On the 25th day, lodged at Yahagi. On the 26th day, rested at the mansion of Ōe no Nyūdō Teigen in Toyokawa, etc. On the same day, lodged at Hamana."

○In the Genpei Seisuiki (Volume 23, folio 9), in the section on the Taira clan's eastern expedition in Jishō 4 (1180): "On the fourth day of the tenth month, arrived at Yahagi in Mikawa Province. On the fifth day, arrived at Toyokawa in the same province. On the sixth day, arrived at Hashimoto in Tōtōmi Province, etc."

[Pasted paper section]
Inaba
Iyaba
Hachiman is probably named after the residence of the great deity Hirohata
The Chronicles mention Inaba, and the Man'yōshū mentions Hikima (Inaba), referring to this area
Details are given in the study of Hikima-no
Yōgyō says