○In the Zoku Yotsugi Monogatari, volume 9, in the section on "The True Path," it says: That Mikawa no Sadamoto was also a hakase (scholar), 
and was the son of an Ōe uchikandate. When he became Mikawa Governor and went down to the province, he brought with him 
a woman who was thought incomparably beautiful. When the woman died, 
in his overwhelming grief, he could not dispose of her body, and seeing her decay, he awakened religiously, 
immediately shaved his head, went up to the capital, and walked about begging. A woman who had been his former wife 
thought this happened as retribution for abandoning her, but when she heard that he had thus renounced the world, 
she said he would attain enlightenment and become a Buddha, and rejoiced, rubbing her hands together - 
so it is told and related.

●The Fusō Ryakki, volume 27, page 27, says: In autumn of the fifth year of Chōhō during Emperor Ichijō's reign, Mikawa Governor Ōe no Sadamoto became a monk.
●The lay monk's Buddhist name was Jakushō, etc.

●The Genkō Shakusho, volume 16, page 13, says: Priest Jakushō was the son of Counselor Ōe no Saikō. His secular name was Sadamoto, who served in government office and rose to 
the position of Sanshū governor. Having lost his beloved spouse, he mourned deeply with great affection, but observing the nine stages of decay, he developed deep disgust and renunciation, whereupon he cut off his court cap 
and cords and entered the quarters of Genshin on Mount Hiei, etc.

●In the Toyokawa Sanmyōji Engi, it says that Ōe no Sadamoto's beloved concubine Rikiju was the 
daughter of Nagayata Jirō of Akasaka in Futamura village. This is quoted in the Mikawa Meishoki. That Benzaiten is also said to be an image of Rikiju.

●Also, the Monju statue at Rikijuzan Zetsukonji Temple in Zaiga village is said to be made from Rikiju's bones.

●Also, at Akasaka Station, at Santōzan Chōfukuji Temple (also called Myōjuin), there is Rikiju's petrified grave. It is commonly called the Nyoryo Stone.
The matter of the Nyoryo Stone is also mentioned in Saikei Zokudan, volume 4, page 13. Details should be found in the Kyūji Kyūbo-kō.

●Upon consideration, according to the Jōō Kaidōki, Genpei Jōsuiki, etc., Rikiju appears to have been a person from Akasaka, but 
according to the Uji Shūi and Zoku Yotsugi, she was a woman he brought down from Kyoto - this should be considered.

[Right page red ink note]
Senkō's Note
○In the Dai Nihonshi, volume 217, Literature Section, Sadamoto's biography states: Sadamoto was Saikō's son who early inherited the family profession and was skilled in poetry and prose. During the Ten'gen era, due to his ancestors' meritorious service, 
he was promoted and appointed as a court attendant, and soon after was appointed Mikawa Governor. Initially he gained the favor of the Akasaka courtesan Rikiju, loved her, and finally made her his wife and brought that woman with him.
Rikiju died of illness. Sadamoto embraced her corpse, wailed, and did not bury her for several days. Eventually he gradually came to loathe this, and sat down. Thus he realized the insufficiency of human existence.
It happened that a woman came selling a mirror, and when Sadamoto opened the box to look, there was a waka poem that said:
"Until today, seeing tears
increase in the mirror - do not tell others of this familiar reflection."
Sadamoto deeply pitied her, gave her something, relieved her poverty, and increasingly had aspirations for renouncing the world. In the second year of Eien, he finally shaved his hair and became a monk. He entered Nyoirin Temple, took the monk Jakushin as his teacher, and changed his name to Jakushō (middle section omitted). In the fourth year of Chōhō he finally went to Song China (middle section omitted). He died in Song China in the seventh year of Chōgen, etc. (remainder omitted)

Kokakō, Volume 2, Page 42