○Imabashi (Present Bridge)　　●This is the old name of Yoshida Station in Atsumi District. Around the Tenbun era, Imagawa Yoshimoto disliked that "ima" (present) sounded similar to "imawashi" (detestable/ominous) and changed it to Yoshida.
　●According to "Ushikubo Mitsudan-ki," the reason it was named Yoshida is that when they began building this castle, there was an auspicious omen at Mount Kisshō, so they combined the character for "kichi" (good fortune) with the character "ta" (rice field) from Makino's original name Tauchi.
　●According to "Miyajima Denki," during the Eishō period, Makino Mitsunari had the Confucian scholar Fuse Hyōgo-dayū Yasunaga divine the auspicious and inauspicious aspects. From the I Ching hexagram text "hunting in the field, catching three foxes and obtaining yellow arrows, divination brings good fortune," they used the upper and lower characters to rename it. ●"Segen Benryaku" volume 2, folio 24 states that originally, when the first earthen bridge was built at Sekiya-guchi over the Toyokawa River flow, it was called Imabashi (Present Bridge). Later the highway changed, and a wooden bridge was built at the current location. From this, they took an auspicious name and called it Yoshida.
　●"Fuji Travel Record"　　Staying overnight at Imabashi, gazing endlessly at the dawning moon　Priest Gyōkō
　　　Along with the night, the moon shines clearly at Imabashi, I stand lingering until past dawn
　●"Fuji Travel Record"　　At the place called Imabashi　　　　　Minister Fujiwara no Masayo
　　　The Imabashi I cross for you, from now on for how many myriads of generations will it be seen?
　○"Azuma-no-michi-ki"　　Staying at the place called Imabashi, thinking of various matters of this sorrowful world　Abbot Sonkai of Ninna-ji
　　　Wavering like everyone else happened in ancient times too, Imabashi where one crosses this sorrowful world
　○Travel Record　　　　Spring of Keichō 10, in the vicinity of Yoshida　
　　　　　　　　When taking daytime lodging　　　Konoe Nobutada (Sanmyaku-in)
　　　Watering the horses (changing horses) and buying fodder again, how convenient the lodging area near Yoshida fields
　　　　Hakuun: This autograph is preserved at Nabaya in Yoshida Fudagi-machi
　○Travel Record　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ono Otsū-jo
　　　Since it's the name of my home village, how dear it is, even though it's not the Yoshida of the capital

[Marginal note]
According to Sano Tomogyō's "Mikawa-koku Kikigaki," in Daiei 2, year of Mizunoe-uma, Makino Denzō Nobunari changed Imabashi to be called Yoshida, and Denzō's name was also changed to Tazan. Makino Minbu-dayū Narikatsu changed Isshiki Castle to be called Ushikubo Castle.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kokakou, Volume 2, Page 44