○Mount Hongū　　●According to "Mikawa Moshiogusa," it is located within the territory of Nagayama village in Hōi District, with a shrine on the mountaintop called Toga Shrine. ●Upon examination, it is the highest mountain in this province, with a height of fifty chō (approximately 5.5 km).
　　　　　　According to the shrine's explanation, it is called Motoshige-yama. ●In "Ruiju Kokushi" it is referred to as Toga-yama.
　　(For details, see the citation in volume 1 of "Kansha Shikō.")
　●Shrine Record
　　　Do you know? If you were to ask my name, I would say I am the first of the mighty gods
　　　●According to the shrine's explanation, this is a divine poem by an old man-deity when Minister Kusakado Kinnobu, serving as imperial messenger to Hōrai-ji temple, lost his way on this mountain.
　○Travel Record　　Meeting and greeting the lay priest Suganuma Oribe, then parting and composing upon seeing the snow of Mount Hongū peak　Sōboku
　　　Gazing continuously, there would have been no direction to part toward—the ice of the shore and the white snow of the peaks
　　　　　　　　　　(Variant: Composed in reference to the snow of Mount Hongū upon leaving Tominaga Castle)
　○　　　Reply poem　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kusunoki Chiyo (Chidai)
　　　Parting and departing toward the snowy peaks in that direction, how my thoughts turn to the ice at the water's edge

○Mount Engan　　●According to "Mikawa Moshiogusa," this is the general name for Mount Hōrai-ji in Shitara District, which serves as that temple's mountain title. ●Upon examination, the origin story quotes the "Sendai Kuji Hongi," calling it Mount Kiryū.
　　　　　　(The "Sendai Kuji Hongi" is a spurious work, being text from the Taisei-kyō.) Details should be discussed in "Kyūji-kō" (Study of Ancient Temples).
●Hōrai-ji Origin Story
　　　Mist or sea? The mountain's form resembles an island, and what sounds like waves is the sound of pine winds
　　　●Upon examination, this poem was composed by Minister Kusakado Kinnobu describing the scenery of this mountain when he was sent as imperial messenger to summon the hermit Rishū in Taihō 2 (702), due to Emperor Monmu's brain illness, according to the origin story.
　　　●According to "Hankan-fu," the eighth-generation ancestor of Middle Counselor Masamune was also called Date Daizen-no-dabu Masamune. He devoted his heart to the way of poetry, composing many excellent verses.
　　　　According to the genealogy, when the "Shin Shoku Kokin-shū" was compiled, he submitted two poems. Those

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kokakou, Volume 2, Page 50