○Hoshino Pond　●According to "Mikawa Moshiogusa," Hoshino Pond is in the Shimojō area of Yana District. When referring to Hoshino, it is Gyōmei Village in Hoi District. It appears to be the site where a certain Hoshino had his residence.

●According to "Futaba-matsu," there are old ruins of Hoshino in Gyōmei Village, but the original poem cannot be found. ●According to "Sanpo-matsu," it is in Shimojō Village. When simply called Hoshino, it refers to Gyōmei. ●Now there is a shrine to Hoshino Daimyōjin in Gyōmei Village. At Hoshino Gyōmei's tomb there was a sacred pine called Sagari-matsu (Drooping Pine), but after this tree broke, a shrine was built there. ●"Nihon Kanoko" also states that Hoshino is a famous place east of the Toyo River.

●"Wakan Sansai Zue" also states, "Hoshino is located east of the Toyo River, and from ancient times Mikawa water has been offered from this place."

●According to "Haku," a certain book states that "water from Hoshino Pond in Mikawa Province was drawn every morning for the emperor's ceremonial hair-washing water and brought up to the palace." This matter seems to be a theory handed down from ancient times.

●In "Meisho Hōgaku-shō" under the Toyo River entry: "It is near a place called Hoshino and such. Hoshino is a famous place. There is a theory that Mikawa water was once offered from there. The theory about it being the emperor's hair-washing water is questionable."

●Hoshino also appears to be an ancient place, as "Taiheiki" records: "Ōshima Saemon-no-suke Yoshitaka received the governorship of this province and joined with Hoshino Gyōmei and others to enter the province" etc. (●In "Zoku Taiheiki" in the section on the Battle of Hayakawa-jiri in Sagami Province: "Here the Hoshino people from Asuke Saijō in Mikawa Province looked down upon this" etc.). Even now the areas around Gyōmei, Kōji, and Masaoka are called Hoshino-no-shō.

○Mikawa Sōshi
　The Mikawa water of Hoshino Pond that illuminates the world becomes the ceremonial offering for your imperial reign
　●This refers to water sent from Mikawa Province for the emperor's ceremonial hair-washing during his coming-of-age ceremony, as stated in "Mikawa Sōshi." Also, the matter of Mikawa water exists in the imperial court as well, as stated in "Mikawa Moshiogusa."
　●However,
　In "Saikū Kashū," Tamekuni, who is Tamechika's brother and head of the Saikū, came on the 5th day of the 5th month, and the water sent before the shrine is called Mikawa Pond. At the ceremonial dining hall,

Kokakou, Volume 2, Page 52