○Yosami-no-hara　●According to Keichū's "Ruiji Meisho Waka-shū": "Yakumo Mino, Wamyō Mikawa, etc. Reading Ōmi-agata as 'Afumi-no-kata' may be incorrect. Reading ken (縣) as 'agata' is normal, and in the Nihon-gi it is read as 'kōri'. Hekikai is 'aomi', Ōmi is 'afumi' - though the kana differ, if we compare it to cases like 'monokuruwashi' being said as 'monokuruwoshi', it should be Mikawa. From Ōmi, 'yosami' cannot be heard. Moreover, if it were Ōmi, one should compose 'of Ōmi Province' - can one not say 'afumi-agata'?"

●Man'yōshū (7)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kakinomoto no Asomi Hitomaro
　Blue hair ornaments, at Yosami-no-hara, not meeting people, at stone-rushing Ōmi-agata, let us tell stories
　●Motoori Norinaga says that in the Wamyō-shō there is Yosami Village in Hekikai District, Mikawa Province. This poem was composed at Yosami Village in Mikawa on the road when the governor of Tōtōmi was going down to his post. Ōmi-agata refers to his appointed province of Tōtōmi. ●"Man'yō Ryakuge" (7, page 47) says it was composed at Yosami Village in Mikawa on the road when the governor of Ōmi was going down to his post.
　●Upon examination, might Ōmi-agata refer to Hekikai District? Though the kana differ, there seems to be good reason. Requires investigation.

●Fuboku-shū (22, Miscellaneous 4) Kenpō 3rd year, Minister's household hundred poems on famous places and love (Yosami Ōmi no hara)　Junior Second Rank Ietaka
　Going through the day at Yosami-no-hara from afar, who would pledge to someone at the meeting sea?
●Same (same, same) Hōji 2nd year, hundred poems on plains and love　Sanesane Ason
　At Yosami-no-hara called the meeting sea, those who go will speak of my beloved's vicinity
　　●Matsuha-shū (5) includes these three poems as being about Ōmi.

●Iwase Naonori says that "aomizura" (blue hair ornament) in the Man'yōshū was explained in "Kanshi-kō" as meaning "heavenly good vines (yosazura)" as a makurakotoba, but this should mean "blue sea surface (aomitsura)" referring to the seaside surface of Hekikai District in this province. In ancient times, this area was an inlet extending up to the present Nagase area along the Yahagi River, and to the west the Owari River was also an inlet. Hekikai District projected into the sea, with seaside everywhere. Particularly, the ancient highway went from Ikuta in Nukata District over Azukizaka, through the Myōdaiji area (ancient Yahagi Manor) and Mutsuna area...

Kokka-kō, Volume 2, Page 56