[Right Page]
Although the provincial governors of these provinces are listed, in ancient times what we now call districts and villages were also called "provinces," so there are likely many omissions. However, by Emperor Kōtoku's reign, they were probably definitively established.

Thereafter, there were also changes from reign to reign, such as dividing one province into two, or combining two provinces into one. In Emperor Saga's reign, in the third month of Kōnin 14 (823), Echizen Province was divided to establish Kaga Province, (this matter is recorded in the Nihon Kōki, Shūgaishō, Tōshō, etc.) thus establishing sixty-six provinces and two islands.

That such arrangements were established is evident from the numerous appointments of provincial governors recorded in the Shoku Nihongi, and the Official Ranks Ordinance which categorizes provinces into greater, superior, middle, and lower ranks and specifies the court ranks for governors, assistant governors, secretaries, and clerks of these provinces. This suggests early establishment, though the complete system first appears in records in the Engi Minbushiki (volume 22) and the Tōshō. (The above matters are stated according to the theories of Motoori Norinaga in his Kojiki-den)

[Left Page]
○ Thus, regarding this Mikawa Province, the earliest records show in the Kojiki (middle volume, folio 24, Emperor Kaika section): "Prince Mikatowake was the ancestor of Mikawa no Howake" (great-great-grandson of Emperor Kaika), and also (middle volume, folio 34, Emperor Keikō section) "Prince Ochiwake was the ancestor of Mikawa no Koromo-kimi" (twelfth prince of Emperor Suinin). The Kuji Honki (volume 5, folio 16, Tenson Honki) states: "Ōkikui no Mikoto, fourth-generation descendant of Umashimaji no Mikoto, was the ancestor of the Mikawa provincial governor, son of Izumo Shiko-ōmi" (a person from Emperor Kōan's reign). These are probably the ancient records.

Furthermore, the same work (volume 10, folio 4) in the Kokuzō Honki states: "The Mikawa provincial governor was appointed by the Shiga Takanaho court (Emperor Seimu)... Also, the Ho provincial governor was appointed by the Hatsuse Asakura court (Emperor Yūryaku)." At that time, the boundaries within this province were not called simply Mikawa Province, but regions about the size of present-day districts were divided into several provinces with names like Ho Province and various other provinces.