[Right Page]
○ Now, regarding the division of one province into eight districts, what appears in records is, as mentioned above, the Minbushiki and the Tōshō.

○ As for the origin of the name "Mikawa," although ancient provincial gazetteers (fudoki) have been lost and do not appear in records,

○ In the Kokumei Fudoki (upper volume, folio 12) (this work exists in a Hōei period printed edition, titled "Nihon Fudoki," with "Nihon-ki no uchi kokumei" at the beginning of the volume, roughly recording the origins of the names of various provinces):

"Mikawa" refers to three rivers in this province. The first is the Otoko River, the second is the Toyo River, and the third is the Yahagi River. From these three rivers, it was named Mikawa. Regarding the male deity, there is a mountain deity upstream, and the female and male deities do not dwell in one place but live separately. From this name comes the Male Deity River. This deity is commonly called Shirahige Myōjin. Next, regarding the Toyo River, there was a wealthy man of Ichimori. Looking at him, he dwelt upstream of this river. The flourishing of human habitations extended for twenty ri. Because those people's homes were abundant

[Left Page]
and prosperous, that waterway was called Toyo River. Also, regarding the Yahagi River, when Prince Yamatotakeru went east on his expedition, he heard that Emishi rebels were lying in wait at Mount Takashi (upon consideration, the marginal reading "Kōsekisan" is incorrect; it should be read as "Takashi-yama." This matter will be discussed in the Koka Meiseki-kō),

and at that place he had many arrows made, so that place was called Yahagi, and the river was also given that name.

○ Another version states: "In Mikawa Province there are three rivers. The first is called Otoko River. The second is called Toyo River. The third is called Yahagi River. Otoko River has a mountain deity upstream. It is Shirahige Myōjin. Toyo River has a wealthy person upstream. The people's houses are prosperous. Therefore it is called Toyo River. Yahagi River is where Prince Yamatotakeru, during his eastern expedition, made many arrows by the riverside. Therefore it is called Yahagi River." (This version is quoted in Fujiwara Seika's Shokugenshō Shusho (Kanbun printed edition), and his Sankō (Hōei printed edition), etc., as being from a fudoki extract. Ban Nobutomo states that in this version, the kana writing appears to be the original form.)

Now, this work is not entirely from recent times. There are indications it originated from the Urabe family. Some parts take ancient traditions recorded in actual old books, but generally the origins of province names are considered through the author's private conjectures.

Wakō 4

[Right Page Header]
○ Note: The shrine of Shirahige Myōjin is located in Tearaisho village, neighboring Chōjahira village in Shitara District, commonly called Honchi no Miya. It is the general shrine of the thirty-six villages of Tsukude Township.