【Right Page】
According to oral traditions of the elders of this province, in ancient times there was a deity called Daidarabotchi who carried mountains like Hongu-zan and Ishimaki-yama up from the sea and created them. It is also said that this deity sat on Hongu-zan and washed his feet in the sea. Today, places said to be his footprints exist in various locations.

Nearby, within the boundaries of my Hada village, in a place called Aza Nishi-Hada, there was a depression in the shape of a foot in a field to the southwest, where grass grew, but in recent years it has been gradually filled in and turned into farmland, so that now not even its shape remains. 《Interlinear note: Village elders say that the traces existed until recently.》 Also, in Takashi village in the same district there is what is said to be a right footprint, and in Kojima village in the same district 《Interlinear note: Located in a place called Atago-yama. It is also said there is one in a place called Kahōya in the same village》 there is a place said to be a left footprint. 《Interlinear note: On Hongu-zan too, there are traces on rocks said to be an old woman's footprints.》 There are probably others in various places as well.

○ The Hitachi-no-kuni Fudoki states: "One or two ri west of Hiratsu post station in Naka District, there is a hill called Ōgushi. In ancient times there was a person

【Left Page】
whose body was extremely large. His body rested on top of the hill, and he extended his hands to catch shellfish 《Interlinear note: There probably was text saying he extended his hands to catch shellfish, but the characters for "extended" and "caught" seem to have been omitted》. The shells he ate accumulated to form a hill. People of that time, [due to] the meaning of imperishability 《Interlinear note: Text such as 'due to the meaning of great decay called it great decay' seems to have been omitted》, now call it Ōgushi Hill. The traces of where he stepped are forty-some paces long and twenty-some paces wide. The urine hole traces 《Interlinear note: Perhaps an error for 'traces'》 are about twenty-some paces."

○ Also, in Sakakibara Gensuke's book called "Sakakibara Dan'en," it states: "What are called giant traces in Korea are what the northern folk call traces of Daitahōshi." I think that this Daitahōshi, or what is called Daidarabotchi, is a corrupted transmission of the divine name of Ōnamuchi-no-mikoto, representing remnants of ancient divine-age traditions. 《Interlinear note: Indeed, this great deity, together with Sukunahikona-no-mikoto, created and solidified even the eighty provinces of the Korean Emishi, so traces likely remain in that country as well.》

Wakō [Section] 7