...have been appointed. This matter should be understood.
As ordered above, all paper merchants henceforth should not have any misunderstandings, and if there are any lawbreakers, particularly severe punishments will be imposed, so this matter should be conveyed without omission down to the lowest ranks.
                        Under Nara Sukeemon's jurisdiction
                            To the village headmen of the Five Villages
                                Senior farmers
○Regarding the general control of the Five Villages, this was re-announced in Anei 4 (1775), Year of the Sheep, and has been repeatedly ordered since then, but recently there has been laxness and those with misunderstandings, and punishments were already imposed in previous years. However, there are again those handling unsigned hosho paper, which has been roughly reported as improper conduct. This should be subject to investigation and official censure, but this time clemency has been granted, so henceforth the laws must be strictly observed. If there are any lawbreakers, strict punishments will be imposed.
1. This time, for control purposes, inspectors have been appointed among the Fukui paper merchants, so this matter should be understood.
As ordered above, all papermakers and middleman merchants should have no misunderstandings and must strictly observe the laws, and this should be conveyed without omission down to the lowest ranks.

                        Paper Boat Inspectors
                            To the three officials
○The duties of the paper boat inspectors were announced according to the precedent of Anei 4 (1775), Year of the Sheep, and there have been subsequent strict orders, but there has been negligence in inspection duties, and reprimands were issued in previous years. However, there are again those engaging in the sale of unsigned hosho paper, which has been roughly reported as improper conduct. This is entirely due to inadequate inspection and cannot be excused, so each should be subject to official censure, but this time clemency has been granted. Therefore, as previously ordered, [you] must visit each papermaker's house monthly without negligence and examine production volumes in detail. If there is negligent performance of duties, strict official censure will follow. Furthermore, for control purposes from now on, in addition to daily rounds, [you] are ordered to occasionally visit not only the Five Villages but also other places to conduct inspection duties, so [you] must perform these duties with great care. Of course, if there are matters of concern, [you] should consult with the dispatched officials.

                        Magistrate
                            Fuchu
                                To the paper merchants
○The sale of unsigned hosho paper has been prohibited from long ago, but recently laxness has been reported. Furthermore, some have been handling hosho paper produced in villages other than the Five Villages under the mistaken belief that unsigned [paper] is acceptable, so punishments were imposed respectively in previous years. However, recently there are again those selling unsigned hosho paper, which is improper conduct. Therefore, this should be subject to strict official censure, but this time...