Those with jurisdiction over the above exemptions should convey this to all subordinates
　　　　June 20th

　　　　Regarding the above proclamations, when there are inquiries from various quarters concerning clothing matters, responses should be given as follows:

1. Cotton clothing should be used
　　However, undergarments are acceptable. Old horizontal hemp for upper and lower garments is acceptable, but bleached hemp cloth and other coarse items should be used. For hakama, old Kawagoe-hira and horizontal hemp are acceptable, but coarse items should be used for both summer and winter

1. For katabira, bleached hemp and hakkō [hakkō cloth = ramie cloth] should be used
　However, among bestowed items, old pieces are acceptable. Regarding chirimen and such, old ones are acceptable. For hakama, even if bestowed, fine-textured items are prohibited

1. For women, cotton should also be used. Regarding tsumugi that has been used until now, it is acceptable. Old undergarments are also acceptable, but in all matters, following the example of cotton clothing, coarse clothing should be kept in mind

1. For retired persons and physicians, the gauze fabrics (ro) used until now are acceptable. Primarily coarse items should be used

1. Even for celebratory gatherings, one soup and one dish, sake three rounds

1. Regarding gifts and exchanges, the previous practices should be maintained without becoming lax
　　　　　　〆
　　　　　　　Clothing for those below direct audience rank is as follows:

1. For padded and lined garments, cotton should be used for both lining and outer fabric
　However, for undergarments, as before, coarse items are acceptable

1. For haori, cotton should be used for both lining and outer fabric
　However, for monks' haori, as before

1. For hakama, types like Kokura stripes, cotton for both hot and cold equally, should be used for both summer and winter
　However, lining is prohibited

1. For katabira, cloth and hakkō should be used
　However, under-katabira are prohibited

1. For unlined garments, cotton should be used

1. For formal wear (kamishimo), cloth and cotton should be used
　However, silk-plain fabric received from the domain is acceptable

1. For sashes, tsumugi and thick weaves are acceptable
 　　　　　　Clothing for wives and children
1. For padded and lined garments, cotton should be used for both lining and outer fabric
　However, for undergarments, as before, coarse items are acceptable

1. For katabira, cloth and hakkō should be used