This is utterly inexcusable. Originally, being young and lacking in virtue, I have not applied myself to anything with proper dedication and have reached today's situation, for which I feel deep shame.
I am truly without excuse toward the previous lord. Until now, I have frequently ordered the retainer band to provide borrowed rice and such, but have provided no assistance in return.
This time ordering a seven-year half reduction is unavoidable. From now on, I intend to make every possible economy in my personal expenses,
but if anyone in the retainer band, high or low, has unavoidable suggestions regarding my conduct, please speak without reserve. Henceforth I order anew that the principle of measuring income and controlling expenditure be followed so that emergency reserves may also be established. I ask the hereditary retainers to bear with the current situation and to endure with repeated forbearance during the term of years. Now, the way of literary and martial arts is something that those who are samurai cannot neglect even for a day, so I would like to encourage diligent effort, but I refrain from saying so due to the current term limit. However, if you keep loyalty and filial piety in mind and apply yourselves diligently to both learning and martial arts, it would truly fulfill my wishes. I particularly feel sorry for the elderly, who will surely find seven years of inconvenience tedious. I hope that the younger generation, though in difficult times, will do their utmost in true filial care and maintain harmony within the retainer band. The family elders will explain further details.
　　　　　August

○As declared in the lord's own handwriting, this is an extremely difficult matter with truly no alternative, and unavoidably from this year of the Ox until the coming year of the Sheep, seven years of half-reduced borrowed rice has been declared. Although his lordship deeply regrets the ten years of hardship among the retainer band, ultimately this is because internal and external financial matters have not been properly reported, so the extent of these financial difficulties was not realized. Therefore, we beginning with the officials have been extremely negligent in our duties. Now that special inspection of all offices has been ordered and reforms are to be implemented, we must thoroughly understand this, maintain frugality, and serve with integrity and honesty. We have been ordered to communicate this matter as well.
　　　　　September 11th　　To all subordinates
Both of the above were communicated by the senior retainers at the council chamber today, the 11th.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrative Head
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○When the management system for Dojitsujima official land was declared in the past year of the Rabbit, the retired monk Chijo of Mikuni Kyushoji Temple petitioned to serve the Konpira Shrine, and although control measures were ordered from above and the Konpira construction project was undertaken, this has since been discontinued.
　　　　September 20th

In Edo
○In ancient times, 200 or 100 pieces of gold were granted, but in recent times these have been frequently reduced. Now they have been restored to the ancient grants, with half that amount being granted.
　　　　　October 3rd
Omiya Toma reported that the above has been ordered.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Elder Councilor
Same　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Amagata Magohachi
○Henceforth, each person of the same rank shall be appointed to travel attendance as before. This should be understood accordingly.