1. During the lord's absence years, all matters shall remain as before
　　However, when the castle deputy and caretaker officials make castle rounds, the inner guards shall also appear within the locked gate area. Also, when cleaning the main keep, henceforth the inner guards and inner monk attendants shall perform cleaning within the locked gate area
　　Of course, outside the locked gate area shall remain as before
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain (Goyōnin)
○Regarding the same matter as above, the following should be understood as per the attached document and communicated to the relevant departments. Also, the attached written instructions to be conveyed to each department are provided for reference.
　　　　　Attached Document
1. From the day of castle arrival until departure, matters within the main keep residence shall be handled by the chamberlains
1. Regarding guard duty in the audience hall, from before 4 PM on the day of castle arrival, guards shall transfer and serve duty as at the previous residence
　　However, on New Year's Eve and during New Year prayers, there were differences in guard duty methods, but henceforth they shall serve as on regular days, and during the lord's absence years it shall be as before
1. Messenger guard duty shall be as at the previous residence
1. Dismounting tags, drums, and guard duty at the three gates shall be as before
　　However, during New Year and celebratory ceremonies when senior retainers serve guard duty at the Taiko Gate and yoriki appear at Kawara Gate, there is no need to change the procedures for entering and exiting Kawara Gate
1. Taiko Gate and Kawara Gate shall open at 6 AM and be locked after evening guard duty while the lord is in residence
1. One each from the kitchen supervisor and inspector shall be appointed for overnight duty, strictly supervising all security matters and fire prevention with careful attention
1. Regarding inner quarters affairs, although sleepless monk attendants have made half-hourly rounds at night as before, they shall make even more strict rounds and inspect for fire hazards
1. Regarding outer quarters affairs, sleepless duty shall be assigned among the outer monk attendants on duty, who shall make strict rounds and inspect for fire hazards
1. Regarding the women's quarters, sleepless guards shall be appointed to make strict rounds and inspect for fire hazards
1. During the lord's absence years, when the castle deputy and caretaker officials make castle rounds, the inner chambers shall also appear within the locked gate area
　Also, when cleaning the main keep, the inner guards and inner monk attendants shall perform
　cleaning within the locked gate area. Of course, outside the locked gate area shall be as before
　The above shall be communicated to the relevant departments
　　　　　　Attached Document
○The document given to the castle deputy and the document given to the inspector mentioned next, specifically the seven articles up to Suisha Gate, are the same
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector (Ometsuke)
1. Kawara Gate shall be as the previous residence gate, for women of the women's quarters as well as all town and rural service providers