To be understood and handled as per the attached document
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Attached Document　　　　To the Administrative Head
○ Regarding those who purchase textiles and other items without knowing they are stolen goods: the reported items shall be retrieved and returned to the theft victim, and the purchase price shall be treated as a loss due to the buyer's negligence. Of course, punishment shall also be imposed. If the purchase was made with a guarantor, the guarantor shall pay the purchase price to the buyer.
　However, if the guarantor cannot provide the compensation, houses and property shall be sold to raise funds, and any remaining shortfall of the principal shall be compensated half by the theft victim and half as loss by the buyer.
1. Regarding stolen goods from other provinces and other domains that are pawned or purchased, they shall be handled as before.
　　　　　9th month, 5th day　Also to Fuchū

○ From retainers with less than 600 koku down to the lowest ranks, small allowances shall be granted, to be communicated to all monthly duty officers at the castle.　　　10th month, 15th day
　However: 550 koku - 17 bales; 100 koku - 15 bales; 7 koku with stipend for 2 people - 3 bales, 2 to, 4 shō
　There are distinctions as above. This applies to those residing in the domain; for those returning from Edo this year, there are reductions.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspector
○ Regarding the format of written petitions when retainers not on permanent Edo duty request audiences for their sons, adoptions, marriages, adoptions during illness, etc.: while the format has varied until now, all petitions shall uniformly state "respectfully request this be communicated to the Senior Councilors."
The above shall be communicated to ensure retainers not on permanent Edo duty have no misunderstanding.
　　　　　10th month, 20th day　　Regarding the above, monthly duty officer for successive communications: Sasagawa Tōnai

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Town Magistrate
○ While the purchase of rice for sake brewing was prohibited until new rice becomes available, although a request was made earlier for capital investment purchases which was difficult to approve, due to this renewed petition, half-koku brewing is temporarily permitted, and payment shall be made with cash certificates from the rice reserves according to this directive.
The above shall be announced.
　　　　　11th month, 19th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspector
○ The attached directive shall be sent to the Kanazu Magistrate, Town Magistrate, Three-District Magistrate, and to Fuchū, with instructions to promptly communicate to temples under their respective jurisdictions.