Four Districts Magistrate
○Regarding the purchase of sake brewing rice that was previously prohibited: due to petitions from established sake merchants under various jurisdictions, twenty percent of production capacity is now permitted. As this is a year of high rice prices, oversight must be even more strictly enforced, and if there are any violators, strict punishment will certainly be imposed. This matter shall be announced. Details will be communicated by the inspectors.
　Announce as stated above.
　　　　　December 3rd
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakaryō District Magistrate
○Regarding the two mountain properties owned by Senj̄ū-ji Temple outside the temple grounds in Wakasugi Village, and the former site of Senkaku-ji Temple that has existed in the same village since ancient times (currently assessed at 3 koku, 3 to, 3 shō, 9 gō): an exchange is ordered between the said two mountain properties of Senjū-ji Temple. Furthermore, discuss and handle this matter appropriately.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
○Same as above. Since this matter was announced, it has become an official checkpoint location, so keep this in mind and handle appropriately.
　　　　　December 11th
　　　　　As declared by the Senior Retainers　　　　District Heads
○Merchants from other domains are henceforth prohibited from lodging at inns. This matter shall be announced.
　　　　　December 20th
　　However, as the inns in Awatabe, Matsuoka, etc. are subject to the same directive, this was communicated to the district heads. Since Fuchu is also subject to the same directive, the Fuchu caretakers were summoned and informed of this matter.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three Districts Magistrate
○Due to high grain prices this year, sake production was prohibited, but gradually established merchants in towns and villages petitioned and were granted permission. However, as the petitions of new sake producers could not be accepted, they requested permission for sake trading instead. Therefore, sake trading is permitted as requested for a limited period of one hundred days.
　　　　　December 27th