Nakaryō District Magistrate
○Regarding Yoshida Un'kichi, since he has been ordered to undertake the cultivation of new rice fields and restoration of wasteland in Shihi domain, he is commanded to take even greater care and manage projects that benefit the domain as previously instructed. This matter shall be communicated to him.
　　　　　Same day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To all retainers
○After being granted succession to the headship last year, you have received many excellent pronouncements for which you should be grateful. Therefore, you must strictly observe the appropriate regulations that have been established for generations. Not only in dealings with outsiders, but also in friendships within the domain, you must be mindful to avoid discourtesy and recklessness. Exercise prudence in all matters and devote yourselves exclusively to loyal service. Since this year involves residence in Edo, even greater consideration has been given to these instructions, so all members of the domain are commanded to work together harmoniously.
　　　　　Fifth month, seventh day
　Additionally, this shall be communicated to all those under command.
　The above was stated by the Senior Councilors at their seats in the Main Castle.
　Note: The same was announced in Edo, though without the phrase about this year's Edo residence.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○Regarding the suspension of grain shipments from Mikuni port's offshore entrance, handle this in consultation as previously done.
　　　　　Seventh month, eleventh day
In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate of Affairs
○The number of ashigaru squad leaders has been eight until now, but due to the difficulty caused by increased duties, two additional positions shall be added, making a total of ten. Arrange accordingly.
　　　　　Seventh month, twentieth day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○Regarding both imported salt and local salt, shipments from Mikuni port's offshore entrance are suspended, but handle this in consultation as previously done.
　　　　　Seventh month, twenty-ninth day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate of Affairs
○It has been announced as per the attached document. Communicate this to all relevant parties.
　　　　　Attached document
○Regarding Lady Teishōin, during the previous lord's time, her treatment was as the actual mother...