Regarding Itatori Village
○In recent years, due to poverty, it has become difficult to fulfill lodging duties, and there have been repeated petitions. Therefore, from this year of the Dog until the coming year of the Tiger, for a period of five years, allowances will be provided at the rate of 2 mon per person per day for three people, following the principle of auxiliary village service (sukegō). During this period, lodging duties must be performed without hindrance and without claiming hardship.
However, among the five people who requested to serve as auxiliary villages, allowances will be provided as stated above, so arrangements should be made to dispatch reinforcement laborers from the district office for the remaining two people.
This shall be communicated as stated.
16th day of the 3rd month
                                        Chief Administrator

○Recently, there are rumors that some people are collecting coins and selling them to other provinces, which is a misconduct. Henceforth, if there are such people, they will be strictly punished. Border checkpoints will implement strict controls, but if anyone reports such misconduct through private complaint, bringing the original coins as evidence, they will be rewarded with three pieces of silver. Each locality should conduct investigations without negligence and make this matter widely known.
This shall be communicated as stated.
25th day of the 3rd month (Also to Fuchū)
                                        Monthly Duty Officer
                                        Magistrate

○While Ninagawa Rinzaemon, Tsuda Yataroku, and the Three District Magistrates are on duty for inspection service, their respective duties for the administered territories and three-district affairs should be handled during their absence.
16th day of the 4th month

○Due to the visit of provincial inspection officials and domain inspection officials, rewards were given to Kanazu Magistrate and all other officials involved in the arrangements.
11th day of the 5th month
                                        Various Monthly Duty Officers

○This time, leave to return to the home domain was granted for the first time, and immediate entry into the domain is a great joy. During the stay in Edo, the domain remained peaceful, all retainers served without incident, and the lord was in good spirits. Furthermore, the way of letters and arms should not be neglected, and young people should make special efforts in their studies. Moreover, in all matters including clothing, food, and housing, one should not engage in extravagant pursuits or anything inappropriate to one's station, and as previously ordered, strict frugality should be observed, conducting oneself with prudence in all service. Everyone should understand this message.