Chief Retainer
○On the 5th day of this month, when Lord Suwa Inaba no Kami appeared at the castle as proxy for our lord, the senior councilors were assembled in the Black Study waiting room, and through Lord Wakisaka Nakatsukasa Taifu, it was reported that finances are in extreme difficulty. Regarding the reconstruction of the residence, the expenses would be great and particularly difficult. Although at the shogunate there are many expenses for various purposes during this time, and as previously stated, borrowed funds are normally difficult to approve, for the expenses of residence construction, with special consideration for family relations, a loan of 15,000 ryō in gold has been granted. This is received with gratitude.
The above matter should be communicated to all relevant parties.
12th day of the 7th month

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○The villages under the jurisdiction of the four districts of Sagami, Awa, Kazusa, and Shimōsa have been suffering from consecutive crop failures in recent years, and although relief rice grants have been provided as assistance, due to the current circumstances, benevolent care cannot reach everywhere. Therefore, as a method of assistance this time, based on the villages that have recently been assigned fixed tax rates, the following is ordered as shown in the separate document. This matter should be thoroughly understood and communicated to the deputy officials.

　　　　　Separate Document
○Averaging the relief rice grants given annually from Bunsei 5 (1822) to Tenpō 2 (1831) over 10 years, 8 bu worth will be granted, and fixed term rates are assigned for 3 years from this year of the dog (Tenpō 9) to the coming year of the rat.
1. Although the weather conditions over 3 years are difficult to predict, since average relief rice is being granted, matters of crop failure or difficulties will not be considered at all.
However, since average relief rice is granted annually, village officials should take great care to store surplus rice in abundant years for use during poor harvest years. Naturally, the deputy offices should also take great care in making proper arrangements.
1. Regarding loans of silver and rice during poor harvests, this shall continue as before.
1. For spring loans, 3 bu worth out of the 10-year average will be granted.
1. Regarding tax exemption relief rice for newly acquired domain villages, this will continue to be granted during the term period.
1. When river damage or wasteland occurs, thorough investigation should be conducted and inspections reported.
1. Regarding relief rice for river damage and wasteland, thorough investigation should be conducted and handled so as not to cause losses to the domain.
1. Tax assessment seats should continue as before, and relief rice should be arranged.
1. All regular inspections are to be discontinued.
The above matters should be communicated respectively.
25th day of the 7th month
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate of Four Districts
○Same as above, this should be understood accordingly. The separate document is the same.