engaging in fishing. When they see ships from various countries passing by, men and women swim
out to receive opium tobacco and lend out women—
a strange place indeed. From here they sailed northwest, and in the third
month of the following Tora year, they arrived at a place called "Chuyen." This too was an island where the people
were no different from Asians, with black eyes and hair worn in topknots,
and their clothing and architecture were in the Spanish style. Spain had
appointed a governor there. It is located about 600 ri due south of Japan, at about twelve or thirteen degrees.
Here too they stayed for about thirty days, taking on firewood and water,
then sailed northwest and turned east, conducting whale fishing about one hundred
ri off the coast of Japan, then sailed south from about the fortieth degree
toward the "Oahu" area. However, they were blown off course by northerly winds and sailed
south, arriving at an island called "Enwo" within the "Navigator Islands." This island

has a circumference of about twenty ri and is located at about thirty-seven or thirty-eight degrees, with a harbor in a bay. The people
are no different from Asians, most houses are thatched, and their clothing
is in the British style. Britain has appointed a governor there.
They stayed at this place for about forty days, provisioned with firewood and water, then sailed southeast,
rounded the cape of the South American continent, sailed northwest, and in the fourth
month of the following Mao year arrived at a port called "New Bedford" in "Massachusetts," North America.
This place was "Fichsel's" hometown, but during his absence his wife had died of illness.
Wishing to settle there permanently, he said he would go to a city called "New York" to meet with his brothers,
and entrusted me to enter as a student under a woman named "Chen," the daughter
of a shipwright named "Allen." Here I learned
how to use the alphabet. After about forty days, "Fichsel" took a second wife
and returned with her to a place called "Lecontocki," about five ri from the port.