As he purchased farmland and moved, I accompanied him and helped with development work.
In October of the same year, a person named "Bartle" began teaching arithmetic,
world geography, surveying methods, and such at this place, so through "Fichsel's"
arrangement I became his student and studied under him until April of the following year. In July of the same year,
when "Fichsel" said he would go whaling again, this time he appointed me saying "Chonman, I entrust you with watching the house again," and I lived
like family with "Fichsel's" wife, her sister, and
his former wife's daughter—four people together.
Around October, another person named "Alha" began instruction
similar to the previous case, so I became his student again and studied until April of the following Mi year. Then
when "Fichsel" returned, I went to "New Bedford" again and became an apprentice to a printing shop owner named "Base," but when I fell ill, I returned again to "Fichsel's"

house in "Lecontocki" and studied calligraphy. In the following Uma year, I went again to
the aforementioned "Hase." In June of that year, I was hired by a person named "Tebes" at the same place,
boarded a whaling ship, and departed from there. On the ship there were
about five of us who were skilled in marine surveying, and we took turns at the helm throughout. We sailed east,
headed for an island called "Went Island," provisioned with firewood and water, passed offshore of the "Canaries,"
sailed south, passed the Cape of Good Hope, caught turtles at an island called "Anshitashi,"
sailed north, passed north of New Holland (Australia), crossed the straits of "Jacatra,"
and arrived at an island called "Koupyan" within "Taimou." This
island is mountainous, and all the people of this island are so-called black people. Here we stayed for about thirty
days, provisioned with firewood and water, sailed northwest then turned east, and conducted whaling in the northern seas of New "Koineya."
The islanders of this place are black people who paint their faces with colors,
dye their hair white, and have gentle appearances that make it difficult to distinguish between men and women.