are anchored there. Around August, we departed from this place, conducted whaling off the coast of Japan, sailed south, and arrived again at "Gyuen." We departed around November sailing south, and around February of the following Year of the Rooster arrived at a place called "Zeran." This place is under Spanish control, and the customs follow those of that country. Here we provisioned firewood and water, sailed southwest then turned south, again rounded the Cape of Good Hope, headed northwest, and returned to Massachusetts. Actually, this time I had intended to take the opportunity to return to Japan, but since we were returning to America again, when I occasionally mentioned how much I missed my homeland, the women all said, "Returning to Japan follows the custom of cutting off heads from throat to back - it's a frightening country, you shouldn't return." I replied with things like "I wonder if there are people in this country who know Japanese customs." One day I heard there was a merchant ship going to the gold fields, so I requested passage and boarded. Just as we were about to depart, we passed through the "California"

ocean, rounded the cape of South America. The people of this region are said to be eight shaku tall, with women over seven shaku, called the land of giants. In April of the following Year of the Boar, we arrived at a port called "Tacoma" in South America. This place is under Spanish control, and the customs follow those of Spain. It appears to be quite a prosperous area. We stayed about eight days taking on firewood and water, then departed. Around June, we arrived at a place called "San Francisco" in North America. This is a large harbor on an inlet with high mountains, and we all agreed to charter a steamship. The fare for this journey was fifty silver coins. In one night we traveled up the inlet about fifty ri per day, arriving at a place called "Sacramento." From here we went ashore, rented horses, loaded our various equipment, and climbed into the mountains for about one hundred ri. The inns along the way were extremely expensive, serving only pork, onions, and such. The lodging fee for one night cost silver equivalent to about one ryo in Japan. On the mountaintop there are three large rivers: the South River, Middle River,