called the North River. They mine gold and silver in this North River. When you dig from three shaku to about one jo deep, the gold and silver appear as if they've been separated by smelting. This mountain is extremely high with clouds constantly at its peak, but it's a sulfurous mountain that apparently erupted in the past, so the places where gold is mined are very warm. Since people from all nations gather here, gambling flourishes greatly. Those who win big are sometimes shot and killed with concealed pistols. I saw tigers in these mountains. After staying about seventy days and mining a reasonable amount of gold and silver, we returned from "Sacramento" to "San Francisco" as before. This gold field came about five years ago when there was a border dispute between North America and Mexico that eventually led to war. At that time, when they were digging downstream to build a water wheel, they discovered vast amounts of placer gold. After the matter was settled, proclamations were issued to all countries stating that anyone could freely mine there. From this began the current gold

fields, and there is no country in the West or East that doesn't send people here. People from various countries mostly travel back and forth using passenger ships. This Manjiro also came from Japan. Well, transferring to the main ship, we departed around October, and at the end of the same month
[One line not yet transcribed]
When I went to visit Toraemon's place, I found he was working as a carpenter's assistant and living quite comfortably with no particular hardships. Denzo and Goemon were not at this location but were doing farm work at a place called "Honolulu" about five ri away, so I hired someone to call them. They came immediately, and the four of us gathered and made a promise to return to Japan. At this time, Manjiro heard at the harbor that an American ship had entered port with several Japanese people aboard, so he hurried there and met with them. Though they appeared to be Japanese, neither side could understand the other's language. Wanting to speak with Denzo and Toraemon, he told Denzo about this matter.