First, the native people of North America are not different from Asians, with skin color tending toward the darker side. However, since this is a country originally opened by the British, there are many people of "English" stock. These people are fair-skinned with slightly yellowish eyes. The climate has four seasons but tends overall toward the cold. There are no hereditary kings; rather, those with learning and ability are selected to become king, serving for four years before passing the position to another. Those whose governance is well-administered and who are regretted by the people may serve eight years through succession. They live very simply - when traveling, they ride horses with only one attendant following behind on horseback. After passing the position to another and retiring, they live comfortably for life on the savings from their time in office, when they collected about 1,200 pieces of gold daily. There are also officials, but there is no taking of authority, and one cannot tell who are the officials. The current king is

named "Taylor," and five years ago when there was a border dispute with "Mexico" that led to war, this "Taylor" served as commanding general, using firearms to break enemy formations, bringing in cavalry and maneuvering troops to the enemy's rear, achieving great victory. His reputation was excellent and he ultimately received the succession to kingship. He is a capable person of "English" stock. Though this country was opened by Britain, it is not a British dependency. This year of the Rat corresponds to the king's reign period.

First, regarding birds, animals, plants and trees - some exist in Japan and some do not. There are no cherry blossoms and no bamboo. Crops are varieties of wheat and millet, with no rice. There are plains, high mountains, and great rivers. The place encompasses one-third of all North American states divided into thirty-one countries, called a republic, said to be about the size of seven Japans combined. The capital is in a place called "New York," located about eighty ri southwest of the "Superior Lake" port where I stayed.