It began to rain, and with the strong cold wind, they burned straw mats for warmth and divided and ate
the little fish that remained. Suffering from hunger and cold in this way, days turned to night and nights to day,
and on the evening of the 13th day, they spotted a mountain in what seemed to be the southeast
direction. Many birds were also visible. Denzō said, "Looking at the behavior of these island birds called fujikurō,
that mountain must surely be an island. Please let us drift ashore there," and prayed to gods and Buddha.
That evening they finally drifted close to it.
Though it was indeed an island, the wind and waves were fierce and their hunger and exhaustion
were severe, so they first dropped anchor and continued drifting.
When they saw many reef fish, they cast their lines and caught
many. They ate these and passed the night. The next day, the 14th, all of them rallied their spirits and
cut the anchor rope, using ship planks and such to row closer. When they touched against
the rocky shore, the ship was damaged. Gozaemon was the first to leap onto the rocks, and desperately

grabbed and ate seaweed. The others followed and all came ashore on the island,
but this island was not a place where humans could live - only rocks with miscanthus grass and bamboo grass
growing thickly, and there was nothing they could do about it. Looking around here and there,
they found a cave in what seemed to be the eastern shore.
First they decided to use this as a place to sleep, and since there were many of those fujikurō birds,
they killed them with stones, tore them apart and ate them, which was sufficient to
nourish their stomachs, so they frequently killed and ate these birds. For water, they used
tubs and platforms that had been washed ashore when the ship was first damaged
to collect the drips from between the rocks, or caught rainwater to drink. There were times when they thought of
throwing themselves to their deaths, but they reconsidered and said things like "let's live as long as
we can" and passed their days this way. Eventually, when the weather became summer-like,
those fujikurō birds gradually became fewer, and they crawled up from the shore