One should not use major tonification, but should harmonize with modified Minor Bupleurum Decoction. If one uses major tonification, pathogenic qi will receive the tonification and heat will become even more vigorous, again transforming and generating other patterns. This is what is meant by "there is no tonifying method in treating cold damage."

Erysipelas (flowing fire): Someone said, "Shangzhang Yuheng mentions flowing fire and flowing phlegm eruptions. The Complete Compendium of External Medicine states: Generally when the legs, head, or face are red and swollen with heat, flowing and spreading without fixed location, if one sweeps it with alkaline water and white frost gradually appears, this is erysipelas."

Generally speaking, rather than inappropriately administering regulatory medicinals after epidemic disease recovery, quiet rest and dietary moderation should be the first priority: The Treatise on Cold Damage states, "For wind conditions where the exterior is resolved but not completely, recovery occurs in twelve days." Fang Youqiu said, "This enlightens people that they should rest quietly and wait, not be overly active and cause disturbance instead." Wu Yiluo said, "In the classics, there are very many passages about not using medicine and waiting for natural recovery.

Nowadays, whenever people have consultations, there is none who doesn't give medicine, causing conditions that should recover naturally to often not recover instead."

Clear Dryness and Nourish Construction Decoction: Liu Songfeng said, "Angelica, rehmannia, and peony are all construction-nourishing substances. When rehmannia uses the juice, it can greatly clear dryness. Anemarrhena is cold and slippery, moistening kidney dryness and nourishing yin. Trichosanthes root also moistens dryness and drains fire. Also fearing its congealing and stagnation, add tangerine peel to facilitate qi and promote circulation, together with licorice achieving great harmony."

Bupleurum Construction-Nourishing Decoction: Liu Songfeng said, "If there is residual heat in the exterior, it should still be dispersed and cleared, hence bupleurum and scutellaria are added. The previous formula uses angelica body because of yin depletion and blood dryness, using this to nourish them. This uses whole angelica to harmonize blood, which is sufficient. Since it doesn't specifically clear dryness, raw rehmannia also need not have its juice extracted. In this formula, white peony should be reduced, because when there is heat in the exterior, one should disperse and not astringe."