The treatment corresponds to this,
When epidemic diseases initially arise, they immediately produce tidal fever, and when the fever is severe, they can also produce delirium《7 Back》　Liu Songfeng says,
　My son Binggan, whenever he contracts wind-cold, invariably tends to produce delirium. If someone unfamiliar with this condition
　encounters it and mistakenly recognizes it as an interior syndrome and wrongly applies attacking and purging methods, how could there not be danger?
　　Discussion on Food《Lei Bian Volume 4《2 Front》should be cross-referenced
　with dietary regulation methods《Lower volume 36 Front》》
One must never completely cut off food and drink, but simply should not overeat《8 Back》　Zhang's Medical Precepts states,
　Today's formulists, upon seeing fever, immediately regard it as shanghan and categorically prohibit food and
　drink,　Xu Dachun says that after taking Guizhi decoction, sipping gruel nurtures stomach qi to reach the
　lungs. Observing this, one can understand that shanghan does not prohibit food. According to what these two masters say, in Qing dynasty folk
　customs there was a practice of prohibiting food in shanghan, hence their words are thus,

Food relapse《8 Back》　See the food relapse section in this volume, which can be referenced,《20 Back》
　　Discussion on Drinking《Lei Bian Volume 4《1 Back》the section on abandoning disease to treat harm should be referenced《20 Back》》
When vexed with thirst and desiring drink, give it in measured amounts《9 Front》　Wang Shuhe says, generally when one contracts seasonal qi disease, by
　the fifth or sixth day when thirsty and wanting to drink water, even though one cannot drink much, one should not give it. Why? Because
　the heat in the abdomen is still insufficient and cannot digest it, and will instead create more disease for the person. By the seventh or eighth
　day, when greatly thirsty and wanting to drink water, one should still give it according to the syndrome, but when giving it, always keep it insufficient,
　do not give to excess. It means that for one capable of drinking one dou, give five sheng. If after drinking the abdomen becomes full, urination
　becomes difficult, or if there is panting or hiccups, one must not give it,《Shanghan Examples》Zhang Dairen says that for people wanting to drink water,
　be cautious not to prohibit water, but after drinking, frequently give massage. The massage method should
　massage the abdomen, then the area below the heart will naturally move. If one massages the middle epigastrium for a long time, it will necessarily hurt,