(Their actual names are unknown) All were residents of Aizu, people of humble and lowly status. (Regarding the family's distant ancestors, it is clear that they were already residing in Aizu around the Keichō and Genna eras [1596-1624], but) at that time they were nameless people, and matters from even earlier times are even more unclear. However, we have not heard that they were people who migrated from other provinces. When we consider this, the family name Ōkawara appears in ancient documents in Aizu: in the storehouse of a farmer named Tōkichi from Kanagawa village in Yama district, there is a document from the 2nd year of Ōei (1395), year of the boar, in which the name Ōkawara Jirō Shirō appears. Also, in the ledger of Tōji village's Hachiman Shrine, there is an entry for the 2nd year of Eiroku (1559), year of the sheep, mentioning "Sentō jin, Ōtsuki no tachi, Sakura Ōkawara shōkai." Additionally, Senmyōin temple in Iritasawa, Ōnuma district, was founded in the 8th year of Tenshō (1580) through the prayers of Ōkawara Sado, a retainer of the Ashina family. Also, in Katakata village, Kawanuma district, there are remains of Ōkawara Tosa Hakuroku no Nao, a retainer of the Ashina family, and memorial tablets for both men are said to be at Katakata temple in the same village.

Although the histories of these people have not been transmitted, it is clear that people bearing the Ōkawara name have long resided there, and they may have been relatives of the family's distant ancestors, though this is difficult to determine. There are no separate family records or historical evidence. However, there are some discarded papers recording that the father of Tōemon (Shigetsuna's grandfather) was called Tosa or Sado, but the handwriting appears casual and does not seem to be an authentic record. It may be that someone heard traditions about Iritasawa and Katakata and fabricated connections.

Also, a certain book states that there were two surviving sons of Ashikaga Mochiuji, who were protected at Yūki in Shimotsuke province and held out in siege for several years, but ultimately could not prevail and the castle fell. All the Yūki retainers died in battle, but among them was one called Ōkawara who entrusted a two-year-old boy to a retainer and hid him in the remote mountains of Inan in Ōshū. Inan in Ōshū would be present-day Inan-gō in Aizu district, but we do not know whether descendants of this Ōkawara remain in Aizu. Since discussing genealogy later and making fabricated explanations would only obscure the truth, I record this here together [with other uncertain information].

Tōemon Shigetsuna had two sons. The eldest was Chōemon Tsugushige (Among the craftsmen under the supervision of the weapons office, there is one called Ōkawara Jin'emon Masayoshi, who is Tsugushige's fifth-generation descendant). The second son was Hachirō, called Yōhaku Yukishige. Yukishige was born in Aizu in the 12th year of Kan'ei (1635), lost his father at age nine, and thereafter shaved his head and [studied] medical arts.