【Right Page】
Monk Kakuen
This impermanent world is truly painful. Cherry blossoms, what connection do you have with the wind that makes you scatter so fleetingly?

Composed for a poetry contest to Dazai no Daini Shigeie (there is a missing section here)
Sangi Tsunemori
Does a storm cross over the peak where cherry blossoms bloom? White snow accumulates in the village at the foot of the mountain

At Shirakawa, people composed on the theme "Viewing flowers after the wind"
Sangi Michichika
Coming to see, the wind beneath the flowers has blown. The snow under each tree melts in patches

【Upper notation】
Shin-Kokin Spring Volume, Lower Part - Yasusuke-ō's mother
Mountain cherry blossoms, wind beneath the flowers
Has blown - under each tree
The patchy melting of snow

When people composed ten poems each at the residence of Dainagon Kimimichi-kyō
Gyōbu-kyō Yorisuke
Cherry blossoms scattered in the midnight storm. White snow on the peaks that doesn't melt in the morning sun

Monk Yūsei
If they were to return again to the treetops, would we see their scattering as tidings of the flowers' prime?

【Left Page】
Composing on "Falling flowers on water" - Minbu-kyō Narinori
If the scattering flowers were to spread upon the water, would I think of them as spring snow?

Composing on the theme "Falling flowers by the seashore" - Jū-ni-i Sueyoshi
Cherry blossoms in the fields
When wind blows on the cherry blossoms atop Takasago, flowers bloom across the white waves of the bay

Hōgen Chōshin
In the spring wind that sweeps the treetops near the shore, flowers dance on the dawn's red-painted boat

【Upper notation】
Flowers dancing

On "Forgetting to return under the flowers" - Hōin Genshō
Generally, under the trees would be one's dwelling place. Even if the flowers scatter, why should one return?

Composed on flowers for the later poetry contest at the Right Minister's residence
Monk Shunkei
Waiting for blooming, regretting the scattering, spring has ended, and I have exhausted my heart on the flowers

Topic unknown - Monk Jakuzen
If I did not think this world impermanent, how could I bear to see the flowers fall?