Those produced at Mashi have deep colors that do not fade, making them of good quality. They produce fish and shells. The mountains have many deer. Near Kume Mountain, there is Kohajiima Mountain. It also has many deer but no human inhabitants.

　[Kume Mountain] is located west of Mashi Mountain. It is 480 li from Chuzan. It has two districts: Ankawa, Gushi, Shikawa, and Nakasato. When traveling from Fujian to the kingdom, this mountain is necessarily used as a landmark for navigation. When the tribute ship sails in the sea, on the seventh day there are small black fish floating in spots on the water surface. The tribute envoys say these emerge from beneath Kume Mountain and are called ink fish. The mountain's topography is majestic and outstanding. It produces the five grains as well as native cotton, silk cocoons, white paper, wax candles, spiral fish, and other goods. The mountains have many chickens, pigs, cattle, and horses.

　　The Five Northwestern Islands
　[Tonaki Mountain] is translated as Tonaki Island. It is near Kume Mountain. The mountain has many cattle.
　[Akuni Mountain] is translated as Aguni Island. It is also called Agoni. Together with Tonaki, it is near Kume. The language is also similar to that of Kume. The mountain produces ironwood trees. Compared to those growing elsewhere, they are of superior quality. The mountain has many pigs.
　[I Mountain] is also called Ieshima and also called Ie Island. It is a small rocky mountain between Chuzan and the northern mountain. It is surrounded on all sides by yellow sand. When the tide rises, it is separated by about half a li; when the water recedes, one can cross on foot. On the mountaintop there are rice fields. It produces millet, sorghum, beans, and wheat. The people are quite prosperous.
　[Ehei Mountain] has the local name Iheya Island. It is located 300 li northwest of Chuzan. Its rice production is of the finest quality. It also has wheat, sorghum, legumes, cotton flowers, banana fiber, sea urchins, hairy fish, and other products. In the center there is one mountain that winds like a dragon. This is where King Sho En's ancestral tomb is located.