《Marginal note: ...the beginning and end. Erected on the north embankment. Its summary says: Naha River is where a hundred rivers converge. It connects with the sea. It is the throat passage for tribute ships and various vessels from the northwest coming and going to Chūzan. To the south it extends to Jōha, to the north it reaches Izumizaki. To the east it extends to Uhira-Itashiki. Recently people, seeking small profits, either gather mud and earth to build rice field paths. The river suffers from narrowing and transforms into dried ditches. In the most severe cases, they even block the river to make rice fields. Rotten earth and muddy water flow into Naha River. The river is about to be blocked. The wise ruler and virtuous minister specifically ordered Kō Bunshi and others to dredge and deepen this river. Sometimes they cleared rice fields to widen the river, or removed rotten mud to deepen the water. Places like Uhira-Itashiki were restored to connection. The long river flows smoothly. West of Rinkai Temple, three stone bridges were built. North of Geion Pavilion, one stone bridge was constructed. Watachi Village, facing the river, built an embankment and erected two wooden bridges. In total, five bridges. Two bridges were added at Kakinohana Village. Together, three wooden bridges. Izumizaki Bridge was renovated. The water from Makishi Nanhō was diverted to flow west. Starting from the fifth day of the fifth month of Kangxi Dingyou year, it was completed on the twentieth day of the intercalary eighth month of the following year. Someone said, "Why wasn't the southern rock of Rinkai Temple removed?" Bunshi said, "This rock relates to feng shui. Moreover, storms and typhoons on the river and sea are unpredictable. Without this rock, ships would have difficulty anchoring." Recorded in the twelfth month of Kangxi fifty-seventh year, Wuxu. In the north gun battery embankment, outside the gate of Rinkai Temple, there is an old monument inscription for the reconstruction of Rinkai Bridge. Erected in Kangxi thirty-fifth year, Bingzi. Minister Tei Junsoku composed the text. It states that during the time of King Shō Tei, the old embankment was repaired and supplemented, and stone was laid to make bridges. The back of the monument also says: Originally there were four bridges. One was west of the temple, three were east of the temple. The eastern and western two bridges were abandoned and blocked during the Wanli period of Ming. Only the middle two bridges are now being repaired. It also says: In Kangxi forty-eighth year, Jichou, tenth month, a great wind damaged more than ten zhang of the embankment. In Guisi, second month, a fire burned the monument. The current king ordered officials to repair the embankment and erect a monument, using the old text as the record. They dare not neglect the original construction. They also recorded the names of State Minister Kō Yū and those below, as well as the amounts of construction money. At the end it says: All used dove-character coins. Kangxi fifty-second year, Guisi, fifth month, Tei Junsoku recorded again.》 Six affiliated village counties:
Tōken, Saiken, Izumizaki, Wakakitsuchō, Tsujiyama, Watachi

Kume 《Marginal note: Located in Naha》 Has Tōmon Village, Saimon Village, Hokumon Village, Nanmon Village 《Marginal note: Also named Daimon Village. Formerly had Fumon Temple. Therefore also called Fumon-chi. All were granted during Hongwu period - thirty-six families from Fujian were bestowed and settled here without moving elsewhere. Hence named Tang Camp. Also called Eichū. Later changed to Tang Prosperity.》

Mawashi 《Marginal note: Located five ri west of Shuri》 Twelve affiliated village counties: Shikina 《Marginal note: At the foot of the mountain is Shin'ō Temple》 Kokuba, Makishi 《Marginal note: Has Hi Spring. It is said that seeing the red sun fall to earth gave birth to the spring. Above the spring is an ancient pine. Chōkō Bridge and Shichiseizen all belong to this place.》
Ameku, Matsukawa, Yogi, Kameda, Asato 《Marginal note: Has Asato Bridge, Former King's Shrine, Hachiman Bridge, Hachiman》