《Marginal note: the tomb of a hundred aji (district lords). There is Mount Unten. It is located north of Mount Nago. Below the mountain there is Unten Inlet. It is named Unten Port. It flows westward. The ships and boats of Hokuzan (Northern Mountain Kingdom) moor at this port. Below the mountain there are many rice fields.》 Saki-
yama, Tamaki, Hirashiki, Nakasone, Goga 《Marginal note: There is Gabe Salt House. In the past, salt was made at this place.》
Amasso 《Marginal note: The forest trees are most luxuriant, and the sun and moon cannot be seen.》 Gabe

Motobu 《Marginal note: Located three hundred ri north of Shuri》 Seven affiliated village counties: Inoha, Urasaki, Toguchi,
Sakihama, Sesoko, Izumi, Jabana

Ogimi 《Marginal note: Located three hundred ri northeast of Shuri》 Five affiliated village counties: Yakabi, Kijoka,
Taminato, Nerome, Tsuha

Kunigami 《Marginal note: Located three hundred and ten ri northeast of Shuri. King Sho Gen fell ill. Kunigami Aji Bajuntoku prayed to die in his place. He indeed died. The king's illness was cured. To this day, his descendants have been granted hereditary positions as lords of Kunigami generation after generation.》 Four affiliated village counties: Kunigami, Hentona, Iji, Uro

The above are the nine magiri (administrative districts) of Yamakita Province.

Ryukyu has had no maps since ancient times. The records of previous envoys state that the circumference is approximately five to six thousand ri, long from east to west and narrow from north to south. These were all conjectures. Hoko spent five to six months making inquiries and investigations. Together with Minister Sai On, he traveled extensively through the scenic spots of Chuzan and Yamanan. Climbing to high places, he surveyed in all four directions. The sea could be seen both east and west.

The ri measurements of this country all use ten Chinese ri as one ri. Now all measurements are determined using Chinese ri. Thus, the length from north to south is 440 ri. From east to west it is narrow, no more than several dozen ri. After repeated discussions, this map was finally determined. As recorded above, the names of the various counties and villages under the thirty-seven magiri are prepared for record. If there are any errors, they await further consideration.

Travel Record