There is a stone mountain cave called [Kameyama (Turtle Mountain)]. *Note: This refers to fist-sized stones on the beach, not the Kameyama of Sueyoshi.*

[Gokoku Temple] Located in the middle of the Naminoue mountain slope. It is a place for the king's prayers. The monk's name is Raisei. There is a plaque by Envoy Wang reading "Gokoku Temple." Its former name was Anzen Temple. It is also called Kaizan Temple and also called Sanko-in. In the Buddhist shrine there is a deity sitting with a sword in hand. Its name is "Fudo" (Immovable). Some call it "Fire God." Below the hall there is a bell cast in the seventh year of Jingtai, year of hinoe-ne. The inscription is the same as that of Tianfei Palace. In the western courtyard, banana plants and stones are sparsely arranged, creating quite an attractive scene.

[Tenson Shrine] Located below Gokoku Temple. It enshrines the Jade Emperor. There is a bell cast on the 23rd day of the 9th month of the 7th year of Jingtai, year of hinoe-ne. The inscription is the same as Tianfei Palace.

[Kogen Temple] Located below Tenson Shrine. Village dwellings are on both left and right sides. The Buddhist buildings consist of several rooms. In the courtyard, cypress and boxwood are trimmed for ornamental purposes. This is a new construction.

[Saifuku Temple] Located in a winding path east of Senzaki Bridge. In front of the gate, boxwood trees line the path creating a screen. Both rows are trimmed flat, extending for about several dozen steps. There is one section of monk quarters. Behind the buildings there is a pine-covered hill that is very lush. Pine roots emerge from the soil, winding like dragons. Nearby there is [Toju Temple]. In front of its gate, boxwood also forms a screen.

[Tozen Temple] Located northeast of Kume. It is a sub-temple of Engaku Temple. Nearby there is [Seitai Temple]. Both are merely small temples of three to four bays. In Naha, only these two temples and Kogen Temple belong to Zen monks. The rest all follow Shingon Buddhism.

[Zenko Temple] Located in a winding alley near the envoy's residence. It is built on elevated ground against the mountain. Wang's record states: "A tiny room with high stairs."