the pottery-making place of the country.

　　The above are located in Mawashi

[Eastern Garden] Located at Sakiyama. South of the royal palace is a belt of stone mountains, all called Sakiyama. The stone formations are extremely extraordinary. The garden gate faces west. Upon entering the gate, soft grass spreads across the ground. There is a wooden pavilion facing south with two rooms. Proceeding further, there is a three-room building facing south. Above the building is a plaque reading "Tidal Sound Responding to the World." It was written by Imperial Envoy and Assistant Commander Xiao Chongji in the fifth year of Tianqi. East of the pavilion is a small earthen mound. Its shape is like an inverted bowl, rising quite high. Wang's record states this is a rain altar. Proceeding further, turning slightly south and then west below the mountain rocks, there are stone lions and stone tigers. They still remain. The places where rushing water was used to raise fish have all been abandoned and demolished. The southern face is all mountains. Going east through the southern flatlands and climbing a small wooden pavilion - this is the Immortal-Gazing Pavilion. The plaque has already been lost. Baoguang rewrote it. Inside the pavilion is a small shrine. Fragrant wood serves as pillars. The scent is like cinnamon. The bark is made into thin boards, carved hollow to form characters of various sizes. Behind the pavilion is a small Buddha hall. A plaque names it Nōnin Hall. Exiting the Buddha hall on the south side, going east over a small bamboo bridge and climbing the mound, looking due east one sees densely growing forest trees. This is Sashiki. A harbor separates them in between. Looking slightly west, one sees a small mountain with luxuriant forest trees. This is Ben Peak. Looking south and north, one can see the sea in all directions. The eastern tributary island of Chuzan called Kudakajima is translated as Kudaka. Former envoy Wang Ji inscribed an "Eastern Garden" plaque for the king. Now it has been lost. He composed verses on the eight scenic views of Eastern Garden, including "Morning Sun at Kudaka" and "Accumulated Verdure at Shikina" among the eight scenes. This serves as the national garden, but they say its design is quite simple and rustic.

[Turtle Mountain] Located in Sueyoshi village. Locally called Sueyoshi Mountain. The mountain is located north of Chuzan. Rolling hills surround it. Halfway up the mountain is a wooden pavilion. Two bays front and back. Looking south one can see the sea. The forest trees are luxuriant. [The text appears to continue but is cut off at "第"]