In Jingding 1st year, gengshen of the Song Dynasty, Eisō ascended to the throne.
　Eisō was a descendant of the Tenson lineage and grandson of the Keiso ruler. Born in Shaoding 2nd year, jichou, he showed
auspicious signs. At twelve years old his reputation was heard throughout the realm, at twenty he mastered the classics and commentaries, and the people of the country wished to serve him, making him the Iso
Aji. In Baoyou 1st year, guichou he became regent, and was thirty-two years old when he ascended the throne. The following year
he toured the entire country and, following the Zhou che system, rectified the boundaries and equalized the well-field system. Thereafter grain allowances became equal and all
institutions were properly established. In Jingding 5th year the northwestern islands first came to pay tribute, and in Xianchu 2nd year, bingyin,
the northern barbarians of Ōshima came to court. He gave them generous gifts and sent them home. This was the beginning of Ōshima's tributary relationship. From
then on they paid tribute every year. Eisō reigned for forty years, lived to seventy-one years of age, and died in Dade 3rd year.
　Taisei
In Dade 4th year, gengzi of the Yuan Dynasty, Taisei succeeded to the throne.
　Taisei was Eisō's heir, born in Chunyou 7th year, dingwei of the Song Dynasty, and ascended the throne at fifty-four years of age.
He handled affairs with benevolence and righteousness, and approached matters with courtesy and deference, so the country was well-governed and the people were at peace. He reigned for nine years, lived to sixty-
two years of age, and died in Zhida 1st year.
　Eiji
In Zhida 2nd year, jiyou of the Yuan Dynasty, Eiji succeeded to the throne.
　Eiji was Taisei's second son, born in Xianchu 4th year, wuchen of the Song Dynasty, and ascended
to the throne at forty-two years of age. He reigned for five years, his governance followed established precedents, he was deep in planning and knowledgeable about affairs. He lived to forty