(This passage in the Chūzan Seikan reads: "In peace, together enjoying the blessings of great tranquility, only you rulers and 
chieftains of the four distant regions have not yet heard from afar, therefore this edict is proclaimed. It is fitting that you should understand this completely") Thereupon the king sent his younger brother
Taiki to present a memorial and tribute of local products. (According to the Chūzan Seikan, the tribute items were horses, swords, gold and silver, liquor,
sea gold and silver powder boxes, agate, ivory, conch shells, sea ba,
oar fans, gold-painted fans, raw red copper, tin, raw and processed summer cloth, cowhide, incense wood,
fragrant incense, sandalwood, yellow fragrant wood, brazilwood, ebony, pepper, sulfur, and whetstones) This
marked the beginning of Ryukyu's diplomatic relations with China. In the 7th year, the king again sent Taiki and others to present tribute and also
submitted a letter to the Crown Prince, with similar tribute goods. Emperor Taizu bestowed the Great Unification Calendar along with brocades and gauzes,
granted Taiki clothing, currency, boots and socks, and the vice-envoy Rehaenshi as well as interpreters and attendants all received
gifts. Taiki came again with tribute and also submitted a letter to the Crown Prince, so [the emperor] commanded Assistant Minister of Justice Li Hao to
bestow brocades and ceramic and iron goods, and moreover used 70,000 ceramic items and 1,000 iron implements to purchase horses
and sulfur in that country. In the 9th year summer, the king sent Taiki to accompany Hao in presenting tribute of forty horses. Hao
reported that the country did not value silk fabrics, but only prized porcelain and iron cauldrons, so from then on rewards mostly consisted of various
such items. In the 10th year, the king again sent Taiki and others to present a memorial congratulating the New Year, tributing sixteen horses and one thousand
jin of sulfur. In the 11th and 13th years, local products were tributed, and the imperial gifts followed precedent entirely. In the
15th year, the king again sent Taiki and courtier Aranpō and others to tribute horses and sulfur. Emperor
Taizu increased the bestowal of silk fabrics and commanded Imperial Attendant Lu Qian of the Shangpei Bureau to escort Taiki and others back to their country.
In the 16th year, the king sent Aranpō to present a memorial congratulating the New Year and tribute local products. King Shō of Sannan
Satto also sent his minister Shija and others to present memorials and tribute. Emperor Taizu bestowed upon the king a gold-plated silver
seal and seventy-two bolts of silk fabric, and granted the Sannan king silk fabric likewise. At this time the two kings and
the Sanhoku king were mutually attacking each other, so [the emperor] dispatched the palace envoy Liang Min to issue an edict to the king saying: "Your Majesty dwells in the vast sea,