twelve thousand jin, along with a banquet and paper currency. In the 20th year, the king sent Aranpō and others to tribute local
products, presented a memorial to the Crown Prince and献上 horses. Sannan King Shō Satto's uncle Ō Eishi and San-
hoku King Haniji also each sent envoys to present tribute. In the 21st year, the king sent envoys Jin
Moketsu-chi and others to tribute horses and celebrate the Heavenly Longevity Sacred Festival. In the 23rd year, [he] presented a memorial congratulating New Year and
tributed local products. Crown Prince Bunei also tributed five horses, two thousand jin of sulfur, two
hundred jin of pepper, and three hundred jin of brazilwood. The interpreter Yanokketsu carried three hundred jin of pepper and ten
jin of frankincense, but was caught by the gate guards and should have been confiscated by the government; however, by imperial edict it was returned to him, and moreover Yanokketsu and
sixty others were each granted ten ingots of paper currency. <<The Chūzan Seikan states: "In the 23rd year of Hongwu, gengwu, the southern barbarians of Miyako Island and Yaeyama Island first came to tribute, and there->>
<<after came to tribute every year.">> In the 24th year, the king and Crown Prince Bunei sent Aranpō, Gaikoku-
chi and others to tribute horses and local products. Sannan King's uncle Ō Eishi also sent envoys to present a memorial
celebrating the Heavenly Longevity Sacred Festival. In the 25th year, the king and Crown Prince Bunei each presented memorials and
tributed horses, and additionally sent nephews Nichiji-mai, Kakuhachiba, and the stockade official's son Jin'etsuji to
study at the Imperial Academy. The education of countrymen began from this time. Emperor Taizu granted each of them clothing, caps, shoes and socks, along with summer
clothing one set, and five ingots of paper currency. In autumn he again granted silk robes one set each, along with shoes, socks, quilts and mats. San-
nan King Shō Satto also sent his nephew Sagorō-bi and stockade officials' sons Jitarū-
bi, Gashashi and others to study at the Imperial Academy, with provisions following the Chūzan example. Previously, countrymen
Saikona and twenty-seven others were mining sulfur at Kōranbu when they encountered wind and drifted to Keishū
Kaihō, where they were captured by patrol soldiers. Because their language was not understood, they were thought to be Japanese and sent to the capital, but when they arrived, these were