When the tribute envoys reported this matter, Emperor Taizu sent them all back and granted thirty-six surnames of Fujian people skilled in operating ships to facilitate travel back and forth. <<According to the records of Vice-envoy Xie Jie from the Wanli period, during the Hongwu era, eighteen surnames were sent twice, most being people from the river mouth area of Fujian, totaling thirty-six surnames>> <<Currently only seven surnames remain. According to the Chūzan Seikan, only five families survive: Cai, Zheng, Lin, Liang, and Jin>>. In the 26th year, the king sent envoys Mashū and others to tribute local products. He had already sent envoys Jurei-Ketsu-chi and others to tribute horses and had stockade official's son Dashi-mai accompany them to study at the Imperial Academy. Emperor Taizu commanded that summer clothing and shoes and socks be granted, and in autumn again granted silk clothes one set each, with cloth clothing provided to each attendant. In the 27th year, the king sent Aranpō and others to tribute local products and was granted a banquet at the Huitong Hostel. In the 28th year, the king sent Chief Minister Aranpō to tribute local products. Sanhoku King Bin and Sannan King's uncle Ō Eishi also each sent envoys to present tribute. Emperor Taizu granted paper currency according to rank. In the 29th year, the king twice sent envoys to tribute local products. Sanhoku King Han'anchi, Sannan King Shō Satto, and Sannan King's uncle Ō Eishi also presented tribute. By imperial edict, Sagorō-bi and others were sent to return home for a visit, granting Sagorō-bi seven taels of silver, six sets of colored silk, and fifty ingots of paper currency, and stockade official's son Jitanarubi twenty ingots of paper currency and one set of colored silk. Not even a few months after returning home, Crown Prince Bunei sent envoys to present tribute, accompanied by two sons of stockade officials, Masharo and Seishiru, to study at the Imperial Academy. Sagorō-bi also came again with them, requesting to complete his studies. Emperor Taizu permitted this and still granted clothing, caps, shoes, and socks. In the 30th year, the king twice sent envoys to tribute horses and sulfur. Sanhoku King Han'anchi and Sannan King's uncle Ō Eishi also presented tribute. In the 31st year, the king sent Aranpō and others to tribute horses and sulfur, and Crown Prince Bunei tributed likewise. The female official Seiko