Romei also entered together to express gratitude, as she had formerly studied regularly in the capital. Emperor Taizu granted paper currency according to rank. In the third month, Emperor Taizu commanded that caps and sashes be granted to the king. Previously, the king had once requested Chinese caps and sashes. Emperor Taizu commanded the Ministry of Rites to illustrate the system of caps and sashes and show it to him. At this time, Pō and others again made this request, so he granted them according to the system and also bestowed caps and robes upon the retainers. With the change to the Yongle era, envoys were sent to inform the king with an enthronement edict. The king sent his nephew Sagorō-bi to present a memorial of congratulations and also tribute local products. Emperor Chengzu granted paper currency, silk, and court robes, and held a banquet at the Huitong Hostel. He sent Court Attendants Bian Xin and Liu Kang bearing velvet brocade, patterned gauze, and silk to grant to the king.

<<Note: According to the Chūzan Seikan, the king reigned for forty-six years and died on the fifth day of the tenth month of Hongwu 28. Now in the veritable records, tribute from the king continued as usual after the 29th year - perhaps the death had not yet been reported to the court?>>

Bunei
In the bingzi year of Ming Hongwu 29, Bunei succeeded to the throne.
According to the Chūzan Seikan, Bunei was the crown prince of Satto, born in the 16th year of Zhizheng of the Yuan dynasty, and succeeded at age forty-one. He violated his father's dying commands, indulged in hunting and women, engaged in pleasure-seeking day and night, and many lords rebelled against him. Shō Hashi attacked and destroyed him. He reigned for twenty-six years.
According to the Ming Veritable Records, when Satto died, his son Bunei sent Sagorō-bi to report the death to the court. In the first month of Yongle 2, Emperor Chengzu sent Court Attendant Shi Zhong to go and perform sacrificial rites, provided funeral gifts of cloth and silk, and issued an edict for Bunei to inherit the title. The edict stated: "The rule of sage kings harmonizes all nations, and the way of succession is generally based on