[The envoys] submitted tribute. Royal uncle Shō Kinpuku also presented horses and local products, and was bestowed clothing, silk, caps, and belts. [The emperor] commanded Ma Kendo to carry an imperial edict along with colored silk to return and bestow them upon the king, queen, and royal uncle.

In the first year of Jingtai (1450), [the king] dispatched envoy Hyakka-ni to pay tribute. Emperor Jingtai commanded [the envoy] to carry an imperial edict along with patterned silk and colored silk to return and bestow them upon the king and queen. Interpreter Tei Kō said that his ship was damaged and he could not return to his country, and wished to use the bestowed silk to build a ship. The Ministry of Rites requested to send a directive to the Three Offices of Fujian to allow them to build it themselves without disturbing the people, and this was followed. Soon after, [the king] again dispatched envoy Ryō Kai to present horses and local products, with banquets and rewards as usual.

In the second year, the king dispatched envoys Satsu-to and others to submit tribute, also requesting to prepare their own materials and labor to build ships. The Ministry of Rites said: "Now the Fujian region has been harmed by bandits and the people are in distress. It would be appropriate to wait for the day when interpreters Li Jing and others from tribute missions to the home country return, and have them carry [the envoys] back to their country." This was followed. Soon after, [the king] again dispatched envoys A-kan-bi and others to submit tribute.

The king reigned for five years, lived to forty-two years, and died in the fourteenth year of Zhengtong, ji-si year (1449). Having no sons, [the court] established royal uncle Shō Kinpuku as king.

Shō Kinpuku

In the first year of Jingtai, geng-wu year (1450), Shō Kinpuku ascended the throne.

Shō Kinpuku was the sixth son of Hashishi, born in the thirty-first year of Hongwu (1398), and ascended the throne at fifty-three years old. In the second year of Jingtai (1451), Emperor Jingtai dispatched Left Administrative Vice Censor Qiao Yi [marginal note: "Shuyu Zhouzilu" records this as Chen Mo], Herald Tong [marginal note: alternatively written as Dong] Shouhong to conduct memorial rites for the late King Shitasu and enfeoff his uncle Shō Kinpuku as King of Chuzan. Kinpuku twice dispatched envoys to submit tribute, still styling himself as royal uncle. Presumably the imperial command had not yet reached [him]. In the fourth year, the king dispatched envoys four times to submit tribute, with banquets and rewards all according to precedent. He reigned for four years, lived to fifty-six years, in Jingtai...