Shō Toku
In the fifth year of Tianshun of the Ming dynasty, xin-si (1461), Shō Toku succeeded to the throne.

Shō Toku was the third son of Shō Taikyū, born in the sixth year of Zhengtong, xin-you (1441), and succeeded to the throne at age twenty-one. In the sixth year of Tianshun (1462), he sent envoys to submit tribute and announced the death of Taikyū. Emperor Yingzong commanded Pan Rong, Right Vice Director of the Bureau of Scrutiny for Personnel, and Cai Zhe, Secretary of the Bureau of Receptions, to serve as principal and vice envoys to conduct memorial rites for the late king Taikyū and to enfeoff the heir apparent Shō Toku as king. The imperial edict stated: "We have inherited the imperial succession and continued our ancestral lineage, governing all under Heaven with equal benevolence, governing Chinese and barbarians alike without distinction between far and near. Your Ryukyu Kingdom, though dwelling in isolation on sea islands, lies close to Fujian, and has been admiring righteousness, coming to court, receiving enfeoffment and transmitting the royal enterprise for many years. The late king Shō Taikyū was able to be diligent and sincere, revering Heaven and serving people, but after only six years suddenly passed away. Since the former enterprise exists, there must be succession. The heir apparent Shō Toku possesses a benevolent and generous nature, and the people of the kingdom give him their allegiance. We now specially dispatch principal envoy Pan Rong, Right Vice Director of the Bureau of Scrutiny for Personnel, and vice envoy Cai Zhe, Secretary of the Bureau of Receptions, bearing this edict to enfeoff [him] as King of Chūzan of the Ryukyu Kingdom. We also bestow leather cap, crown robes and other items. All officials and common people in the kingdom should unite in support and assistance, serving as Our outer vassal. Alas! Follow principle and be cautious in conduct, forever maintaining loyal submission, with kinship harmony and neighborly relations spreading the transformative influence of universal tranquility. Therefore We issue this edict so that all may hear and know." In the seventh year (1463), the king sent envoys including Sūkayama to submit tribute, with banquets and rewards as usual. In the second year of Chenghua (1466), the king sent envoys including Cheng Peng to tribute horses and local products, and was granted banquets and clothing and silk. In the third year (1467), the king sent Chief Secretary Cai Jing to submit tribute and was granted silk currency. In the fourth year (1468), the king sent envoy Cheng Peng, and also sent envoy Dushi to tribute horses.