ceremonial regalia and investiture documents. Now, before the envoys have arrived, [Ryukyu] wishes to receive the investiture command from afar, which would be tantamount to abandoning the imperial gift in the wilderness. This is the first reason it cannot be permitted. Tinghui presents tribute with a memorial, yet seeks to have officials dispatched to present [tribute] on his behalf. This shows ignorance of the propriety by which the small serves the great, and abandons the crown prince's command for exclusive dispatch [of envoys]. This is the second reason it cannot be permitted. In the past during the Zhengde period, when bandits caused disruption and envoys reached Huai'an, the provincial officials temporarily had them remain until the situation was pacified, then immediately sent them to present tribute at court. The king of Champa was invaded by Annam and fled to reside elsewhere, so envoys were ordered to carry back the imperial edict—this was a temporary expedient. Moreover, this was a king who had lost his country. [Ryukyu] fabricates baseless words to deceive the imperial court and cites a king who lost his country to compare with their lord. This is the third reason it cannot be permitted. Navigation by ship and submissive service are normal practices. What they use as pretexts are merely fear of Japanese pirates and the dangers of storms at sea. They do not understand by what means the presentation of precious tribute and the coming and going of tribute envoys can truly be without trouble. This is the fourth reason it cannot be permitted. At that time, although Champa received back the imperial edict, their king Jaya Indravarman still earnestly requested the dispatch of envoys to bring honor to the barbarian state. Moreover, Tinghui does not have direct orders from the crown prince, nor does he have official seals or documents. If we rashly trust his words lightly, should the crown prince consider dispatching envoys as the highest honor and regard distant prostration as improper, refusing to accept investiture and again petitioning for envoys like Champa, who would bear responsibility for that fault? This is the fifth reason it cannot be permitted. We request that the Fujian officials be ordered to act according to the previous edict. As for expressing gratitude before receiving investiture, this is also not in accordance with established precedent. It is appropriate to only permit the presentation of tribute and local products, and only after receiving investiture should memorials of gratitude be submitted." Emperor Shizong followed this [recommendation].

In the forty-first year (1562), Rulin and others finally carried the imperial edict to the country. The edict stated: "We have received the Mandate of Heaven to rule the world. All proclamation of governmental orders follows only established laws. Regarding the granting of investiture