【Right Page】
......Upcoming film releases and staff......
・Listen to the wonderfully bright first voice of Chojiro, the darling of the period film world!!

"Knight of Raging Waves"
◇Shochiku Cinema Shimokamo Second All-Talkie
Original story/adaptation...Suimon Okichi
Cinematography...Sugiyama Kohei
Sound recording...Dobashi Haruo
......Dobashi Takeo
Sound effects...Saotome Takeshi
Musical accompaniment...Shochiku Orchestra
Planet・Director Inoue Kintaro's work
Starring Hayashi Chojiro in his debut performance

...Co-starring...
Nakamura Kichimatsu, Chihaya Akiko, Inoue Hisae
Hori Masao, Iizuka Toshiko, Kawakami Kie

Behold!! In talking pictures, sound films, and silent films - leading the industry
Absolutely occupying the throne, Shochiku's autumn big parade........

Shochiku Cinema Kamata Super Special Production・Dobashi-style All-Talkie
"The Lover"
Director...Ikeda Yoshinobu
Starring Kurishima Sumiko

Shochiku Cinema Kamata Special Production・All-Sound Version
"King of the Sea"
Director Shimizu Hiroshi
Starring...Shiro Tajiro

Shochiku Cinema Shimokamo Special Production・Long-awaited domestic drama
"Kamiyui Shinza"
Director Nikawa Buntaro
Starring Hayashi Chojiro

◇Next week simultaneous release with "Ginza no Yanagi"・・…
◇Takada Hiroshi...starring film◇

The play performed on stage by "Ichikawa Ennosuke," certified as his most suitable role among his performances, has been adapted into film by Shimokamo Cinema with Takada Hiroshi's great leap forward...

Shochiku Cinema Kyoto Shimokamo Special Film
"Togitetsu"
Original work...Kimura Kinka
Adaptation...Kimura Fujio
Director...Akiyama Kosaku
Camera...Tsuburaya Eiji

・Iizuka Toshiko・Inoue Hisae......Co-starring
Nakamura Masataro, Koizumi Kasuke, Rai Kichisaburo
Kusakabe Ryoma, Kazama Soroku, Hirota Takashi
Sawai Saburo, Seki Misao, Chikuma Satoko
Kawakami Kie, Nakagawa Yoshie・ ...Co-starring...

Taisho-kan Weekly Report・Keijo Sakurai-machi・Published by Taisho-kan・Fukuzaki Hamanosuke・Editor and Publisher・Nakamizu Tomonosuke・Printing Office・Printed by Nishio Printing

【Left Page】
......Next week's grand premiere release・
"The nostalgic willows of Ginza have been revived in the glamorous streets of Tokyo's Ginza・Modern Japan's modern Tokyo・On the asphalt of modern Ginza, though times have changed since the old days of horse-drawn railway cars, the name of Ginza's willows has become one of the beautiful remnants from Edo to Tokyo........"

・Ginza no Yanagi (The Willows of Ginza)・
・Original story........Saijo Yaso・
・Screenplay...Fushimi Akira・
・Director........Gosho Heinosuke・
・Camera...Ohara Joji・
・Music........Nakayama Shinpei・

How delightful to plant, the willows of Ginza
Pale green remnants of Edo
Blow, spring wind, red parasols and sun umbrellas
Today too, people bustle round and round
……………
Paris chestnuts, Ginza willows
East and west, lodgings of love
Who might she be waiting for, that girl's shoulders
Caressed gently by the thread willows
……………
Love is crimson, willows are green
Dyeing the capital in spring patterns
How joyful is Ginza, the willows beckon
Beckoning the crowds of Showa

Lyrics...........Saijo Yaso
Music...........Nakayama Shinpei
Kamata Special Production All-Sound Film
Victor Records......Recording
Chushingura [SEAL]
All-Talkie [SEAL]
Two Parts [SEAL]
Shochiku Total Mobilization Production [SEAL]
・Only Shochiku can produce・[SEAL]
・This great work. Please spread the word・[SEAL]
・Shochiku Cinema・　Taisho-kan Weekly Report