People prayed to the gods for rain, and every night many would climb the mountains carrying torches after sunset, but no clear signs of divine intervention were visible. Even the famous Uji River had dropped by about five shaku (approximately 1.5 meters). As a result, otter dens that were normally underwater became visible, and hundreds of people came daily to see them. About two ri upstream from Byōdō-in Temple, where the road to Tawara descends into the left valley, and going upstream for more than twenty chō, there are three caves at the base of a large rock. The interior is not very deep, but the entrance is about five shaku wide. It is called Sennin-dō (Hermit's Cave), and the villagers say it appeared four years ago as well. When I visited on the twentieth day of the tenth month, the water was said to be seven shaku lower than usual, but since it was a rapid stream flowing as a waterfall from a famous lake, it didn't appear so. However, due to the water shortage, the autumn harvest could not be collected in some areas. Many places were said to struggle even for food until the summer wheat ripened the following year, so many people prepared themselves for high rice prices come winter.

However, on the seventh day of the sixth month, American envoy ships made an unprecedented arrival at Uraga, requesting diplomatic relations and asking to borrow one port to establish a trading post. For this reason, various daimyo were ordered to fortify the coastline from Awa and Kazusa through Musashi to Edo. The forces numbered approximately 300,000, and since it was a deployment lasting several days, the expenses were enormous. Therefore, many daimyo houses contributed all available rice as payment, so by winter the price had actually become cheaper.

The era was changed to Ansei 7 (Year of the Tiger). On the thirteenth day of the first month, American ships again anchored off Kanagawa in the inland sea for several days. Perhaps they made forceful demands, as by the fourth month we heard that they were granted land at Shimoda in Izu and Hakodate in Matsumae. The various daimyo who had been deployed for coastal defense at this time also departed.