【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　38
Due to the sparse arrangement of drainage ditches, drainage was inconvenient and extremely poor from a sanitary perspective, with a correspondingly high number of infectious disease patients. From the viewpoint of improving the city's sanitation, sewerage planning had become an urgent matter, but construction began in January of Showa 7 (1932) and was completed in March of Showa 11 (1936). The total cost was 3,744,889 yen, an unprecedented massive public works project for the city, costing over 500,000 yen more than the water supply system. Sewage drainage is divided by the Muro irrigation canal, with one part flowing to the Yagyu River and the other to the Toyokawa River. Among these, wastewater entering the Toyokawa River is purified at a treatment facility. This project is naturally welcomed from the perspective of improving the city's sanitation, and its unemployment relief effects are also extremely remarkable.

Furthermore, the municipal public hall, which required a total cost of 170,000 yen, was completed in August of Showa 6 (1931). With a total floor area of over 350 tsubo, its modern cultural facilities and magnificent architecture are a lasting pride of Toyohashi City.

　　　　Historic Sites and Landmarks
　　　　　　Imahashi Castle - The Toda-Imagawa Conflict - Ieyasu and the Oda Clan -
　　　　　　Succession of Castle Lords - The Last Domain Lord - Yoshida Castle Site

The present Toyohashi was called Yoshida from the Tenbun era until the second year of Meiji (1869), and before that it was called Imahashi. At that time, the protector of Mikawa Province was the Kira clan, but around the Bunmei era, Makino Kohaku built a castle at this Imahashi. However, in August of Eisho 3 (1506), the Imagawa clan of Suruga personally led an army and attacked Imahashi Castle. Kohaku defended the castle to the death for over sixty days, continuing fierce battles, but his strength finally gave out and he committed suicide. Thus the castle temporarily came under the control of Toda Kinshichiro,

【Left Page】
a member of the Toda Danjo Norimitsu clan from Tahara Castle, and later, around the beginning of the Daiei era, it was recaptured by Kohaku's surviving sons, Denzaemon Nariyuki and Denzo Nobunari. Soon Nariyuki retired and Nobunari succeeded him, but in Kyoroku 2 (1529), Matsudaira Kiyoyasu of Okazaki launched a major attack on this castle. Nobunari fought with his clan and retainers at Shimoji, but with poor military fortune he was ultimately killed in battle, and the castle temporarily fell under Matsudaira control. However, in Tenbun 4 (1535), during the Yoshida period, after Kiyoyasu's death at Moriyama, it again came under Toda Kinshichiro's control, and for the next ten-plus years, with the Funagata mountain range as the boundary, the conflict between the Toda and Imagawa clans continued unabated, until finally in Tenbun 15 (1546) it fell under Imagawa Yoshimoto's sphere. However, in May of Eiroku 3 (1560), Yoshimoto was killed in the Battle of Okehazama. At that time, Tokugawa Ieyasu was still called Matsudaira Motoyasu and was an ally of the Imagawa faction, but in the following fourth year, discord arose between him and Yoshimoto's heir Ujizane, and neighborly relations were severed. At that time, Imagawa general Obara Hizen-no-kami Shizuzane was stationed at Yoshida Castle, holding hostages from various generals in eastern Mikawa at this castle, but he killed all those who had sided with Ieyasu at a place called Ryusenji-guchi. Ieyasu launched a major attack on this castle from Okazaki at the beginning of Eiroku 7 (1564), and at that time there was also a castle at Niregi, corresponding to the eastern part of present-day Toyohashi City, where Toda Tonomo-no-suke Shigesada was stationed. This Shigesato had long harbored sympathies for Ieyasu, but since his mother was held hostage in this castle, he thought he must first rescue his mother before raising the banner of rebellion, and after various schemes, he successfully achieved his goal. In the following eighth year, Ieyasu destroyed Shizuzane and gave this castle to Sakai Saemon-no-jo Tadatsugu. Thus the Imagawa clan soon declined, and not only Mikawa but all of Totomi Province came under Tokugawa control, but instead, invasion by the Takeda clan from Koshu gradually began. In December of Genki 3 (1572), Shingen led an army and fought at Mikatagahara in Totomi, but this battle resulted in a major defeat for the Tokugawa. Shingen, riding his momentum, further advanced into Mikawa and captured Noda Castle in Minami-Shitara District in January of Tensho 1 (1573), but died as a result of this campaign. However, in April of Tensho 3 (1575), his son Katsuyori raised a large army and attacked Niregi Castle, then continued to Yoshida Castle.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　39