【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　44
Including the Shitenshii Chinba dance and Sasarako Pontenzara ritual which are remnants of dengaku, the ritual of black demons and enoki-dama competition, and the procession of Otou-sama, this ritual is an extremely unique festival rarely seen elsewhere in the country.
　　　　Visiting Neighboring Towns and Villages
　　　　　　Toyokawa-Horaiji Railway Line - West of Toyohashi - East of Toyohashi -
　　　　　　Atsumi Electric Railway Line - Yana Direction - Hiking Courses
　Our East Mikawa region, having such ancient history, still contains everywhere ruins from the imperial court era onwards, as well as fortifications from the Muromachi period (the age of warring provinces), ancient battlefields, and tombs of military commanders. First, along the Toyokawa Railway line, there is the famous Inohanaashi Shrine known for wind festivals at the eastern end of Kosakai town; next is the historic Ina Castle site where the Tokugawa clan's hollyhock crest is said to have originated; in Ushikubo there is Daishoji Temple with the graves of Imagawa Yoshimoto and former Isshiki Castle lord Isshiki Gyobu Shosuke, Chokokuji Temple known for Yamamoto Kansuke's grave site, and not far from there is Kokian built for Makino Minbu-no-jo Narisada. Proceeding just a little from Ushikubo Station, one reaches Toyokawa. Here there is the nationally famous Myogon-ji Temple Toyokawa Inari through Dakini Shinten, as well as the famous site of Sanmei-ji Temple, the Toyokawa branch of the Prefectural Sericulture Experiment Station, and a large ground certified by the All Japan Track and Field Federation. The new main hall of Toyokawa Inari was planned over thirty years ago and finally completed in April of Showa 5 (1930), being quite magnificent. The Kokuhei-shosha Toga Shrine is about three cho east of Mikawa-Ichinomiya Station, with Onamuchi-no-mikoto as the enshrined deity. Next is Nagayama Station, from which the summit of Mt. Hongū, the highest mountain in Mikawa where the inner shrine of Toga Shrine is located, is over fifty cho away. This station also has a company-operated amusement park that delights visitors in all seasons. East

【Left Page】
Near Higashigami Station there is Ushi Falls, dropping straight down sixty feet, with an extremely flat path eight cho from the station, popular with summer visitors seeking cool weather. Next is Nodajo Station, from which the Nodajo Castle site where Takeda Shingen was ambushed, lured by the clear, beautiful flute music of master flutist Muramatsu Yoshikyu, is only five cho away. Further at Shinshiro Station there is the grave of Suganuma Sadamitsu. This area is a small city north of Toyohashi, with the Shinshiro District Court, Shinshiro Branch Office of the Imperial Forest Service Nagoya Branch, Prefectural Agricultural and Sericulture School, Higher Girls' School, etc., where commerce and industry also flourish. About ten cho from this station, or five cho from Higashi-Shinmachi, one can reach Sakura-buchi, famous for its cherry blossoms. The terminus of the Toyokawa Railway is Nagashino Station, where the Toyokawa and Horaiji lines connect. About fourteen cho from this station, at the intersection of the Kankyo and Miwa Rivers, lies the site of the ancient Nagashino battlefield, with the entire surrounding area being the ancient battlefield of the Takeda, Tokugawa, and Oda clans. The Battle of Nagashino originated in May of Tensho 3 (1575) when Takeda Katsuyori of Kai besieged Ieyasu's retainer Okudaira Nobumasa at this location. The final moments of Torii Suneemon at this time are widely known, and his grave still exists on the banks of the Kankyo River, about one cho from Torii Station. The graves of other commanders who died in this battle - Baba Mino-no-kami Nobufusa, Naito Shuri-no-suke Masatoyo, Yamagata Saburo-bei Masakage, and others - are still scattered around this area, moving passersby to feelings of melancholy reflection.
　Those who wish to reminisce about Horaiji Temple's past can transfer to the Taguchi Railway at Horaiji-guchi and reach Horaiji Station in just three miles, then climb nine cho from the mountain base to the main hall's Yakushi Nyorai. This temple was founded by monk Rishu at the imperial request of Empress Suiko. It combined both Tendai and Shingon sects, but now they are united as one Shingon sect, having extremely ancient origins. The scenery of the entire mountain was once spectacular, but having suffered multiple fires, it no longer maintains its former appearance, with only the tower gate and Toshogu shrine still retaining traces of bygone days. The Toshogu was established in Keian 4 (1651) and has been repaired many times since, but still clearly shows early Tokugawa architectural style. Particularly, this mountain is located at the terminus of the Aso volcanic range, composed entirely of volcanic rock, extremely rich in the scenic beauty of thousand-fathom precipices, and in summer from evening to dawn the sacred bird Buddhist Law Monk calls, drawing many pilgrimage walkers from distant places. Furthermore, this rice field
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　45