[Table format below]
Wang Gai (xingren, from Jiaozhou, Shandong)　　　Lin Linzhao (Secretary of the Inner Palace Secretariat, from Putian, Fujian)
[End of table format]

Shō Eki has not yet requested investiture. His father Shō Jun died before being formally installed, and his son Shō Kei is now being invested.

Behind the main hall is a connecting hall of six bays, an inner hall of three bays, with rooms for both envoys on the left and right, and two wooden pavilions in the east and west of the rear courtyard. The eastern one is called "Changfeng" (Long Wind), inscribed by the previous envoy Wang Ji. The western one is called "Tingyun" (Resting Clouds), inscribed by envoy Lin Linzhao. The plaques have already deteriorated, and the buildings have also been renovated. We ministers have inscribed anew upon them. The two rows of service quarters each have nine bays facing each other from east to west. The eastern courtyard has one well, surrounded by stone walls on all four sides like a fortress, about one zhang three or four chi high and extremely solid. The floors inside the halls all use square bricks with tiles laid on top. However, the walls all use wooden panels, while the service quarters use reed mats with mud plaster applied on top.

Appendix: Old Embassy
To the southwest of the embassy is the site of the old embassy, connected to it. In front there is also a ceremonial gate with a small wooden pavilion above the main gate. Upon entering the gate, there is a main hall of three bays with wooden flooring about three chi above ground level. Outside are the two characters "Zhujie" (Stationed Standard), written by the previous envoy Wang Gai. There are also four characters "Mei huai mi ji" written by the Ming Chongzhen period envoy Du Sance. There was a building to the west, but it no longer exists (according to Hu Jing's record, xingren Yang Lun resided in a small building on the western side called "Tinghai" [Listening to the Sea]). The wooden pavilion has now been newly renovated, but only the eastern pavilion is from the old construction, with oak beams and pillars that are all extremely solid. According to previous envoy Zhang Xueli's record, there were a hundred plum blossom poems inscribed by Du Sance on the upper floor, but they have now been plastered over and no longer exist. The two ministers Celiang and Pingfeng reside here, locking the front ceremonial gate and opening a hole in the rear wall as a shared gate for entry and exit.

The old embassy previously had a Sixi Pavilion, and in the 37th year of Jiajing,册使 (investiture envoy) Guo Rulin had