[Left page]
　　　　　Oaths of Various Officials

1. Regarding the preparation of oath papers, for those who have no urgent matters to attend to, the months of January, May, and September shall be excluded.

1. Those who prepare oath papers are as follows: Yaosato notes that because current official titles were used when writing in the old records, there is confusion between old and new official titles and text.

　1. Orusuii (currently abolished)　　　　　1. Kanazu Magistrate　　　　1. Town Magistrate
　1. O-bugyō　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1. Deputy estates chief clerk　1. Chief attendant
　1. O-hiroshiki goyōnin　　　　　　　　　1. Inspector　　　　　　　　1. Deputy estates inspector
　1. Inspector assistant　　　　　　　　　　1. Fudazai inspector　　　　　1. Edo caretaker
　1. Official retainer stealth overseer and armory administrator　1. Construction magistrate　1. Deputy estates district magistrate
　1. Chief boatswain　　　　　　　　　　　1. District magistrate　　　　1. Works magistrate
　1. Falconry administrator and chief falconer　1. Ashigaru commander　　　　1. Kyoto official
　1. Personal attendant inspector　　　　　　1. Chamber attendant　　　　　1. Fudazai investigation official

　1. Sword and tea utensil magistrate　Note: Previously this was handled at the next seat, but from Meiwa 5 (1768), year of the rat, when Takahata Yogorōzaemon became of extraordinary rank, it came to be conducted in the presence of the senior retainers with the goyōnin participating.

　1. Cormorant fishing administrator　Note: Those appointed from the shoin-ban group previously conducted this at the next seat, but since the ceremonial seat was also treated as extraordinary rank, and the hyōjōsho duty station was in the same location as the official duty station, after deliberation, from the time when Moriguchi Denzaemon was ordered to take his oath on October 27, Kōka 3 (1846), it was decided to conduct this in the presence of the senior retainers. However, when people like Sakai Hanjūrō were appointed to lower extraordinary seats, they conducted this in the presence of senior retainers.

　　　　　　Jo says that even within the shoin-ban group, if appointed to onzenban rank, it should be conducted in the presence of senior retainers, and if not appointed to onzenban rank, at the next seat. On October 16, Kaei 3 (1850), year of the dog, Yanagihara Magobē conducted his oath paper at the next seat.

　1. Accounting magistrate　　　　　　　　　1. Fudazai magistrate　　　　　1. Debt clearing official (began in the 11th month of Tenpō 15 [1844], year of the dragon)

For the above, they are included in the dates for preparing signatures in the presence of senior retainers, and regarding financial matters, the magistrates are also included, so the location is prepared by removing the sliding doors between rooms two and three of the hyōjōsho business chambers.