【Right Page】
1. On the 23rd day of the 1st month of Hōei 7 (1710), regarding castle keeper Ariga Magozaemon's retirement appointment, all matters including receiving keys to castle gates and supervision of attendant cavalry, foot soldiers, and checkpoint guards at various locations were to be temporarily supervised by castle caretakers Nagami Jibuemon and Amakawa Gorōzaemon. This was communicated to both men by Koma Toneri at the lord's quarters. On the 29th of the same month, Sakai Yosōbei was appointed as castle keeper succeeding Ariga Magozaemon, with five attendant cavalry and twenty-eight foot soldiers under his command, plus supervision of checkpoint guards at various locations.

1. On the 26th day of the 6th month of the same year, during the airing of weapons at the armory, since Ariga Magozaemon had previously inspected the reserve weapons when appointed castle keeper, castle keeper Sakai Yosōbei inquired whether he should conduct an inspection this time. Castle caretakers Nagami Jibuemon and Amakawa Gorōzaemon were also to accompany him for the inspection, as Honda Shirōemon instructed Yosōbei at his residence.

1. On the 24th day of the intercalary 8th month of the same year, due to castle keeper Sakai Yosōbei's death, the keys to castle gates were transferred to Jibuemon and Gorōzaemon, and all duties handled by Yosōbei including supervision of attendant cavalry, foot soldiers, and checkpoint guards at various locations were to be jointly managed by both men until a successor castle keeper was appointed, as Koma Toneri instructed Jibuemon and Gorōzaemon. Furthermore, the endorsement of travel permits for women leaving the domain for other territories was also to be handled jointly by both men until a new castle keeper was appointed. Both men's seal specimens were sent to guard posts to replace Yosōbei's seal specimen.

【Left Page】
General temporary roles, temporary supervision, and concurrent duties

1. On the 8th day of the 12th month of Meiwa 5 (1768), foot unit commanders Sakai Ichijūrō and Asami Shichijūrō were both suspended from duty. Personal attendant commander津田藤左衛門 was appointed to temporary supervision of foot units. This was directly communicated by the senior councilors. When the lord goes out, colleagues should attend in pairs, and guard post seal verification should be conducted.

1. On the 20th day of the 1st month of the 7th year, regarding the suspension of both men, personal attendant commander Kuzumaki Shōbei was summoned to Okabe Sazen's residence and appointed to supervise foot units during the suspension of the foot unit commanders.

1. Generally, when various temporary roles are appointed, if regular appointments are made, the dismissal of temporary roles should be promptly reported to the senior councilors.

1. On the 11th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 16 (1731), when personal attendant commander Oka Hanemon, who had temporary custody of ninja and temporary supervision of weapons, requested hot spring treatment, it was ordered that during his absence, the monthly duty inspectors would supervise weapons and ninja, as communicated by Inaba Uneme. [Weapons supervision and ninja custody belonged to Ihara Jōsuke; Hanemon had temporary custody during the Edo absence.]
　Note: Ninja were previously assigned duties through inspectors, which is why this was communicated. [Hanemon's appointment to foot unit commander following his garden supervision role is recorded in the hot spring treatment request section.]

　Five out of seven inspectors

1. On the 8th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 15 (1730), due to the death from illness of Kanazu magistrate Inoue Handayū, inspector Tsuchiya Jūrōemon was dispatched to secure the area and departed for Kanazu the same day.

1. In autumn of Genroku 11 (1698), Kanazu magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon went to Edo for domain map duties, and Kaifuku Sezaemon was appointed as his replacement. Sezaemon resided in Kanazu during Hikoemon's absence. The senior councilors instructed the inspectors that Sezaemon should withdraw after Hikoemon's return, and the inspectors communicated this to Sezaemon.

1. On the 9th day of the 1st month of Hōei 5 (1708), since Kanazu magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon had suffered a stroke during the year and had not yet recovered, banner magistrate Kaifuku Sezaemon was appointed as temporary Kanazu magistrate and ordered to go there for duty. This was communicated to Sezaemon by monthly duty inspector Yano Gonpei in addition to Matsudaira Shōbei at his residence.

1. In the 5th month of Hōreki 5 (1755), painting magistrate Honda Naoemon became ill and withdrew. Since there was no immediate sign of recovery, it was proposed that foot inspector Nakayama Jūbei be appointed as temporary magistrate. This was deemed appropriate, so Jūbei was summoned to the monthly duty residence and appointed to the temporary role. During his temporary appointment, Jūbei did not perform his regular duties.
　Note: Since temporary roles are meant to be short-term assistance, previously both regular and temporary duties were performed simultaneously. However, in this case, after properly consulting with the senior councilors and appointing the temporary role, the regular duties were suspended.