1. On the 4th day of the 3rd month of Bunka 9 (1812), cleaning magistrate Kishida Zendayū died of illness. After consulting with the senior councilors about whether foot inspector Nosaka Genemon should be appointed as temporary replacement, the appointment was made. Accordingly, one seal specimen was submitted to Taiko Gate.

1. On the 16th day of the 9th month of Bunsei 5 (1822), water supply magistrate Aizawa Takebei [Yajima Shirōemon] died of illness. After consulting with the senior councilors about whether foot inspector Mizuno Seibei [chief Nosaka Genemon] should be appointed as temporary replacement until a permanent appointment was made, this was arranged. Later, around the middle of the Bunsei era, when water supply magistrate Takashima Tōkurō went for hot spring treatment, foot inspector Shimada Kurōzaemon was appointed as temporary replacement after consultation.

1. On the 6th day of the 7th month of Kōka 4 (1847), water supply magistrate Takada Yaichirō died of illness. On the 8th day, foot inspector chief and senior guard Takeshita Jōdayū was appointed as temporary replacement.

1. On the 13th day of the 3rd month of Tenpō 5 (1834), foot inspector Ban Shōzaemon was appointed as temporary concurrent replacement for garden painting magistrate Harada Seibei.

1. In the 2nd month of Bunsei 12 (1829), archery commander Odaka Koemon became ill and was recalled from Edo. Fellow officer Inoue Handayū was ordered to proceed to Edo duty once preparations were complete, but Koemon died while still at home. Since there was no estate magistrate, the following appointment was made:
　　Since Odaka Koemon has died, until a successor is appointed　　Junior personal attendant commander
　　Temporary estate magistrate is appointed　　　　　　　　　　　　Sugiura Yūzō

1. On the 9th day of the 9th month of Tenpō 2 (1831), archery commander Ōtani Ichemon died. Since fellow officer Matsubara Zenzaemon was absent in Edo, the official documents were sealed and entrusted to Inoue Handayū, who was next in line among the personal attendant commanders for temporary estate magistrate appointment. The keys were entrusted to the monthly duty inspector. If news of Ichemon's death was received, his subordinates would immediately be placed under temporary custody, also to be communicated to Handayū. On the 11th day, the following appointment was made:
　　Since Ōtani Ichemon has died, temporary concurrent estate magistrate is appointed
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Junior personal attendant commander　Inoue Handayū
　　　Note: During temporary service, fire emergency duty applies

1. During the Tenpō era, personal attendant commander Ido Jibei was appointed as temporary estate magistrate.

1. On the 16th day of the 4th month of Meiwa 5 (1768), when town magistrate Suzuki Tadatayū was ordered to exercise restraint, deputy administrator of domain holdings Kumagai Kobei was appointed as temporary town magistrate.
　　Note: For temporary town magistrate appointments, if there is someone of formal court dress rank among the inspectors, they should be appointed. If there is no one of formal hakama rank among the inspectors, someone of formal hakama rank from other posts should be appointed, which is why Kumagai Kobei was appointed.

1. In the 5th month of Tenpō 8 (1837), when town magistrate Suzuki Hikotayū was ordered to exercise restraint, inspector Nara Gondayū was appointed as temporary replacement.
　　Note: Gondayū held formal hakama rank.

1. In the 5th month of Kōka 3 (1846), during the lord's arrival at the castle, when the town magistrate was to go out to Ebata for the welcoming ceremony, Nara Gondayū was indisposed and unable to attend. Therefore, it was suggested that a temporary town magistrate from among the inspectors should serve, and the senior councilors ordered that this matter be discussed and reported. When colleagues deliberated, they concluded that while the indisposed town magistrate would continue handling office affairs as usual, reports to the senior councilors would be conveyed through the inspectors. However, since the welcoming ceremony was not heard to be for supervising subordinates but appeared to be merely ceremonial attendance, it was questioned whether an inspector should serve as town magistrate substitute. Moreover, there was precedent of foot commanders handling announcements when town magistrates were temporarily withdrawn due to urgent matters on the day. They reported that while they would follow whatever high-level decision was made regarding inspector attendance, they felt it might not be necessary for colleagues to attend. The senior councilors decided that attendance was not required and that this should be communicated to the appropriate office through the chamberlain. However, the following appointment was made on the 8th day:
　　　Regarding Nara Gondayū's scheduled attendance during the lord's arrival　　Senior inspector
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōta Saburōbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Note: Not in formal hakama dress