Miscellaneous Records of Retainers
Section on Palanquin Riding Requests - For Reference

1. Those serving as Kyoto caretakers should keep official horses if they receive official stipends, but while there is no strict permission, they use palanquins with their official stipends. Initially, separate palanquin fees were provided, but in recent years no palanquin fees have been given, hence this arrangement.
However, in Meiwa 7 (1770), Imadate Rokuemon was appointed from Kyoto caretaker to advance guard head, after which the Kyoto caretaker position was abolished.

1. On the 11th day of the 12th month of Bunka 7 (1810), Master Carpenter Teraki Jūtayū, Chef Takano Yūkichi, Yoshida Shinbei, and Takashima Kinzaburō were exempted from current duties and assigned to the caretaker guard unit.

1. On the 25th day of the intercalary 2nd month of Bunka 8 (1811), Ato be Shunsuke received the inheritance rest period for his father Hikoichirō without issue and was assigned to the caretaker guard unit.

[Vermillion note] However, hereafter, among rice stipend recipients, those with teaching roles or other family occupations enter the great guard, while all others are assigned to caretaker guard units. Naturally, even before this, those receiving seven or fewer small stipends were assigned to caretaker guard. This was likely for financial management purposes.

1. Among the five articles marked with △ that became regulations in Bunka 9 (1812), the other two articles appear in the section on succession appointments.
△ 1. The great guard unit personnel shall be fixed at fifty members
However, this shall be publicly announced at the guard assignment in the year after next (year of the dog)
△ 1. When there are vacancies among the fifty members of the great guard unit, appointments shall be made from among the inactive caretaker guards at the time of guard assignment
△ 1. Even fief holders who are young, ill, or have special circumstances shall be assigned to inactive caretaker guard

1. On the 19th day of the 10th month of Bunka 9, the following appointments were made:
"There are special intentions. You are appointed as supervisor of inactive caretaker guards. Details will be communicated by supervisor Shimada Kyūma" - Hayashi Hannosuke
Appointed as supervisor of inactive caretaker guards
1. Regarding your personal official seat, the side attendant's waiting room should be understood as equivalent to the great guard head
1. For personal requests and personal illness, etc., the requests and communications of supervised members should be consulted with the monthly duty great guard head
1. Members of the inactive caretaker guard need not attend monthly duties or five seasonal festivals. They shall only ascend to the castle for New Year's greetings, armor ceremonies, rice cake reception, lord's departure, and castle return occasions

[Vermillion note]
Same day
There are special intentions. You are assigned to the inactive caretaker guard unit. Details are the same.

From Caretaker Guard First Group:
Hirase Gisaku, Kure Matsumochikichi, Atobe Shunsuke, Takeuchi Tōjūrō, Ugai Hachigorō, Arakawa Heikichi, Tagawa Yasaburō, Okashima Yashei, Teraki Jūtayū, Takano Yūkichi, Fujita Kingorō, Nakayama Yojūrō, Sasakawa Shōzaemon

From Caretaker Guard Second Group:
Kawasaki Kindayū, Ambe Komakichi, Azuma Tatsujirō, Hayashi Yodayū, Hahakabe Hachisuke, Niwa Kinzaburō, Takaku Shirōsaku, Hoshino Takichi, Ogawa Kichigorō, Sengoku Yasaburō, Nagasaki Tōshirō, Yoshida Shinbei, Takashima Kinzaburō
There are special intentions. Your situation is the same as above - Watanabe Ikinosuke