1. In the 8th month of Kaei 1 (1848), regarding various offices where role transfers had occurred from before, a rough examination was conducted. The following is an extract from the chronological table of various offices:

1. Regarding御側御用人 (personal steward): Initially appointed as observers for council sessions and the like, they were appointed as stewards from around the Shōtoku era. From the 21st day of 6th month of Enkyō 4, they were called senior councilors, and from Kansei 12 when personal stewards for the Middle Captain were established, the front senior councilors remained as before, becoming personal stewards from Tenpō 2. ○From An'ei 1, the young lord's tutors were appointed to this position. It appears that tutor positions were indefinite and likely involved succession.
   However, initially they supervised foot soldiers, falconers, stable hands, and cormorant keepers, but from Kyōhō 3 this supervision was removed and assigned to two guard unit commanders as at present, with both types of supervision each.

1. Regarding stewards: Initially called ceremonial attendants, from the 21st day of 6th month of Enkyō 4 they were directed to also hold the title of steward, and have since been called stewards.

1. Regarding flag magistrates: From Enpō 6 they sat next to the great units. However, great units were abolished in Jōkyō 3.

1. Regarding new unit commanders: Initially they were next to castle keeper commanders with no role stipend and served alone, but from Shōtoku 2 they became long hakama rank with Matsubara Zenzaemon appointed, and from Kyōhō 7 Hori Jūbei was appointed as an additional person, receiving a role stipend of 100 koku, making two thereafter.

1. Regarding foot soldier commanders: Initially they were next to the above new unit commanders, above water unit commanders with no role stipend, but from Shōtoku 5 they received base role stipends and became equivalent to personal attendants, from Tenmei 4 became front roles, and from Kansei 5 became junior extraordinary rank legitimate seats with 50 koku role stipend. Also, initially there were two, but in Meiwa 5 one was added making three, and from Bunsei 1 it became a single role.
   (From An'ei 1 it became two again, and from Tenmei 5 one was added as foot soldier commander rank/acting without stipend, also called regular assistant)

1. Regarding long spear magistrates: From Genroku 1 they were assigned additional duties of firearms inspection.

1. Regarding district magistrates: Initially three, but in Jōkyō 3 one was reduced making two, from Genroku 7 they received role stipends of 50 koku each, from Kyōhō 8 one was added making three, from An'ei 7 they became next to flag magistrates with official rank, from Tenmei 1 became base role stipend, and from Kansei 5 returned to previous seating with 50 koku role stipend as at present.

1. Regarding messenger guards: Initially ten, but from Bunka 13 four became concurrent escort commanders.

1. Regarding cormorant keepers: From Kyōhō 3 Suzuki Jingodayū served concurrently from inner treasury, thereafter serving concurrently from castle keeper commanders, escort inspectors, inner roles, etc., later also becoming separate roles, from Tenmei 8 becoming front roles, thereafter serving as junior extraordinary rank, guard attendants, or dining attendant rank, etc.

1. Regarding minor equipment managers: From Tenmei 5 they were combined with inner treasury role names.
   (In Hōei 5, four escort inspectors were newly appointed from among personal attendants; in Shōtoku 4, five palanquin attendants were newly appointed from among personal attendants)

1. Regarding escort commanders: Old role names included personal attendants, escort inspectors, palanquin attendants, etc., but from Meiwa 5 these roles were abolished, and in An'ei 3 four new personal attendant escort commanders were appointed, in Kyōwa 2 the current roles were reformed to appoint four personal attendant escort commanders concurrent with protocol officers wearing formal dress next to foot soldier commanders, in Bunka 2 they received role stipends of 50 koku each, and from Bunka 13 they became concurrent with messenger guards.

1. Regarding personal attendants: The old name was anteroom duty, with four first appointed in Kyōhō 15, becoming eight in Enkyō 1, all eight anteroom duties abolished in Kan'en 3, eight anteroom duties reappointed in Meiwa 1, eleven anteroom duties appointed in Meiwa 5, thereafter called personal attendants, with nine personal attendant rank appointed at the same time, and four personal attendant commanders first appointed.

1. Regarding middle inner pages and inner pages: Four newly appointed in Shōtoku 1, thereafter continuing with about eight each, but abolished by Meiwa 5.
   Regarding inner pages, the beginning has not yet been researched; in Kan'en 3 inner pages were abolished with eleven dismissed, in Meiwa 5 six were again appointed to the front hall and nine to the young lord, with inner pages beginning and gradually increasing.

1. Regarding escort staff: In An'ei 3, four personal attendant rank escort staff were newly appointed, abolished in Tenmei 7.

1. Regarding personal quarter commanders and personal supervisors: In An'ei 3, two personal quarter commanders (Akita Sadayū, Sakurai Shōkurō) were first appointed at junior extraordinary rank, from which ranks and status were gradually advanced, and also (An'ei 1, Meiwa 8) one personal supervisor for the young lord at long hakama rank (Takamura Shirōzaemon) and one at junior extraordinary rank (Nakamura Ichirōemon) were appointed, but personal quarter commander roles were abolished by Tenmei 7, then in Kansei 3 Atobe Kazue was again appointed personal quarter commander, abolished again in Kansei 7, and in Kyōwa 2 Katayama Tōnosuke (from chamber personal attendant commanders) and Yamaguchi Sakuemon (from personal supervisors) were appointed personal quarter commanders, changing the previous name of personal supervisor. Thereafter, those assigned to the young lord were also appointed as personal quarter commanders.
   Addition: In Kyōhō 10, Shimada Uemon was appointed from ceremonial attendant to personal attendant supervisor, transferred to steward in Kyōhō 15, after which the personal supervisor role name disappeared. Later in Hōreki 8, Shimada Seizaemon was appointed personal attendant supervisor, transferred to senior councilor in Meiwa 1, after which this role name disappeared. However, personal roles continued as before.

1. The role name of inner personal attendant supervisor had two appointed at extraordinary rank in Genbun 2, existing until around Hōreki.

1. The role name of personal attendant personal service had Sugiura Yūzō appointed at messenger guard rank with 100 koku role stipend in Bunka 13, Tsuda Yataroku appointed to succeed Yūzō in Bunsei 1, abolished in Bunsei 5.

1. Regarding ticket office inspectors: Ōsaki Shichidayū was first appointed in Kanpō 2, thereafter also appointed as ticket office general magistrates, ticket office chief supervisors, etc., with concurrent appointments from magistrates and inspectors.

1. Regarding ticket office magistrates: There were two until the great law, Shioya Matazaemon was appointed when ticket distribution resumed in Genroku 15, Tateiwa Chōemon was added as one more in Hōei 4, ticket distribution was stopped that year, in Kyōhō 15 ticket distribution was established by 25-year petition with Kasuya Denzaemon and Mitsuoka Sukeemon appointed, role stipends of 50 koku each granted in Kyōhō 20, chief supervisors appointed to eight townsmen in Genbun 2 with current roles abolished, Sawaki Shozaemon and Mitsuoka Sukeemon reappointed from Kanpō 2 with guide attendant substitutes provided, continuing thus thereafter.

1. Regarding weapons supervision and ninja custody: Previously appointed from personal military commanders, but examples of weapons supervision ninja custody appointed from other than personal military commanders are as follows:
   ○Jōkyō 3: weapons supervisor Ihara Banemon died of illness, ninja custody appointed to same family Genbe ○Around Hōei 6-7: Ihara Jōsuke's ninja custody pardoned, Ihara Gensuke appointed ninja custody as messenger guard. However, at this time weapons supervisor was Takada Kindayū ○Hōreki 3: Arakawa Sōemon as personal attendant long hakama rank weapons supervision ninja custody ○Meiwa 7: Yokoda Sakudayū as personal attendant magistrate next rank same ○Tenmei 6: Enami Inojūrō as official rank same
   ○Bunka 5: Kumagai Kohei as personal military commander next rank inner service with concurrent right same (ninja custody). However, until now Takada Magoemon as personal military commander had weapons supervision ninja custody but ninja custody was pardoned ○Bunka 14: Ōta Saburōbei appointed weapons supervision ninja custody at official rank ○Bunsei 5: Kaneko Jūrōhei same

1. Regarding protocol officers: From Tenmei 8, eight were first appointed at junior extraordinary rank, but including one messenger guard rank. From An'ei 4, personal attendant escort roles were appointed from castle keeper commander rank, long spear magistrate next rank, etc., becoming front roles from Tenmei 4, all pardoned this year and thus.

1. Regarding Kyoto castle keepers: They were appointed continuously at messenger guard level with role stipends as concurrent inspectors and financial affairs officers, but from Meiwa 7 this role was abolished under Mori Niemon's management, from Tenmei 6 Itō Bunshirō was appointed at junior extraordinary rank for castle keeper handling concurrent duties, but from Kansei 5 he was pardoned and it again became Mori Niemon's management.

1. Regarding deputy magistrate roles: From Hōei 3 it was two-domain supervision but became one-domain supervision, from Hōreki 11 seven were pardoned leaving seven for two-domain supervision, in Meiwa 7 seven were again appointed and returned to one-domain supervision as before.