The above　《crossed out: should not wear high footwear｜even when facing each other, remove shoes》
　1. Eldest sons of main non-duty ranks and above from high retainers, and those of yoriai rank and above
　　The above　Different footwear《crossed out: should not follow etiquette｜at such times should remove shoes》
　　　However, eldest sons of main non-duty ranks and second sons of yoriai rank and above need not remove shoes

　1. Kanatsu magistrate　1. Town magistrate　1. Inspector
　　The above　For different footwear, geta and wooden clogs are acceptable; for grass sandals, different footwear etiquette should not be followed
　Posted notice　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
　　Those of long hakama rank and above should change to different footwear and remove shoes　　　　
　1. Magistrate
　　The above　Should not wear different footwear of any kind
　　　　　　　　　　　　　
Besides the above《crossed out: those of long hakama rank｜》various military heads and sons of those wearing long hakama should not be greedy
　　End
　【Lower section in red ink】　1. Various unit heads of long hakama rank and above
　　　　　　　　　Following the example of foot soldier inspectors, change to different footwear and remove shoes
　　　　　　　　1. Inspectors
　　　　　　　　　Same as above　

This document was submitted from the finance office to the magistrate on the 2nd day of the 1st month of Tenpō 11, Year of the Rat, so a copy is kept. However, this document is not an official law established through deliberation with the inspectors but is considered a personal decision. Since it was shown by Yamamoto Genzaemon, it is kept on file.　　　　　　Tanabe Godayū　　　　　
【Red ink】
The red ink portion is added because a document secretly issued from Ishihara Jinjūrō of the accounting office in the 3rd month of Kōka 4, Year of the Sheep was copied and kept for reference.　Asai Yaori
　
1. On the 13th day of the 2nd month of Kyōwa 2, Year of the Dog, guidelines for various assistants were proclaimed, appearing together in the section on various groups
1. On the 16th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 13, Year of the Monkey, the total number of foot soldiers was set at 60, and those beyond this number were reduced
《Marginal note: Among those reduced, 5 were granted leave due to poor service performance》At the same time, 3 small calculation officers were also reduced
1. Record of duties of 3 foot soldier supervisors　Written by Terasawa clan
　1. One attendant serves three shifts　1. Without specific assignment, one person goes to the foot soldier guard station at their discretion to inspect and sign the duty roster
　1. When there are conflicts or illness among additional foot soldier attendants, they consult with their shift partners to fulfill duties. For attendant notifications, where there are no official notices, each person inquires individually to perform duties. Generally,
　　the supervisors do not issue notifications for guard duty or attendance
　1. When there are foot soldier missions to other domains, those assigned to attendant duty or duty roster inspection are designated. If unavailable, the foot soldier inspector is informed, and this matter is communicated to the supervisors who　
　　send someone to carry out the duty　1. One attendant goes for overnight stays and falconry outings　1. When there are various official notices for foot soldiers, they are sent to nearby locations for circulation
　1. When foot soldiers are assigned missions to other domains, they report to the accounting office to receive horse fees and miscellaneous expenses
　1. When there are foot soldier missions to other domains, messengers are sent to summon those entering the castle, with orders given personally
　1. For both spring and year-end, when foot soldiers receive their rice stipends and make payments, all three supervisors gather with their attendants
1. Record of duties in Edo　Same
　1. One attendant goes to patrol the embankments　1. They go ahead during travel to check the main lodging before His Lordship's arrival, and when assigned tasks like river or boat arrangements, they receive and convey instructions
　1. In Edo, attendants serve alternate duty shifts when not on regular assignment　1. Foot soldier shift supervisors conduct inspections and collect seals personally on the last day of each month
　　　　End
1. In the 5th month of Kyōhō 1, Year of the Monkey, Sakai Gemba's yoriki Hitomi Asaemon traveled to Edo this time as treasurer. However, on the 19th of the same month, when going to the castle at Ninomaru, he was granted an audience while passing by
　This audience was granted after being discontinued since the previous generation
1. On the 16th day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 4, Year of the Boar, head carpenter Tōma Jinzaemon was henceforth appointed as small craftwork supervisor and given rank equivalent to officials. As he had no hair, following the previous example of Abe Toyosuke,
　he was told he need not follow the formal style and could appear as is, as conveyed to senior councilor Suzuki Hikodayū
1. On the 15th day of the 10th month of Enshō 4, Year of the Rabbit, whereas previously the regulation was 60 foot soldiers, due to the young lord's entry, the number was increased to 72
1. On the 23rd day of the 5th month of Kyōhō 8, Year of the Rabbit, Kawai Hikosaku was told that one person would be recruited from Kyoto for the timekeeper foot soldiers, and furthermore, among those currently employed as timekeeper foot soldiers, if they had sons,
　succession might be granted after examination. However, foot soldiers recruited from now on would serve only for their lifetime without succession rights, and they should understand this, as conveyed by Koma Ise at the lord's quarters
1. On the 4th day of the 5th month of Kyōhō 11, Year of the Horse, the mother of Doi magistrate Yoshida Matasuke died today. Regarding official duties, subordinate Kasahara Denemon was appointed, as Denemon reported and requested