Regarding Attendants for Inspectors and Calculations - Office Records

1. On the 25th day of the 9th month of Jōkyō 3 (1686), it was communicated that in Edo, Murakami Santadayū and Nishio Denbei were instructed that each of the lateral inspector officials should be given two attendants in addition to foot soldiers. This was conveyed to Niwa Hachizaemon and Kaifuku Kansuke.

1. On the 25th day of the 10th month of the same year, regarding calculations for lateral inspectors, by His Lordship's will, one semi-head foot soldier should be dispatched for calculations only during official duties, in addition to attendants. This instruction was given to Murakami Santadayū and Nishio Denbei in Edo, and this matter was conveyed to Niwa Hachizaemon and Kaifuku Kansuke.

When the inspectors requested to be lent personnel, it was decided that three persons each would be temporarily lent. This was announced today at the audience hall by Koma Toneri to monthly duty inspector Ogawa Yoemon and others.

Since attendants were discontinued, two persons each from the group would be lent as replacements. However, since those currently serving require stipend payments, two persons would be insufficient. If there are vacancies in the group and new recruits are hired in the future, such persons should be assigned to their respective positions. Until then, three persons each.

1. On the 11th day of the 12th month of Shōtoku 1 (1711), the ten attendants assigned to five inspectors were discontinued. However, since group members would be lent as replacements, they should be brought along. This was conveyed to Inspectors Inoue Handayū, Tsutsumi Yasuemon, and Ogawa Yoemon. 14th day of the 4th month, inspectors.

1. On the 2nd day of the 2nd month of the same 2nd year, attendants for inspectors were discontinued, and two persons each from group members were lent. During the lord's residence in the domain, it was previously requested and granted that three persons each be lent. However, the inspectors requested that during the lord's absence, one person each be lent, and in Edo, two persons each. Honda Shuri conveyed that the request was granted as asked. The reason given was that lending three persons each in Edo would cause congestion in the group's Edo rotation.

1. Regarding the practice of lending one person each from the gun-bearer captains' groups, since this was deemed unnecessary, others were discontinued and only one person each would be lent to monthly duty personnel. Since the inspectors communicated this, Shuri conveyed that it should be announced accordingly.

Various Groups and Supervision

1. When any of the foot soldiers dies of illness or is dismissed, this must be reported to the inspector. Naturally, when hiring replacements, this must also be reported to the inspector.

1. On the 18th day of the 7th month of Jōkyō 4 (1687), at the residence of monthly duty official Saitō Minbu, with Inspectors Nishio Denbei and Kaifuku Kansuke present, the following was orally conveyed to various monthly duty officials. Verified with the senior councilors' official records.

Memorandum:
When dismissing any group members, consultation with lateral inspectors is required. Hiring must also be reported. Generally, when there are vacancies in groups, hiring should be done promptly, not leaving positions vacant for days. Of course, such situations should not arise, but one must not employ people privately as if they were one's own retainers. From now on, this intent must be thoroughly understood.

Additionally, this was communicated to those supervising servants, attendants, and others under their charge.

1. On the 7th day of the 10th month of Shōtoku 4 (1714), eleven foot soldiers from Edo deputy Murakami Santadayū's group were appointed as distant guard duty personnel, named "partition guards," given an increase of one koku of rice stipend each (totaling eight koku and two-person rations each), and assigned to serve under the weapon commanders stationed in Edo.

1. On the 9th day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 7 (1722), two partition guards were added, making a total of thirteen, as conveyed by monthly duty aide commander Tsuchiya Jūrōemon.

1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 2 (1717), when appearing before His Lordship, I inquired: "Some who previously served as foot soldiers but fell out of favor with their sponsors or had bad conduct have somehow lost their stipends, and these individuals are now serving as young retainers in the household, then being recruited as foot soldiers into other groups. I believe this practice is improper. Should I inform the various commanders not to recruit such individuals in the future?" His Lordship deemed this reasonable and ordered that this be communicated. On the 15th of the same month, the following was distributed in writing to all commanders.

Memorandum:
When recruiting group members in the future, those who previously served as spear-bearers or above but lost their stipends should not be recruited.