Such matters should be well understood and kept in mind as commanded. Above, October 5th.

1. On the 4th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 15 (1730), regarding the matter of meal containers (warikago) for the ashigaru foot soldiers accompanying the pilgrimage to Daian-ji temple, it was decided through consultation among the retainer groups that meals should not be provided to ashigaru and below in containers.
   At that location, regarding the transfer from the lord's meal to containers, it was communicated that containers would not be provided if they were emptied. On that occasion, the accompanying inspector Kōzuki Buzaemon went there, but investigation was difficult, so it was ordered that rice be received in the usual field manner for that day, with investigation to follow later. Upon investigation, the kitchen records showed that since Shōtoku 3 (1713), containers were not provided to ashigaru and below at Daian-ji and similar places. This differs from Edo, where in this region, container provisions to ashigaru absolutely do not exist, as reported by the kitchen inspectors. Despite investigating others, since this practice had been discontinued in recent years locally with no definitive proof, it was decided on the 27th of the same month through consultation among retainer groups that meals should not be provided to ashigaru and below in containers. This was also communicated to group leaders.

1. In the 6th month of Genbun 2 (1737), the written notice issued to the heads was as follows:
   Recently, there were improper matters among various groups, and after investigation, each was dealt with accordingly. Regarding this, those in charge of group management have been influenced by private desires, not wishing for the lord's benefit, and moreover, not caring about the difficulties of the heads, showing poor performance. While this matter has been under investigation for some time, people should be even more careful henceforth, and those among group supervisors who are unsuitable should have their stipends withdrawn and be replaced before any invitation from above. While each person may have their own judgment, if orders come from above, it will particularly trouble the heads. This point should be communicated to each group as commanded, so please understand accordingly. Above.

1. In the record of the 1st day of the 2nd month of Kyōhō 19 (1734), the groups that do not accept incoming personnel (go-nyūnin) are as follows:
   [Various administrative groups are listed with symbols indicating their status regarding accepting transferred personnel]
   The above groups either have not been assigned incoming personnel from before, or the circumstances of their exclusion are unclear, so after consultation among colleagues, since these are groups that should exclude incoming personnel, notification letters were not sent.

1. The Ninja Group
   This relates to an order from the 29th day of the 4th month of Bunka 10 (1813) stating that those who received dismissal for misconduct among various groups and were not reappointed would receive two-thirds of the standard stipend money (later reduced to half).

1. On the 27th day of the 6th month of Kan'en 3 (1750), the following was communicated by letter to the castle deputy and others:
   Regarding incoming personnel for various clerks, this should be communicated from the magistrates. Currently there are unemployed people, so when there are openings in various groups, they will be assigned as incoming personnel. Although until now some groups have not received incoming personnel assignments, given that this is a time of particular frugality, such assignments will be made. Please understand this, and when there are openings, please inform our monthly duty officer. Above.

1. On the last day of the 11th month of Hōreki 6 (1756), the matter of unemployed people as incoming personnel was again announced.

1. In Kanpō 2 (1742), when the winter cod supervisor fell ill at Arai in Enshū Province, money was subsequently provided to that lodging, as recorded.