One: In the 10th month of Meiwa 1 (1764), Year of the Monkey, it was reported from Edo that the gate guards (sugi-gata) who had recently been assigned to duty outside the castle gates were finding it difficult to directly handle the guidance of guests at the main entrance and other areas. Originally, guest guidance was supposed to be handled by the gun-bearing guards (mochitsutsugumi) on duty, but due to recent cost-cutting measures, the number of gate guards had been gradually reduced from eight to four, causing this situation. It was agreed that starting next spring, five gate guards would be appointed. Given these circumstances, the gate guards would no longer handle guest guidance, and gun-bearing guards would handle guidance as before.

One: On the 15th day of the 11th month of Enpō 1 (1744), Year of the Rat, at Edo, there was a request for Lord Koide Shinano-no-kami to employ a man named Takasu Bunemon. This person claimed to be the second son of one Iwabuchi Shichirō from the domain, but the details were unclear, so the matter was communicated from the inspector (metsuke) to the group supervisors.

One: On the 9th day of the 9th month of Kanpō 2 (1742), Year of the Dog, one person was assigned to join the town magistrate group and two people to the district magistrate group. The matter of full members was to be postponed.
However, on the 11th of the same month, Yoshimura Shichirōemon, who had been assigned to District Magistrate Hirao Shingobeē's group, was in financial difficulty due to heavy debts. Shingobeē submitted a petition requesting a loan of 300 monme, but when this proved insufficient, a request was made for exemption from group membership on the 15th of the same month. On the 19th, after further investigation, Shichirōemon petitioned again on the 21st and was reassigned to group membership. Detailed records exist.

One: On the 24th day of the 8th month of Tenmei 4 (1784), Year of the Dragon, Handa Kashichi of the bird hunting group died of illness. Kashichi's adoptive father had served as a bird hunting apprentice since Meiwa 5 (1768), Year of the Rat, serving for seventeen years until this year. When the adoptive father died of illness on the 1st day of the 7th month, Kashichi became a full member on the 12th of the same month and served in that capacity. When Kashichi also died of illness, head Kuze Sanzaemon reported that considering the combined service of apprentice and full member totaling seventeen years, he would take on the successor as his personal retainer based on this service record.

One: On the 12th day of the 2nd month of Kyōwa 4 (1804), Year of the Rat, Fujita Wasaku of the bird hunting group, who had served as a bird hunting apprentice for seventeen years and then succeeded his father Waemon as a full member for ten years (total service of twenty years), requested leave due to foot pain preventing him from continuing in the bird hunting group. Although he had not reached the prescribed years of service, the bird hunting group was different from other groups in that apprenticeships were also officially appointed. There had been similar cases in previous years, and precedents existed for granting leave to those who had completed their years of service and then taking them on as personal retainers. Head Takahata Yogosaemon submitted documentation of precedents, and after consultation among colleagues and discussion with Duty Officer Ōtani Tange, it was decided to follow precedent, and Wasaku was taken on as a personal retainer.

One: On the 16th day of the 10th month of Tempō 2 (1831), Year of the Rabbit, Falcon Master Kishi Gorōzaemon submitted a petition stating that his subordinate falcon feeder Sekiguchi Iwanji had absconded, as previously reported. Since there were others serving in the same role, this would interfere with falcon hunting and feeding duties. He requested permission to quickly employ a replacement and to make the falcon feeders his personal retainers as petitioned separately, as interference with official duties would occur if appointments were made from outside. Since there had been precedent when falcon feeder Uchida Hansuke absconded and discretionary employment was permitted, he requested consideration of this matter. When this was communicated to the senior councillors, permission was granted for discretionary personal employment through Ogino Sakon. Monthly duty officer: Nishio Goemon.

One: On the 15th day of the 12th month of Kansei 1 (1789), Year of the Rooster, a memorandum was circulated to group leaders as follows:
When supervisory heads have vacancies in their groups and employ new members, the heads should have proper understanding, but they must thoroughly investigate what previous role the person served, whether they committed any misconduct during their previous service, and whether there are any impediments before employing them, as ordered. However, even if there was misconduct, if more than ten years have passed depending on the nature of the offense, employment would not be problematic, as ordered.

One: On the 22nd day of the 7th month of Bunka 2 (1805), Year of the Ox, instructions were given from Duty Officer Ōtani Tange at Edo. Regarding group supervisors, as some appeared negligent in group management, after deliberation, the contents of the directive issued to heads in the 6th month of Genbun 2 (1737), Year of the Snake, were reiterated. Furthermore, in the domain on the 20th day of the intercalary 8th month, group supervisors were summoned to the residence of Murata Jūtayū and informed of this directive, recorded as follows:
Memorandum
One: Although investigation has long been ordered regarding those whose performance as group supervisors is inadequate, people should pay attention and remove inadequate members from group supervision by releasing them from stipends and replacing them before official orders come from above. While individual judgment may vary, if orders come from above, it would cause particular trouble for the heads, as was stated in previous years.