As stated in the attached document. However, in recent years, among those of lower stipend status, regarding matters of inheritance succession to adoptive parents, stepmothers, or wives after husbands' deaths, family members have become willful in their demands. When they dislike prospective adopted sons or sons-in-law, they create various difficulties and demand replacements, or conduct private arrangements. While there may be no improper conduct toward superiors or anything displeasing to the group leaders, when family members make arbitrary demands, it is unacceptable for group officials to misunderstand and accommodate such requests for replacements or engage in troublesome private arrangements. Therefore, in the future, everyone must carefully investigate such matters, and those found inappropriate shall immediately receive strict punishment. This should be communicated to all the group leaders.

Intercalary 8th month, 20th day

Attached document
The directive issued in the 6th month of Genbun 2 (year of the Snake) has been previously recorded and is therefore omitted. 800 ri

1. On the 26th day of the 7th month, Hōei 4 (year of the Boar), regarding whether there was a previous directive that placement of various craftsmen other than carpenters among the advance ashigaru was unnecessary - upon investigation, no such item was found in previous records. Moreover, in the ceremonial procedure manual for construction magistrates (distributed with joint seals of senior councilors in the 2nd month of Meireki 4 and 3rd month of Enpō 8), it states that various craftsmen among the ashigaru should receive salary increases according to their skills. This suggests that various craftsmen have existed since ancient times. Furthermore, there are few such people in the current town, and without such people among the ashigaru, official duties would be hindered. After everyone's investigation, it was concluded that no new directive needed to be issued.

1. In the 6th month of Kyōwa 1 (year of the Cock), estate magistrate Miyakita Chōzaemon reported that for the land survey of Buddhist monk Nakano Seizō's surrendered and estate lands, he would dispatch men from his group, requesting that their regular duties be suspended. He instructed the group leader to inform the rotating monthly official.

1. On the 4th day of the 6th month, Kyōwa 1 (year of the Cock), the construction magistrate reported that as the drying season was beginning and there was a shortage of workers for moat dredging and other tasks, they wished to assign ashigaru as temporary help for the encampment as was customary. After consulting with the senior councilors, this was communicated to the chief ashigaru commander on monthly duty and encampment guard Shimoyama Seizaemon, and the construction magistrate was informed that the drying work should be handled by selecting from among these personnel.

1. In the 3rd month of Bunka 4 (year of the Rabbit), waterworks magistrate Takezawa Gorōemon reported that men from the waterworks crossing group had urgent official duties and would be sent to rural areas. He requested that this not interfere with regular duties. In response, it was agreed that if there were conflicts, they would be reported to the magistrate, who would then communicate with this office.

1. On the 28th day of the 2nd month, Kyōwa 1 (year of the Cock), Hiraoka Kinzaemon reported that for wild goose and duck duties, bird hunters would be deployed for field patrols starting the next day (1st day). He requested suspension of regular duties, which was communicated to the rotating monthly official through the group leader.

1. In the 1st month of Bunka 11 (year of the Dog), when Okamoto Nakaji from Nakane Shinzaemon's supplementary group absconded but was privately brought back, the matter of granting him leave at the group leader's discretion appears in the section on group member punishments.

1. On the 16th day of the 8th month, Kanpō 2 (year of the Dog), when advance group commander Ōsaki Shichidayū was appointed as temple inspection officer and given charge of one advance group, he requested one clerk, which was granted. However, since there was no one in Shichidayū's group, one person was transferred from advance group commander Azuma Shingorōemon's group. This matter appears in the castle town section under temple regulations.

1. On the 20th day of the 7th month, Bunka 12 (year of the Boar), at the council chamber, magistrate Kajikawa Hanbei and inspector Hasebe Koemon were given the attached instructions and told to consult and handle matters accordingly by the senior councilors. That same day, all group leaders were summoned to Koemon's residence for instructions.

To Sanada Gohei's group: From Kajikawa Hanbei's group - Sawasaki Enshirō
To Takamura Tōbei's group: From Murata Jūtadayū's group - Sakano Yahei
These two men are transferred to the advance musket group according to this directive.
To Kajikawa Hanbei's group: From Sanada Gorōbei's group - Ōhashi Okuzaemon  
To Murata Jūtadayū's group: From Takamura Tōbei's group - Mikageike Chūbei