These two men have shown dedication in their duties and maintained upright conduct, therefore they have been ordered to transfer to the magistrate groups. However, regarding group housing matters, immediate transfers were also ordered.

1. Regarding the number of personnel stationed in various groups during residence in Edo, as well as the number of attendants calculated for travel, the number for guard duty during absence, advance welcoming parties, night watches, etc., the inspector shall notify each group accordingly. However, this does not apply to long-spear bearers under the inspector's jurisdiction.

1. Bunsei 6, year of the Sheep, 11th month: Due to the young lord's audience and castle visit, six additional guards departed in the 10th month. From the stay-behind guard, additional personnel were assigned with 28 men stationed at a time. Previously, 22 stay-behind guards had been sufficient.

1. For attendant duty as well, six more than previous numbers - from 56 men it shall become 62 men.

1. Kyōwa 1, year of the Cock, 10th month, 26th day: Cryptomeria magistrate Amemori Tōshirō reported that he had been assigned to Edo duty for the coming year of the Dog. When Ogawa Jibei was previously assigned to Edo duty in the year of the Dragon, he took nine men from the cryptomeria group, but for this assignment, taking five men would cause no problems. Regarding this, even reducing five men from the advance musket group's regular complement should cause no difficulties. This matter was also discussed with colleagues in Edo. However, in the 11th month, instead of the planned 61 men for the advance group, instructions were given to the advance monthly commander to reduce by three men.
1. The matter of Ogawa Jibei taking his group members is recorded in the year of the Rabbit official records.

Regarding the Deputy Territory Inspector Assistant Affairs

1. Bunsei 6, year of the Sheep, 2nd month, 8th day: Due to Hasebe Koemon's internal request, he was relieved of temple inspector duties. His successor as concurrent temple inspector, Suzuki Jūzaemon, was appointed. The next day, the 9th, Koemon was appointed deputy territory inspector for political affairs as before, in the lord's presence. According to this arrangement, Koemon should have been given deputy territory inspector group assistants as before, but currently, since the deputy territory inspector position had been concurrently held by regular inspectors and vacant for a long time, there was no traditional deputy territory inspector group. Therefore, after consultation among the inspectors, it was decided that whenever group members were needed for any matter in the future, any number could be provided from the inspector groups, and assistant matters would be handled as follows.

1. During Koemon's previous service as temple inspector, the temple group leaders frequently lamented that before Yoshida Mozaemon was appointed temple inspector, there were 17 men in the temple group plus two assistants who received separate stipends and rice allowances. However, from the time Mozaemon assumed the position, those two assistants were eliminated and two men from within the 17 were assigned as assistants. Due to the resulting hardship for the entire group, they repeatedly requested the restoration of the two additional assistants as before, but this was neglected for several years. When Mozaemon was ordered to retire and Eguchi Genzaemon was appointed temple inspector, they again repeatedly lamented the same situation. While being told that deliberations would be made, days passed with delays. Soon Genzaemon was transferred, and in the 10th month of Bunka 14, year of the Ox, Hasebe Koemon was appointed temple inspector with concurrent duties. At that time, no assistants were taken from the temple group, and he served with assistants from his own group. Later, in the 6th month of Bunsei 5, year of the Horse, Koemon was appointed temple inspector for political affairs as before. When he was reassigned solely as temple inspector, assistants were again taken from the temple group, two at a time. At this point, the temple group leader earnestly petitioned to have two assistants appointed as in former times. Upon further careful investigation...