1. In the intercalary 6th month of Bunka 5 (1808), regarding the handling of Castellan Sugita Gonnosuke's group, there was correspondence and consultation with the senior councillors.

　　　　Memorandum
　　　　　　Handling of group members
　　1. For group members who have completed their required years of service and request replacement, and for handling of those who die of illness, report to the inspector as before
　　1. For those with insufficient years of service who request replacement, and for reporting deaths from illness to the inspector, treat the same as those who have completed their required service years
　　　【Attached note: Matters should be handled after consultation with the inspector - this is an attached note from the senior councillors】
　　　However, regarding whether to install a successor or have the group colleagues handle it, if there are appropriate reasons, consult internally with the inspector before handling
　　1. When group members commit misconduct and confinement is ordered, report to the inspector as before
　　1. If there are those whose stipends should be revoked, consult internally with the inspector for handling. Matters of successors should also be handled after internal consultation
　　1. If there are those I judge should be replaced, after ordering the replacement, consult with the inspector
　　　However, subsequent matters depend on years of service, same as for those who die of illness
　　　　　Handling of Nakajima gunpowder storehouse guards and various gatekeepers
　　1. If there are those who are ill and find it difficult to serve and request leave, after examination grant leave as requested, then consult with the inspector
　　1. When ordering confinement for someone, report to the inspector as before
　　1. If there are those serious enough to have their stipends revoked, consult internally with the inspector for handling
　　　　Intercalary 6th month　　　　　Sugita Gonnosuke

　　The above document's contents were communicated by Gonnosuke to monthly duty officer Murata Jūtayū, who discussed with colleagues and consulted the senior councillors, then informed Gonnosuke　《Note: Besides the above, there are two additional attached documents, kept by clerks and placed in paper bags containing various documents in the official chest》

1. When the castellan's group is short-staffed, they are to be assisted by the advance musket group. At this time, it is arranged to send word from the inspectors to the advance monthly duty officer.

1. On the 8th day of the 8th month of Bunpō 3 (1820), regarding the employment of successors for members of the castellan's group who had not completed the prescribed years of service, various difficult matters arose, so consultation was made with the senior councillors using the attached document from Bunka 5. Following the red-ink annotations provided, arrangements were made accordingly, but as there were discrepancies with practices in other departments, this time further consultation was made with the senior councillors through the yoriki. It was decided that henceforth practices should follow the ancient precedents common to all departments, so this matter was settled yesterday the 7th through consultation with Honda Shuri at the main castle.

1. On the 8th day of the 8th month of Bunpō 3, regarding various differences between the castellan's group and other groups, after consulting the senior councillors, it was decided to handle matters the same as other groups, so this was noted for future reference and recorded in detail in the records.

1. On the 22nd day of the 8th month of Bunka 5, for target practice on the 23rd, the castellan's group was short four rotating guards, so following precedents from the 8th month of Kansei 12 (1800) and 8th month of Bunka 3 (1806), orders were given to deploy four men from the advance musket group. For this occasion as well, the matter of assistance was communicated to the advance commander, with instructions that duty arrangements should be confirmed with Sugita Gonnosuke's office.【Red note】According to the plan, on the same day there was an inspection at the main castle with additional guards assigned. For target practice only, assistance comes from the castle guard group, so our handling is unnecessary.

1. On the 25th day of the 9th month of Bunka 1 (1804), a man named Ohara Daisuke from Takada Magozaemon's group requested to visit Daishōji temple for two nights starting the 26th due to unavoidable business, as the abbot Jikōin was Daisuke's relative. Permission was granted as requested. Daisuke similarly requested permission for travel.

1. In the 4th month of Kyōwa 2 (1802), when the personal guard unit departed for Edo, the accounting office issued the following advance notice:
　　　　　Memorandum
　　1. Pack horses: 5 horses　　　In Bunka 9 (1812) these were recorded as foot soldiers
　　The above concerns retainers of Lord Matsudaira departing from their domain on the 16th of this month, traveling the Tōkaidō route to Edo. We request that post stations provide horses without delay. 4th month, 14th day of the year of the Dog. To post station managers from Ōmi Nakakōchi to Musashi Shinagawa.

1. On the 26th day of the 5th month of the same year, a man named Oka Eizaemon from Murata Jūtayū's group committed misconduct, had his stipend revoked, and was banned from serving in the domain. Subsequently, a written petition was submitted as follows, and permission was granted for employment at his discretion.