1. In the 3rd month of Bunka 8 (1811), the following written petition was submitted and communicated to the senior councilors, who replied it was at their discretion, and this was communicated to Rokurōbei:
　　Fujita Chōzō from Kawachi Chūzaemon's group, whom I temporarily oversee, was appointed as an official appointee last winter and employed. However, he has long been in poor health and cannot perform martial duties, so after repeated investigation, there is no doubt about his poor health. Since I employed him based on my own judgment, this should be handled according to previous precedent, but this Chōzō was appointed as an official to an important position in the construction department based on his adoptive father Jūzaemon's years of meritorious service. If I handle this arbitrarily, the compassionate arrangements may not work out properly. Moreover, he has no relatives, so I also find this pitiful. Therefore, after thorough deliberation on this matter, if you could treat this the same as succession cases for group members who have completed their required years of service, I would like to employ someone from Chōzō's household who was raised by his adoptive father Jūzaemon. Please handle this matter appropriately. Note: There is also a written petition from Chōzō
　　　　　3rd month　　　To Eguchi Genzaemon　　　　Hiraoka Rokurōbei

1. In the intercalary 11th month of Bunka 10 (1813), Construction Magistrate Ogi Tōemon submitted the following written petition and consulted with the senior councilors, who instructed that it be handled as requested:
　　Itō Jizaemon from my group currently serves in an acting position. His son Watarō, who serves as a deputy for a ten-hyō stipend group member, conducted himself poorly and acted thoughtlessly, so in Bunka 7 (1810) I reported this and his stipend was revoked. At that time, his father Jizaemon petitioned and reported, sending him to Matsya Kihei on Gojō Street in Kyoto for moral instruction. Now his attitude has been corrected and I wish to recall him for care, so I petition that this be approved as requested. Please deliberate on these matters appropriately.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ogi Tōemon

1. On the 24th day of the 6th month of Kyōwa 3 (1803), a member of Advanced Guard Commander Hiraoka Kinzaemon's group was appointed to supervise tribute offerings and went to Edo, but there was no precedent for going alone, and furthermore it would be extremely difficult for one person to go with light baggage, so a written petition was submitted to the inspector requesting two people be appointed as before. After deliberation, this was communicated to the magistrate, who said the matter should be thoroughly investigated there, so this was conveyed to Kinzaemon.

1. On the 15th day of the 4th month of Bunka 7 (1810), the entire Garrison Matchlock and Advanced Matchlock groups requested to travel via the Nakasendō route, so previous examples were investigated. Since there was a case in the previous Year of the Tiger when the entire Matchlock group and Advanced group traveled via Nakasendō, this was approved.

1. On the 18th day of the 12th month of Kansei 1 (1789), Matsuo Naoshirō from Inspector Sano Mondo's group committed suicide previously. Since there are laws regarding such cases, petitions cannot be made through official channels, but since his adoptive mother and children were facing starvation, the matter was communicated to the senior councilors through his colleagues' private petition, and private employment was approved.

1. On the 25th day of the 6th month of Tenpō 14 (1843), Yoshikawa Sukehachi from the Sailors' group, who was banished from Edo last year, was approved for private employment after paying the required stock fee.

1. Kansei 9 (1797), 10th month
　Recently, when employing successors among various group members, the debt statements show excessively high silver debts. Of course, there should be some proportion considering household silver and such, so in the future, matters should be handled with thorough investigation, and this should be communicated to all commanders. Finance Office