1. Bunka 2, Year of the Ox, 6th month, 16th day: At the Council Chamber, one written directive for guidance was received from Sakai Nuinosuke's office as follows, and we were instructed to convey this to Takada Magozaemon, which we did. The aforementioned Kinzaemon belongs to the Esashi-machi archery unit.

Takada Magozaemon's group member Yamazaki Kinemon's wife gave birth to triplets in the previous Year of the Rat, so it was decreed that 3 bales of rice should be granted annually for 3 years. However, since two of the three children subsequently died, the decreed rice bales should not be granted, but since previous precedents are unclear, out of compassion, 5 bales will be granted for this year only. Next year nothing will be granted, so handle this appropriately. Furthermore, should there be future cases of triplet births, 7 bales will be granted for that year only. This will be decreed at each such occasion, so keep this in mind.
Note: The portion from "furthermore" to the end was not conveyed to Magozaemon.

1. 11th month, 11th day of the same year:
As adoptive father Kichizaemon reached extreme old age, both showed filial devotion, so this was granted as a reward. Takeda Heita's group: Masuda Kichiemon and his wife.

1. Bunka 4, Year of the Rabbit, 6th month, 9th day: Regarding the search for Jinpachi and Ichiemon who recently fled using forged passes, the individuals listed separately took exceptional care to capture them, so after inquiring whether to grant as listed separately, this was distributed respectively as confidential official business.

Record:
1. 20 monme of silver each - Murata Jūdayū's group: Washimatsu Ikuemon
                         Tsuchiya Jūrōemon's group: Hirata Chūzaemon
Besides the above, silver totaling 286 monme 5 bu was granted respectively to Fuchū foot soldiers and others, townspeople, and guards.

1. Items granted to Fuchū residents were distributed by summoning them to the residence of caretaker Tōzaemon.

1. Kōka 1, Year of the Dragon, 1st month, 20th day: Ozaki Mozaemon, sub-official of Ōta Saburōbei's group, having served diligently for years, was granted 50 ryō in gold through payment of half the proceeds from the sale of the vacant position of Fujii Tōzaemon from the same group. Having served as sub-official for 15 years, this was handled at the monthly duty residence after consultation with fellow officials and inquiry to the senior retainers.

1. Tenpō 14, Year of the Rabbit, 2nd month, 12th day: Regarding Hagiwara Matazō, former group clerk under Magistrate Amemori Giemon, who committed misconduct in his 16th year as clerk and was ordered replaced - after petitions from fellow clerks and deliberation among colleagues reported to the senior retainers, 500 monme of silver was granted.

1. Tenmei 8, Year of the Monkey, 12th month, 28th day: Group sub-officials were granted payment equivalent to 1.5 arako stock shares as a reward for diligent service in official duties.

1. Kansei 8, Year of the Dragon, 3rd month, 16th day: Group sub-officials were granted one vacant arako share for diligent service.

1. Kan'en 1, Year of the Dragon, 11th month, 28th day: The rifle-bearing foot soldiers and their subordinates who went on Korean embassy duties that summer suffered many losses and faced hardships. Though we repeatedly submitted appeals, we were told there were no precedents and given the current circumstances, it was difficult to provide relief. However, this time through special consideration, small amounts of silver were granted as rewards.

Those who served on Korean embassy duties:
13 monme of silver each (5 rifle unit members, 3 attendant unit members), 10 monme each to 26 advance rifle unit members
5 monme of silver each (37 long-spear bearers, 12 retainer attendants)
3 monme each to 174 arako

1. Tenpō 4, Year of the Snake, 12th month: When personnel were dispatched for wedding arrangements within the retainer households, the following was received and distributed:

Record of silver received and distributed:
Total silver currency
Rice: [amount] shō
Personnel: [number] people, at 2 gō 5 shaku per person

The above concerns personnel from the patrol groups dispatched within the retainer households in the 12th month of the Year of the Snake for covert operations under our discretion. After reporting this matter to the senior retainers, we received and distributed the above as granted.
Yokota Sakudayū (seal)
Tenpō 4, Year of the Snake, 12th month