Various Groups' Temporary Custody

1. On November 22nd of Hōreki 2, Year of the Monkey (1752), when Suzuki Jingodayū, Head of Bird Watching, was ordered to retire, the members of his group were placed under the temporary custody of Wanibuchi Saburōbee, Deputy Military Commander for Castle Defense. It was ordered that matters regarding the duties of group members should be reported to the Head Falconer, and this was to be communicated to both Saburōbee and Head Falconer Kishi Mozaemon. There is a record of this communication.

1. In November of Meiwa 1, Year of the Monkey (1764), when Head of Bird Watching Nishimura Kurōemon died of illness, the temporary custody of the bird watching group was assigned to Yoshida Kiemon, Deputy Military Commander for Castle Defense, and matters related to falconry duties were assigned to Head Falconer Kishi Gorōzaemon.

1. When a military commander dies of illness, etc., the order of temporary custody of that group's members among colleagues should be announced. At that time, the matter of temporary custody should be immediately communicated to the person next in order, and later consultation should be made with the Senior Retainers.

1. When military commanders die or are dismissed from their posts, temporary supervision of their group members is assigned to one of their colleagues through communication from the Inspector (metsuke).

1. On February 22nd of Kyōwa 1, Year of the Rooster (1801), when Imamura Denbee was appointed to the position of Inspector, regarding the group members who had been under temporary custody on a monthly rotation basis, when inquiry was made to the Senior Retainers, they were told to transfer them, so this matter was communicated to Denbee.

1. On March 27th of Shōtoku 2, Year of the Dragon (1712), when Head Boatswain Ariga Seiemon died and his colleague Horiguchi Genzaemon was on duty in Edo, both groups were placed under the temporary supervision of Ōmiya Hikoemon, Cedar Grove Magistrate. On April 25th, when Higuchi Kozaemon was appointed to succeed Seiemon, Hikoemon's temporary custody was terminated.

1. On March 5th of the same 4th year, Year of the Horse (1714), when Ihara Genbee departed for Edo attendance, Takada Kindayū was assigned temporary supervision of the ninja.

1. On July 25th of Kyōhō 12, Year of the Sheep (1727), Ashida Uemon reported that Kawai Takiemon had died of illness, so his group was placed under the temporary supervision of Matsuo Gen-gozaemon, and this matter should be communicated as follows by letter:
"Since Kawai Takiemon's group has been placed under your temporary supervision, Ashida Uemon has instructed that this matter should be communicated from my office. This is to inform you of the above. Respectfully. July 25th. To Matsuo Gen-gozaemon. Kōzuki Buzaemon"