Various Groups' Personnel Selections

1. Itatoriguchi: 3 people - 1 from the Magistrate Group, 1 from the Deputy Group, 2 from the Musket Group, each receiving 6 koku stipend
1. Futatsuyaguchi: 3 people - {{crossed out: Kagawa Tokuzaemon hereditary | 1 from Magistrate Group}} 2 from Musket Group, each receiving 6 koku stipend [Red ink notation] Around Hōreki era, Shōda Zenbei was selected from the Castle Deputy's main group
　[Red ink] Kagawa Tokuzaemon's hereditary position was terminated in Hōreki 12 (1762) due to merit, and afterwards selections were made from the Magistrate Group
　　However, Kagawa Tokuzaemon had no hereditary connection; his father's successor Suzuki Chūemon was from a group member in regular rotation when Tokuzaemon was appointed
1. Futatsuyamawari Tsuruga Hidaura border mountain patrol: Yoshiba Hachizaemon hereditary, residing at Kinome
1. Kinome Pass tea house guard: Maekawa Hikosuke hereditary
　　When replacements occur, handled by inspectors. Detailed records exist for Kyōhō 13 (1728), 10th month 29th day and 11th month 3rd day
1. Ōkiri mountain interior: 2 people from Musket Group, each receiving 6 koku
1. Ōtani Bay: 1 person, selected from associates, receiving fixed rice allowance
1. Ikedaira Bay: 1 person, selected from associates, receiving fixed rice allowance
　　　　　　Record from Kyōhō 16 (1731) 7th month 16th day: Ikedaira had previously selected experienced personnel from palanquin bearers, servants, and equipment handlers, so each administrative division should conduct examinations and report accordingly, as instructed by the Engineering Department
1. Kōno Bay: 2 people from Magistrate Group and Musket Group, each receiving 6 koku
　　　　　　Record from Kyōhō 17 (1732) 1st month 13th day: Kōno Bay had previously selected experienced personnel from the Castle Deputy Group and Magistrate Group
1. Yonegaura lookout post: 1 person from the Naval Group, 6 koku for 2 people
1. Mikuni River mouth: 2 people from Magistrate Group and Musket Group, each receiving 6 koku
　　　　　　[Red ink] Record from Tenpō 13 (1842) 6th month 28th day: River mouth guard Ozawa Heidayū was dismissed due to unsatisfactory service performance, but on Tenpō 15 (1844) 7th month 28th day was reassigned to the Keya boat guard position
1. Yonegawaki Bay lookout post: 1 person from Naval Group, 6 koku for 2 people
1. Hamasaka Bay lookout post: 1 person from Naval Group, 6 koku for 2 people
1. Yoshizaki Bay: 1 person from Musket Group, 6 koku for 2 people

[Lower section in red ink]
　Palace gate guards, gunpowder warehouse guards, Ichinono checkpoint guards, Ō■ checkpoint guards, Ikenohira checkpoint guards
　The above are equipment handlers and minor officials who have served for over 20 years. Unlike other groups, they do not accompany the daimyo to Edo and none remain in the domain, so examinations have been conducted since earlier times, with the senior attendants nominating those unable to serve as accompanists. Sandal bearers have been assigned to the Musket Group and Vanguard Group since previous generations. Equipment handlers and minor officials were also assigned to the Vanguard Group in the previous generation, according to preliminary investigation documents from Kyōhō 8 (1723) 5th month.