One person at Gonse Ichinonomura from the Arquebusiers Corps, stipend of six koku for two persons
　The above is under the jurisdiction of the Castle Deputy (Jōdai)
　However, these fourteen locations were previously served by a mix of personnel from the Reserve Corps ashigaru, naval corps members, and some unaffiliated personnel. Now all have been assigned to unaffiliated status, and while the original unaffiliated personnel were under magistrate jurisdiction, henceforth they will be under Castle Deputy jurisdiction, as communicated to Magistrate Ōtani Gizaemon.

One, Four gunpowder storehouse guards with stipends from the Yoriai extract, reduced by one person to three. One person among them receives seven koku for two and is extracted from the Arquebusiers Corps platoon leader position.
　The above under Castle Deputy jurisdiction. On the 14th day of the 8th month of Genbun 4 (1739), Sasakawa Yaichirōemon of the timber handlers was promoted to the gunpowder storehouse with a stipend.
　However, when there are vacancies among the guards, this should be reported to the inspectors, and those with long service among the ashigaru should be appointed. Among these, the guards of the three bays of Yonegawaki, Yone-ura, and Hamasaka serve as ship lookouts, so those with long service from the naval corps should be appointed.

One, Two at Yamatakeda: one from Kanazu Corps, one from Arquebusiers Corps, fifteen bags of rice each
　　　　From the 2nd month of Hōreki 3 (1753), when there are no volunteers from Kanazu Corps, those with merit or long service shall be examined here and appointed accordingly. Recent precedents are noted later.
One, Two at Hosoroki
　The above under Kanazu Magistrate jurisdiction

One, Two guards at Mikuni lodging bay ship storehouse from Naval Corps. Eight hundred ri. Upon examination, old records indicate stipend rice, but currently six koku for two persons each.
　The above under Naval Commander jurisdiction
　The above was established on the 13th day of the 7th month of Jōkyō 4 (1687), and communicated to Castle Deputy Ariga Uemon, Inspector Kaifuku Kansuke, and Naval Commander Iinuma Kanbei at the residence of Monthly Duty Officer Saitō Minbu.

　However, for Kanazu District Deputy Ōmiya Hikoemon, this does not apply as it follows previous arrangements.

One, Five treasury guards at seven koku for two persons each
　The above under Inspector jurisdiction, details in the Inspector jurisdiction section.

One, One person at Mikuni lodging bay new guard post, temporarily extracted from Inspector Corps platoon leader, eight bags of rice and sixty monme of silver
　The above under Inspector jurisdiction. Also noted in the Inspector jurisdiction section.

One, One person at Mikuni timber storehouse from Magistrate Corps, seven koku for two persons
One, One person at same location rice storehouse from Magistrate Corps, six koku for two persons
　The above under Magistrate jurisdiction

One, Two ferry boat guards at Keya: one from Castle Deputy Corps, one from Naval Corps, seven koku for two persons each
　The above under Naval Commander jurisdiction
　　　Established from when Keya ferry boats came under Naval Commander jurisdiction in Hōreki 5 (1755), with naval personnel being promoted and dispatched from Meiwa 3 (1766).
[Vermillion notation] ○Current procedures are noted at the ○ mark two pages later

One, When there are positions for promotion in the Arquebusiers Corps, the Castle Deputy communicates this, reports to the duty Elder Council, examines the promotion order, submits name lists and service records for imperial approval. When the documents are reviewed and approval given, this is communicated to the Elder Council for finalization. The corps platoon leader brings the person to the monthly duty inspector's residence as instructed by letter to the commander. The appointment is announced at the monthly duty residence, with the usual confidentiality and provisional arrangement mentioned. A platoon leader is assigned from here, and the person is formally transferred to the Castle Deputy with ceremonial armor removal.
　However, when the lord is in Edo, approval must be sought from Edo. During regular Edo residence periods, matters are handled in the domain.