One, When the Castle Deputy reports the death or illness of lookout guards at Yone-ga-ura and other locations, this matter shall be communicated to the Elder Council, and examinations shall be conducted for promotions from the Naval Corps, with written reports submitted to the Naval Commander. When promotion order documents with years of service are submitted, they shall be communicated to the Elder Council and brought before the lord for approval. When ordered to handle accordingly, this shall be communicated to the Elder Council for decision, a platoon leader shall be assigned to accompany the appointee to the Naval Commander, and the appointment announced at the monthly duty inspector's residence. The usual provisional arrangements shall be mentioned, and the person transferred to the Castle Deputy with an assigned platoon leader.

One, Regarding the boat guards at Mikuni lodging bay (six koku stipend for two persons), when the Naval Commander makes a report, this shall be communicated to the Elder Council and brought before the lord. When it is decided that promotions shall be made in order, this is communicated to the Elder Council and conveyed to the Naval Commander, who shall summon the appointee with a platoon leader to the monthly duty residence for the announcement. This shall then be conveyed to the Naval Commander.
　　One, On the 29th day of the 7th month of Genbun 1 (1736), regarding vacancies in the lodging bay boat guard positions (one provisional appointment at three koku, seven to, five sho, two go, with stipends for two persons each), it was decided that the Naval Commander should make appointments, so the inspectors made inquiry and announced appointments, communicating this to the Naval Commander. While there was a previous record from the 10th month of Kyōhō 3 (1718) with the Naval Commander making appointments, due to errors, it is recorded that henceforth appointments shall be made by the inspectors.

One, On the 29th day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 13 (1728), regarding the employment of Maekawa Hikosuke's nephew as guard at Kinome Tea House, based on his petition and hereditary qualifications.
　　　　　　　Various items dating from Hideyoshi and the Middle Counselor
　　　　　　　Detailed genealogical records exist, with seven generations of service to date

One, In Kyōhō 17 (1732), Ishiuchi Matsuemon of the advanced arquebusiers was appointed as additional gunpowder storehouse guard due to his Yuki lineage, with the provision that one person would be reduced when vacancies occur.

One, In Kyōhō 21 (1736), the daughter of Koyanagi Ichidayū, guard at Itatori checkpoint, lost her travel permit due to carelessness and had her stipend revoked (detailed in the confidential travel permit section).
　Genealogical records also exist

One, In the 3rd month of Enpō 4 (1675), Maekawa Hikosuke's successor at Kinome Tea House, his brother Kyūemon, was granted replacement as requested. [Vermillion notation] Regarding this replacement, upon notification from Matsudaira Hyōbu's office, Kyūemon was brought by Sasaji Tamon's platoon leader, the matter was communicated and announced at the monthly duty residence, then transferred to Tamon's jurisdiction.

One, When those in promotion order from various corps are residing in Edo and a position becomes available, substitutes are sent and the original appointees recalled.
　One, In Kyōhō 18 (1733), a person in promotion order from Inspector Katayama Yagoemon's corps was recalled from Edo. Details in the various corps section.
　One, In Kanpō 3 (1743), Uchida Ichidayū from Personal Attendant Commander Hasebe Koemon's corps, same as above. Details in the various corps section.

One, Decisions made at the Council of State in the 7th month of Kanbun 9 (1669) are as follows:
　　When there are vacancies among treasury guards and other confidential checkpoint guards, veterans from the arquebusier ashigaru shall be appointed, as established by precedent. Among these: one from three Itatori checkpoint guards, one from three Kinome checkpoint guards, one Mikuni guard, one Kawano guard - these are under magistrate jurisdiction and shall be appointed when vacancies occur.

One, In the 7th month of Kyōhō 6 (1721), it was ordered that even those in promotion order for the three locations of Itatori, Futsuya, and Hosoroki should be examined and those with merit reassigned accordingly. Details in the checkpoint section.

One, In Meiwa 3 (1766), regarding petitions for clerical promotion positions, promotions were made to deputy positions in the Palace Quarters.
One, On the 26th day of the 11th month of Tenmei 2 (1782), one person from the inspector corps at the administered territory was appointed to Palace Quarters clerical position.

One, On the 29th day of the 6th month of Bunsei 13 (1830), treasury guard Matsuura Moshirō died of illness. His replacement, Yamashina Yaemon from the Mikuni new guard post, was promoted to treasury guard position according to promotion order. However, Hayashi Chūzaemon from Inspector Sasagawa Tōnai's corps, who had served nine years as duty corps platoon leader and had the highest seniority among platoon leaders in the eight arquebusier corps, was promoted to the new guard post position. While currently serving in the guard corps, it was established that those with longer service in the duty corps would be promoted accordingly. This was announced by Ogino Nabehachirō.