1. Regarding the promotion (onuki) of members from the magistrate (gobugyo) and Kanazu magistrate groups

1. On the 11th day of the 12th month of Kansei 11 (1799, year of the sheep), Terao Bunemon, guard of the Mikuni timber warehouse, died of illness. Nosaka Enemon, guard of the rice warehouse at the same location, was promoted to succeed him. When there was a request to promote Yamagata Moemon from Magistrate Ota Sarobei's group to succeed Enemon, it was conveyed to Sarobei that this could be arranged as convenient, following proper order.

1. On the 11th day of the 5th month of the same year, Kanazu Magistrate Atsumi Shinemon reported that Ito Eizaemon, guard of the Hosorogi checkpoint, had died of illness. Takahashi Jinemon from my group was appointed as checkpoint guard to succeed him. However, this matter was not handled here but was decided as stated above.

1. On the 16th day of the 2nd month of Bunka 2 (1805, year of the ox), Monthly Magistrate Imadate Sukeemon reported that Yamagata Moemon, guard of the Mikuni rice warehouse, had died of illness. The person next in line for promotion was Hayashi Sagoemon, a squad leader from Kawai Tarodayu's group. Following precedent, on the following 17th day, informal inquiries were made to the magistrate group squad leaders as convenient, and the following written record was circulated:
　1. Tenmei 7 (1787, year of the sheep), 10th month promotion: Ohashi Bunemon from Senbon Shichiemon's group
　1. Kansei 3 (1791, year of the boar), 5th month promotion: Terao Bunemon from Tateiwa Heiemon's group  
　1. Same 7th year (1795, year of the rabbit), 3rd month promotion: Nosaka Enemon from Oda Hanzaemon's group

[Seal mark from previous two pages ○]

1. When a checkpoint guard dies of illness, if notification comes from the castle deputy (gojodai), the group division official is further instructed to examine those in line for promotion, and a petition stating "So-and-so from such-and-such group is next for promotion - may this person be promoted?" is written by a scribe and submitted directly to the senior councilors (gokaro). When instructed to proceed accordingly, the person's group official is brought along to the monthly duty residence and told, for example, "You are promoted to the Nitsuya checkpoint and will receive the same stipend as before." The person is immediately transferred to the castle deputy's office with a group member escort.
　However, one of the three at Nitsuya is from a magistrate group, and the same procedures apply. In such cases, the magistrate is informed for reference.

1. When there is a vacancy at the Yamatakeda checkpoint, if there are no volunteers from the Kanazu group, someone is promoted from among the various groups. In such cases, the castle deputy is not involved, and notification is sent to the Kanazu magistrate by letter upon transfer.

1. In the 6th month of Bunka 1 (1804, year of the rat), when Yamaguchi Kuemon from Suzaki Sabuemon's group was promoted to fill a vacancy at the Yamatakeda checkpoint, the procedures were as stated above.

1. On the 29th day of the 2nd month of the same 6th year (1809, year of the snake), for the successor to a guard who died of illness at the same location, although it was the Kanazu group's turn for promotion, Arakawa Juemon reported there were no current volunteers, so Matsuura Juzo from colleague Murata Jidayu's group, who had many years of meritorious service, was reported to the senior councilors and promoted.

◦1. On the 21st day of the 1st month of Kyoho 14 (1729, year of the rooster), of the two warehouse guards who became craftsmen due to cost-cutting measures the previous autumn, one - Yoshida Hisadayu - was reassigned to Itatori checkpoint according to records. The other - Yasukawa Nojiemon - was re-promoted to fill a Nitsuya guard vacancy on the 27th day of the 4th month of the same 16th year (1731, year of the boar).

1. Kyowa 3 (1803, year of the boar), 4th month, 17th day　　　　Otaniura guard　Sakano Enroku
　Having served a total of sixty-three years of service through this year,
　it was inquired to the senior councilors whether ten monme of sake money
　should be granted for this year only, and after reporting to the magistrate,
　a castle deputy assistant was summoned to make the presentation.

1. Bunka 1 (1804, year of the rat), 3rd month, 12th day　　　　Nitsuya checkpoint guard　Otani Chuzaemon
　Having served a total of sixty-one years through this year, same as above.

◦1. On the 25th day of the 4th month of Kansei 9 (1797, year of the snake), Tanabe Jinemon, guard at Itatori checkpoint, had his stipend revoked due to an incident involving a Nichiren sect stone monument. Tanabe Zenzo from Tsutsumi Yasuemon's group (being Jinemon's son) was ordered confined here, but later the punishment was pardoned and he was reassigned to a promotion post, though he died of illness shortly thereafter.