1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 2 (1717, year of the rooster), Mori Gensuke, assistant warehouse guard, died of illness. The matter of Nagai Mozaemon from Asami Tokuemon's group being a candidate for promotion to replace him was reported on the following 14th day, whereupon it was ordered that the promotion candidate should be installed. Therefore, notification was sent to Tokuemon, Mozaemon was summoned, and at Tokuemon's residence he was told that he was promoted to assistant warehouse guard and appointed at the same level as other assistant warehouse guards. A group member was assigned to escort him to the Honmura residence where he was handed over to the yoriki officials.

However, when the matter of Gensuke was reported, those who had been under consideration for promotion in the ashigaru gun-bearing unit had been gradually promoted until only one remained. Consequently, in the 6th month of that year, a document examining those with 20 to 30 years of service was submitted for review. Also, regarding the promotion order from Lord Tangen-ji's era, though this was not promotion based on years of service called "midate order," elderly persons in poor health were promoted regardless of their years of service. When inquiring whether midate order should also be examined this time, it was indeed ordered that midate order should also be examined.

[Red notation] - To be cross-referenced with the warehouse guard section under metsuke supervision

1. On the 21st day of the 8th month of Tenmei 8 (1788, year of the monkey), the assistant guards of the gold and earth warehouse, who were promotion positions for ashigaru gun unit squad leaders, were reduced from six to five persons due to cost-cutting measures. However, by his lordship's will, three saltpeter warehouse guards and two boat handlers at the wool house are henceforth designated as promotion positions for ashigaru gun unit squad leaders, and both positions receive a stipend of seven koku and rations for two men.

However, the three saltpeter warehouse guards had previously been positions filled from the general retainer pool, but henceforth they are designated as promotion positions for ashigaru gun unit squad leaders. Also, the two boat handlers at the wool house had previously been filled by members of the naval unit, but these too are now designated as promotion positions for ashigaru gun unit squad leaders.

1. Regarding supervision: the three saltpeter warehouse guards are placed under Inaba Uneme's supervision, and the two boat handlers are placed under the supervision of the metsuke.

Due to the above, the two boat handler positions had previously been filled by naval unit members based on years of service, but this has now been discontinued. Instead, one person each from the general retainer promotion pool will henceforth be promoted based on promotion order. Accordingly, Koma Daigaku conveyed that this should be communicated to the naval commander, so notification was sent to the naval commander.

1. On the 22nd day of the 1st month of Kyōhō 11 (1726, year of the horse), regarding Saito Yogobei from the estate magistrate group, promotion to assistant warehouse guard was once announced, but since he was well-versed in estate duties and was moreover an agile person, Ichimura Kanemon requested that the promotion be canceled for the future, and accordingly his name was removed from the register and the promotion was canceled.

1. On the 10th day of the 6th month of the same 12th year (1727, year of the sheep), various checkpoint guards were summoned to the accounting office and required to submit written oaths. The handling records are included in the section on oaths for various officials.

1. On the 29th day of the 4th month of the same year, examination was ordered for those in the promotion order for ashigaru gun-bearing unit checkpoint positions with thirty years or more of service, and of course, as before, written oaths would be required not to falsify years of service, so this should be understood. This was ordered to be communicated to the group monthly duty officers. Following precedent, the squad leaders' selections were discontinued and records were kept in order of years of service.

○ Those who served in the advanced gun unit at Matsuoka and later became part of the gun-bearing unit at the same location after unification had their years of service in the advanced gun unit carried over and recorded in the register. There is precedent for adding previous years of service for those who transferred from the advanced gun unit.

○ For Mochizuki Hachiemon's group {marginal note: Edo gun-bearing unit}, the same applies since they transferred from street guard duty to the gun-bearing unit.

○ When Inoue Handayu was appointed from metsuke to deputy administrator, it was ordered that the six men from his current group should become Handayu's group. These men would also enter the promotion order as lifetime appointments. However, those employed by Handayu would not enter future [rankings].

○ Hirabayashi Mataichi from Oka Hanemon's group transferred from grass cutting duty to the gun-bearing unit. Previously there was a ruling that those who had not served in military roles would not be counted in years of service, and precedents were examined, but there had been no cases of transferees from non-military service being promoted to checkpoint positions. Since this was the first such case, colleagues were consulted. Since transferees who served in advanced gun units had their previous service years counted, and since this concerned a transferee regardless of military service examination, it was determined that grass cutting service should also be counted, and Mataichi's years were included.

1. On the 29th day of the 2nd month of the same 14th year (1729, year of the rooster), the construction magistrate reported that craftsmen had become elderly and found it difficult to perform their duties, requesting promotion appointments. Although this had been done before, in recent years elderly workers had not made such requests, so upon raising this matter again, the senior councilors conveyed that henceforth they should be sent to promotion positions as before.

1. On the 25th day of the 8th month of the same 18th year (1733, year of the ox), Muso Shozaemon from monthly duty metsuke Tochinooya Hanemon's group was promoted to Yoshizaki checkpoint guard. Regarding announcing this appointment, since Hanemon was on monthly duty but this concerned announcing to someone from his own assigned group, precedents were examined to see if this was appropriate. Since there were precedents, after further consultation with the senior councilors, the announcement was made by Hanemon.