Office Records
1. On the 16th day of the 4th month of Genroku 4 (1691), regarding notifications and other matters to the people of Daiku-tani at the gate of Shihi Eiheiji Temple: Previously, such notifications were transmitted from our town magistrate's office to Chintokuji Temple, and then from Chintokuji to Eiheiji Temple. However, in recent years, various matters have been handled by local areas and group leaders. Therefore, Eiheiji Temple sent a messenger monk to Town Magistrate Atsumi Shinuemon requesting a return to the former system. Shinuemon reported this matter. After this report was heard, it was decided that matters concerning Daiku-tani at the temple gate should be handled as before, and this was conveyed to Shinuemon. However, matters concerning Ichinono-mura temple lands should continue to be administered by the district magistrate as before.

Office Records
1. On the 29th day of the 6th month of Shotoku 1 (1711), regarding people from distant provinces who die within our domain: Having local people send messengers to notify their home provinces causes great burden and inconvenience to the locality. In such cases, the matter should be reported to our Edo representatives, who will then communicate with the representatives of the deceased's former lord, and this will suffice. Our Edo representatives have also stated this. This was communicated from Magistrate Tanaka Jozaemon, who is stationed in Edo, to the district magistrates, as reported by Muso Gonzaemon. Since this method will resolve the matter satisfactorily, it was decided to handle such cases in this manner in the future. This was also communicated to Gonzaemon by Koma Toneri at the council.

Farmers and Townspeople
1. In the Edo office records of the 4th day of the 12th month of Kan'en 1 (1748), on the 25th day of the 11th month, the senior retainers in the domain announced that copies of documents issued by officials at the Shogunate's accounting office had been distributed. These were to be communicated to the Kanazu magistrate, town magistrates, and the three district magistrates for their information. The records state as follows:
　Regarding farmers and townspeople in imperial domains using family names and wearing swords: except in special circumstances requiring prior consultation and subsequent authorization from magistrates' offices, magistrates may not easily grant such permissions. However, some people are using family names, so after investigation, appropriate punishment should be administered. Investigation should also be conducted to see if there are others doing the same, and reforms should be made to prevent such improprieties. 3rd day of the 11th month, Year of the Dragon

1. 11th month, Year of the Rooster, as follows:
　Urgent communication
　Regarding farmers' clothing: Although repeated announcements have been made over the years, there has been some laxity. Therefore, new announcements were made in the 5th month of this year, and village headmen were summoned to the homes of chief village officers for notification. However, it has come to our attention that some villagers have misunderstood and are wearing silk clothing, which is extremely improper. If anyone continues to wear clothing inappropriate to their station, they will be arrested and severely punished. This message must be communicated to all farmers without exception. 11th month, Year of the Rooster

1. In the 12th month of Horeki 6 (1756), Town Magistrate Nara Gonzaemon privately requested permission for town group leaders' servants to carry short swords, but this was not approved.