The various duties corresponding to the village assessment were to be exempted going forward.

1. On July 18th, 19th year of Kyōhō era, it was ordered to the district heads that merchants conducting business under the jurisdiction of Fukui town, Kanazu town, and the three districts should pay commission fees (kuchisen).

2. On March 11th, 20th year of the same era, after the death of town painter Mikageike Chūbei, his son Shichizaemon was appointed to map duties, but since he was still inexperienced, he was also ordered to draw maps for territorial disputes in official and other domains, with the understanding that when he became skilled, he would be restricted like his father Chūbei.

3. On April 29th, 2nd year of Genbun era, blacksmith Kazusa Chōzaburō was granted a stipend of three persons' worth.

4. On May 11th, 2nd year of Enshō era, to the magistrate of crown lands: when farmers from crown lands petition to go to Edo for work, they should henceforth specify the number of years in their petitions, to be handled the same as in the lord's domain.

5. On March 29th, 1st year of Kan'en era, last month Matsudaira Shuma reported a petition as written in the attached document. Since Kashio village was not found in the provincial maps, an investigation was ordered. Upon examining the provincial maps, it was found to be a branch village and thus not listed, so this was reported to Honda Minbu. The document reads as follows:

Humbly submitted as a verbal report:
In a place called Kashio valley, a branch village of Yaii village, a man named Genzaemon had lived for many years, but having no wife or children, he gradually became impoverished and reduced to a beggar-like state. Last autumn he contracted the epidemic flu, gradually worsened, and recently died. Relatives in Kamiya village were immediately summoned to handle the burial. Currently there is no one to succeed Genzaemon. We investigated whether anyone might go to Kashio valley to make a living, but finding no such person, we report this matter.

12th month of the Rabbit year    Yaii village headman Saburobei (seal)
                                Same village         Asechi (seal)  
                                Village head         Heizaemon (seal)
To the Magistrate

Humbly submitted as a verbal report:
Regarding the ancestor of Genzaemon of Kashio valley previously reported, around the Shōhō period, woodturners from a place called Kunigahata in Nōshū came to various places in the inner mountains of Yogatani, where they set up huts and worked as woodturners for several years. Genzaemon's grandfather built a house in Kashio valley, took a wife, and settled there. In earlier years, ancestor Genzaemon had two sons - the elder named Genzaemon and the younger Kajūrō - with two houses and additional huts. Kajūrō died of old age and illness, and his house collapsed. The recently deceased Genzaemon also gradually lost his wife and children and in recent years lived alone like a beggar.

As previously reported, he contracted epidemic flu last winter and died. Regarding Kashio valley, it is recorded in the religious registry as "Genzaemon of Kashio valley village, branch of Yaii village." When asked how many decades this had been recorded in the religious registry, neither the villagers nor those from neighboring villages remember, such is the situation.

3rd month of the Dragon year    Yaii village headman Saburobei
                               Same village         Asechi  
                               Village head         Heizaemon

6. On October 5th of the same year, to Yano Gonhei: Regarding Kyūzaemon of Wakasugi village, due to his admirable intentions, when unavoidable official loans are ordered hereafter, the assessment portion should be excused and handled through official arrangements. Keep this in mind and have it recorded in the crown lands, and also inform Kyūzaemon privately. If there are matters requiring attention, work diligently - this should also be conveyed. This was announced at the residence of Matsudaira Shuma.

7. On February 16th of the same year, Iwagami Kajidayū reported that Magozaburō of Kida Ōtsuya wished to sell his property due to financial difficulties. Since this person serves as lodging for the domain lord and messenger lodging, the matter was referred to the senior retainers, who said that since there was no one to mediate at this time, he could do as he pleased.

8. On February 5th, 8th year of Genroku era, Town Magistrate Atsumi Shin'emon inquired whether to order in advance that those in the current town who take money to care for young children should discontinue this if they have no milk. It was ordered to Shin'emon that if there is no milk, this should be discontinued, and careful attention should be paid to all such people. On the 11th of the same month, regarding those in rural areas who take foster children for money: order them not to neglect their duties, and if those caring for young children have no milk, discontinue this. Those sending children should also verify this situation. When caring for young children, village heads and senior farmers should be consulted for guidance to prevent improper arrangements. District Magistrates Sengoku Kizaemon and Sakata Yohei inquired about this proclamation. It was ordered that these instructions should be put in place. Monthly duty officer Matsudaira Shōbei.

9. On December 16th, 14th year of the same era, a man named Yazaemon of Maiya village found one ryō of gold in Akasaka town, entrusted it to local people, and also reported to the district office. Later the person who lost it was identified, and after investigation confirmed it was his, the money was returned. District Magistrate Tanaka Jōzaemon reported this. Since Yazaemon acted with integrity, Jōzaemon was ordered to consult with the magistrates about giving him a reward - he received 1 kan mon in copper coins.

10. On September 9th, 12th year of the same era, town physicians were granted their first audience: Misaki Gyokun, Ōtsuki Saian, Shioma Yōtetsu, Yoshimura Yōtaku, Ōsato Yōeki, Nakamura Sōetsu, Yoshida Jutaku. These seven completed their service at the main castle, and when it was time to enter, they lined up in the anteroom. During the lord's passage, they all had a second audience, announced by the master of ceremonies. Since it reached his lordship's ears that these men performed medical treatment well, Town Magistrate Atsumi Shin'emon had been informed in advance and today their audience was arranged.

11. On December 11th, 3rd year of Hōei era, in Gōshima village under Suō Inozaemon's district (a place of over 310 koku assessment), all farmers were generally impoverished, but through years of diligent cultivation they completed their tax payments annually on schedule, and with careful attention, this village's grain for the official storehouse was of good quality, and they fulfilled all official collections and labor duties without delay. There were no village petitions, lawsuits, or disputes. Village head Yosōemon served for over 100 years through three generations, and senior farmer Jiemon served for decades. Given this exemplary conduct throughout the village, Magistrate Oka Saburōemon and current District Deputy Kawasaki Jinemon investigated together. Wanting to grant a reward, Saburōemon and current District Magistrate Inozaemon reported this. When further asked about the reward, Saburōemon suggested 15 bales of rice for the village would be appropriate. This was reported to the young lord and immediately granted as a reward to all villagers, to be distributed according to the allocation. Inozaemon was ordered to arrange this - the rice allocation: village head 6 tō, senior farmers 3 tō 5 shō each, 13 landholding farmers 5 shō each, 11 small households - distributed accordingly.

12. On February 11th, 1st year of Kōka era, to the district heads:
Last year regarding sake brewing licenses, an official order was issued and new and returned brewing licenses were suspended. However, since the people listed separately had been new sake brewers from before the order and had negotiated to acquire dormant town brewing licenses, reaching the point of petition, this time through special consideration they were permitted to brew sake.
However, regarding gratitude silver, they should pay according to their capacity. During brewing, inspection certificates will be issued, and when brewing ceases, certificates must be returned and gratitude silver will be returned.

Separate list:
Upper domain: Ikube village - Jiemon; Middle domain: Shijūtani village - Rihei; Lower domain: Sano village - Kinzaemon
Kami-Sabae village - Jingorō; Minami-i village - Heizaemon
Kawakita domain: Furuichi village - Hanbei (this was announced on June 20th)

13. On October 11th, 14th year of Tenpō era, to the three district magistrates:
Last Dog year, among the dormant sake brewing licenses in the castle town, the separately listed people were borrowing licenses for brewing, but due to recent official orders they were unavoidably suspended. However, since the ten people listed separately had prior arrangements and were granted brewing businesses, this time through exceptional consideration they were permitted to brew sake.
However, regarding gratitude silver, they should pay according to capacity. During brewing, inspection certificates will be issued, and when brewing ceases, certificates must be returned and gratitude silver will be returned.

Upper domain: Iehisa village - Yohei; Middle domain: Tadasu village - Kan'emon
Lower domain: Kawashiri village - Chōdayū; Takae village - Saburobei
Washizuka village - Ichiemon; Matsuoka - Yajiemon, Man'emon, Shōzaemon, Jihei
Total

14. On December 19th of the same year, town physician Misaki Gyokun:
Having traditionally presented ox-king diagrams
And serving the young lord's needs
Was granted three days for New Year greetings
And permitted the title of pediatrics specialist