1. On the 11th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 14 (1729), Sakai Yozaemon instructed Hikosaka Matabei, the monthly duty district magistrate, to convey the following memorandum to the colleagues:

　　　Memorandum
　1. Regarding various petitions related to district financial matters
　1. Regarding boundary disputes with public lands and other domains
　For the above matters, consult with the magistrates. For other matters, hereafter the three colleagues should consult among themselves before making inquiries to the monthly duty officer. End
　　　9th month

1. On the 5th day of the 4th month of the same year, instructions were given in writing to the district magistrate regarding hunting grounds in various rural areas.

　　　Memorandum
　1. Regarding hunting grounds in various rural areas within the domain, as there have been no inspections in recent years, it has been heard that improper activities are taking place. Hereafter, observe the content of hunting licenses and do not capture prohibited birds. Also, strictly regulate hunting tools without proper licenses. Those who violate this will be punished. However, if there are hunting grounds where certain tools like nets are necessary but unlicensed, petition the hunting ground officials. The falconry department will consider and grant permission.

　1. In recent years, hunters have been permitted to contract hunting grounds directly with each other. This has created confusion in some falcon hunting areas, making inspection difficult. Hereafter, when there are those who wish to contract, they must report the contractor's alias and location from that hunting ground to the hunting ground officials. The falconry department will consider and grant permission. However, samurai are treated separately, and for others including stipend recipients, lower ranks, or retainers of household members who wish to contract hunting, this is henceforth prohibited and must be strictly observed.

　The above instructions should be strictly conveyed to farmers in hunting grounds under your jurisdiction, and written pledges should be obtained. End
　　　4th month

1. On the 11th day of the 3rd month of Enkyō 4 (1747), to the magistrate: Iwagami Kajidayū reported that gunsmith Kansuke was in dire financial straits. This person had previously received rice stipend at Matsuoka and was commissioned for metalwork by the weapons department, being useful for official duties, so it was arranged that eight koku would be granted annually. This was also communicated to Iwagami Kajidayū. Note that this does not constitute granting a stipend. Since the inspectors had also conveyed this previously, Inspector Nara Gonzaemon was informed that these instructions had been issued.

1. On the 5th day of the 11th month of Kōka 1 (1844), inquiry by Honda Yaroku: Fujisaemon of Tadasu village had been offering new rice as tribute, but was told that such offerings were no longer necessary due to current policy. Nevertheless, he petitioned to continue offering tribute as before regardless of rice grants, but this could not be accepted. However, as Fujisaemon is a commendable person, it was requested that he maintain his hereditary status allowing him to wear hakama, give New Year greetings on the veranda, receive audiences while traveling, etc., all as before, and that he be allowed to continue offerings without hindrance even if assigned official duties again. The district magistrate had made this inquiry, and permission was granted for his lifetime only as requested.