Vagrants and Retainers of Domain Samurai

1. Regarding vagrants, most matters are recorded in the sections "Various Matters of Our Domain and Other Domains," "Temple and Shrine Affairs and Travels and Solicitations by People from Other Domains in the Same Section."

1. Also refer to the articles appearing in the "Various Matters of the Castle Town Section."

1. In the monkey year of Kyōhō 13 (1728), the following directive was issued by the Shogunate:
　　Regarding the prohibition of divination reading of earth god sutras, and the granting of court ranks, temple titles, and Buddhist robes to the blind, which was announced in previous years, it has been heard that this is being conducted carelessly in distant provinces. Hereafter, strict orders shall be given to prevent such carelessness even in rural areas. End

　The above was promulgated by the inspectors in our domain on the 17th day of the 9th month.

1. In the 12th month of the rooster year of Meiwa 2 (1765), the following directive was issued by the Shogunate. On the 17th day of the 1st month of the following dog year, it was promulgated by the inspectors to the domain retainers at the Edo residence.

　　　　　Copy of Circular from the Senior Inspectors
　　It has been heard that zatō (blind musicians) other than kengyō and kōtō claim their funds are official money and lend them out at high interest rates to the public. When repayment is delayed, they send many zatō who crowd into the entrance halls of samurai residences, shouting abusive language loudly, or staying day and night in a selfish manner to collect debts. Of course, debt collection depends on circumstances and is generally at the discretion of the parties involved, but such methods are intended to shame the borrower into repayment and are not proper debt collection practices. Because they conduct business at such excessive interest rates as described above, it is heard that many others also entrust money to the zatō for lending. Regarding excessive interest rates or illegal collection methods, there have been cases where the magistrate's office has investigated and imposed punishments, but these practices continue unabated.