【Right Page】
　Section on Those Under the Authority of the Ometsuke (Inspector)
1. On the 27th day of the 7th month of Tenmei 6 (1786), year of the Horse, a separate written document was handed to Makino Shuzen
　1. Regarding the ashigaru-metsuke (foot soldier inspectors) and below, various craftsmen and others under their authority, their names should be written separately, and concerning increases and decreases in the number of gisaku personnel, such matters should be reported whenever such notifications arise
　Regarding the above, while in residence in Edo, this matter should be communicated to the scribe's office (goyuhitsu-beya) in Edo, and prior arrangements should be made with Edo for such communications
1. On the 13th day of the 3rd month of Genroku 14 (1701), year of the Snake, regarding the adopted heir's (Shouan-ko) petition being granted as requested, Nagami Uemon, head page, was sent as a messenger from Edo, and today an official announcement was made at the main castle. On that occasion, orders were given to the inspectors to inform the newly summoned Oguri Kuemon, as well as the ashigaru-metsuke, shell officials, cormorant officials, Kawachi Gonnaiken, Ito Moemon, Yamashiro Gesaka and others, as recorded in the official business registry

【Left Page】
　　　　　Section on Those Under the Authority of the Ometsuke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　1. Eight wide-style gate guards, eight koku and two stipend portions each, under ometsuke authority
　　　　　　　　　　　　　1. In Meiwa 5 (1768), year of the Rat, two kobitogashira (attendant heads) and two kagogashira (palanquin bearers heads), fifteen koku and three stipend portions each for all four, were first appointed to service and placed under ometsuke authority, as new guards

　　　　　　　　Kasuya Family
1. Kasuya Shuzen is the son of the head priest of Fuchu Sosha Shrine in this province, called Kasuya Ukyo. He was summoned during the reign of Tangen-in-sama and has served Fukui's official business as head priest of Fuchu Sosha Shrine, receiving relay horse fees
1. In the 6th month of Kyoho 3 (1718), year of the Dog, Kasuya Seijiro, age eighteen, requested to go to Kyoto to receive Shinto instruction, and also changed his name to Shuzen, the same as his father's, while in Kyoto. There were successive stays
1. In the 7th month of Bunsei 8 (1825), year of the Rooster, regarding Kasuya Seijiro's previously requested pilgrimage to Ise, he reported that he had entrusted the shrine keys to monthly duty officer Nonaka Kenzo during his absence, so they were kept in custody. However, no notification was made elsewhere
　　However, during Seijiro's succession in previous years, the keys were temporarily submitted to the ometsuke, and on that occasion they were entrusted to the monthly duty official, but this time it was only temporary, so they were kept with our monthly duty officer
1. On the 29th day of the 3rd month of Koka 3 (1846), year of the Horse, Kasuya Seijiro reported that his daughter had died of illness the previous night. Although she was under seven years old, he would abstain from appearing before the shrine altar from today the 29th until the 5th of the coming 4th month, seven days total. Regarding this, he submitted the shrine keys, and since there was precedent, these keys were kept in our custody. Furthermore, this matter was communicated to the monthly duty official
1. Regarding Kasuya Naiki's guarantee seal petition, this appears in the section on various borrowing petitions
1. On the 20th day of the 11th month of Bunka 2 (1805), year of the Ox, Kasuya Naiki petitioned that when he had ailments and walking was difficult on rainy days and such, he would like to have his son Hanjiro serve as his deputy for shrine duties. This was granted as requested, and Naiki was to be informed accordingly
1. On the 11th day of the 8th month of Bunka 5 (1808), year of the Dragon, regarding Kasuya Naiki's son Hanjiro's first audience petition, a formal written statement was submitted and communicated to the senior councillors