However, when mentioning the mother in the petition (kōjōgaki), it should still be recorded as "reported to the senior councilors (karō-chū)." The rest of the text follows the usual precedent.

1. On the 25th day of the 4th month of Meiwa 2 (1765), Kasuya Seijirō's daughter was granted permission to become the second wife of Kawachi Kingorōemon as requested.

1. On the 14th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 4 (1719), shrine priests Imai Sashin of Kumano Gongen shrine in Tobita village, Okitama district, Dewa province, and Tomita Iwami-no-kami of Hachiman shrine in Nei district, Etchū province, were staying in town and requested to become disciples of Shuzen. A petition was submitted and reported to the senior councilors.

1. On the 27th day of the same month and year, Shuzen petitioned that shrine priest Hara Shūri-dayū of Hachiman shrine in Kōryō Ikeda Mizumi village had received a license for the Jūhachi Shintō teachings from Lord Yoshida, but could not go to Kyoto due to circumstances. Lord Yoshida Nii had sent word that the transmission should be conducted from my place. However, my residence is cramped and it is difficult to handle many sacred implements, so I wish to stay at his place for five or six days to conduct the transmission. This request was granted as petitioned.

1. On the 2nd day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 15 (1730), when the lord contracted measles, prayers were to be ordered from Kasuya Jidayū at the rear shrine of the lord's quarters, but Jidayū was unwell and could not serve. When investigating who could serve as a substitute in such cases, it was found that there had been no such instances of illness before, and although Dai Okuemon had served the shrine duties for thirty years, he said he did not recall such matters. Therefore, prayers were ordered from Shinmei shrine priest Makita Mondo, who conducted prayers at the rear shrine from the 5th to the 11th day. There were arrangements for the lord's spiritual guidance.

1. On the 5th day of the same month and year, regarding the loan certificates (kashifuda), temples and shrines were not granted loans, but Kasuya Jidayū, being a Shinto practitioner since his grandfather's time and different from ordinary shrine priests, and being in charge of the rear shrine as a special case, would not interfere with other temples and shrines. The officials discussed this and decided to grant him the loan.

1. On the 18th day of the 3rd month of the 16th year (Kyōhō 16, 1731), Kasuya Jidayū inquired whether he should appear at the main castle during the lord's departure, as was done during the lord's arrival. When this was reported to chamberlain Nagami Uemon, he said that as before, he should appear at the Sashimono-no-ma of the main castle, and this was conveyed to Jidayū.

1. On the 5th day of the 9th month of Genbun 3 (1738), Kasuya Seijirō's adoptive father Jidayū was quite ill, and moreover, Seijirō's residence lacked space, so Jidayū requested to reside in the Imajō area. A petition to send him there was submitted and reported to the senior councilors, and it was immediately approved.

1. On the 2nd day of the 2nd month of Enkyō 2 (1745), Kasuya Seijirō's residence caught fire but there was no spread to neighboring buildings. Seijirō inquired about refraining from duties and was excused from the 24th of the same month.

1. On the 21st day of the 5th month of Kan'en 1 (1748), Kasuya Seijirō's father Jidayū had a matter requiring a vow, so he requested to make a pilgrimage to Chikubushima in Ōmi province. A petition to send him was submitted and reported to the senior councilors, and Honda Minbu conveyed that it should be granted as requested.

1. On the 9th day of the 2nd month of Tenpō 2 (1831), Kasuya Seijirō reported that his wife had given birth this morning and was in monthly confinement due to birth defilement (san'e). He also surrendered the two keys to the castle shrine, which were handed over to the chamberlain on the following 10th day.