Various Matters Concerning Ashigaru Inspectors (Okachi Metsuke)

On the 16th, it was ordered that the ten foot patrol inspectors (oaruki metsuke) and foot patrol assistants (oaruki nami) should continue to be supervised by the lateral inspectors (yokome) as before. This was communicated by the yokome to the head of foot patrols, Koma Mokunosuke, at the Council of State (hyōjōsho).

1. In the twelfth month of Enpō 4 (1676), orders were issued regarding ashigaru inspectors.

1. The examination and selection of ashigaru inspector positions is assigned to the ashigaru inspectors themselves.
　Happyakuri considers that in the selection departments for various positions, the selection of ashigaru inspectors is conducted by the regular inspectors (metsuke), but this text may refer to lower-level selections.

1. On the 21st day of the 7th month of Kyōhō 5 (1720), regarding the succession to ashigaru inspector Kondō Tasuke's position, we were instructed by Inaba Uneme's office to conduct an examination and submit a written report. Although it was said that such reports had not been submitted previously, we were told to send the document. On the 22nd, when we brought the document to Uneme's office, we were asked again whether we had not submitted documents to them before. In the end, we did not submit it, and it was decided who would be appointed. When we reported this to our superiors and were told what orders would be given to us, we were informed that in that case, this time too should be handled as before, and there was no need to report to Edo. This is on record.

1. Appointments of ashigaru inspectors are handled as follows: the monthly duty inspector (tsukiban metsuke) sends a letter to the head of ashigaru, summons the appointee, and makes the announcement at the monthly duty inspector's residence with the duty ashigaru inspector present. At the Council of State, announcements are made in the map room, with one monthly duty ashigaru inspector in attendance.
　However, when the duty senior councilor appoints an ashigaru inspector, this is communicated to the monthly duty colleague, who immediately writes a letter as follows and has it delivered by a member of the guard unit.

　I communicate by letter. Ashigaru Akao Mataemon has been granted an increase of 3 koku of stipend rice, making a total of 18 koku and rations for 3 men, and has been appointed to succeed ashigaru inspector Hatasa Okuuzaemon. As there are official matters to attend to, he should appear at the Council of State in due course.
　Above. 16th day, 2nd month, Bunka 1 (1804). Ōta Saburōbē to Mōri Rokurōemon

1. After such an appointment is made, another letter is sent to the head of ashigaru, informing them that today so-and-so has been appointed to succeed ashigaru inspector so-and-so, for their information.