When being promoted from ashigaru-metsuke (foot soldier inspector), [the superior] is supposed to accompany and attend.
However, when being appointed to ashigaru-kogashira (foot soldier captain), the metsuke (inspector) does not accompany.

1. In the 9th month of Kanpō 1 (1741), when ashigaru-kogashira Harada Denzaemon was promoted and appointed as weapon magistrate, it was heard that a metsuke accompanied him. When the senior retainers had scribe Takahashi Den'emon speak with Nakane Jūrozaemon about this, it was said that [the metsuke] did not attend.

1. On the 16th day of the 3rd month of the same year, when Kawachi Gozaemon was promoted and appointed as water works magistrate, all the metsuke attended and expressed their gratitude.

[Notation at top of right page]
1. On the 15th day of the 1st month of Enkyō 2 (1745), to Tanabe Godayū: "Ato Matahachi and Matsubara Jirōzaemon have both served diligently for several years, so their rice stipend is increased by 5 koku per person, totaling 23 koku and 4 person-portions. When traveling on official business to other provinces, they are permitted to carry spears. Both men have served well previously, so they are granted this. Convey this message."

1. On the 6th day of the 5th month of the same year, regarding leading peasants summoned to Edo, Atobe Matahachi and Okazaki Seiemon were now appointed. Regarding Seiemon's carrying of spears, all the ashigaru-metsuke petitioned and reported to the senior retainers. While this was heard in general, for such official duties, Matahachi and Matsubara Jirōzaemon were appointed to their positions due to their service merits. If Seiemon were permitted, both men's discipline would be undermined. Even if Matahachi encountered difficulties on the journey and Seiemon did not carry the handling equipment, there would be no delays, so Seiemon cannot be permitted. The sword-bearer conveyed this, and this matter was communicated to each party.

1. On the 16th day of the 10th month of Enkyō 3 (1746), when ashigaru-metsuke Atobe Matahachi and Matsubara Jirōzaemon were promoted and appointed to the great guard, and were instructed that the metsuke should inform them of their duties, metsuke Nara Gonzaemon accompanied them.

1. On the 28th day of the 8th month of the 4th year (1747), when ashigaru-metsuke Koseki Ichirōdayū was promoted at Edo and appointed to the garrison guard and Reiganjima estate magistrate, squad leader Nakane Yukie accompanied him.

1. In the 5th month of Kansei 2 (1790), when Yoshida Heiji was appointed to the great guard, Eguchi Sajūrō accompanied him.

1. On the 24th day of the 6th month of Bunka 9 (1812), ashigaru-metsuke Makino Kazaemon was told by Koma Taitō-kata that there was official business and he should accompany him to the council chamber tomorrow, the 25th. Accordingly, the following was sent to Kazaemon:
"There is official business, so tomorrow the 25th you should accompany me to the council chamber. An official notice has arrived from Lord Koma Taitō to this effect. Please attend at the appointed time. The above, 6th month, 24th day
                                    Hasebe Koemon
    To Lord Makino Kazaemon"
This concerned Kazaemon being promoted and placed in the garrison guard unit.

1. On the 16th day of the 11th month of Kyōwa 3 (1803), ashigaru-metsuke Hatasa Okuemon had served diligently and faithfully for many years, so he was promoted to the new guard unit and appointed to the accounting office's custody of antiquities section and records section, succeeding Hori Chōbei.

1. On the 25th day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 7 (1722), as there was a guard rotation and many promotions were made, when there were envoy expenses for promotions at Edo, depending on circumstances ashigaru-metsuke should also attend. If serving as an envoy, ceremonial clothing would be provided, so this should be communicated to Edo. Guard rotation official Ōtani Gizaemon conveyed this, and it was sent by express messenger on the 28th.

1. Record of the 3rd day of the 6th month of Kan'en 2 (1749): On the 18th of last month, when the young lord attended Nishinomaru castle, the ashigaru-metsuke in attendance could not wear hats inside the castle due to rain, and it would be troublesome to go up [to receive] food and drink while wet. Kondō Kutarō petitioned for permission to use hand umbrellas, which was conveyed to chief retainer Fujita Sōshichi, and thereafter the use of hand umbrellas was commanded. In future, when the personal retainers serve in outdoor attendance, even if hand umbrella permission is commanded, no matter how they petition it will not be accepted. Also, since formal court dress is worn inside the castle, umbrellas were commanded to be used. Orders should be given to use them inside Sakashita Gate and Hirakawaguchi Gate.

1. On the 17th day of the 3rd month of Hōei 3 (1706), ashigaru-metsuke Takayanagi Kinzaemon was relieved of his position due to illness and placed among minor officials, and his position's rice stipend of 3 koku was confiscated. Matsudaira Shōbei-kata conveyed this to monthly duty officer Iinuma Kanbei to announce.

1. On the 29th day of the 3rd month of Genbun 5 (1740): ashigaru-metsuke Hirase Zenzaemon lamented his eye disease, and on the 16th day of the 5th month his position was relieved, his stipend continued as before, and he was appointed to metsuke supervision as a minor official. Therefore, regarding seating arrangements, on the 17th day consultation was held with the chief announcer. Since there was no need to intrude into the scribe quarters, it was decided to place him at the end of the ashigaru-metsuke seating through colleague consultation, and this was conveyed to the chief announcer and Kawa Ichikurō. Note: Zenzaemon's petition for 50 days' leave to Gifu in Nōshū for eye disease treatment in Kyōhō 20 (1735) is recorded in the section on various petitions for leave to other provinces.

1. In Kansei 9 (1797), ashigaru-metsuke Akao Sanzaemon became unable to perform his duties due to illness, so his position was relieved and he was placed at the end of ashigaru-metsuke under metsuke supervision.

1. On the 21st day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 11 (1726), Kawai Budayū and Yamaji Mosuke were relieved of ashigaru-metsuke positions due to poor health, made minor officials, and given stipends as regular ashigaru. Monthly duty metsuke Kōzuki Buzaemon was instructed to announce this.