1. In the 6th month of Hōreki 2 (1752), regarding succession when an ashigaru-metsuke died of illness, when Ashida Tosho-kata inquired of the metsuke, they conveyed the precedent that if the successor was of age, he would be summoned as ashigaru, but if he was a young son, he would be granted three person-portions and appointed under metsuke supervision, then appointed as ashigaru when he came of age. Takahashi Kichibei's adopted son was also appointed as petitioned. The precedents are as follows:
　　Togoro's adopted son Kashio Tōhachi; Yagodayū's adopted son Iwasa Yagodayū; Sadaemon's adopted son Inoue Yasudayū;
　　Jūjirō's adopted son Oka Jūjibei; Chōdayū's adopted son Ideura Sadaharu

1. Death notifications for ashigaru-metsuke are the same as for samurai. The handling of Akao Matazaemon in Bunka 3 (1806) is recorded in the death notification section.

1. Regarding ashigaru-metsuke succession, there are other records in the sections on adoption during illness, succession of minor officials and below, etc.

1. On the 25th day of the 3rd month of Kyōwa (year unclear), Mizutani Oribu arrived from Edo on private official business, and ashigaru-metsuke Ban Gorozaemon accompanied him as escort. This was directly reported to Denbei-kata. Furthermore, the next day there was a meeting at the duty officer's residence, and [someone] went to Inaba Tosho-kata's residence to report details to colleagues. Of course, at that time there was a meeting with Tosho-kata and greetings, etc., with Denbei accompanying.

1. On the 26th day of the 10th month of Bunka 3 (1806), regarding whether to appoint ashigaru-metsuke Makino Kazaemon and Murao Shinbei for next spring's Edo attendance duty, and Nosaka Gen'emon, Iwasa Jirōemon, and Makino Ichizaemon for seeing off, when this was inquired of the senior retainers, Inaba Uneme-kata conveyed that each should be appointed accordingly, so this was communicated to each person individually.
　1. Around Kōka period (1844-1848), such matters were inquired of the senior retainers, then reported to the lord through the chief personal attendants before appointment. In years when the lord was absent,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　they would send private letters to colleagues in Edo and report to the lord through Edo-based chief personal attendants. Of course, at such times they would also inquire of the Edo senior retainers in advance.
　　However, this matter should be reported to the monthly duty magistrate.

1. On the 4th day of the 2nd month of Kyōhō 16 (1731), when ashigaru-metsuke Hasegawa Genzaemon was recently promoted and appointed as waterworks magistrate, the matter of his replacement was communicated to the senior retainers in writing. They conveyed through Uneme-kata that henceforth such matters should be reported to the senior retainers after obtaining approval from the lord as in the past.

1. On the 7th day of the 7th month of the 17th year (1732), today ashigaru-metsuke Itō Shichirōzaemon, who was serving at the lord's residence, was late due to sudden illness. When a messenger was sent from his colleague at the bridge post, Ōkubo Risuke, he reported recovery and came to work, but since he could not make it in time for the senior retainers' castle attendance, he was ordered to show restraint and this was reported. Since it was illness, he should be quickly pardoned, and since he was someone who performed official duties, he should be admonished to avoid future mistakes. This was heard, and he was pardoned on the 11th day of the same month.

1. When ashigaru-metsuke withdraw during mourning periods, light cases are about three days, heavy cases about seven days before reporting mourning release to the senior retainers and conveying this to the monthly duty ashigaru-metsuke. Very light cases may be pardoned in about one day, and birth defilement is also scheduled to be pardoned in about three days.
　　However, initial withdrawal due to mourning, birth defilement, etc. is not reported to senior retainers. When seeking pardon due to interference with official duties, one reports that withdrawal has been ongoing since before. This was the handling around the Kōka period.

1. On the 2nd day of the 6th month of Kansei 1 (1789), when frugality measures were announced, ashigaru-metsuke unit members were appointed to oversight positions for enforcement. This was possibly lifted the following winter.

1. On the 20th day of the 5th month of Genbun 5 (1740), four ashigaru-metsuke had been appointed as府中 (castle town) duty officers during the lord's absence since last spring, but the senior retainers conveyed that this duty assignment was to be lifted, so this was communicated accordingly.

1. On the 11th day of the 5th month of Enkyō 2 (1745), it was announced that one ashigaru-metsuke would be added to the domain holdings, so Nakayama Sen'suke was appointed from among the ashigaru-metsuke. The senior retainers conveyed to domain holdings metsuke Suzuki Jūzaemon that this should be announced. However, until now there had been only Kawai Kan'emon.

[Red ink] The red ink portions appear in one text as Terasawa-shi's notes
　　　　[Red ink]―Happyakuri considers that the red ink portions concern matters from an earlier period than this document.

1. Regarding ashigaru-metsuke duties, Kyōhō 4―16 or not yet investigated. In the 2nd month of (1731), when inquiring of Hayashi Yahei, he submitted the following written report:
　1. [When the lord is in the domain] Two guards at the lord's quarters [including meal relief; one person daily at both the accounting office and council chamber]
　1. One attendant　　[one person for emergency duties]
　　　　[Thus five people serve each day]
　1. Two people to the main castle on ceremonial days [―two bridge guards each]
　1. Two or three people when viewing martial arts [―one person attends besides the attendant]
　1. Two people when viewing horsemanship [―same as above]
　1. For luggage inspection during the lord's travel to and from Edo [―going to Imajō or Funabashi]. During formal attendance, they go to Imajō one or two days in advance.
　[Lower red ink section]
　1. During overnight duty at the lord's quarters, they examine gate entries and exits, consult with the announcement staff,
　　　report to the guard officials, then oversee fire safety throughout the lord's residence inside the gates
　　　after the night duty withdraws
　1. During overnight hawking excursions, two guards at the lord's quarters, together with meal relief, oversee fire safety from the front gate to the rear
　　　bird quarters and throughout the lord's residence