1. When Her Ladyship makes pilgrimages to various places in the domain, one attendant serves in advance.

1. During departures, one person goes to the outside of the dismounting gate to inspect the formation of the procession.
However, during returns to the domain, this is also supervised and ordered.

1. In Edo, when retainers who have been promoted do not serve in regular attendance, they serve as messengers.

1. In the domain, when gunpowder is transferred to the storehouse, attendance is required.

1. During fires in the castle town, the duty officer goes to Shimizu Gate. Others off duty also all go to the fire scene.

1. When there are year-end markets every year in the twelfth month, two people per day are stationed at the guard post near Ōhashi Bridge.

1. When inspection officials pass through, attendance in the surrounding areas is required.

1. When daimyo lords pass through Fukui, attendance for procession duties is required.

1. When people from Seigan Temple perform puppet shows, daily attendance is required.
[Lower section in red ink] On the 2nd day of the 6th month of Shōtoku 3 (1713), regarding puppet theaters in general, until now one ashigaru metsuke has been sent daily, but hereafter it is acceptable to send one every four or five days. Also, although two metsuke ashigaru are sent daily, when there are personnel shortages, one person is acceptable. Hereafter, Honma Shuri conveyed these instructions to monthly duty metsuke Hasegawa Jinbei.

1. When there are benefit Noh performances or sumo wrestling, attendance is required if near the castle town. However, in recent years, patrol duties are sometimes performed even at somewhat distant locations.
Duties are performed as described above.

1. During absence years, when cleaning and wiping are conducted at the lord's quarters, ashigaru metsuke should be dispatched.

1. When meals are served to various retainers at the main castle and they gather at the Seven Treasures Storehouse, ashigaru metsuke should conduct patrol inspections.

1. Regarding ashigaru metsuke rural patrol duties
1. During absence years, one ashigaru metsuke each is sent to upper and lower regions with one group member each wearing half-armor as escort.
However, while this was the previous practice, in recent years two ashigaru metsuke were sent without group escorts. But in Meiwa 6, year of the ox (1769), after consultation among colleagues, the previous practice was resumed of sending one ashigaru metsuke with one group member each to upper and lower regions. The group members are sent not as separate duties but in order of group duty rotation. Old memoranda state departure in mid-October, but in recent years earlier departure has occurred, so in Meiwa 6 they departed on August 11th. Upper region: Takasu Naoemon, lower region: Yamashina Chūbei.

1. Regarding rural patrol of directly administered territories, instructions were given for one ashigaru metsuke and one group member, but since Akao Sobei, Seki Kōzaemon and others have not yet conducted patrols, this year they requested to patrol upper and lower regions in pairs with experienced officials for training purposes. For this year only, this was approved. One team: Yamashina Chūbei and Akao Sobei; one team: Oka Jūjibei and Seki Kōzaemon were dispatched.

1. When official notice boards are relocated, personnel are sent for inspection.

1. When there are dispute investigations in rural areas, personnel are dispatched as precedent. This appears in the investigation council section.

1. On the 20th day of the 10th month of Bunka 9, year of the monkey (1812), the following was announced according to His Lordship's intention:
Separate document - To monthly duty metsuke
Those appointed to ashigaru metsuke positions have until now received an increase of three koku, totaling eighteen koku and three-person stipend, but hereafter during their term of service, three koku will be provided as additional stipend, but this will not continue after transfer to other positions.

1. Before departures and returns to the castle, when ashigaru metsuke numbers become insufficient, about four assistants are needed, so from among the ashigaru metsuke's subordinate ashigaru...