1. Kyōhō 11, Year of the Horse, 7th month, 11th day: Regarding Itō Yosuke, who was appointed as 御徒目付 (foot soldier inspector) on the 9th of last month, since he is to be assigned as a trainee for official duties, Okamoto Kohachirō was instructed to integrate him into the duty rotation.

1. Same [Kyōhō] 18, Year of the Ox, 10th month, 12th day: When a representative was appointed for martial arts in the retainer group and the senior councilors ascended to the castle, Sakai Genba reported at the main castle that this morning during his castle visit, 御徒目付 Katsuta Monzō was present at the bridge entrance, but his manner of greeting was improper. When he consulted with his colleagues, they all agreed on the same matter. This differs greatly from the traditional manner of greetings by 御徒目付, and currently the overall manner of greetings is too elevated and the appearance is poor. Particularly today, Monzō's manner of greeting was excessively poor. Since new appointees will learn by example when they appear in the future, this is problematic. Since the appearance from outside is also poor, monthly duty officer Genzaemon should consult with colleague Hanemon and strictly address this matter. Accordingly, he consulted with Hanemon, and instructed that day's duty officer Matsubara Jiemon to accompany Monzō to Gentazaemon's residence. When both appeared, the matter reported by Genba was strictly communicated. Monzō stated: "I cannot make various excuses, and I am troubled by this impropriety. Until now, I have consulted sufficiently with my colleagues and conducted greetings in the same manner. Even today, there was nothing different from usual, but since you have found fault, it cannot be helped. Should I exercise restraint at this time?" Since he asked this, he was told to refrain and remain withdrawn for now, and this was reported to Genba. Since this is for the understanding of all 御徒目付 in the future, he also consulted with his colleagues and reported to his superior as mentioned earlier. Since Monzō understood and expressed his concern, this was acceptable. He was told that restraint was unnecessary and to continue serving as before, and this was communicated to Matsubara Jiemon.

1. Same [Kyōhō] 19, Year of the Tiger, 8th month, 24th day: 御徒目付 Sakabe Matahachi suffered from malaria during this period, and requested that if permission for long hair were granted, since there were few colleagues, he would like to serve in positions not requiring direct audience with the lord. When this matter was reported to and consulted with the senior councilors, Okabe Sazen reported that while direct audience should be avoided, if there were few personnel, a temporary appointment could be made. When the senior councilors reviewed the written list of foot soldiers to be appointed temporarily, they said it should be reported to the lord. Accordingly, Hanemon appeared before the lord and reported this matter. The lord stated that if Matahachi could serve even with long hair, there would be no concern about direct audience, so appointing a temporary replacement for his service was unnecessary. This was communicated to the senior councilors and also to Matahachi.

1. Kanpō 1, Year of the Rooster, 12th month, 16th day: There is a record that Keya 御徒目付 did not serve as supervisor for relay boats. This appears in the section on relay boats.

1. Enkyō 2, Year of the Ox, 3rd month, 29th day: Since the conch shell unit was to appear for martial arts inspection on the last day of the month, the responsible presenter requested that two people from the military records office conch shell unit and 御徒目付 be sent. However, since only one person had been sent previously, it was reported that sending two people would be difficult. Nevertheless, since all matters had been completed and it was getting late in the day, two people were sent this time, with the understanding that this matter would be investigated in the future.

1. Same 4th year, Year of the Rabbit, 10th month, 16th day: 御徒目付 Oka Jūjibē's illness became critical, and since his real son was only five years old, he requested to adopt Jinkurō, the youngest son of Abe Buzaemon.

1. Kan'en 2, Year of the Snake, 2nd month, 8th day: Honda Minbu reported that 御徒目付 Iwasa Chōemon was assigned confidential duties and was to be sent to Himeji in Harima Province as a foot soldier courier. Accordingly, Chōemon was ordered to depart on the 9th and travel for five days. Letters were sent from the local senior councilors to the Himeji senior councilors, and we also wrote letters to their inspector officials. Chōemon received the prescribed miscellaneous expense silver, and two ryō in gold were lent from the confidential funds and given to him. He was accompanied by two long-handled weapon bearers (one carrying a document box) and one servant.

1. Genroku 3, Year of the Horse, 3rd month, 15th day: When 御徒目付 went to the countryside on official business, they had been receiving field stipends for five years, but the inspectors privately requested that miscellaneous expenses be provided as in the past. It was ordered that miscellaneous expenses be provided as before,

This was communicated to Inspector Kaifuku Inobē. It was also reported to the magistrates.