They are scheduled to be sent. When taking hot spring baths, they must submit written prohibitions.

1. In the 11th month of Meiwa 3 (1766), copies of circular notices from the senior inspectors (ōmetsuke) were distributed to each relevant party.
　Regarding various craftsmen who have received court ranks and imperial permission: there are reports that some continue to use hereditary court titles without applying for succession, while descendants use the court ranks that their fathers or grandfathers received imperial permission for. If such persons exist, henceforth they should not arbitrarily use provincial names or official titles. However, applying for hereditary succession of court ranks remains at their discretion.
This directive should be communicated through magistrates for shogunal lands and through lords and landlords for private domains.

1. On the 2nd day of the 3rd month of Meiwa 2 (1765), Ueno Sen'ryū, a town physician who was a retainer of the official blacksmith Shimada Kichizaemon, petitioned and was placed under town administration.

1. On the 3rd day of the 12th month of An'ei 8 (1779), Shimada Sukeemon died of illness, and on the 24th day of the same month, family succession was granted.

1. On the 24th day of the 1st month of Kansei 2 (1790), regarding house reconstruction.

1. In the same year and month, regarding Wakabayashi Shōgorō's replacement.

1. On the 15th day of the 10th month of Bunka 8 (1811), Shimasaka Ichizaemon's adoptive father died of illness, so Ichizaemon reported that he would observe the customary mourning period in seclusion.
　However, when official duties are requested by the sword department, the mourning restrictions may be lifted.

1. In the 8th month of the 10th year (1813), gunsmith metalworker Miyakawa Sajibei reported that he would construct a house for Kinjirō, the brother of carpenter Yonekichi from Matsuyamachi, adjacent to his existing property on the main street where he had previously housed retainers. This matter was reported to the town magistrate for information.

1. On the 11th day of the 5th month of Kyōwa 1 (1801), weapons official Atobe Hikoichirō reported that gunsmith Wakabayashi Shōgorō was in mourning seclusion, but urgent weapons department business required his immediate release from mourning. Therefore, senior blacksmith Shimada Kichizaemon was instructed to inform Shōgorō that his mourning period would be lifted from that day and he should report for duty.

1. On the 3rd day of the 9th month of the same year, Shimada Kichizaemon submitted the attached document, and after consultation among colleagues, he was told to proceed at his discretion.
　Document: Tomioka Naiki of Ōmi Province is my acquaintance, so I wish to consult about business matters. I would like to send my son Heisuke there soon for a brief stay. I request permission for this. Please convey this matter favorably to the inspectors. Respectfully, 9th month, To Shimada Kichizaemon, Wakabayashi Shōgorō (seal)

1. On the 3rd day of the 4th month of Bunka 1 (1804), gunsmith Wakabayashi Heisuke submitted the following report, and colleagues were informed that it would be discussed.
　Memorandum
　Tomioka Sentarō of the Sabae domain retainers, who is my acquaintance, has requested to come to my place for lodging and apprenticeship to learn the trade. I have temporarily accepted him. I report this matter for your acknowledgment. Respectfully,
　　　　4th month, Wakabayashi Heisuke

1. In the 3rd month of Kyōwa 2 (1802), the following petition was submitted, and when consulted with the senior retainers, they said to proceed at discretion. Shōgorō's request for retirement was granted as petitioned, and his son Heisuke was appointed to handle official replicas and other duties like his father. Heisuke was summoned to the council chamber and this was conveyed in the presence of Shimada Kichizaemon.
　Memorandum
　I have become ill in recent years and find my duties extremely difficult. Therefore, I wish to petition for retirement. My son Heisuke has come of age, so I privately hope he may be granted succession without change. Please convey this matter favorably to the inspectors. Respectfully,
　3rd month, To Shimada Kichizaemon, Wakabayashi Shōgorō