Wakabayashi Shōgorō shall appear at the council chamber accompanied by his son. End.
　　　　　　　March 16th, To Shimada Kichizaemon

The above matter was also communicated to the monthly duty attendants and monthly duty magistrates for their information.

1. On the 29th day of the 10th month of Bunka 1 (1804), Miyakawa Genbei submitted the following petition, and when consulted with the senior retainers, they instructed to proceed at discretion. Therefore, retirement was granted as requested, and succession was granted to his son Yasunojō. Yasunojō was summoned to the council chamber this morning, and this was conveyed in the presence of Shimada Kichizaemon.
　　　　Memorandum
　I have become ill in recent years and find my duties extremely difficult. Therefore, I wish to petition for retirement. My son Yasunojō has come of age, so I privately hope he may be granted succession without change. Please convey this matter favorably to the inspectors.
　　　10th month, To Shimasaka Ichizaemon, Miyakawa Genbei
　　　　　　　On the 20th day of the 1st month of Kōka 1 (1844), there were detailed arrangements for Miyakawa Sajizaemon's succession.

The summons letter regarding the above succession was as follows:
　Tomorrow the 29th at 4 o'clock, Miyakawa Genbei shall appear at the council chamber accompanied by his son. End.
　　　　October 28th, To Shimada Kichizaemon, Imamura Denbei

1. On the 8th day of the 10th month of Tenpō 4 (1833), gunstand craftsman Takase Tōzō submitted a petition for adoption during illness, and subsequently died. The post-mortem notification was submitted by official blacksmith Shimada Kichizaemon, who appeared and delivered both documents at once, so this was communicated to the senior retainers.
　However, after the initial petition for adoption during illness was reviewed and instructions were given to proceed at discretion, immediately though in abbreviated form, the post-mortem notification was also reviewed. At that time, if about twenty days had passed, it was inquired whether the stipend should be granted the same as the adoptive father Tōzō and duties assigned the same as the parent. On the 28th of the same month, Shimada Kichizaemon was instructed to have Takase Tōgorō accompany him to his residence, and succession matters were conveyed.
　This follows precedent.
　Regarding the adoption petition, when consulted with the senior retainers, Shimada Kichizaemon was told that it would be granted as requested.
　　　　Memorandum
　I have recently been suffering from beriberi and receiving medical treatment, but it has gradually worsened, and I believe my ultimate recovery is uncertain. Therefore, my brother Yūshichirō's son Tōgorō, who is fifteen years old this year, I wish to adopt during my illness, having privately arranged this. I request permission for this. Please convey this matter favorably to the inspectors. Respectfully,
　　　　　October, To Shimada Kichizaemon, Takase Tōzō

The post-mortem notification for the above Tōzō was as follows:
　　　Rice stipend 10 koku, 2-person allowance　　　　Takase Tōzō, age 47
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Adopted son Tōgorō, age 15

The above Tōzō had been suffering from beriberi in recent years, taking medicine from town physician Ikeda Tsūsai, and receiving acupuncture treatment from physician Yoshida Yōzō, but as his condition gradually worsened, he took medicine from court physician Yamada Keijun. However, recovery was not possible, and he died tonight at the hour of the Tiger (3-5 AM).
I report the above. End. October 8th
　　　　　To the Inspectors　　　　　Shimada Kichizaemon (seal)

1. On the 3rd day of the 12th month of An'ei 8 (1779), official blacksmith Shimada Sukeemon died of illness, and family succession was granted on the 24th of the same month.