1. On the 24th day of the 1st month of Kansei 2 (1790), regarding Wakabayashi Shōgorō's succession. In all such cases, when death occurs and the matter is reported to the senior retainers, they have instructed that succession should be granted at an appropriate time. Generally, it appears that the monthly duty official is summoned and the appointment made after about twenty days.

1. On the 4th day of the 1st month of Bunka 12 (1815), regarding the death of Takase Rinzaemon, since there was precedent for this, this time also {{crossed out: it was planned to be handled on the 25th evaluation day | consultation with senior retainers on the 24th, and prompt notification}}

1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of Tenmei 4 (1784), swordsmith Harima Kanbei's work being satisfactory, he was placed under inspector supervision for life.

1. On the 16th day of the 3rd month of Bunsei 2 (1819), Harima Shūzaburō was placed under inspector supervision.

1. On the 15th day of the 10th month of Bunka 8 (1811), Shimosaka Ichizaemon's adoptive father died, so Ichizaemon entered mourning seclusion as prescribed. However, when official duties arise from the sword magistrate's office, this mourning seclusion is to be exempted.

1. In the 3rd month of Kansei 8 (1796), sword-wearing permission was granted to Shimosaka Ichizaemon and Shimada Kichizaemon.

1. On the 29th day of the 4th month of Kansei 10 (1798), sword-wearing permission was granted to Wakabayashi Shōgorō.

1. In Bunka 9 (1812), Shimada Kichizaemon petitioned to send his third son to serve in Kyoto, which was granted at discretion.

1. On the 20th day of the 6th month of Kan'en 3 (1750), gunsmith Shōgorō had been under inspector supervision without rank since being summoned by Lord Ryūhōin in Echigo. However, due to circumstances related to his father Shōgorō's generation living in the merchant quarter, he petitioned privately and came under town magistrate supervision. But when he petitioned to return to inspector supervision as before, after investigation this was reported to the senior retainers, and inspector supervision was granted, with instructions to treat him the same as Yamashiro and Shimosaka. Records of his lineage exist.

1. In the 8th month of Bunka 10 (1813), Miyakawa Sajibei had previously assigned tenants to the front street of his property, and now reported that he was constructing and renting a house to Kinjirō, the brother of carpenter Tomekichi from Matsuyachō. This was communicated to the town magistrate for information.

1. On the 22nd day of the 5th month of Tenpō 6 (1835), regarding the memorial service for Lord Chōrin'in, advance notice came from the attendants that all those of appropriate rank and above should pay respects after the sutra recitation. However, the status of craftsmen was unclear, so consultation was held with colleagues. Since craftsmen do not have formal audience at the main castle when others do, they do not qualify for the above rank, so when such invitations come for those of appropriate rank and above, henceforth they should not be included. This was conveyed to Shimada Kichizaemon when summoned to monthly duty official Nishio Goemon's residence, with instructions to inform his peers. However, the craftsmen petitioned, and from the memorial service for Lord Ryūtokuin's 27th anniversary on the 18th day of the 6th month of the same year, the previous practice was restored. Monthly duty official Ōseki Shin'gozaemon

[In red ink]
1. On the 16th day of the 10th month of Kansei 10 (1798), regarding the 54th memorial for Lord Tokushōin on the coming 21st, when notification came from attendants about attendance by all supervised personnel of appropriate rank and above, this was also conveyed to the blacksmiths. Monthly duty official Matsubara Zenzaemon

1. On the 5th day of the 8th month of Kansei 11 (1799), regarding the 150th memorial service for Lord Seigan'in on the coming 9th and 10th, the same applied. Monthly duty official Eguchi Genzaemon

1. On the 29th day of the 3rd month and 4th day of the 12th month of Bunka 3 (1806), the same. After this, there were times when notification was not given.

1. Regarding marriages of craftsmen, this appears in the section "Marriages of Minor Officials and Below."

1. Regarding requests for discretionary leave, this appears in the section "Discretionary Leave Requests."

1. Regarding confinement and similar punishments, this appears in the section "Punishments for Minor Officials and Below."

1. On the 5th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 12 (1727), Shimada Kyūhachirō's apprentice Yosuke committed misconduct and was banished from the domain. Kyūhachirō submitted a discretionary leave request stating he was completely unaware of Yosuke's misdeeds, but this was deemed unnecessary. When he also inquired about his wife and children, he was told through Sakai Yosanzaemon that there would be no issue.

1. On the 12th day of the 1st month of Tenpō 11 (1840), notification came through a messenger from Sakai Yosanzaemon that gun fitting craftsman Yasukawa Yūzō had behaved improperly toward his grandson Takenojirō on the road yesterday, so confinement should be imposed. Colleague Shimada Gorōbei was summoned and instructed to convey this. When Wakabayashi Chūzaemon asked if he should submit a discretionary leave request due to being a cousin, he was told this was unnecessary. Chūzaemon was permitted to go about his duties.
　Note: This occurred when Yūzō encountered Takenojirō near Ōumaidas and greeted him while still wearing wooden clogs on the street.

1. On the 19th day of the 11th month of Tenmei 2 (1782), among the articles conveyed to five craftsmen summoned to monthly duty official Mizoguchi Kyōemon's residence:
　1. When submitting various petitions, some petition documents use the phrase "to the Honorable Senior Retainers." Henceforth, this phrase should be omitted and petitions should be submitted with specific names among the five, carried by intermediaries.
　　Additionally, this appears in the articles on "High Footwear in the Castle" and "Palace Gate Regulations."
　When this was conveyed, Shimosaka and Shimada were not compliant, so they resubmitted petitions, but these were not accepted and both were ordered confined.

1. On the 12th day of the 3rd month of Tenmei 7 (1787), for New Year ceremonies, it was decided that Shimosaka Ichizaemon's son Ichinosuke would sit in the upper seat above Takase and Miyakawa. This is detailed further later. The arrangement changed again the following year.

1. On the 15th day of the 11th month of Tenmei 6 (1786), Shimosaka Ichizaemon's son Ichinosuke petitioned for his first formal audience, which was granted as requested on the 24th day of the 12th month.

1. On the 25th day of the 1st month of Bunka 4 (1807) Gun stand craftsman Takase Rinzaemon
　Due to misconduct, consultation was made with senior retainers about whether he should be transferred from inspector supervision to town magistrate supervision. Wakabayashi