Makishima: This village collapsed in the earthquake and then burned down, but there was no flood damage. Mount Reihōzō
Mount Iwakura and Mount Reihōzō: The area where the landslide occurred spans approximately two ri
The collapsed mountain was said to be about five jō in height. At this rocky mountain, there is almost no water for about one ri
Mizuuchi Bridge: This bridge was a small bridge spanning from mountain to mountain, with water barriers in normal times

Currently, water has risen above the bridge. From here to the Matsudaira domain border four ri away,
the water has become putrid

Mount Iwakura
Mizuuchi Village section, Mizuuchi Village, Kandade Village
Shinmachi, Hokari Village, Kirihara Village
Sakurai Village, Shimohira Village: These five marked villages fell into the river due to the earthquake
Mimizo Village, Yoshihara Village, Takebō Village, Ōhira Village
Takayama Village

All along the riverside areas, most are mountain villages. In the domain of Matsudaira
Tamba-no-kami-sama, about 300 people were dispatched the day before yesterday
for the difficult situation. This river is called the Sai River upstream from Mizuuchi Bridge
Down to Tanbashima, this stretch of upper river is called the Shinano River to Niigata in Echigo

From here to the Matsumoto domain border four ri away, the water has become putrid
Besides this, the villages with putrid water are too numerous to write, so I record those along the riverside. All areas three to four ri upstream from Sanya Village
are underwater. There is a high mountain three ri north-south from Shinmachi, and all the people of the villages on the north side of the river toward the stone mountain
have been completely destroyed. The water has already reached the mountain's edge, and I heard today that even now the sound of tremors
and collapses is severe in all directions

Kōka 4th year, year of the Boar
On the 24th day of the 3rd month of this year, at 4 o'clock at night, there was a great earthquake at Zenkōji in Shinshū, houses collapsed,
and a great fire broke out, burning everything down with not a single house remaining. Only about ten houses on both
sides of Shinden-machi remained, and everything else on Echigo-dōri and Shinmachi-dōri burned down completely
However, only the main hall, mountain gate, and sutra hall remained. At the Fujita households, there were over 700 dead and injured, and at Ōgiya and
Edoya the number of dead is unknown. Inariyama burned down completely and the population count is unknown. At Matsushiro castle town,
from Ise-machi, Honmachi, Nakamachi, Kōjin-machi to Higashi-tera-machi, everything collapsed, but this
did not result in fire. The Sai River was dammed by a landslide at Koichiba Village two ri away, and at Matsushiro-sama's
castle, the turrets collapsed, the castle grounds shook greatly, and the lord deployed troops to Torii Pass
The three magistrates and assistants went around various places of importance, and from Koichiba Village, large numbers throughout Kawanakajima
were led like pulling teeth of a comb to Mount Matsushiro, where they set up temporary shelters

28th night, 8 o'clock: Great earthquake; 29th day: 6 o'clock, 7 o'clock great earthquakes, same at 4 o'clock
Recording only these major earthquakes, smaller tremors continue constantly. Of the
thirty-one villages upstream on the Sai River, they became submerged and formed floating bridges. This was confirmed by Matsushiro-sama's officials