Written Statement

Regarding the matter of investigating stolen goods in rural areas, the ban-hinin who go to city pawnshops to make inquiries find it more difficult to coordinate than before, and with your investigation attached, it is inconvenient and the non-persons are experiencing hardship. Concerning this petition, you ordered consultation at the town magistrate's office, sent official documents to the city pawnshop intermediaries, and they submitted response letters. You then handed these to us and ordered us to report if we had any thoughts on the matter, which we humbly acknowledge.

First, regarding the ban-hinin going out to investigate using item description lists, there should be no hindrance as before. Naturally, if they go out soon after the theft occurred, investigation would be easier, but after many days have passed, account book manipulations become possible. Even if there are similar items, without the theft victim present, accurate identification is difficult to arrange, and both parties incur double handling costs. Although this point was made, since they divide up and investigate city and rural pawnshops immediately when theft occurs, it is difficult to arrange for theft victims to accompany them in advance. It is unpredictable when stolen goods will later be pawned by thieves. Besides the non-persons, there may be occasions to inquire at pawnshops that are mindful of stolen goods investigations using item descriptions. Most often, they go out to investigate without much delay. If there are similar items, theft victims should go to examine them within five days for nearby locations and ten days for distant locations. Otherwise, redemption would be indefinitely hindered, causing hardship to those who pawned items - this reasoning seems quite reasonable. However, since illness or other obligations of theft victims are unpredictable, and dates may be extended, we believe you should set limits of ten days for nearby areas and fifteen days for distant areas from the date item descriptions are given to the non-persons.

However, regarding the request that the non-persons conduct no excessive or illegal actions when they go out, it goes without saying that they should be ordered to understand their social position and conduct inquiries without impropriety. Nevertheless, they do not go out for personal business but for thieves