【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　Thirteen
　Those who have eaten grass roots and tree leaves and been poisoned by them, causing swelling throughout the body, should dig up narcissus roots
　and drink them to reduce the swelling. In the past, in the spring of Hōreki 6, year of the Fire Rat (1756), starving people who had eaten wisteria leaves and plantain
　for a long time and whose whole bodies turned blue and swelled like dropsy were given four or five doses of famine relief
　detoxification pills with hot water, and the swelling subsided and they completely recovered.
Bamboo shoots　Should be boiled well with salt, miso and the like before eating. If not thoroughly cooked, they are hard to digest. If
　poisoned, drink ginger juice for detoxification.
Garden balsam　Also called tsumabenai, nail-dyeing grass, or small peach red. Take the seedlings and leaves, boil them, soak in water
　overnight to make vegetables, and season with soy sauce to eat. The materia medica states there is mild toxicity, but if well
　boiled with water changed and soaked overnight, there is no harm. The seeds, when fish bones are stuck in the throat, should be ground
　to powder and drunk with water, or put in a bamboo tube and blown in, then they will be removed immediately - this is miraculous.

【Left Page】
Chinese swallowwort　Also called kogami. Take young leaves, boil them, change water and soak to remove bitter taste and evil qi,
　wash thoroughly and season with soy sauce to eat. Boil and eat the leaves of this grass. The taste is good. Should be planted in hedges as
　food. It supplements deficiency, increases vital essence, and strengthens the reproductive organs. Its nature is good. The leaves
　eliminate toxins, the cotton stops bleeding from sword wounds. The juice is applied to swellings and snake bites.
　This should always be planted by common people.
Wild onion　Take seedlings and roots, boil them, and season with miso or salt to eat. Though said to have mild toxicity,
　in Jōshū dialect called ushibiru, it is excellent for relieving hunger in famine years. In Jōshū
　during famine years, village headmen issue notices to their jurisdictions, having farmers go to mountains and fields to dig them up, boil and eat them.
Rescue grass　This is wild wheat. Named because sparrows eat it. Hull it to remove the skin, pound it to make noodles
　and steam to eat, or make into rice cakes to eat, which is also good. Mukai Genshō says it first grows around the second month