【Right Page】
　The method of detoxification is as described previously.
Torreya nuts (kaya no mi)　Since people commonly eat these, there is no need to describe the preparation method. There is a
　method of roasting them as fragrant tea snacks, mixing them with roasted wheat flour for eating. In Chinese herbology, it states that torreya nut shells
　conflict with mung beans and can kill people well, so it would be good to consult a skilled physician.
Water caltrop (hishi)　When young, their color is blue-green, when old they are black. Young ones are peeled and eaten raw. They are sweet and delicious. Old ones are steamed and
　eaten. Country people sun-dry them, remove the skin, make them into powder for dumplings and steamed cakes, or make porridge.
　All can substitute for grain. The tender stems are also harvested, dried and stored, mixed with rice and wheat to cook into rice
　for eating. Though their properties do not match lotus seeds or prickly waterlily seeds, they are sufficient to save the poor from starvation in famine years.
　The ancients often used these to relieve famine.
Lotus root (hasu no ne)　When boiling, avoid iron vessels and use copper vessels. Adding a little vinegar when boiling prevents it from turning black.

【Left Page】
　Also, pound and crush fresh roots, extract the juice, purify with water and air-dry to make dumplings and steamed cakes. The leaves can be
　blanched and used as food. When boiling fresh roots, it is best to boil them in wood ash lye.
　It is also said that adding extinguished charcoal when boiling is good.
Lotus shoots (hasu no me)　Young roots harvested in May and June. They are thinner than old roots, with many shoots emerging. Prepare and eat
　as described above. Properties and taste are the same.
Lotus seeds (hasu no mi)　Steaming and eating them is very good. Pounding and crushing them to mix with rice, adding to porridge or rice for eating
　helps with hunger. Mixing with rice flour to make rice cakes and dumplings is also good.
Prickly waterlily seeds (mizuōbako no mi)　Commonly called demon lotus seeds. Leaves emerge in March. Stems and leaves all have thorns. Take the young ones,
　peel the skin from stems before eating. Purple flowers bloom in May and June, facing the sun. They form buds.
　The outside has blue thorns like chestnut burrs. When peeled open, there is spotted soft flesh inside.