A gentleman loves the wise (君子愛智者)
A petty person loves the wealthy (小人愛福人)

The "wisdom" spoken of here is not mere monkey cleverness, but rather superior wisdom gained through learning and study, which leaves one unconfused about things. Gentlemen and good people love such wise persons, but greedy people tend to fawn upon the wealthy. While this is human nature, we should carefully distinguish between these attitudes.

Confucius also said, "Wealth and honor are to me like floating clouds." It is regrettable that there are no scholars who pursue learning with the same passion as people pursue gold. Gold brings with it many resentments. Even a thousand pieces of gold for curing someone's headache—how could it compare to five ounces of patience? Do you understand? Do you understand?

[Sparrows' dialogue]
"Look at that surly old woman's face—look at the moon, it's really bushy!"

"Is it heavy or light? Like asking about the price of soil or the price of rice!"

[Surly old woman's dialogue]
"Well then, if I had received it before all the commotion, it would have been much better!"
"Oh ho ho ho ho ho!"

Though one emerges from a poor and humble gate (雖出貧賤門)
For one who possesses wisdom (為有智人者)
It is just like a lotus in the mud (宛如泥中蓮)

The drips after a fire, seeing vegetables at a greengrocer's shop, the chapped hands of a notice-board man confirming deliciousness on a slope's flat area. The bush warbler of a mountain village is always beloved in the capital's spring. Do not despise someone because of low birth. Also, do not envy someone because they are noble.

The rice grains by the roadside, haggling over the pot, looking and speaking ill behind someone's back—this is quite natural. With a heart that doesn't become stained by the mud like a lotus leaf, what would deceive us by calling dew a jewel? Surely the gods dwell in an honest head. Children must above all be honest. Don't forget what grandfather says.

"Thus, even a chrysanthemum that emerges from a prince's garden, if it doesn't neglect its true nature and is well cultivated, will eventually become a famous large bloom and leave its name for posterity."

"What kind of story is this for drinking entertainment? When there are suddenly no worries, does the body come to know this? How painful!"