"Show complete respect to your elder brothers" (Treat elder brothers with utmost courtesy)
"Show loving care to your younger brothers" (Show affection and care for younger brothers)

It is said without doubt that doves have three forms of propriety, making them birds of proper etiquette. From parent birds to elder birds to younger birds, they descend the tree branch by branch to their roosts in order. Also, the pheasant is a bird that shows marital harmony.

Now, here is a story. On a certain pine branch, four or five doves were perched, but since this pine was a small tree, the youngest dove was perched on the lower branch. There was a scoundrel in the area who did mischief, and taking advantage of the convenient proximity, he peered through the moonlight and caught it with his hand.

Saying "You bird!" he easily caught the dove at night, not bothering to climb to the higher branches, and thus the scoundrel captured it. Even sages dislike those who steal others' partners, and such behavior leads to bad consequences. There was also a pheasant under the tree, but startled by the noise, it hid in the thick grass, not knowing that its tail was visible, and it too was caught by the same scoundrel.

The dove's misfortune came from disaster received due to its propriety - this is heaven's will. The pheasant was captured alive due to its own foolishness - this is not heaven's will. Even if one dies, if one does not lose loyalty and filial piety, there is nothing to regret.

When Zilu was about to be killed, he straightened his cap; Gaochai, when facing danger, did not take shortcuts. Such behavior is like plugging one's ears while stealing a bell. Act so that you won't be called "the beginning of brothers becoming strangers."

No matter what, if you don't show the red dumplings, the begging will probably stop.

♪In the long world's distant sleep, drowsily, with a belly too full of New Year's soup. Wiping away this moment of drinking and falling, carelessly saying "this is the pillow of Handan," arching back, the heart briefly dozes, lying down with abundant stature.

♪"Wake up, Goro, wake up" - this sounds like the call of birds in a theatrical performance.