"Though the capital of non-action is pleasant, those who are dissolute do not play there."
"Trustworthy words are not beautiful."

Thus, using one's elbow as a staff for a pillow, one does not know that pleasure lies within.

The flute of the candy seller awakens sleeping children, and the drums of the grand kagura make even the wet nurses rush out. At the sound of temple bells and drums, even thoughtless servant girls cover their ears, and Buddhist chants for the afterlife cannot be heard by sentient beings unless they have a melody.

The "Quli" (Book of Rites) states: "Do not indulge desires freely, and do not pursue pleasures to excess." To indulge in desires and seek pleasure is not true pleasure. Like getting tipsy on sweet sake and serving thin uiro cakes boiled in silver - this does not suit refined people.

♪"When the two things I desire are lacking, even the capital of flowers becomes countryside" - this is a profound saying by Zeami. "Niginigi" originates from "head ten-ten," and "awawa" should change to "head shaking-shaking" - how do you understand this?

♪Pleasure is cooling under the evening glory trellis, men with hand towels, women with fans.

As the parable of poverty and pleasure goes, finding joy in doing evil is the same as suffering.

♪"How well they have bloomed!"

♪"Rather than drinking sake with sea bream miso soup and going out with victory sake from the mountain, it's better to simply drink astringent tea for pleasure."

♪"Serve the tea."

"Respect the elderly as if they were your parents; love the young as if they were your siblings."
"If I respect others, others will also respect me."

"Kindness is not just for others" - how well said this is! When you say "What nice weather today," the other person responds just as pleasantly. Show humanity to people; when people are bad, it's because we are bad. If we extend sincerity, others return sincerity.

For example, lighting fire with the transferred scent of roasted barley and returning it, or being invited to eel with grated yam soup in return. There's also the saying "pinch yourself to know others' pain." Even the sage said "All within the four seas are brothers." Since young women should make gentleness their facade, amiability is most important.

People's good and evil depend on themselves - strike and it resonates, beat and it sounds like a drum going "don-don gachi-don." Being called this is due to one's own rigidity, and putting on airs is unnecessary.

♪"If you're here to escort, I shall see you off. Dear grandchild, with such long sleeves..."

♪"Grandmother, I too want to play with toys, regarding family..."

♪"What tremendous instruction this is!"

♪"What a consistently virtuous person they are."