"You must have suffered great hardships. I will prepare a ship and send you back to Japan immediately, so you should return home," he said.

Therefore, wondering if this was a dream or reality, we were so overcome with tears of joy that we could not speak. We four - Tsudayu, Gihei, Sahei, and Sadayu from Sabusawa - said "We wish by all means to return to Japan." When the emperor heard this, he rose from his seat, extended his hand, and patted the heads of us four three times, greatly blessing us for what he called our "gentle desire to return to our homeland." The other six men said, "We have drifted for a long time and should have died, but having been saved in this way, and now thinking of returning to Japan across the distant seas, we believe it would be difficult to return to Japan safely, so we wish to remain in this land." To this he said "Do as you wish," and paid no attention to the six men. He instructed the interpreter that "the four men returning to Japan should be shown around the entire mansion and also shown all famous places and historic sites without exception." We were immediately provided with a guide and shown around. The magnificence and beauty were beyond description in words. Each of us four was given twenty pieces of gold, clothing, and one pocket watch. This pocket watch was a rare item without equal. You wind it in the morning and hang it from your waist, and you can check the time freely. It was a watch about three sun in length. I dedicated one to my lord upon returning home, and requested permission from the authorities to use the remaining three for trade, placing them in Edo.

1. When we were summoned before the emperor, the emperor's mother and empress were also present with us. The attire of the mother and empress was as thin as cicada wings, with butterflies and various other designs sewn in gold and silver, garments so brilliant and dazzling. They were very graceful and beautiful women.

1. When we were summoned before the emperor and passed into the inner audience chamber, there was an extremely spacious room, with court nobles and various ministers seated in rows to the left and right of the emperor, and from the next room...