1. Besides the sailor Kotayu from Ise, there was another person, but he died of illness. They laid him face up, put him in a long coffin, and sent him to a temple, where the priest conducted the funeral service.

1. The welcoming pillar (raigo-bashira) of the emperor's family temple is eight hiro in length, with the pillar's circumference being about one jo and two shaku, made of crystal. The principal Buddha statue is seven shaku and five sun tall, made of silver.

1. There are many pleasure quarters, with buildings of exquisite beauty that cannot be fully described in words. The courtesans' attire and customs are particularly exceptional. Like Edo's Yoshiwara, they apply beautiful makeup and sit displaying themselves in their establishments. Since we did not visit for pleasure, I do not know the details, but according to our interpreter's account: customers gather and select women who suit their hearts, meet with someone called "Saka," and say "I want to play with that woman." Then Saka acts as an intermediary (Saka is like the yarite of Edo's Yoshiwara). They exchange cups and then go to bed. The bedding is brocade and such, with animal fur lining. The pillow is two shaku and eight sun long, two sun shorter than townhouse pillows, being short because it's a pillow for courtesans' pleasure activities. When going to bed and men and women engage in intercourse, the woman stands and embraces with great care while letting her hands hang loosely. This is done because it would be rude to a first-time customer. According to our interpreter, this is the same as Japanese courtesans not untying their lower sashes with first-time customers. When the customer says "please raise your hands," she responds "I shall follow your wish," raises her hands, and afterward knows nothing more. Generally, in this country's customs, not raising one's hands to a man one meets for the first time is a refined practice. It is said to be the same during wedding night ceremonies. This is quite different from courtesans, with different sentiments. It is a matter of propriety to avoid being thought of as one with deep carnal desires by the man one will be with for life. Generally, women have deep sexual desires...