There were fish unfamiliar to those seen in Japan. We stayed on this island from July of the Tiger year until April of the Rabbit year.
The captain of that merchant ship said, "Perhaps because the food differs from Japanese food and they eat only fish, people's complexion gradually worsens. We have been on this island for three years collecting various pelts. We have been here for a year and a half until this month, procuring goods and loading them onto the ship, but we are only halfway done. However, if we stay on this island much longer, not one of the Japanese will survive." So he took us fifteen people aboard his merchant ship and departed in April of the Rabbit year. The distance over this sea was over 400 ri, heading in the northeast direction.

This merchant ship captain truly had a compassionate heart that Japanese people could not match. While Japanese people often kill others driven by greed and harbor evil intentions, these people, whose appearance and manner were the same as the Ezo, came from about 19,000 ri away from the Russian capital to this place, and showed the intention to help the Japanese by cutting short their business and returning to their country. We thought of them as gods or buddhas and shed tears.

1. Sambahiyau - Russian officials come from Russia to govern this place.
1. We arrived at this place on April 5th of the Rabbit year. The people of this place have the same appearance as those of Onderaitsuke, with clothing made of bird and animal skins. Their food is likewise only fish, and they live in pit dwellings. It is a place where many animal pelts are produced.
At sea in this place, the sun sets in the west at the evening hour of six, and immediately looking to the east, the eastern sky faintly whitens as if it were the dawn hour of six. When we asked the people of this place why this happens, they said, "This place is near the northernmost point of the northern country, and the sun passes by leaning toward the southern depths. Because the interval between west and south is short, this happens." So it is an extremely cold country. The next day, the 26th, we departed this place for Amiseituka, heading in the southwest direction, a distance of over 1,300 ri.

1. Amiseituka (Note: "Tuka" means what is called "gun" (county) in Japan)