Therefore, the Sun obtains the principle of central harmony (中和之理), and is well-suited to the ten thousand things. The reason for this is that in the course of one day it completes one circuit of the ecliptic, enabling the ten thousand things to obtain the nurturing harmony of yin and yang. The full celestial sphere (周天) advances each day always one degree more than the Sun, causing the south and north to have the seasonal nodes (節) of cold and heat.

[Interlinear note: Yü-tzu (兪子) says: "The Sun travels the ecliptic each day, completing one circuit of the heavens. This produces day and night, and the ten thousand things are able to grow and flourish." Because the full heaven advances one degree more than the Sun per day, in the course of one year it is able to tread through the seasonal nodes (節気) north and south of the ecliptic, and therefore cold and heat arise.]

Accumulating the average divisions of years spent traveling the ecliptic, and calculating in terms of celestial degrees, one day amounts to 59 minutes and 8 seconds and a fraction.

[Interlinear note: This one degree is calculated by dividing into sixty minutes.]

This is what is called the mean motion in degrees and minutes (平行度分). However, while the mean motion (平行) is uniform, the true motion (実行) is not uniform. There is the phenomenon of fullness (盈) in winter and contraction (縮) in summer. The reason this is so is that the center of the solar heaven (日天) does not coincide with the center of the primum mobile (宗動天) and the center of the Earth; consequently the distance at which the Sun travels from the Earth is not equal. When it is nearer, its motion is faster; when faster, the degrees it traverses exceed the mean motion and become "fullness" (盈). In each winter month, calculated per day, it travels one degree and one minute and a fraction; compared with the mean motion, this is a fullness (盈) of two minutes.

[Interlinear note: Yóuxióng (游熊) says: "The mean motion (平行) is the degree of the full celestial circuit. The true motion (実行) is the degree of the Sun itself. Because the center of the solar heaven does not coincide with the center of the primum mobile, there are degrees of mean motion and true motion; comparing them, there is fullness and contraction."]

Therefore, one solar term (一節気) in winter amounts to fourteen days, eighty-four marks (刻), and a fraction. When it is farther away, its motion is slower; when slower, the degrees it traverses do not reach the mean motion and become "contraction" (縮). In each summer month, calculated per day, it travels 57 minutes and a fraction; compared with the mean motion, this is a contraction (縮) of two minutes. Therefore, one solar term in summer amounts to fifteen days, seventy-two marks (刻), and a fraction. In sum, this is because in summer the Sun travels the northern tract (北陸) and in winter the southern tract (南陸), giving rise to the difference of fullness and contraction.

[Interlinear note: Jiè-zǐ (掲子) says: "From the vernal equinox to the autumnal equinox, totaling 190 days, 7 hours, and 4 marks. Every 10 days corresponds to a contraction of 43 minutes and 6 li (釐), totaling a contraction of 8 degrees and 25 minutes. From the autumnal equinox to the vernal equinox, totaling 174 days, 7 hours, and 4 marks. Every 10 days corresponds to an extension of 47 minutes and 4 li, totaling an extension of 8 degrees and 25 minutes."]

If one observes this day by day, the degrees, minutes, and seconds of the mansion (宮) through which the Sun actually moves each day show fullness and contraction. For example, from the vernal equinox to the Beginning of Summer (立夏), the Sun travels 45 degrees of the ecliptic, passing through forty-six days, ten marks, and ten minutes. This was originally called the "empty degrees" (空度). From the Beginning of Autumn (立秋) to the autumnal equinox, it likewise travels forty (degrees of the ecliptic)…

(Continues on next page)