Chickweed (hakobe) - "Materia Medica" says it grows abundantly in low, moist land. After the third month, it gradually ages and produces small white flowers, forming small fruits. It grows in the ninth month. Eat as a boiled vegetable. It heals sores and swelling and relieves constipation. It grows naturally and abundantly in fields without planting. Those growing under eaves and in shady places should not be eaten.

Garland chrysanthemum (kōrai-kiku) - Li Shizhen of "Materia medica" says plant seeds in the eighth or ninth month. Harvest and eat in winter and spring. The stems are thick, with a bitter-sweet taste. It has the fragrance of mugwort. Flower stalks appear in the fourth month. The flowers are yellow. The flowers resemble single chrysanthemums. The flowers are also good to eat with beneficial properties. "Compendium of Materia Medica" says the taste is sweet, nature is balanced, and it is non-toxic. Its main therapeutic effects are calming heart qi, nourishing spleen and stomach, eliminating phlegm, and benefiting intestines and stomach. It also appears in "Thousand Gold Prescriptions." The Japanese folk belief that garland chrysanthemum is poisonous is mistaken. Should plant in the eighth month. The flowers are also good. "Agricultural and Sericulture Manual" says to plant in the second month. This is to have it for spring eating. If planted from time to time, there will always be sprouts. Therefore it is commonly called "inexhaustible grass."

Mugwort (yomogi) - Pick leaves in spring to add to rice, or make into soup. Make grass mochi on the third day of the third month. Boil, dry and store; when using, steam and pound into mochi to eat. All are good.

Yellow flower vegetable (tabirako) - "Materia Medica" says this grass produces sprouts in the second month. Abundant in rice fields. It is a small grass like shepherd's purse. After the third month, it opens yellow flowers. The taste is bitter and slightly pungent. Mildly cold and non-toxic. It opens blocked qi and