Main building: 101 tsubo
Patient rooms: 278 tsubo
Dining hall, recreation room, and kitchen: 105 tsubo
Nurse dormitory: 25 tsubo
Staff housing: 40 tsubo (2 units)
Other: 52 tsubo 1 go

1. Patient capacity: 60 persons

2. Regulations
(1) Toyohashi Municipal Takayama Hospital Usage Fee Ordinance (Ordinance No. 5, October 26, 1935)
Article 1: For patients admitted to the Municipal Takayama Hospital whose person or support obligor has considerable financial resources, the following admission fees shall be collected. However, the mayor may reduce or exempt these fees for those deemed to have special circumstances.
   1. City residents: 1 yen 50 sen per person per day (including medicine and meal costs)
   2. Non-city residents: 2 yen 50 sen per person per day (including medicine and meal costs)
   For those requiring special treatment, additional fees may be collected beyond the above.
Article 2: The admission fees of the preceding article shall be paid in advance. However, this shall not apply when the mayor recognizes special circumstances.
Article 3: Necessary matters concerning the enforcement of this ordinance shall be determined by the mayor.
   Supplementary provisions
   This ordinance shall be enforced from the date of promulgation.

(2) Enforcement Regulations for the Toyohashi Municipal Takayama Hospital Usage Fee Ordinance
(Notice No. 104, November 2, 1935)

Article 1: Payment dates for admission fees shall be the 15th and last day of each month, with advance payment required for the period until the next payment date.
   However, monthly fees may be paid in full at one time upon request.
   Special treatment fees shall be determined by the hospital director and paid together with admission fees for the period up to the day before the aforementioned payment date.
Article 2: When a patient dies or is discharged after payment of admission fees, already paid fees from the following day onward shall be refunded.
Article 3: Accommodation fees for entrusted patients shall be billed to the commissioning public organization by the 5th of each month for the previous month.
Article 4: Procedures for payment of admission fees and special treatment fees, or refund of already paid fees, shall follow the general revenue example.
   Supplementary provisions
   These regulations shall be enforced from the date of enforcement of the Municipal Takayama Hospital Usage Fee Ordinance.

Form No. 1
Application for Admission
   Permanent address
   Current address
                    (Family register, occupation, relationship to head of household)
   Patient         Occupation                Name
                                             Born: Year    Month    Day
   1. Disease name
   I hereby request permission for admission and treatment at the Municipal Takayama Hospital, attaching a separate medical condition report.
   Showa    Year    Month    Day