Right applicant
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Applicant's name and seal)
　　　　　　(When applying through a support obligor, record as follows)
　　　　　　Permanent address
　　　　　　Current address
　　　　　　　　　　　　(Relationship to patient, occupation)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Applicant's name
　　　　To the Mayor of Toyohashi City

　　Form No. 2
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pledge
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Patient's name)
　　　　　Regarding the above person's admission permission granted this time, we pledge to faithfully observe all regulations and staff instructions. Should we violate any rules, we will never raise objections to discharge orders at any time. We hereby pledge this.
　　　　　　Showa    Year    Month    Day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Right
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Personal guarantor
　　　　　To the Director of Municipal Takayama Hospital

　　Form No. 3
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Personal Guarantee Certificate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Patient's name)
　　　　　Regarding the above person's admission permission granted this time, I will take full responsibility for all matters concerning the person's conduct and will cause no inconvenience whatsoever.
　　　　　　Showa    Year    Month    Day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Address)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Relationship to patient, occupation)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Name and seal)
　　　　　To the Director of Municipal Takayama Hospital

　　　　　　　　　　　(3) Toyohashi Municipal Takayama Hospital Regulations　　　　　　　　(Notice No. 105, November 2, 1935)
　　　　　　　Chapter 1　　　General Provisions
Article 1: This hospital shall accommodate and treat patients who fall under Article 1 of the Tuberculosis Prevention Law and have no means of treatment. However, in some cases, those who do not fall under the above may also be accommodated according to separately established regulations.
Article 2: The capacity of patients to be accommodated in this hospital shall be 60 persons.
Article 3: Patients wishing to receive inpatient treatment at this hospital must apply to the mayor with a medical condition report attached, either by the patient themselves or their support obligor, and receive permission. However, in cases of special circumstances, applications may be made by relatives or other related parties.
Article 4: Those who have received admission permission must immediately submit a pledge and personal guarantee certificate in the prescribed forms and receive instructions regarding admission date and time. If they do not enter the hospital at the designated date and time, their permission may be revoked.