【Page 2 Upper】
Section 2: Five Vehicles (with appendices: Various interpretations in sutras and treatises, textual evidence for fixed nature, textual evidence for natureless beings)
Section 3: Three Types of Icchantikas
Section 4: Three Categories of Those Without Spiritual Nature

【Page 2 Lower】
Nomenclature of Mahayana Yogacara School, Chapter 1 Upper [First of Sixteen Fascicles]

First, clarifying the container world (with appendix: world of sentient beings):
　　　The Three Realms:
First is the Desire Realm. (It is called the Desire Realm because it has three desires: first is food desire, second is sexual desire, third is sleep desire. See섭석 Volume 1.)
Second is the Form Realm. (It is called the Form Realm because it has material form.)
Third is the Formless Realm. (It is called the Formless Realm because it lacks material form.)

The Desire Realm also has Five Destinies. (Separately there are Twenty Places.) The Abhidharmakośa Volume 8 states: "Hell, animals, hungry ghosts, humans, and the six desire heavens are called the twenty of the desire realm, due to differences in hells and continents." The commentary states: "Eight hot hells (the eight cold are not mentioned), animals, realm of hungry ghosts (the above ten places), four great continents, six desire heavens (totaling twenty places)."

　　　　The Five Destinies:
Hell destiny, Hungry ghost destiny, Animal destiny, Human destiny, Heavenly destiny. Adding asuras makes Six Paths.

The first Hell Destiny is also called Naraka. This is called "vessel of suffering." Also called "unpleasant" or "place where one should not go." Those who create non-dharmic acts (※The two characters "place to go" may be missing after "dharma"). There are three types of hells. First is fundamental, namely the eight hot and eight cold. Second is neighboring, namely each of the eight hot hells has sixteen subsidiary hells. That is, outside each of the four gates there are four subsidiary hells, totaling sixteen. Therefore the root verse states: "Skillfully arranged

【Page 3 Upper】
in layout and measure, each having sixteen subsidiaries." They are called neighboring because they are near the fundamental hells.
Hell names exist in various places. We simply use words based on their original locations. In Sanskrit, Naraka means "evil ones." Those who create evil are born in vessels, hence called "vessels of suffering." There is no fixed name for hell, and places are indefinite. It is not only underground. (The above can be seen in Xuanzan Volume 2 and Vimalakīrti Sutra Commentary Volume 5. The meaning of Six Destinies is in Xuanzan Volume 6, which should particularly be consulted.) Third is solitary, namely existing in mountain valleys, wilderness, under trees, in the sky, either singly or in groups, places where karmic retribution is received. That is, sentient beings experience different results according to their karmic power. Because they differ from the eight cold and eight hot, they are called solitary hells. The eight hot hells have the sixteen subsidiaries as retinue; the eight cold hells have no retinue. See Sections Third and Sixth of the commentaries.

　　　　The Eight Hot Hells:
First is Sañjīva Hell (Revival Hell).
A great voice in space says: "These sentient beings should return to revival, should return to revival." By this, those sentient beings suddenly arise and return to their original state. The instruments of suffering again inflict harm, hence the name.

Second is Kālasūtra Hell (Black Thread Hell).
Hell guards bind them with black threads, making squares or various drawings and images. They chisel, adze, or shave, thus suffering in various ways. Hence the name.

Third is Saṃghāta Hell (Crushing Hell).

【Page 3 Lower】
Hell guards drive and press those beings, making them enter between two great iron mountains. Once entered, the two mountains crush them. When pressed, blood flows out from all openings. Hence the name. This hell has three forms of suffering: first, crushing by two mountains; second, pressing by iron troughs; third, falling from iron mountains.

Fourth is Raurava Hell (Howling Hell).
Those beings seek shelter and enter a great iron chamber. Upon entering, great fire immediately arises and burns them. Due to this painful torment, they cry out and howl. Because they suffer for a long time, hence the name.

Fifth is Mahāraurava Hell (Great Howling Hell).
The iron chamber dwelling is like a birth membrane. The suffering exceeds the previous, and their cries become very loud, hence the name.

Sixth is Tapana Hell (Burning Hell).
Also called Blazing Heat. Hell guards place sentient beings on measureless yojanas of hot great iron cauldrons, turning them left and right. They burn and thin both sides like grilling fish. With great iron spits they pierce from below, penetrating through the crown. Thus from all sense organs, pores, and mouth of these beings, flames arise everywhere. Because they burn themselves, hence the name. This has three forms of suffering: first, burning and grilling left and right until thin; second, piercing and grilling with iron spits; third, pushing and beating with iron clubs. Also called Scorching Heat.

Seventh is Pratāpana Hell (Extreme Burning Hell).
Also called Extreme Heat. With three-pronged great iron spits they pierce from below, penetrating through both shoulders and crown. By this, from the eyes and other sense organs, mouth, and pores, fierce flames flow out. Thus they suffer