【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
390
【Outside frame, right horizontal upper】
Mahayana Yogacara School Terminology Volume 5, Part 2
【Outside frame, right horizontal lower】
390

【Upper Section】
After innate wisdom comes acquired wisdom (śruta-mayī-prajñā). After acquired wisdom comes reflective wisdom (cintā-mayī-prajñā). After reflective wisdom comes meditative wisdom (bhāvanā-mayī-prajñā). After meditative wisdom arises supramundane wisdom (anāsrava-prajñā). Therefore, all treatises serve as provisions for pure wisdom. To explain the meaning of the name "dharma": it is called dharma because it maintains its own characteristics (svalakṣaṇa). For example, material dharmas (rūpa-dharma) have obstruction as their nature, and because they maintain this nature, they are called material dharmas. This is one brief example; other dharmas follow the same principle. There are two types of dharma: ultimate dharma (paramārtha-dharma) and characteristic dharma (dharma-lakṣaṇa-dharma). Ultimate dharma refers to Nirvana, which is called "ultimate" because it is good and permanent, and called "meaning" because it has real substance. Thus "ultimate" is called "meaning," and "ultimate meaning" is called "dharma," hence "ultimate dharma." This is a karmadhāraya compound. The second, characteristic dharma, encompasses the Four Noble Truths. "Characteristic" means nature and form. From the perspective of one's own essence, it is called nature; from the perspective of other conditions, it is called characteristic. These Four Truths dharmas are dharma-characteristics, hence called "characteristic dharmas." Characteristic-dharma is dharma itself, a karmadhāraya compound. "Abhi" (対) has two meanings: first is "facing toward" - supramundane wisdom faces toward Nirvana; second is "contemplating" - supramundane wisdom contemplates the Four Truths. The former "facing toward" means cause facing fruit, while the latter "contemplating" means mind facing object. Mind is pure wisdom, and objects are the Four Truths. Supramundane pure wisdom is merely that which faces; being the facer, it is not dharma and not the faced object. "Abhidharma" means "that which faces dharma," hence it is a tatpuruṣa compound. Master Guang says: "Because the facer is superior, it is given the name 'abhi.' In reality, it can also be called dharma because it maintains its own nature. Because the faced dharma is superior, it is given the name dharma. In reality, it can also be called 'abhi' because it is the faced object. Thus abhidharma encompasses both facer and faced." According to Master Bao, only the facer is called abhidharma, and the explanation of the name abhidharma uses only the tatpuruṣa compound. This interpretation is excellent and wonderfully accords with the treatises.

First proofreading completed.

Mahayana Yogacara School Terminology Volume 5, Part 2 - End

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
391
【Outside frame, left horizontal upper】
Mahayana Yogacara School Terminology Volume 6, Part 1
【Outside frame, left horizontal lower】
391

【Upper Section】
Mahayana Yogacara School Terminology Volume 6, Part 1 - Table of Contents

Chapter 11: Doctrine of Transmigration and Decline
　Section 1: Various Names of Tathatā (Suchness)
　Section 2: Clarifying Various Names of Vijñaptimātra (Consciousness-Only)
　Section 3: Tathāgatagarbha in the Śrīmālā Sūtra
　Section 4: Clarifying Ten Types of Names
　Section 5: Clarifying Five Tolerances (Patience)
　Section 6: Clarifying Four Tolerances
　Section 7: Clarifying Six Tolerances
　Section 8: Clarifying Ten Tolerances
　Section 9: Clarifying Three Discriminations
　Section 10: Clarifying Seven Discriminations Explained in the Abhidharma Treatise
　Section 11: Clarifying Seven Discriminations in the Yogācārabhūmi
　Section 12: Clarifying Eight Sufferings (Three Sufferings, Four Sufferings, Six Sufferings, etc.)
　Section 13: Clarifying Five Groups of Renunciants
　Section 14: Clarifying Various Names of Samādhi (Concentration)

【Lower Section】
　Section 15: Clarifying Various Names of Self
　Section 16: Clarifying Twenty-two Faculties
　Section 17: Clarifying Twenty-four Non-associated Formations
　Section 18: Clarifying Eight Similes of Dependent Nature
　Section 19: Clarifying Nine Contemplations of Ordinary Beings
　Section 20: Clarifying Thirty-six Types of Impurity of the Segmented Body
　Section 21: Clarifying Sixty-two Sentient Beings
　Section 22: Clarifying Five Decline Sufferings of Devas and Humans
　Section 23: Clarifying Ten Types of Tathāgata's Seats
　Section 24: Clarifying Ten Characteristics of the Great Ocean
　Section 25: Clarifying Ten Treasure Mountains
　Section 26: Clarifying Ten Types of Internal Offerings
　Section 27: Clarifying Four Schools Established by Previous Masters of This Region (Eight Schools: Hinayana and Mahayana combined make eight schools)