【Right Page】
【Top right margin】362
【Right margin top】Kakumushō Hoketsu Hōmon, Volume 1
【Right margin bottom】2
【Two-column format】
【Upper Section】
This is the meaning. The establishment of the three circles is generally as described. From this golden earth emerges Mount Sumeru. This mountain is wonderfully high, situated in the great ocean, entering 80,000 yojanas into the water and emerging 80,000 yojanas above water, totaling 160,000 yojanas. The mountain peak is also 80,000 yojanas wide. It has four tiers composed of four treasures. In the north, east, south, and west are gold, silver, lapis lazuli, and crystal respectively, formed in this order. Outside this great ocean is a great golden mountain surrounding it like an embankment. Beyond that is another ocean, and beyond that another mountain. Thus seven mountains surround in this manner, all made of gold. The ocean waters between them all possess the eight meritorious qualities. This is called the inner ocean. Outside the seventh mountain is also a great ocean, called the outer ocean, which is the salt ocean. In this ocean, on the southern face of Sumeru is Jambudvīpa. The old name is Jambu. In this continent is the great Onion Range, with the Five Indias to the south, Persia to the west, the Hu kingdoms to the north, and the Han lands to the east. These four countries are now called the Four Lords: Elephant Lord, Treasure Lord, Horse Lord, and Human Lord, named in order because each is abundant in its respective quality. This constitutes the great territory of the southern continent. Our Japan is an isolated island in the eastern sea of this continent, corresponding to the outer ocean on the western face of Sumeru. In that area is also Godānīya continent, where both the land formation and human faces are like the full moon. In the outer ocean on the northern face of Sumeru is also Uttarakuru continent, where both land formation and human faces are square-shaped. In the outer ocean on the eastern face of Sumeru is also Videha continent, where both land formation and human faces are like a half-moon. These are called the four great continents of the human realm. Each of these four continents possesses two intermediate continents, making eight intermediate continents. All these continents are in the outer ocean, and together with the previous inner ocean are collectively called the eight oceans. Outside the eighth ocean is the Iron Enclosure, made of iron, surrounding the great ocean like an embankment. Together with the previous eight, they are collectively called
【Lower Section】
the nine mountains. The individual names of the seven-layered golden mountains, the measurements of mountains and oceans, etc., are as described in the fundamental treatises and Abhidharmakośa. The Four Heavenly Kings reside at the topmost part of the fourth tier of Mount Sumeru. The sun, moon, and constellations belong to that heaven and dwell in space, about 40,000 yojanas away from here. The Thirty-three Gods with Śakra Devānām Indra reside on the 80,000-yojana summit of Mount Sumeru, called the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven. Above Trāyastriṃśa Heaven is Yāma Heaven, above Yāma Heaven is Tuṣita Heaven, above Tuṣita Heaven is Nirmāṇarati Heaven, and above Nirmāṇarati Heaven is Paranirmitavaśavartin Heaven. These upper four heavens all dwell in space. Together with the two earth-dwelling heavens, they are called the six desire-realm heavens. Having taken this opportunity to clarify the human and heavenly realms, we add hell beings, hungry ghosts, and animals to name them the five destinies, or add asuras to call them the six paths. Regarding hell beings, there are many types. Speaking of the fundamental ones, they exist within the great earth; speaking of the isolated minor ones, they exist in places like mountain valleys and wilderness. Focusing on the fundamental location: 33,000 yojanas below this great earth is the Saṃjīva Hell. 4,000 yojanas below Saṃjīva is Kālasūtra Hell. 2,000 yojanas below Kālasūtra is Saṃghāta Hell. Below this, the Raurava, Mahāraurava, and Avīci great fortresses are each 2,000 yojanas apart. These constitute the eight hot hells. Each has ten additional subsidiary hells on its perimeters. Fearing prolixity, I shall abbreviate. Outside these are also eight cold hells: Arbuda, Nirarbuda, Aṭaṭa, Hahava, Huhuva, and Utpala, etc. Among these, the first hell is beside Saṃjīva, and the remaining seven are all 2,000 yojanas below. The above eight hot and eight cold great hells exist only under this Jambudvīpa, not under the other three continents. Why? Because only Jambudvīpa has intense good and evil, unlike the other continents.

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】363
【Left margin top】Kakumushō Hoketsu Hōmon, Volume 1
【Left margin bottom】3
【Two-column format】
【Upper Section】
Therefore. However, there are also peripheral isolated hells elsewhere. Next, hungry ghosts have extremely diverse forms. Speaking of their fundamental location, they are in Yama's realm 500 yojanas below the southern continent. Their branches and extensions are scattered and dwell around mountains, oceans, etc. There are three types: external obstruction, food and drink obstruction, and no obstruction to food and drink. Next, animals, also called lateral beings, dwell in great oceans, rivers, mountains, forests, wilderness, ponds and marshes, etc. They are collectively called three types: birds, beasts, and insects. Separately, there are extremely many—3.4 billion different species. Next, asuras are sometimes included among gods, sometimes among ghosts, sometimes among lateral beings; their classification is indefinite, and all exist. However, those included among gods may be fundamental. Their original dwelling place is in the great ocean, while their branches also extend to mountain valleys and such places. Therefore, they sometimes open into six destinies or combine into five destinies. All the above are collectively called the desire-realm five-destiny grounds. Now above this desire realm's topmost Paranirmitavaśavartin Heaven, in the space realm, there are also cloud-grounds, palaces, and towers where various gods roam and dwell. This is the first dhyāna, called the Ground of Joy and Bliss Born from Separation. In this heaven there are also three levels: Brahmakāyika Heaven, Brahmapurohita Heaven, and Mahābrahmā Heaven. This Mahābrahmā Heaven is also called the Intermediate Dhyāna. Above this heaven is also cloud-ground where various gods dwell. This is the second dhyāna, called the Ground of Joy and Bliss Born from Concentration. In this heaven there are also three levels: Parīttābha Heaven, Apramāṇābha Heaven, and Ābhāsvara Heaven. Above this heaven there is also cloud-ground where various gods dwell. This is the third dhyāna, called the Ground of Wonderful Bliss Separated from Joy. In this heaven there are also three levels: Parīttaśubha Heaven, Apramāṇaśubha Heaven, and Śubhakṛtsna Heaven. Above this heaven there is no cloud-ground, but only palaces where various gods dwell. This is the fourth dhyāna, called the Ground of Pure Mindfulness and
【Lower Section】
Equanimity. In this heaven there are briefly eight levels: Anabhraka Heaven, Puṇyaprasava Heaven, Bṛhatphala Heaven (within this Bṛhatphala is Asaṃjñisattva Heaven), Avṛha Heaven, Atapa Heaven, Sudṛśa Heaven, and Akaniṣṭha Heaven. These five heavens from Avṛha upward are also called the Five Pure Abodes. Maheśvara Great Sovereign God is the ultimate summit. These four dhyānas are called the form realm. The formless realm, having no form, has no vessel-world or material body, but has the sixth, seventh, and eighth consciousnesses, mind-kings, mental factors, seeds, etc. How could there be separate dwelling places? Therefore, they exist in the locations of the desire and form realms. However, to show the sequential superiority and inferiority of the fruits of separation from desire, the teachings establish them above the form realm and speak of the hierarchical levels of four heavens. These four heavens are: Ākāśānantyāyatana, Vijñānānantyāyatana, Ākiṃcanyāyatana, and Naivasaṃjñānāsaṃjñāyatana. These four heaven-places are called the four formless realms. Thus, although there are no karmic-result material dharmas, those heavens can transform subtle palaces, support-bodies, etc., through the power of concentration. All the above constitutes the general framework of the three realms and nine grounds. The measurements of support-bodies, differences in lifespan, breadth and narrowness of vessel-worlds, vertical distances, differences in suffering and pleasure, and various other details are all as described in the fundamental treatises and Abhidharmakośa. Fearing prolixity, I abbreviate them. The four births are: egg-birth, womb-birth, moisture-birth, and transformation-birth. Assigning these four to the five destinies: humans encompass all four births, and animals are the same. Hell beings, gods, and intermediate beings are only transformation-birth and do not encompass other births. The ghost destiny encompasses transformation-birth and womb-birth. The four existences are: birth-existence, death-existence, intermediate existence, and fundamental existence. Birth-existence is the beginning of receiving birth—for womb-birth, it is the initial stage of entrusting to the mother's womb. Death-existence is the stage of life's end. Intermediate existence is after death's end but before the next birth, like being on a middle road.