【Right Page Upper Section】
making people healthy and opening the stomach.

○Pomegranate treats throat dryness and controls the three corpse worms. There are two varieties of taste: sour and sweet.

○Apple lowers qi, eliminates phlegm, and treats sudden turmoil, abdominal pain, and wasting thirst.

○Grape treats urinary disorders and retention, removes water from between the intestines, and lightens the body when eaten for a long time.

○Kumquat lowers qi, makes the chest comfortable, stops thirst, and treats hangovers.

○Ginkgo nut, when raw, neutralizes alcohol toxicity, breaks up phlegm, and kills parasites. When eaten cooked, it constricts urination.

○Loquat stops vomiting and nausea, governs heat in the upper burner, lowers qi, and benefits lung qi.

【Right Page Lower Section　Illustrations】
Apple 《ringo》
Pomegranate 《zakuro》
Kumquat 《himetachibana》《same as rokitsu》
Grape 《budou》《ebi》
Ginkgo 《duck-foot tree》《ginan》

【Left Page Upper Section】
○Japanese raisin tree fruit treats the five organs, promotes urination and defecation, and neutralizes alcohol toxicity.

○Bayberry lowers qi, cleanses the intestines and stomach, stops thirst, removes phlegm, stops vomiting, and aids digestion.

○Lychee stops thirst, improves complexion, removes irritating heat, and treats heavy head sensation.

○Strawberry increases qi, lightens the body, supplements deficiency, and is good for male impotence and female infertility.

○Buddha's hand citron lowers qi, removes phlegm-fluid, and when boiled in alcohol and drunk, treats phlegm cough.

○Walnut moistens the skin, blackens hair, and when eaten in large quantities, promotes urination.

○Quince warms the center, lowers qi, aids digestion, and treats sour fluid in the chest.

【Left Page Lower Section　Illustrations】
Japanese raisin tree 《kenpōnashi》
Strawberry 《ichigo》《Tree strawberry, Rubus (climbing strawberry), Mock strawberry (snake strawberry)》
Loquat 《One name: flame fruit》
Bayberry 《yamomomo》
Lychee 《same as rishi》
Citron 《bushukan》《same as Buddha's hand citron》