Respectfully submitting this oral petition

I wish to take in Tomizaemon from Yamashimura village as my apprentice, have him serve as a water official, and allow him to practice blacksmithing. I humbly request that you mercifully grant him an official water service permit as requested, which would be a most grateful blessing.

The above petition by Denshige contains no discrepancies whatsoever. If granted as requested, we would all consider it a most grateful blessing. The above.

12th month of Bunsei 9 (1826)　　　Hokojimachi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Petitioner: Denshige
To Ueda Kyūzaemon-sama　　　　　Apprentice: Tomizaemon
To Nezu Jinroku-sama　　　　　　Town representative: Yaohyakuemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tōemon

Respectfully,
Shingobyōe from Jōte Hiradashimura was my apprentice who completed his term of service and was granted leave without incident. From this year he wishes to become independent and practice blacksmithing, which I humbly request.

The above follows the same wording　　　Hokojimachi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Blacksmith
To Ueda Kyūzaemon-sama　　　　　Petitioner: Denshige
To Nezu Jinroku-sama

Respectfully submitting this oral petition
I have been operating a dye shop with fifteen indigo vats until now, but from this year I wish to reduce to thirteen indigo vats. Therefore I submit this petition. If you would mercifully grant this request, it would be a most grateful blessing.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hokojimachi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiya
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Petitioner: Katsushichi

If the above petition by Katsushichi is granted as requested, it would be a most grateful blessing. The above.

3rd month of Bunsei 10 (1827)　　　Town representative: Yaohyakuemon
To Shiga Zōshiuemon-sama　　　　Same: Tōemon
To Yoshida Tazaemon-sama

With the same wording as above, one copy is submitted to the rural district office. Of course, since the dye shop matter is a petition to both offices, it is submitted in accordance with the directive of the 5th month, 10th day. Written and submitted throughout the year without specific months.

Seals of both town representatives