According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　Cherry (Sakura)　According to Bunfu Shūryaku: Cherry <<glossed: on-reading "u," Japanese name "sakura">>
　　The fruit is large like a cypress, and there are red, white, and black varieties

　　　According to the tree section of Zōho Tashikihen:
　　　　Cherry (Ō)　Japanese name is "saku-
　　　　<<glossed: Ei>>　　　ra"

　　　　　　　　In China there are no such cherry blossoms, and they are not
　　　　　　　　recorded in herbals, the Sancai Tuhui, plant and flower manuals,
　　　　　　　　etc. Poets also do not appreciate them.

　　　Mizunoe-Uma year, second month, seventh day, true sketch

　　　　　　　　　　　　Song Jinglian's poem:
　　　　　　Appreciating cherry blossoms flourishes in Japan, more than in China
　　　　　　Like peonies and crabapple blossoms
　　　　　　Perhaps this would be difficult even for Zhao Chang to paint
　　　　　　When spring winds barely rise, they blow a snow-like fragrance

　　　　　　　　　　Wang Jing-gong's poem on mountain cherry:
　　　　　　Mountain cherry embraces stone, casting shadows on pine branches
　　　　　　Compared to other flowers, it blooms latest
　　　　　　Only the spring wind dislikes loneliness
　　　　　　Blowing fragrance across water to let people know

　　　　　　○Observing this, China is not entirely without cherry blossoms
　　　　　　Emperor Heizei first composed poetry about cherry blossoms
　　　　　　　Once beneath secluded crags
　　　　　　　Radiant beauty illuminated all directions
　　　　　　　Suddenly encountering the form of being plucked
　　　　　　　Containing smiles spanning the three yang seasons
　　　　　　　The atmosphere sent varies in degree
　　　　　　　Branches casting shade, short and long
　　　　　　　How does this one thing
　　　　　　　Make an altar of days in the nine springs' arena

　　　　　　According to Nihon Kōki, Emperor Saga in
　　　　　　the third year of Kōnin, second month, visited
　　　　　　Shinsen-en garden to view flowering trees and had
　　　　　　literati compose poems. The cherry blossom viewing banquet began from this.

　　　Birch cherry (Kabasaura)　Pronunciation "ka," Japanese name "kaba"
　　　　　　　　Also called "kaniba"
　　　　This is a separate variety of so-called single-petaled cherry
　　　　The birch tree has a different pronunciation and is not
　　　　the same as cherry. It is recorded in the miscellaneous trees section of Yamato Honzō
　　　　According to Zihu, birch is the name of a tree whose bark can be attached to bows
　　　　This is a separate species of tree. Even in Wamyō-shō it appears to be
　　　　a different species, but aside from cherry bark, I have not yet
　　　　seen anything that could be called birch

According to Yamato Honzō:
　　In the Wenxuan, Shen Xiuwen's poem "Early Departure from Dingshan" contains "mountain cherry blossoms about to burst forth," with a note: "Name of a fruit tree, flowers are vermillion like fire about to ignite"
　　Wang Jing-gong's poem states "Mountain cherry embraces stone, reflecting in pine branches," and Sima Wengong's poem states "Red cherries fall scattered as apricot flowers bloom." This shows that
　　what is called cherry in China has vermillion flowers. The thing called cherry in Japan does not exist in China
　　During the Enpō years, one who came to Nagasaki,
　　He Qingfu, said that if it existed in China, it should be recorded in books and composed about and appreciated in poetry and prose, but this
　　tree, he said, is the reality. In Korea it exists and is called "nagi."