According to the Zōho Tashiki-hen Tsurukusa-rui (Supplemented Plant Identification: Vine Plants):
Fukubonshi (Chinese raspberry)　Japanese name: kōfuri-ichigo
　　　　Now considered: hisa-ichigo

　　　　　　　　　　　Supplemented alternative names: kei (Erya), ketsu-bon (same), Saikoku grass (Enkei)
　　　　　　　Biryōka (same), large barley berry, insertion field berry, bird berry

According to the Honzō Kōmoku (Compendium of Materia Medica), there are approximately five types of berries (Hōrai apricot ○ fukubonshi ○ tree berry ○ snake berry). Shizhen personally began collecting and collating to obtain accurate information, as the various theories of different schools are mostly unreliable. (I say) Apart from the five types of berries, Shizhen [recorded] more than ten varieties. In Han [dynasty], there were probably five varieties. It is unclear, but according to senior scholars, fukubon is the name for berry fruit.

　　　　According to Yamato Honzō (Japanese Materia Medica):
　　　　　　　　Ichii tree　　　　Kyara tree: flowers yellow-red, ball-like, growing in one place
　　　　　　　　(yew)　　　　　　ki　　　　fruits bundle-like and very small

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　18th day of the first month, same year
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Copied in the garden

According to Wakan Sansai Zue, Fragrant Wood Types:
　　Kyara tree (kyaraboku, otsuko) commonly
　　　　called otsuko (Ainu designation)
The indigenous people of Ezo Matsumae call it otsuko
This tree has wood grain like kyara (aloeswood)
Therefore commonly called kyara tree

　　　　　　　　　Native Resurrection Tree
　　　　　　　　　　　yew tree
　　　　　　　　　　　saku tree

According to Master Matsuoka Kyoan's Honzō Ikka:
Abotsushin, red Japanese nutmeg-yew (beni-kaya), dog nutmeg-yew (inu-kaya)
　　　　Kyara tree, also ichii tree
　In barbarian language, this oil is called ○ horuto-garu oil
　Also called asetōna
According to Toyoda Yōkei's Shaben Jokuroku: Abotsushin (beni-kaya, inu-kaya) - Wang's Detailed Annotations state that abotsushin comes from Furin Country, over one jō in length, bark color blue-white
　　　　　　　Leaves thin and paired, turnip-like正 yellow, seeds resembling pepper, red in color. When the branches are ground, the juice is like oil. When applied to scabies and ringworm, none fail to heal. This oil is extremely valuable, worth a thousand gold pieces ○ Also appears in Kyokuseki Benran. This is the beni-kaya tree of Gōshū Province. Heni-kaya, also called inu-kaya, grows in various places in the mountains. Mountain people extract oil for use by surgical practitioners.