According to Zōho Tashikihen Grass Category:
　Butterbur Flower (fuki-no-hana)
　　Japanese name: yamabuki (mountain butterbur), also called ōba (large leaf). Upon current examination, fuki, and also examining
　　the name: because there is the name yellow mizufuki (water butterbur), those found on land in winter are called
　　yamabuki (mountain butterbur). Also, one variety whose flowers boil like grape wine is also called
　　mafuki (true butterbur). These have the same Japanese name but are different things. Because ancient people
　　often composed poems about these flowers in the Man'yōshū, they merely wrote those characters,
　　not to make grape wine-like things into winter flowers. Characters frequently borrowed in Man'yōshū are
　　not few. Later people could not distinguish these, and the "winter" recorded in Kintō's Rōeishū is already
　　an error. How much more so are the other poems!
　　　　Alternative names are recorded in the relevant sections, so not noted here.

　　　According to Honzō Wakai　　Alternative names　　Frozen Granule, Frozen Clan, Winter Drill, Frozen
　　　　Butterbur Flower　　　　　　　　　　Keikokuguko, Tiger Whiskers
　　　　　　　　　　　Japanese name: Fukinotō (butterbur sprout)

According to Zōho Tashikihen Fragrant Wood Category:
　Cedar　Japanese name: sugi　Alternative names: san, sound san, sand tree from Kōmoku
　Katsura tree, sound kei　Red restraint tree, restraint sound choku

According to Yamato Honzō:
　Cedar Flower　Because the wood is straight, it is called sugi
　Sugi means suku (to be transparent/straight)

According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　Cedar (sugi)　According to Erya Phonetic Glosses, cedar pronounced "san," one pronunciation is "sen," Japanese name: suki
　　　　　　　　　　Found in Nihon-ki Shiki. Upon current examination,
　　　　　　　　　　the common use of the character 椙 is incorrect. The sound of 椙
　　　　　　　　　　in fanqie is "kei." Found in Tang Yun.
　　Resembles pine, grows in Jiangnan. Can be used
　　for ship timber.
　　7th day of early Koshō month, Kinoe year
　　One branch picked by hand from the garden grove
　　True copy amid leaf rain

According to Nanpō Sōsha Tree Category:
　　Cedar　One name: hi (covering)

Cedar is an upright growing tree. Because it is a symbol
of honesty, it is especially made a sacred tree of our court. There are
other sacred trees, but most are cedar.

　　　　　　Evening cool in the shade of deep cedar mountain　　　Go-Kyōgoku
　　　　　　　Elsewhere passes the evening shower sky

　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Butterbur (fuki)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Cui Yuxi's Dietary Classic:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Butterbur is pronounced "ro," Japanese name: fufuki

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　6th year of Bunsei, Mizunoto-Hitsuji, 7th day of early Kyōshō month
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　True copy

　　　There are two types of cedar planted at homes. Tang cedar has soft leaves. Edo cedar has
　　　small, hard leaves, light color, and turns red in mid-winter. It becomes green-leafed in March.
　　　Often used as hedges at homes.