According to Yamato Honzō and Chikinhō:

Elderberry (tatsunoki) flower　ganboku
　　　　　　　　　niwatoko

According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　Elderberry (miyatsukoki)
According to Honzō:
　Elderberry
　　Japanese name
　　　Miyatsu
　　　koki

　　　　　　According to Zōho Tashikihen, Shrub section:
　　　　　　　　Elderberry (setsukotsu) wood (Japanese name: miyatsukoki, now called ganboku) (Supplementary alternative name) bone-connecting (zokkotsu) wood (Kōmoku) wood sambucus (sakuteki)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Third month of Mizunoto-Hitsuji year, copied at Gojitsu Rain Hermitage

According to Chikinhō, sambucus (sakuteki) is commonly
called niwatoko tree. Its leaves resemble
those of rikuei. From the description of flowers and fruits, this matches.
According to Honzō Kōmoku, the leaves are like rikuei and the tree height is
one to two jō. The body is light and hollow with no pith. The so-called rikuei and sambucus are
one species. They are mistakenly considered two species. The leaves are called sambucus, the flowers
are called rikuei. What Su Song and Li Shizhen say is erroneous.
Rikuei is an herb that grows from perennial roots in spring. Sambucus is
a tree that becomes a large tree year by year. △

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　△However, when examining the illustrations in that record carefully, they match.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　But according to Yamato Honzō, sambucus and
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　elderberry (tatsunoki) have the same leaves, differing only in being
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　herb versus tree. Hence it's called "grass tatsu." Wamyō Ruijushō also
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　lists elderberry and sambucus separately, which is extremely
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　confusing. It's difficult to determine which is correct and which is wrong.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Sancai Tuhui, this tree has
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　the function of connecting broken bones and muscles, hence
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　its name.

Shokkyō
Edible pepper flower　　Qin pepper (sanshō)
　　Japanese name　nifusahajikami
According to Honzō Wage:
　　　Alternative names　Ba pepper　Han pepper　Chuan pepper
　　　　　　Nan pepper　Tōgi　Ten pepper
　　　Japanese name　naruhashikami
　　　　　　asakurasamu
　　　　　　seyū

　　　　　　Qin, Chuan, Han, Ba, and Shu are all
　　　　　　names of countries. According to Yamato Honzō,
　　　　　　common sanshō is called hi-
　　　　　　nishō in Tanba. Asakura sanshō
　　　　　　has different leaves from the common type and no
　　　　　　thorns. Its fragrance is especially good. Shu pepper and
　　　　　　Qin pepper grow in Shu and Qin countries, hence thought to be different.
　　　　　　However, they are the same species, differing only in size. Sanshō
　　　　　　varieties are extremely numerous.　　　Copied at Kanuitei in the same year and spring

　　　　　　According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　　　　　　　Shu pepper　In Su Jing's Honzō commentary it says Shu pepper sounds like shō
　　　　　　　　　　　Japanese name　naruhashikami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　fusahashikami

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Kyūkō Honzō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pepper tree (sanshō)　Shu pepper (also called) Nan pepper
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(also called) Ba pepper (also called)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Zōho Tashikihen, Flavor section:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Qin pepper (shinshō) (Japanese name: kawahajikikam, now commonly called samuseyū)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Alternative name) Large pepper (Erya)　Flower pepper
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　○Orange (kitsu) pepper (Japanese name) Now examining samuseyū
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The same book separately lists Qin pepper and Shu pepper. The Japanese name and alternative names for Shu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　pepper are the same as recorded in the above section,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　hence omitted.