Euphorbia (Taigeki)　　　Alternative names　Kōkyo, Gebasen
　　　　　　　　Japanese name　Hamahitogusa　According to Honzō Wakai:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　There are other similar plants

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Copied on the 7th day of early third month, Mizunoto-Hitsuji year

According to Yamato Honzō:
　Daphne (Chōchōge) (also) Mountain Symplocos flower (Kenchōchi) (also) also Seven-li fragrance
　　　Chōchōge (Winter Daphne) is a name given by Japanese common usage

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Late second month, Mizunoto-Hitsuji year
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　True copy made during rainy confinement

According to Wakan Sansai Zue, Fragrant Trees section:
　　　　Daphne (Chōchōge)　　Harmony fragrance (Gozatsuso)　Commonly called Winter Daphne (Shinrōke)
　　(Chinese pronunciation: Tsui Hyan)　　　　　　　Mistakenly called Rimuchiaukai

Gozatsuso states: "It is said and passed down that a monk of Mount Lu was writing under mountain rocks when he perceived a strange fragrance and obtained this flower before him. Therefore it was named 'fragrance.' Later, those fond of curiosities considered it auspicious and changed the name to 'auspicious fragrance.'"

I say:
　The Sansai Zue does not separately list mountain symplocos and daphne as two species, and various books do not distinguish them as one species. Mountain symplocos does not shed its leaves in winter and opens white flowers in the third month. The flowers are abundant and fragrant. Therefore it is called 'cultivated plant.' Its leaves have teeth like gardenia leaves. Similar to the daphne family, there is a difference between white and purple flowers. Mountain symplocos flowers have six petals, daphne has four petals - a slight difference. Daphne also does not shed its leaves in winter.

According to Zōho Tashikihen, Shrub section:
　　Mountain Symplocos　Japanese name　Now upon examination: Rinchōge
　　　　　　　　　　Opens white flowers and bears fruit like black pepper
　　(Alternative name) Spring Cinnamon (common)　(Supplementary alternative name) Skimmia (pronunciation: un)
　　Tei flower (pronunciation: tei)　Taku flower (pronunciation: tei)
　　Chōge flower (Chōchōge) (pronunciation: chō)　Seven-li fragrance

According to Honzō Kōmoku:
　　　　Daphne (Chōchōge)　Hanakozeu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chigoseu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　But these are regional dialects

According to Honzō Ikka-gen:
　　Mountain Symplocos　One name　Tei flower　Also　Jade pistil flower
　　　　　Also　Seven-li fragrance　Also　Sea cave
　　　　　Also　Chō flower

　　　Ju says:
　　　　Those named sea cave have three species: Sea cave flower (Door tree, Tobera)
　　　　Mountain Symplocos, Coral tree (Sea cave, Harikiri) and others

　　　　　　　　　I say again:
 　　 　　　　　　　Daphne and mountain symplocos are both like one species. Like having red flowers
　　　　　　　　　Yellow daphne (Mitsumata)
　　　　　　　　　White daphne (Winishibari, Natsuhōzu)　Also two species are separate species
　　　　　　　　　Yellow daphne differs greatly in its species, white daphne, though
　　　　　　　　　similar, is distinct. Those that bloom without leaves and open in spring
　　　　　　　　　have leaves and flowers connected