Two species
Wood wisteria flower　　Banner flower (Kibushi)　　　16th day of Koshō of Kinoe-Saru year
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Faithfully copied in the style of Hitogaku-shū
　　　　　　I say that banner flower is the original name of primrose
　　　　　　The theory of wood wisteria flower requires examination



Yamato Honzō
　Violet (Noseri) vegetable flower　Called kan-kin (dry celery)
　　　　　　Or calling this mama-hiki grass is incorrect


According to Zōho Tashiki-hen, Pungent Vegetables section:
　　Violet (Kin)　Japanese name: Sumire, current name: upon examination, Noseri　Alternative name: Bitter violet (Kukin) from Erya　Supplementary alternative name: Yellow mallow from Tang Honzō
　　　　　　　Dry celery (Kankin) from Honzō Kōmoku　In Wakan Sansai Zue it is called bitter violet, violet as

　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Wamyō Ruijū-shō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Violet vegetable (Sumire)

　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Honzō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Violet vegetable　Commonly called violet mallow　The sound of violet is "kin"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Japanese name: Sumire

　　　　　　　　I say:
　　　　　　　　　In Wamyō-shō, violet vegetable (Noseri) is written as violet vegetable (Sumire). Sumire is purple flower earthworm
　　　　　　　　　This is sumo-tori grass. This plant well matches the violet vegetable
　　　　　　　　　mentioned in Yamato Honzō. The leaves resemble hōka-botan (Keman) but smaller. Like celery leaves
　　　　　　　　　but larger. The flowers also resemble Keman. It grows in thickets. The stems and leaves are
　　　　　　　　　soft. The flowers are purplish. It grows on land. Called dry celery. This is the plant in question. The pronunciation of violet (Su)
　　　　　　　　　vegetable (Mire) requires examination. This is also called thicket hōka (Yabu-geman)



　　　　　　　　　　According to Wakan Sansai Zue, Wet Grasses section:
　　　　　　　　　　　　Tōshū-jutsu (Peach vermillion technique)　Tōshū-jutsu

　　　　　　　　　　According to Bukō Sanbutsu-shi:
　　　　　　　　　　　　Tōshū-jutsu
　　　　　　　　　　　　(Yabu-geman)

　　　　　　　　　　According to Honzō Kōmoku, Tōshū-jutsu is a type of indigo that grows in gardens
　　　　　　　　　　The leaves are thin like celery, flowers purple, seeds form pods. When a mirror is held up and battled sideways
　　　　　　　　　　the seeds discharge themselves. If collected on the 5th day of the 5th month and worn, it makes women
　　　　　beloved by their husbands. Some say the flowers are yellow
　　　　　The flowers, leaves and fruits of Tōshū-jutsu do not differ from the description in Honzō. When people touch the fruits, they each fly and
　　　　　discharge. The pods split like thread rings. The yellow-flowered type
　　　　　is celery-leaf hook-kiss (Momochidori). Same species but different plant
　　　　　Does not match the lily-like flower described in Sansai Zue