【Right Page】
When it was previously published in that country, people read it voraciously, and purchasers were as numerous as rice stalks or hemp plants, leading to the printing of forty thousand copies at one time. Now that this has been translated into Dutch, it is even more popular than when it was published in its home country. Moreover, this book will supplement the deficiencies in geographical works. Although there are many travel accounts of sea voyages, they merely record storms and great waves, the shapes and contours of lands, and directions, and nothing as extraordinary as these deeds has yet been seen. Those who read this book and learn of his myriad sufferings and ingenuity will naturally develop such divine wisdom themselves. I secretly believe that while the vicissitudes of human life are truly varied, none are as full of changes as his. Each time the affairs of that deserted island are recorded, there are not a few instances that can be applied to worldly circumstances to instruct people. You should always keep these hardships and sufferings in your hearts and never, even momentarily, give rise to arrogant and dissolute thoughts. Moreover, he was skilled only in the art of navigation

【Left Page】
and had never learned any other crafts or skills. How mysterious is the human spirit! Having entered an uninhabited island, he managed food and clothing, built houses, constructed boats, fired pottery, cultivated grains and vegetables, and was able to sustain his own life. Furthermore, since this person was poor in literary skills, when he records these events, they are merely simple and unadorned, lacking literary elegance. Fearing that people would find it difficult to understand, he became verbose, so if a person of talent were to read it, they would surely dislike its prolixity. Also, since he spoke to the people of "Barbaria" in the English language, it is difficult to understand easily. In the conversations during that time, when the Barbarian people answered in English, their speech was corrupted and not easy to comprehend. Now in translating this, we use proper Dutch language and do not translate the corrupted speech. Also, we translate the verbose passages without omission, adding not the slightest personal interpretation, not even one word