【Right page】
did not engage in work, and even as my father reached old age, he still admonished me, wanting to put me in school and give me easy books to study. However, I harbored great ambitions and did not wish to expose my eyes to books, but constantly had aspirations for seafaring. Even though my father tried to stop this, I would not listen, and though my relatives explained in various ways trying to dissuade me, I would not comply at all. Therefore, they secretly plotted to banish me. Since my father had a generous heart, he allowed me to abandon my studies and follow my will, only requiring that I continue the family line. One time when my father was on his sickbed, he left me these dying words: "Generally speaking, though people have many difficult enterprises, the most difficult are these two things: cultivating uninhabited land, and becoming a great house in one's birthplace, raising one's name to posterity and restoring ancestral achievements. You must choose one of these two." I finally resolved to cultivate uninhabited land.

On September 1st, 1651 A.D., I first set sail from "London" (which is the royal capital of England), and when trying to reach the "Humber," a great wind suddenly arose and violent waves struck the heavens. The danger was such as I had never before witnessed. I nearly lost my soul. I thought to myself that this must be Heaven punishing my licentiousness.

【Left page】
As time passed, the wind and waves grew ever higher. At this time I could only tremble with fear as the waves battered my body, fearing only that I would lose my life. The ship rose and fell with the great waves countless times. When it rose, it was like straddling a thousand-fathom mountain peak; when it fell, it was like sinking into a bottomless abyss. Therefore, I prayed to Heaven in my heart, saying: "If you will deliver me from this peril, I will change my lazy nature, respect others, and be careful in all things." I also thought: "If I reach land, I will stop boarding ships again." During this time of violent sea waves, I constantly