【Right page】
The wind force subsided, and we all finally came ashore. From there we went toward "Yarmouth," where the local people took pity on me and gave me money to return to "London." When I reached "Hull," people earnestly advised me to give up seafaring, but I was ashamed that if I said I had returned after meeting with disaster at sea, people would call me a coward. Moreover, I had made a firm promise to my parents not to return. So I boarded a merchant ship bound for "Africa" and headed for "Guinea." There I had a close friend who treated me with great kindness. Relying on him, I studied various subjects such as surveying and navigation, and he also gave me five hundred ryō in gold. ○ However, around this time I was often ill and would suffer from fever whenever I moved, so I could not master the subtleties of these skills. I also became a merchant and traveled elsewhere, then returned to "Guinea." Four or five days before I was to return, my friend died. So I decided to go to the "Canary" Islands again.

【Left page】
At sea I was captured by pirates from "Salé" in the "Turkish" country. This place is between the "Canary" Islands and the "African" coast. Initially when we were being chased by the pirate ship and tried to escape, the pirate ship had many sails while our ship had few, so we were finally overtaken. Though our ship defended itself with twelve large cannons, it was ineffective, and three of our companions were killed and eight were wounded. We finally fell into the hands of the pirates and were sold into "slavery." Though I had previously accumulated wealth through the profits of trade, it was all taken away and I suddenly became an impoverished "slave." At this time I recalled my father's warning and was deeply moved. His words were: "If you go to sea, you will encounter pirates and suffer greatly. Heaven will also cause you to die in the open without even a small dwelling." How truly prophetic his words were! However, these were my

【Upper right page】
Surveying is the art of measurement and is one academic discipline.