【Right Page】
these two matters are only minor incidents. There are still many other hardships besides. I had become a "slave" and was looking forward to being employed as a soldier on warships of "Spain" or "Portugal," but my earnest wish vanished like smoke. I was kept at my master's house, merely cultivating about one chō of fields, and also guarding my master's ship. Among the fellow "slaves," there were people from my homeland, people from "Ireland," and people from "Scotland." During the two years I spent among these companions, I suffered countless hardships trying to escape from slavery, but could not find a good opportunity and was only driven to work in fishing and hunting for my master. Sometimes I was able to accumulate some private goods. As my master's household finances were about to decline greatly, he decided to build a large fishing boat to gain great profits from fishing. So I contributed my private wealth to help build this fishing boat and achieved merit, and therefore

【Left Page】
daily took the boat out to sea for fishing with nets. At this time I deceived them, saying I would catch ducks with a gun, and borrowed guns along with gunpowder and lead shot, and also placed saws, hammers, ropes and such in the boat. One day, about one ri from the shore, there was a northeast wind - this was the wind I had been waiting for. Going out another ri further, among the servant boys who accompanied me were two people, one of whom was an evil man from the "Moorish" country. I threw him into the sea. This person floated like a duck and clung to the gunwale. I immediately took up the gun and said: "You must swim back to shore. I have reason to go far away. If you do not quickly return to shore, I will shoot through your head and kill you." Thereupon I set sail with my remaining servant and fled, running away from this place. That servant's name was Xury. ○From here I sailed toward "Barbary" country, intending to reform the wicked and violent customs of that land, but my ship was small and I was few in number, so I had no authority to reform the evil customs. Also