[Right page]
I recorded in detail the events following my being washed ashore. I stopped when the ink was exhausted, as there was no substitute for brush and ink. ○ There were also useful implements: ink, braziers, farming tools, sewing needles, silk thread, and cotton thread. This was because I had previously been accustomed to making clothes. ○ For a whole year, staying at home, I accomplished many constructions using the aforementioned various tools. ○ I also cut down trees in the forest to use as stakes, expanding the fence to enlarge my dwelling. Initially I tried to support it with heavy wooden pieces, but now I conveniently use iron levers. ○ Although the various implements were quite well-equipped and sufficient for use, I only worried about the daily decrease in provisions. When I reflect upon the circumstances of my life, there are both good and bad fortune. I list them to show to future people. ○ Bad fortune ○ Coming to a deserted island and suffering from lack of all necessities. ○ Good fortune ○ That I did not drown like the others and remained safe is great fortune

[Left page]
○ Bad fortune ○ Being alone and unable to seek help from others. ○ Good fortune ○ The wrecked ship approached the shore and I obtained various items from it using a raft. ○ Bad fortune ○ I also lament having come to this uninhabited wilderness. ○ Good fortune ○ Fortunately avoiding hunger and thirst, I sustain my life. ○ Bad fortune ○ My clothes gradually wear out completely until I have nothing to wear. ○ Good fortune ○ Fortunately, being in a warm climate, I do not particularly need clothing. ○ Bad fortune ○ Being alone makes hunting inconvenient. ○ Good fortune ○ There are no fierce beasts that eat humans in this place. ○ Bad fortune ○ Being alone with no one to converse or consult with. ○ Good fortune ○ I obtained several books from the wrecked ship. ○ I never see ships passing on the sea. When will I ever be able to return to human society again? ○ To make my dwelling sturdy, I support many stakes in double layers. I pile earth and stones inside and plaster