[Right page]
to make thick walls. After one year passed, I constructed a lean-to roof on top of it. One side of the roof was supported against natural rocks. I used all forest trees and branches. Since I arranged various implements inside the house, it became so cramped that there was no space even to turn over. Therefore, I decided to build an underground storage. At that time, I extended those fence stakes to the right side of the hill and dug into the mountain wall behind the house to create the underground storage. I made this the rear entrance of the house, connecting from outside to inside the house. This serves as the pathway for going in and out. The arrangement of various implements finally became orderly. ○ Here I manufactured necessary implements, namely chairs, desks, tables, etc. A desk is an essential tool for writing and eating. ○ Generally, when making various implements, a saw is difficult to use. I make things only with an axe and hammer. For example, if I want to obtain a single plank, I carve and plane a whole piece of timber from both sides

[Left page]
and take only the central piece. Therefore, from one piece of timber I obtain only one plank. ○ I made chairs, desks, and tables from planks I had taken from the wrecked ship to use as a raft. I also set up planks I had carved, one and a half feet wide, on one side of the room to place various tools and iron implements. I also nailed them to walls to hang large and small guns and various implements. If I were to show this room to someone, they would surely say "This room contains only necessary implements; there is not a single frivolous item for amusement or hobby." ○ Initially when I came ashore, I vomited a great deal of seawater and was extremely weakened, drawing up my legs and clasping my hands, lying dazed on the ground, but I did not sleep for fear of wild beasts. During the following two days, I climbed mountains and went to the wrecked ship, which increased my fatigue even more. However, I gradually recovered to my former state and became robust. ○ Moreover, chairs, desks, tables, and all daily necessities were completely prepared, bringing me great convenience.