[Right page]
I consider this matter. ○ I also explored the mountains and obtained thirty heads of rice. I propagated these and made various foods such as steamed cakes. ○ Around this time, the work to fortify the hut was completed. Since there is no door, I use a small ladder to go in and out over the fence.

On the 16th day of the 4th month, the hut was already solid and sufficient to defend against external threats. However, one night, earth and rocks collapsed from the mountaintop with tremendous force, breaking the stakes of the fence. The debris covering the roof was enormous, and I was about to be buried under the earth. To avoid this, I quickly grabbed the ladder, crossed over the fence, and fled. Otherwise I would have been completely buried. This was due to an earthquake, and in the half hour before the tremors, there were three strange occurrences. Part of the mountaintop collapsed and fell into the sea for about half a ri, accompanied by terrifying explosive sounds. Violent waves arose, making it seem as if the entire island would split apart. The intensity of the tremors

[Left page]
caused my body to sway as if suffering from seasickness. I worried that many of my tools would be damaged. The third tremor was the most violent, preventing me from returning to the hut, so I lay on the ground. My heart palpitated severely, and I could only call out to heaven and sigh repeatedly. At that time the sky was dark, dense clouds covered all sides, wind and waves rose high, presenting a fearsome sight. The force of the wind broke large trees on the shore. After three hours, heavy rain fell like connected hemp ropes. I lay prostrate and motionless like a corpse. Upon reflection, I thought that if I rose when prompted by the wind and rain, it would not last long before stopping. Indeed, it was as I thought. I gradually stood up and returned to the hut. ○ Due to this heavy rain, a large muddy pool formed beside the hut. The earthquake had already stopped and my anxiety somewhat subsided. I drank a cup of spirits to strengthen my spirit. This is something I use sparingly, for once it is exhausted, I cannot obtain it