【Right page】
(like thunder) and said, "You have always been lacking in ability. Yet you still do not turn to good. Now I shall stab you to death," and he twisted his long spear to stab my chest. Seeing the blade coming toward my chest, I was startled and tried to stand up, when it turned out to be my house and it was a dream from one sleep. The eastern sky was already white, and birds were circling around the house calling. Greatly fatigued, tears of emotion flowed down several lines. I thought of how I had previously been rescued by a Portuguese ship in the ocean, and how I had been cast adrift by the sea waves and fortunately reached this shore, and I lamented greatly. I ask that readers also pity my hardships and grant me one thought of imagination. Because of this dream, fever broke out greatly again, and for two or three days I did not awaken, suffering intense anguish, and in my distress I suddenly cried out: "Does Heaven not help me? I am about to die. How can Heaven bear to see this suffering?" After speaking, tears flowed like rain. I lay prostrate in silence for

【Left page】
several hours. I also thought: Initially when I was at home, my father commanded me saying, "Sea voyaging is not a suitable pursuit," and with thousands of words he spoke of its disadvantages without cease. Now these words from the dream correspond one by one with his. 
On the 28th day, I rose in great comfort and prepared food, though I was still not robust due to the fatigue from the dream. However, thinking to prepare again for the onset of fever, I filled a large round flask with water and placed it near my bedside. This is because it was a sign that fever would break out in the morning. It is this kind of intermittent illness. Also, I poured a little liquor into this water to ward off the water's coldness. Separately, I placed a piece of well-roasted goat meat to prepare for hunger. My dinner these days consists only of eating three turtle eggs baked in ashes. On this day I intended to go out hunting, but when I gazed at the sea surface, small waves were moving and