【Right page】
Therefore, they were not flexible and broke easily. So I took the thin branches of the hedge trees I had planted to surround my shelter and made baskets from them, which were flexible like willow and bamboo. When I was in my homeland, there was a basket maker in the neighborhood, and having observed his methods of production since childhood, I was generally able to craft them skillfully. Later I became increasingly proficient, like a professional basket maker. When I later wanted to make baskets, I would go into the forest and cut branches from various trees to test them, and found they were also suitable for baskets. So I gathered many, dried them, and stored them in my storage pit to prepare for work during the rainy season.

○I made many baskets of various sizes, large and small. Some were made to be carried for transporting soil, and others served as vessels for holding fruit. When they broke, I would make new ones. I also made separate, sturdy large ones to serve as bags for storing grain. ○I also intend to make two types of necessary vessels. I do not yet know whether they will succeed. The first type

【Left page】
is something to serve as a bucket. I once took two small buckets from the ship, but they already leak and are useless. The only vessels I have for holding water are several square and round glass bottles. Also, since I have no pots or kettles, I do no cooking. I do have one large pot, but it is heavy and large, making it difficult to cook a single bean soup or a piece of meat. So I intend to make a pot. This is my first task. ○Second, I tried to manufacture a tobacco pipe, spending much thought on it, and finally invented the method of making it. ○One summer I cut wood from the great forest, drove stakes, and worked on making baskets. ○Later, when I made a complete tour around the entire island, I found the source of a small river. Building a new shelter also took place at this time. ○Sometimes I would explore deep into the forest until I reached places where there were no more paths, then turn back and reach the seashore. ○My traveling equipment consisted of one gun, one axe, gunpowder, lead shot, and dried grapes that I carried