【Right page】
carrying them became tiring. ○On the road my dog barked at a young goat. I was fatigued and too lazy to fire my gun, and even if I killed it, it would be difficult to carry back. However, to prepare for food when the gunpowder runs out, I captured that goat and led it back. This was done with deep intention. ○Having raised sheep for a long time, they became greatly tame, and even when I open the pen, they always return in the evening. ○Initially I suffered from being lost in that great fog and worried I might not be able to return to my shelter, but I was able to return to my shelter easily and felt relieved. Though the shelter is crude, it is better than sleeping outdoors in the mountains and fields. This is because bedding and such are provided. When I return from outside, the household goods are arranged and complete, sufficient to end one's life with. I need seek nothing else. ○Resting in the shelter for seven days, I recovered from the fatigue of travel. During that time I only made a cage for the parrot and taught it human speech. ○I went to eat the sheep that I had enclosed in the new shelter

【Left page】
and when I went to examine it, the sheep was extremely weakened. Thinking this was due to hunger, I gave it a little green grass. From this time it became well-tamed and even without being tied, it would come following me like a dog. ○Autumn came. That is, day and night became equal, and it was the beginning of the rainy season. ○The thirtieth day of the ninth month of this year was the day I had previously drifted to this island, and two years had already passed. I rejoiced that my body remained robust. Also thinking that avoiding the dust and dirt of human society and living on this desolate island was also one pleasure, my feelings of longing for the world departed. ○However, since it is human nature, I thought that spending one's life running through mountains and forests would also be detestable. Various thoughts became confused in my mind and I could not reach a decision. Therefore I cried out like a child for several hours, and to resolve my melancholy I took out the books I had stored and read them. Among them there was a passage that seemed to describe my circumstances.