【Right page】
I also cut ironwood to make a pestle, and for the first time the pestle and mortar were complete. ○I made flour, but without sifting it I could not make good quality steamed bread. Therefore I tried to make a sieve, but I had not a single piece of coarse cloth. I tried to spin sheep's wool to weave cloth, but I lacked the machinery and did not know the technique. Searching inside the house, I found only a few feet of coarse cloth that I had salvaged from the wrecked ship. Patching this and that together, I made three small sieves. These could be used for a long time without breaking. ○I thought day and night about making a basin and stove for making steamed bread, and finally fired clay to make a large basin. The circumference was about two feet, and the depth was less than one foot. I also gathered flat stones to make a stove, placed fire on the upper surface to heat the stones, removed the fire and swept the surface of those heated stones, placed wheat flour mixed with water on top, covered it with the stone basin, and also

【Left page】
placed fires around the circumference to assist the heating power from above and below. ○During the third year after being shipwrecked, I spent my days making tools for farming and for making steamed bread and such. ○Thereafter, I examined the nature of the soil and considered the timing to sow grain, and there were times when I harvested as much as twenty bags, sometimes exceeding twenty bags. ○I had no tools for threshing. To remove the hulls I rubbed them between my palms, which consumed much time. ○From this time I began to eat steamed bread leisurely. I also calculated the amount needed for one year and made it my standard to harvest twenty bags. ○I planned to cross to the land I had once glimpsed from far off the island. Whether that land was an island or a country I could not know, but it would surely be better than this place of hardship. However, I had once heard that along the shores of the "Caribbean" the people are more ferocious than wolves. Their savagery is the greatest in the world. Now, considering the location of that land, it is not far from departing this country. Even if