【Right page】
After spending days like this for a long time, I again wished to board a boat and go on a sailing excursion, but fearing the wind and waves, I traveled by land, going around the shoreline. The circumstances had greatly changed from when I was in my home country, and I had not a single servant with me. My attire consisted of wearing a very high, pointed leather cap majestically on my head, with fur hanging shaggily on the outside. When one looks at this, it has dignity and authority. I tied a piece of leather behind the cap to cover the crown, preparing for the scorching sun and rain and dew. I also wore a sheep-skin robe and sheep-skin trousers. The fur was very long, about six or seven sun. I also had leather socks, and on my leather belt I tied a saw and an axe, one each. I also tied a long leather strap diagonally from my right shoulder to under my left armpit, and attached one bag each of gunpowder and lead shot. I carried a basket on my back as a portable kitchen. In my right hand I gripped a large umbrella made of sheepskin, and on my left shoulder I carried a large gun. Anyone seeing my traveling outfit and appearance would be startled and frightened. Also, the mustache on both sides of my upper lip was five sun long, and the beard on my chin

【Left page】
was all shaved off. This was to show that I was not a violent person. If I were to arrive in my home country in this attire, what would the people of my country say? ○I walked along the shore and reached the small harbor where I had moored my boat. Looking from the hill, the sea was calm with not a single ripple. ○As I gazed thoughtfully at the sea surface, when the tide receded and flowed westward, I could see what appeared to be the state of a great river flowing into the sea in the middle of the ocean, colliding with the flow of the ebbing tide. ○Boarding the boat and drifting, the flow from west to north was so swift that I was able to return to the island in an instant. Looking at that flowing tide, it disappeared far out in the ocean. ○Having spent a thousand thoughts on inventions, my household implements and food had also gradually become abundant. The trees surrounding my dwelling had also grown increasingly luxuriant, to the point where the dwelling could not be seen from outside. ○The hedge trees of the new dwelling were particularly thick, and their shade was deep. Inside there was a dwelling, with animal skins on the sleeping platform