【Right page】
and place one male and one female inside. ○I intend to cultivate fields in the deep forest. I searched the entire island and found a secluded, hidden place. Having remained in the castle for two years, I constantly spent my days in fear and trembling. ○One day, wanting to seek out a secluded hidden place, I passed by the eastern shore of the island when I spotted a small boat far out at sea. Not having brought a telescope, I could not see it clearly. I climbed up a hill to observe, but finally lost sight of it. When I descended and went to the beach, there were human footprints. I suspected and feared that people from another ship's boat had come ashore to draw water, or perhaps had delivered violent prisoners and abandoned them on this island. Walking southwest, I suddenly saw bones of hands and feet scattered about. Brains were splattered on the ground, fresh blood stained the grass, and a fishy wind struck my face. Nearby, the ground had been dug in a circular shape with a half-extinguished fire inside. This was probably where violent men had

【Left page】
roasted human flesh, and I was struck with terror. I had previously heard that there were places in "America" where people ate human flesh, but now I witnessed it with my own eyes. Standing motionless, I looked up to heaven and lamented, saying "Alas, in the greatness of creation, why does it give birth to such cruelty?" Tears flowed like a spring. In the eighteen long years since coming to this island, I had never seen such evil. From this time for another two years, I hid in forest shadows and within the castle, fearing them like malevolent demons. I also no longer took boat trips around the island for pleasure. ○From this time onward, whenever I went out I always carried a gun in my hand, fastened two small guns to my leather belt, and wore a large sword with the blade drawn. ○Considering the matter, when violent men come there must be no fewer than thirty or forty of them. They would all be equipped with long spears, throwing arrows, and bows, which would be more advantageous than my firearms. How could there be any way to prevent violent men from ever again setting foot on this island?