【Right page】
○I planned to bury explosive mines in the area where those violent men came and made fires, to detonate them and cause fear and terror, but I abandoned this plan, worried about expending and losing large amounts of gunpowder at once. I devised one strategy. I would spy on the place where they come to hold their feast of human flesh, and firing three or four consecutive shots from a hiding place, each shot would surely wound or kill no fewer than three men. Taking advantage of the confusion from the first shot, I would separately fire guns loaded with three charges of shot one after another, and strike those nearby with my large sword. Having decided on this plan, there is dense forest near the hearth where they eat human flesh. I planned to shoot from within this forest, made a path from the forest to the hearth, set up markers, and crouched in hiding to wait for the enemy to come. ○The preparation of guns was as follows: two guns were loaded with a mixture of shot and four or five small lead bullets. One hunting gun was filled with a handful of coarse shot. Also, several small

【Left page】
guns each contained four or five lead bullets. I also carried bamboo cartridge tubes (hayagō) with me. ○Every morning I climbed a hill about one ri from the castle and surveyed the sea with a telescope for two months, but saw not even a single small boat. ○Why does Heaven not punish the sin of eating people? When I see those violent men, I will avenge the innocent and kill all the violent men on the boat. ○This is a remnant of the evil custom of using humans as sacrifices, and the people of "Barbary" countries eat the people of "Africa" in numbers beyond counting. This is a savage and stubborn custom that cannot be changed overnight. ○Another year passed. By chance when I looked out from the hill, there was one small boat in the ocean. So I rowed my boat and found a cave-like hollow place under the rocks of a small harbor, and hid and moored my boat there. This is a place where violent men do not come and will not notice. One day, carrying my gun, I went to the enclosure to tend