【Right page】
When I thoroughly examined the inside of the cave, it was a natural scenic beauty. Going to the depths, there was a precipice that could not be passed. Beyond that precipice were two small holes. The next day, I brought a large candle made from sheep fat and a ladder, descended the precipice and reached the small holes. I chiseled and widened the holes by more than one jō, and when I entered inside, it was spacious and wide. Above was a vaulted ceiling several jō high, and around the cave were various precious stones such as gold, silver, agate, and glass stones, intertwining and overlapping to form strange walls of myriad transformations. Also mysteriously, the interior suddenly became bright like daylight. This brightness was created by the light of the candle I held reflecting off the surfaces. ○I think that such a secluded and hidden place probably does not exist even in the famous mountains and great valleys of the world. ○This is truly the ultimate hiding place. From this point I transported and stored various tools. First I cut down trees and burned charcoal, piled it in the cave, and used charcoal fire instead of firewood for cooking food.

【Left page】
This was to prevent the cooking smoke from rising and being seen by the violent men. ○Having obtained a place to hide and live, I was greatly delighted. Still holding up the candle to look around once more, the ground was flat with fine, clean white powder sand spread over it. There was not a single footprint on it. Also, the interior was well-dried without moisture, and no dripping water sprang up from the sandy ground between the walls. ○In moving various items into this cave, I first transported the hunting rifles. At this time, when I opened a barrel of gunpowder that I had long kept hidden, around the barrel's circumference for three to four inches, it had absorbed water and hardened. The central portion was not affected by moisture, and the usable amount was sixty kin, just like the pit of a fruit. I also transported lead ingots and such. Next I completed the greater part of transporting the necessary tools. ○Hidden in the cave, the joy in my heart cannot be fully expressed in words. I think to myself that the pleasure of living in this deep cave is truly like that of those who withdraw from the world in seclusion.