【Right page】
them. ○After that, I constantly kept watch and observed for enemies for fifteen months, but did not see a single boat come. Since I did not know how to defend against them, I spent my time only in fear and trembling. I also thought that even if I could kill six or seven people, I would ultimately be unable to preserve my own life, so I merely waited for that time to come.
○Initially I planned to kill and punish the violent men so they would not come again, but upon careful consideration, I feared that if I killed one or two and failed to eliminate the rest, they would return to attack with hundreds of boats. At this time it was the fifth month of the twenty-fourth year. ○Around this time, due to unrest in my heart, I had frightening dreams every night. Sometimes I would wake up startled by these dreams. Most of these dreams were of encountering violent men and being killed, or of killing one or two violent men and being instructed by the remainder.

【Left page】
In the middle of this month, one night there was violent rain with fierce thunder and strong winds that continued until the next night. While reading in the middle of the night, I suddenly heard the sound of a large cannon firing once from the sea. Startled, I stood up and immediately ran quickly to climb up the rock face using the ladder. Then I suddenly saw the flash of light from a second cannon firing. After a brief interval, I heard the sound of that explosion. I thought this must be a ship about to sink due to wind and waves, calling out to an accompanying ship to alert them of the danger. I wanted to rescue this ship and escape from this island, but had no means to do so. Suddenly I conceived of a plan: I would pile up much dry timber on the hill and set it on fire. At this time the rain had cleared and only the wind remained fierce, so the fire became even more intense. Perhaps that ship recognized my fire, as it fired a third cannon. ○I kept the fire burning all night, and the next morning the sea was without waves, flat as a board. I saw an object in the distance. Looking through my telescope, it became somewhat clear. This was the ship's anchor