【Right page】
I heard this for the first time and was greatly delighted. I also showed the fugitive with gestures that I would give him the gun and that he should kill the revived hostile man, pointing the muzzle at the hostile man to explain, but he did not respond. So when I lent him my cutlass, he immediately took it and leaped forward, cut down the hostile man, brought back his head, returned the sword to me, and rejoiced boundlessly, jumping about. ○ He also asked with gestures, "By what means did you kill the pursuer from a distance?" So I rolled over the corpse and showed him the gunshot wound, from which fresh blood was flowing and the life force had not yet departed. I immediately ordered him to dig in the sand and make two large holes, burying the two corpses so that other hostile men would not see them. The burial took only about the time it takes to drink two cups of tea. ○ Taking the bow and arrows, I returned to the castle. Here, perceiving that he was thirsty from running, I gave him water to drink, and also gave him steamed bread and dried grapes. I provisionally spread straw to show him a sleeping place

【Left page】
and gave it to him. ○ He was a strong man, aged twenty-four or twenty-five, with beautiful features and a gentle countenance. His face resembled that of a "European." His hair was black and long. His forehead was broad and his eyes had the color of glowing coals. His face was round, his nose rather small, his lips thin, and his teeth were like the color of ivory. His skin color was not like the blackness of "Americans" but rather resembled the color of olive fruit. ○ After sleeping briefly and rising, he bowed to me as if thanking me for my kindness and intending to serve me for life. I too showed him favor and gave my consent. First I tried to teach him the language of my homeland. I called his name "Friday," which means the day Friday. This was because he was saved from death on this day. I also had him call me "Master," which means lord. Next I taught him "Yes" and "No." ○ Later I taught him how to eat and drink, and gave him clothing. ○ "Fri《marginal note: hereafter omitting four characters｜and using two characters》