【Right page】
He told me he would eat the corpses buried in the sand. I was greatly surprised and showed him the gesture of vomiting to explain that he must not eat them. ○ The next day I led Friday up to the hill and looked through the telescope, and the hostile men had already abandoned the two pursuers' corpses and departed. They had not left even one boat moored there. So I had Friday carry the cutlass and bow and arrows, and also made him carry one gun. I took two guns and went to their feast site, and when I examined the remains of their meal, there were still bones with meat attached, and spilled blood was dripping and staining the earth. I shuddered when I saw the roasted remains of human flesh. This was surely the custom of their country - to invade other lands, capture people indiscriminately, come to this island and eat them. There were three skulls, five hand bones, and four hip bones and shin bones. Friday saw them and shuddered, saying "The hostile men originally intended to eat four people. One of them was myself," and he pointed to his own

【Left page】
face and thanked me for meeting me and being saved. ○ I ordered Friday to gather up the scattered bones and flesh of these people. I cut down wood myself, piled it around, and set fire to burn them. ○ This was the intention of cremation. When I set the fire and burned them, Friday drooled from his mouth, wanting to eat a piece of that meat. I became angry and brandished my authority, raising the cutlass to cut him in two. Friday kowtowed and apologized. Then I earnestly explained that human flesh must not be eaten. ○ One day I gave Friday one pair of cotton trousers, one sheep fur coat, one rabbit fur pointed cap, and one pair of sleeves. The fur coat and cap were made by my own hand and were quite skillful. With these I covered his naked body. He was greatly pleased. Also, there were places where they did not fit his body, so I supplemented and enlarged them and gave them to him, whereupon he was even more pleased and grateful. ○ I selected one room for Friday. That room was between my inner and outer walls. I installed one door to separate it from my room