【Right page】
This was so that if he came to my room in the middle of the night, there would necessarily be a sound to wake me from my sleep. Next I fortified Friday's room. That is, near the outer fence there was one large tree that covered the house. Using that tree, I constructed boards in an arched form and thatched it very thickly with straw. I had him live inside this. Also, there was no door but one ladder leaning against it. I placed one stone under the ladder, and if he wished to come to my room in the middle of the night, he should strike the stone to wake me from sleep. Then I would get up and provide him with the ladder. During the day we lived together intimately, but at night we were greatly separated. This was because I had not yet clearly discerned his heart. ○ Day by day his loyalty became clear. He looked upon me as a father. Therefore I too regarded him as a child, and from this point I removed the fortified preparations. ○ One day I spoke to him using my words. Those words were: "Heaven's creation of people is like a potter using clay to create various pots.

【Left page】
Even though pots have large openings on their upper surface, they never blame the potter because their form is crude and does not accord with their own wishes. People too should not resent Heaven because of their misfortunes." ○ Since communication through language was difficult, I first taught him the names of many implements. ○ Three or four days after I first helped Friday, in order to make him stop his habit of eating human flesh, I went into the mountains to hunt goats. When I saw two young goats running, I pointed them out to Friday to show him hunting. Friday did not respond. When I fired my gun, Friday lost his soul and fell to the ground. He gradually got up but continued trembling without stopping. He looked left and right at his own clothing and fur, seeming to suspect they were torn, and was greatly frightened. He spoke loudly for dozens of words, none of which I understood. However, upon reflection, this was because Friday suspected he was going to be killed. Therefore I extended my hand to help him up