【Right page】
I shall omit all of these details. Finally, when I asked about the nearest human habitation to this island, he said it was of the "Caribs" tribe. ○When I examined the map, that large island extends from the mouth of the "Orinoco" River, with one part reaching "Guiana" and another part reaching the seashore of "Martha." ○Friday said that to the west of this large island there is a country where people with long beards and white skin live, and his countrymen fought against them and won, obtaining three thousand prisoners. I think that Friday is a type of savage person, and they inflict their savagery upon neighboring countries. Originally, the custom of this country is to eat human flesh, to such an extent that foolish husbands and wives throughout the land tell stories about it to stop their infants from crying. ○At one time I asked Friday, "Is there no way to escape from this island?" He answered, "One small boat would be sufficient." Therefore I planned to build one. ○From this time on, we spent our days in conversation and storytelling, and three years passed. During our daily work, I told him about my experiences since being shipwrecked on this island. I also taught him to use gunpowder and fire a gun. I also

【Left page】
gave him a small knife, which he wore on his leather belt and treasured greatly. This was because iron is scarce in his country. I also lent him an axe. ○One day I made a map of the globe and showed him my homeland and the places I had traveled around. He was amazed and, learning of its vastness for the first time, sighed and said, "Master, you have traveled around the entire world." ○I showed him where the shipwreck had occurred as well as the places where those who had drowned in subsequent shipwrecks had washed ashore, and told him about the ship in distress that had fired cannons on that stormy night, and when I showed him the traces, he covered his mouth with his hand and stood for a while, then said, "When I was in my homeland, I once helped rescue a ship of white people who were about to be wrecked. These must be people from that voyage." I asked, "How many people were on that ship?" He answered, "Seventeen people, and they are all still alive in my homeland. On that stormy night they