【Right page】
fired cannons must certainly be people from this same voyage." ○I asked again, "Why did you not eat those people you rescued?" He answered, "In my country we do not eat innocent people; we only eat prisoners captured in battle." ○One day, looking out from the mountaintop on the eastern edge of the island, the sky was clear and I could see the shore of "America." Friday, seeing his homeland in the distance, leaped with joy and greatly stirred his longing to return home. I too thought to go to that land and guide them away from their savage customs, but fearing they would not accept the teaching and would instead eat me, I thought to wait for the right time to teach them. ○One day, again looking out (toward the American continent), I said, "Do you wish to return?" He answered, "Yes." "If you return, will you eat people again?" He answered, "No, I will eat only grain and livestock." I said, "If you go against your country's customs, will not your countrymen eat you?" He answered, "No, my countrymen love me." I said, "If I go with you, will your countrymen eat me?" Friday said, "No, no, even if they tried to

【Left page】
eat you, I would stop them and not let them commit this violence. When my countrymen see me, they will wonder at my being unharmed. Then I will tell them how I was helped by my master. Then my countrymen will give great thanks to my master." ○One day I told Friday, "I have a boat. You can take it and return to your homeland," and I showed him the boat. He said, "This small boat cannot float on the great ocean and sail to my homeland." So I showed him the large boat I had built initially, but having already passed twenty-three or twenty-four years, it had split in the sun and rotted in the rain and was unusable. Friday said, "This would be sufficient to cross the ocean, but being so damaged, it is of no use." When I said, "I will build another large boat to send you to your father, and I will remain on this island," Friday said, "I want to stay by my master's side for a long time. Why does my master abandon me?" I said, "You always say you want to return to your homeland,