【Right page】
don't you say you wish to return?" He answered, "I want to share life and death with my master. If my master remains on the island, I too will remain on the island." When I said, "What would you do staying by my side?" he answered, "My master saved me from mortal danger. Therefore I want to share life and death and assist my master." I insisted, "I will remain here. You should return to your homeland and see how your parents are." Then he suddenly ran and took an ax, offering me the handle. I said, "What is this for?" He answered, "If my master truly has pity on me, please raise me. If you wish to abandon me, please strike me down with this ax," and wept so pitifully. At this I was moved by his sincerity, and decided to sail together to his homeland. We went into the mountains to search for timber to build a boat. Finally we found a type of zelkova tree. Friday called this tree "Nikaraki." With this we built a large boat, which took about one

【Left page】
month to complete. We then rolled it and finally got it to the water. When I had him try rowing with the oars, his speed was like a flying arrow. From this I knew he was skilled in handling boats. ○I asked, "Is this boat sufficient to reach the shore (of his homeland)?" He answered, "It is sufficient." I intended to equip it with sail, rudder, oars, anchor and such. The sailcloth, having already been twenty-six years old, was torn and had no complete widths. I patched together barely two somewhat intact pieces to make a small triangular sail. This sail was one I had grown accustomed to using. After two months, all the boat equipment was ready. I erected two masts together - the foremast and mainmast. ○When we tried floating it on the sea, Friday was greatly amazed to see the sail catch the wind and run swiftly. This was because in his country they did not know to use sails on small boats. Also, when trying to change the boat's direction, whenever he wanted to move it even slightly, he would use the oars. I simply pulled the sail ropes to turn, advance, and retreat at will.