【Right page】
consider it fortunate not to be eaten. If the master were to rescue them, they would gladly serve you faithfully for life." ◯ I said, "If those local people do not harm me, I will cross to that land and bring your companions to this island. However, you must wait a little while. Though I have grain, if I were to feed sixteen people, my stores would be exhausted all at once. I will cultivate fields with you four, store food for sixteen people, and then build a large ship to accomplish this plan. Though this is a roundabout way, we must simply wait for that time to come." Here I explained the ancient story of "Joseph" as an analogy. ◯ Over six months, we cultivated and expanded the fields and sowed seeds. ◯ During that time, we occasionally cut trees from the forest and prepared for shipbuilding. Just as when I first made chairs and tables, we carved large timber from both sides to obtain just one plank. That labor is not a matter for paper

【Left page】
discussion. The largest and most beautiful piece was a plank made from oak, twenty-five feet long and four inches thick. ◯ To supplement our food supply, I ordered Friday to capture several herds of goats. That method was explained earlier. ◯ My grain ripened, and from twenty bags of seed I harvested two hundred and twenty bags. This was sufficient to feed my companions. At this point, I thought that Friday and I should first leave this island to seek a place in the "American" region where people do not eat human flesh, and from there send them to their home country. ◯ We built a granary and also made many baskets. The "Spanish" person was particularly skillful. ◯ When our stores were ready, I ordered the "Spanish" person to bring his companions to this island, and I also commanded Friday's father: "When welcoming the castaways to this island, if any of the local people should obstruct this, you must control them and arrange for them to come to this island without hindrance."

【Margin note above third line of left page】
One bag can hold approximately two to and five sho. Since there is no exact measure, the total should be known by the number of bags.

【Margin note above seventh line of left page】
With a large boat to bring the sixteen people, and if we join forces to build one large ship