【Right page】
been seized. If so, the suffering of our countrymen would be far worse than my current situation. I also reasoned that it would be inhumane not to rescue them. Yet to attempt their rescue would endanger my own life, and while I was deliberating over these countless thoughts, it occurred to me that fortunately they could not see the small boat moored in my little harbor. However, my heart was greatly uneasy, wondering if they might discover the boat. Looking at those who had come ashore, they appeared dimly to be people from my home country. There also seemed to be Dutchmen among them. About eleven men were wandering about, and among them three had shackles around their necks and appeared to be from my home country. For some reason, they seemed to have been abandoned on this island. One of them showed particular signs of distress and suffering, and I could see the other two pointing to heaven, greatly lamenting and grieving. What could this mean? Without hearing the circumstances of this scene, it would be completely impossible to understand

【Left page】
it. Furin's lack of understanding was extreme, and he asked me, "Do your countrymen also devour prisoners like savages?" I said, "Though they may kill people, they do not eat their flesh." Though I could not understand this situation, I feared that those three men might be killed and did not take my eyes off them for even an instant. Then one of those who seemed to be the villains took a sword and tried to strike down one who appeared to be a prisoner. However, since this was observed from a distance, it might have been a misperception. In my fortress there was no longer the Spaniard who was Furin's father, only Furin and myself, so we lacked the strength to rescue them. Nevertheless, seeing this situation, my anger was unbearable. The villains had already released the prisoners and seemed intent on touring the island, wandering here and there. Though the prisoners had escaped death, they appeared worried about starving to death on this desolate island, sitting facing each other with heads bowed, contemplating how to survive.