【Right Page】
Thus it was done. As my return to human society drew near, my joy knew no bounds. Having lived on this desolate island for thirty years, thinking I would surely end my days here, what unexpected joy it was to be able to return to human society! I fell to the ground, and for a long time I was beyond words. The captain gave me "rum" to drink, but for a while I shed tears of emotion as if I had lost consciousness. I also took the captain's hand and said, "You must be someone sent from heaven to save me. I have no words to thank you. Everything is a mysterious deep connection. Though the world is vast, who would have thought such an encounter could occur?" We talked together and passed the time. ◯ The captain offered me all the remaining goods from the ship. The items were as follows: One glass bottle basket (containing refined medicinal spirits); Six large glass bottles (containing fine wine, each bottle worth 640 sen); Two pounds of tobacco (of incomparable quality); Refined and

【Left Page】
smoked beef, twelve pounds; Pork, six pieces; Persimmons, one box; Peas, one box; "Biscuits," one hundred pounds; Sugar, one box; Orange juice, two bottles; And various other household goods and small vessels. Also: Six fine white undergarments; One beautiful silk cloth; Two pairs of trousers; One pair of sleeve covers; One pair of socks; One felt hat; One outer garment. Robinson received all these goods and for a while adorned himself from head to toe with them. His glory overflowed. ◯ I said, "What shall we do with the prisoners?" The captain said, "There are two great villains." I said, "Let us imprison them in this island's dungeon." Friday led the prisoners and had them line up in the courtyard. I dressed in my finest clothes and came out to judge them. I said to the prisoners, "Though you have committed crimes, for certain reasons I pardon you. If even one of you fails to obey my commands, I will immediately execute you without mercy." I also said, "Do you wish to return to your homeland, or will you remain on this island?" The prisoners all said, "We will remain on this island." Therefore,