【Right Page】
[they make me their leader]. ◯This was around the beginning of the tenth month of the year 1687. I would like to record the travel account here, but fearing that readers would grow weary, I will record only one or two curious matters. ◯We reached "Madrid" and inquired about the scenic beauty of that land. There was heavy snow in the mountains of this region, stopping our travel. It was mid-October at the time. We stayed in "Ordustasilin" from "Pamplona" for ten days. As we approached the various mountains of the "Pyrenees," having lived long in warm regions, I suffered greatly from the cold. So severe was it that my hands and feet became rigid. My servant Fusuzu, being from a warm region, had never experienced such cold and was greatly troubled. He also saw the accumulated snow on the various mountains and marveled at it as a wondrous sight. Heavy snow continued falling day after day, making the roads impassable, so we detoured to "Fontarabia" and from there reached "Bordeaux." In this place we avoided the snow.

【Left Page】
Here we encountered "French" people. Their guide said, "This is the coldest region in all of 'Europe.' It is now the depths of winter." He also said, "Although the mountains of 'Languedoc' have deep snow, because it freezes solid, both people and horses travel on top of the accumulated snow. Therefore, when there is deep snow, mountain valleys and valley floors become level roadways, like bird paths. However, wolves that are greatly famished gather in flocks at the mountain foothills seeking food. Gentlemen, if you pass through this region, you should prepare weapons. Otherwise it would be extremely dangerous." I smiled and said, "I too am sometimes short of food, and my fierceness is no less than that of wolves. I could be called a two-legged, hairless wolf. If wolves should come, I will wear their pelts and eat their meat." Here we hired one guide. Twelve travelers summoned their courage and advanced. It was the fifteenth day of the eleventh month. ◯Proceeding straight for twenty