【Right Page】
ri (about 20 li), there were two rivers and also an open field that was green without snow. We saw a main road to the left. Proceeding from there, we reached steep mountains that stood like walls. The mountain path wound and curved with particularly many ups and downs. The mountain road could not bear the accumulated snow, and at times the sky continued to bring more snow without ceasing. Everyone was experiencing difficulties. Moreover, dusk was approaching. Though everyone rode on horseback, the blowing snow struck our faces, and the horses also could not advance. The guide preceded me by about half a ri. At that time, two large wolves appeared from the valley, and a large bear also confronted us with the dense forest at its back. The two wolves appeared to be targeting our guide. I hastily spurred my horse forward and saw that one was trying to eat the horse while the other was trying to eat the person. Soon the two wolves leaped toward the person and horse. The guide cried out in mortal terror. I had already commanded Fusuzu to rescue him. When Fusuzu ran close, he fired his gun at the wolf that was already biting the guide's arm,

【Left Page】
striking the wolf's head. This was because initially the guide had been a little slow in drawing his gun from his waist to shoot the wolf, thus missing his opportunity. However, Fusuzu's gun did not miss the opportunity and pierced the wolf's head. This Fusuzu was already accustomed to controlling wolves, so he well knew their behavior. ◯Also, fearing Fusuzu's shooting of the wolf, the wolf that had been biting the horse scattered and fled. There were two or three tooth marks on the horse's face. The guide had been bitten on the arm and thigh and fell from horseback. ◯We all heard Fusuzu's gunshot from behind, made our horses leap, and rushed over to help the guide and bandage his bite wounds. ◯Also, since the wolves' roaring did not cease in various places, we received quite a shock. At this time, a large bear came toward us. The traveling companions warned each other, saying, "Although bears do not eat people, we must be prepared and not negligent." Fusuzu suddenly pointed at the bear and said, "I will show you gentlemen one curious thing," and toward the bear