【Right Page】
Not far away, there was a place where large trees had been cut down and placed haphazardly both lengthwise and crosswise. This was heaven's blessing. I had our party use this timber as a fence, taking position inside it, with large tree trunks at their backs, and divided the group into three units, placing the horses in the center. At that time, a pack of wolves came running while howling loudly, climbed up onto one of the large timbers, aimed at the horses we were guarding, and tried to pounce and bite them when they spotted an opening. I then commanded half of our party to fire their guns. They shot down several wolves where they stood. The wolves retreated somewhat. We then quickly loaded the next bullets. The remaining half also fired and killed several more. However, the wolves stepped over the corpses from behind and continued to surge forward at our party's front, rear, left and right. Their swiftness was like that of demons and spirits. I had them fire guns again. Though the wolves retreated briefly, as soon as the gunfire grew distant they came again. This continued several times. Considering the situation, we had already killed seventy or eighty wolves,

【Left Page】
and wounded perhaps one hundred fifty to sixty more. However, fresh ones replaced the fallen, and there seemed no end in sight. I devised another stratagem. I quickly took the gunpowder pouch from my servant's back and scattered gunpowder in a line across the timber. When I finished scattering it, the wolves had already approached and one or two had climbed up onto the timber. I quickly fired a small gun to ignite it, and immediately it spread to the gunpowder line on the timber, exploding violently with flashing sparks. Its power was unapproachable. The wolves on the timber and in its vicinity all died from the flames. Even those that had penetrated into the middle of the timber formation, frightened by the fire, mostly perished. The remaining wolves, seeing such fierce fire in the darkness, appeared startled and ready to flee. I again commanded our party to pull their triggers simultaneously. We immediately killed more than twenty wolves. At that time we raised loud battle cries and swarmed out from the smoke, using our strength to continuously strike those that were half-dead and rolling on their sides.