In the thirtieth year of Wanli,册使 Xia Ziyang the Secretary and Wang Shizhen the Assistant. When their boat passed Flower Vase Islet, there were waves despite no wind. They prayed to the deity and obtained wind for a smooth crossing. On the return voyage, the rudder cables broke four times and they lost the rudder three times. The main mast also broke. Suddenly divine lanterns appeared on the water surface, and strange birds came and gathered. The east wind assisted their favorable passage.

In the first year of Chongzhen, 册使 Du Sance the Secretary and Yang Lun the Assistant. On the return voyage a hurricane arose, breaking the rudder teeth several times. The rigging cables all snapped. Three men on the boat together purchased a rare nanmu wood (three feet high, worth a thousand gold pieces), donated it and carved a sacred image. Suddenly a strange bird gathered at the mast tip, and the boat traveled as if flying. They reached Fujian in one night, it is said.

In the second year of Kangxi of our dynasty, 册使 Zhang Xueli of the Military Section and Wang Gai the Assistant. When the return ship passed Gumi, a hurricane arose with violent rain. The ship listed dangerously. The situation was extremely perilous. The left and right sides of the mast tilted, and the keel was half broken. Suddenly there appeared flickering fire-light. Thunder arose amid the wind and rain, cutting down and toppling the mast. The rudder spun without stopping, and all the rigging cables snapped. They prayed to the deity to raise the rudder, and three prayers brought three responses. They replaced the rope and lowered the rudder. At that time there was a bird with a green beak and red feet like a wild goose or duck. It perched on the battle platform. The sailors said, "Tianfei has sent it to guide us." They finally reached Dinghai.

In the twenty-second year of Kangxi, 册使 Wang Ji the Compiler and Lin Linzhuo the Drafter. On the return voyage there was a hurricane for three days and nights. The boat pitched up and down precariously, with water filling the hold. Of all aboard, only sixteen people were able to stand up. The kitchen stove was swept away and everyone was starving and freezing. They devoutly prayed to Tianfei and promised to request spring and autumn sacrificial rites. The mast stays broke but the mast did not scatter; the top ropes broke but the sail did not fall. Rising and falling with the waves, finally