[The imperial edict was] received and followed the deliberation.

Minister Baoguang notes: The Yuan History records state that during the Zhiyuan era, due to miraculous responses in protecting maritime transport, Tianfei was granted additional ennoblement. Her divine titles accumulated to ten characters. The temple was called Lingci. In places such as Zhigu, Pingjiang, Zhoujing, Quanfu, and Xinghua, all had temples. Since the Huangqing era, envoys have been dispatched annually bearing incense to conduct worship throughout [these places]. One set of golden banners and one silver ingot were entrusted to the transport officials of Pingjiang and local prefecture officials, using fine wool and wine offerings, wearing simple clothes to conduct the ceremonies. The prayer text states: "On this year, month, and day, the Emperor specially dispatches certain officials to offer sacrifices to the Nation-Protecting, People-Sheltering, Widely Beneficent, Blessing, Clearly Manifest Heavenly Consort." Thus, seasonal sacrifices have existed since the Yuan dynasty. During the Jiajing era of the former Ming,册使 Chen Kan returned from his mission and requested that sacrifices be granted to respond to divine blessings. The Ministry of Rites deliberated and ordered the Provincial Administration Commissioner to establish an altar for sacrifice, which was approved. This was another instance of special sacrifices being conducted once. In the third year of Wanli, 册使 Xiao Chongye first requested that sea deities be included in the official sacrificial system and that prayer and thanksgiving sacrifices be held together. This continues to the present when enfeoffment ships go to sea. In the twenty-second year of Kangxi, 册使臣 Wang Ji returned and submitted a memorial requesting that, following the example of mountain and river deities, local officials be ordered to conduct spring and autumn sacrifices. The Ministry of Rites deliberated but did not approve implementation. Now, while we ministers are at sea praying for divine protection and assistance, we privately consider that the honorific titles have already reached their utmost. Only the sacrificial canon is lacking. Therefore, we specifically raise this as our petition. The divine response is clearly manifest. Now we have indeed received imperial grace and been specially granted approval for implementation. The ceremony is glorious and magnificent, thereby answering divine protection, surpassing [anything in] a thousand ages.