【Right Page】
【Header margin, read from right】
(6)　Weekly Denkican News　Issue 105
【English text below photograph - Left】
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS
　　　IN
"HEADIN' SOUTH" 
 【English text below photograph - Right】
HE PLACED THE RING ON HER FINGER-
AND SHE DID NOT OBJECT
【Main text, vertical】
(6) Headin' South (Human Drama/Action) 5 Reels
　　　　　　　　――Artcraft Pictures
　　―― Cast and Production Staff ――
Headin' South……………………
　……………Douglas Fairbanks
Spanish Joe…Frank Campeau
General………………Bob Emmons
Donna Valdez………Alice Smith
Her daughter……………Katherine MacDonald
△Story by……………………Allan Dwan
△Directed by………………Arthur Rosson
△Supervised by……………………Allan Dwan
△Photographed by…………　Hugh McClung
　　　　　　　　　Harry Thorpe
(Synopsis)…A villain named Spanish Joe who committed murder in the cold, windy northwest of Canada, killed a pursuing police officer in a cabin in the MacKenzie Mountains during his escape, entered Mexico via the United States, established a stronghold on the US-Mexico border and led many subordinates to raid nearby farms, ranches, or small towns, making his living from looting goods and kidnapping women. Detective Smith, ordered to capture him, rode south day and night with a colleague. Feeling that the first step to get close to the villain Joe was to make himself appear villainous, Detective Smith changed his name to "Headin' South" and committed seemingly shocking crimes along the way, successfully infiltrating Joe's stronghold and, taking advantage of his carelessness, devised a clever plan and quickly captured him. The southern night was beautiful. But the southern girl that Smith took back to Canada as a souvenir was more beautiful than the colors of that night.
　　Narrator　Tokunaga Tenro…Ishino Bajō

【Lower section English film introduction】
Douglas Fairbanks in "HEADIN' SOUTH" 5 Reels
――――――――――
STORY BY ALLAN DWAN---DIRECTED BY ARTHUR ROSSON
UNDER SUPERVISION OF ALLAN DWAN
PHOTOGRAPHED BY HUGH McCLUNG AND HARRY THORPE
＝＝＝＝＝＝＝＝＝＝＝＝
【"Roles" and actor names in italic】
"Headin' South" Constable Smith ...... Douglas Fairbanks
"Spanish Joe" ...... Frank Campeau　　"General" Al Jackson ... Bob Emmons
Donna Valdez ............ Alice Smith　　Her daughter ...... Katherine MacDonald

【Left Page】
【Header margin, read from right】
Weekly　Denkican News　Issue 105　(7)
【Main text, vertical - upper section】
Domestic and Foreign　　　　S-bō
　　　American New Film Introductions
　"The Midsummer" ………………Paramount Pictures
A work by Mr. William DeMille, starring familiar actors Miss Louise Wilson, Miss Lila Lee, Mr. Jack Holt, and Mr. Conrad Nagel, based on Cosmo Hamilton's novel "His Friend and His Wife."
　"The Thief" ……………………Fox Pictures
Based on the original work by Mr. Henry Bernstein, screenplay by Mr. Max Marcin and Mr. Paul Sloane, directed by Mr. Charles Giblyn, starring Miss Pearl White, the queen of serial films.
　"The Texan" ……………Fox Pictures
Screenplay by Mr. Lynn F. Reynolds, who was formerly at Universal and famous as director of the late Miss Myrtle Gonzalez, and Mr. Jules Furthman, directed by Mr. Reynolds, starring Mr. Tom Mix and Miss Gloria Hope.
　"Idols of Clay" ………Artcraft Pictures
△Screenplay by…………Ouida Bergère
△Directed by……George Fitzmaurice
△Photographed by…………………Arthur Miller
　　　Cast
Faith Merrill…………Mae Murray
Dion Holme…David Powell
　　　△△△△△△△△
　　　Lloyd's Leading Lady
　Previously Harold Lloyd's leading lady was Miss Bebe Daniels, but after she joined Realart Pictures, Miss Mildred Davis from "From Hand to Mouth" was selected as his leading lady and will appear in his subsequent films.
【Middle section】
　　　△△△△△△△△
　　　Recent News of Mr. Sullivan
　Gardner Sullivan, who was long at Triangle and Artcraft companies as director for William S. Hart, has joined Associated Producers and will produce four films irregularly in spring and summer this year. Incidentally, the association consists of Messrs. Maurice Turney, J. Parker Read, Thomas H. Ince, Mack Sennett, Marshall Neilan, Allan Dwan, and George Loane Tucker.
　　　△△△△△△△△
　　　Mr. Sennett's Comedy
　Mack Sennett will produce as his first work the 5-reel comedy "Small Town Folks" starring Ben Turpin and twelve famous actors under his direction.
　　　△△△△△△△△
　　　Next Film Releases Preview
"The Passionate Pilgrim" 5 reels…………Lasky Pictures
Directed by Maurice Turney, starring Madame Petrova and Marion Hamilton.
"The Orphan" 6 reels………………Fox Pictures
Directed by J. Gordon Edwards, starring Bill Farnum and Raymond Nye.

　Film Release List for Second Half of Taishō 9 (1920)
Artcraft DeMille Pictures　"Conrad in Quest of His Youth" 7 reels total
Baliscale Pictures　"The Rose of the Ranch" 5 reels total
Paramount Burke Pictures　"The Three Romeos" 5 reels total
Paramount Kerrigan Pictures　"The Dollar-a-Year Man" 5 reels total
Arbuckle Pictures　"The Life of the Party" 2 reels total
Paramount Ince Pictures　"The Northerners" 5 reels total
Pickford Pictures　"Suds" 6 reels total
Selznick Thomas Pictures　"The Glorious Lady" 5 reels total
Hampton Pictures　"The Woman of Pleasure" 7 reels total
Pathé Astra Pictures　"A Thousand Miles Apart" 7 reels total
【Lower section】
Paramount Ince Pictures　"The Suspicious Eye" 5 reels total
Pathé Serial Pictures　"The Great Cyclone" 31 reels
Baliscale Pictures　"Norma's Leap" 5 reels total
Artcraft DeMille Pictures　"The Land of Passion" 6 reels total
Artcraft Hart Pictures　"The Soaring Spirit" 5 reels total
Desmond Pictures　"The White Painted Wall" 5 reels total
Pathé Keenan Pictures　"The Brothers of Right and Wrong" 5 reels total
Paramount Houdini Pictures　"The Fierce Attack" 6 reels total
Pathé Murray Pictures　"The Baby Bride" 6 reels total
Artcraft Douglas Pictures　"The Knickerbocker" 6 reels total
Artcraft DeMille Pictures　"The Little American" 6 reels total
Artcraft Ince Pictures　"The Last Home Run" 5 reels total
Artcraft Ince Pictures　"The Masked Man" 7 reels total
German Mai Pictures　"Veritas" 12 reels
Artcraft DeMille Pictures "The Intertwined Branch" 7 reels total
Haworth Hayakawa Sessue Pictures　"The Power of Blood" 5 reels total
Farnum Pictures　"Les Misérables" 8 reels total
Robertson-Cole "The Bottom of the World" 4 reels total
Pathé Serial Pictures　"The Brave Jack" 31 reels
Artcraft Hart Pictures　"Broadway Roughneck" 5 reels total
Artcraft Ince Pictures　"The Righteous Man" 5 reels total
Ferguson Pictures　"Under the Green Trees" 5 reels total
Pathé Keenan Pictures　"The Silent Farewell" 5 reels total
Nazimova Pictures　"The Tomboy Girl" 7 reels total
Artcraft DeMille Pictures　"The Woman God Gave" 6 reels total
Haworth Hayakawa Sessue Pictures　"The Land of the Dead" 5 reels total
Walsall Pictures　"The Awakened Heart" 5 reels total
Baliscale Ince Pictures　"Quicksand" 5 reels total
German Messter Pictures　"Much Ado About Nothing" 5 reels total
Clayton Pictures　"The Domestic Woman" 5 reels total
Artcraft Pictures　"The Opened Door" 5 reels total
Fox Pictures　"The Crimson Path" 5 reels total
Artcraft Murray Pictures　"Dancing Mad" 7 reels total
　Plus 8 types of Sennett comedies, 2 types of Lloyd comedies
　3 types of Fox comedies