【Upper Left Section】
This land is a continuation of Tatar territory and represents the eastern extremity. In recent years, Russians have come to rule this land, so the country is also called Russia. It is also called Kamchatka. Kamchatka is probably a corruption of Kamshikatsutoka. Also, since Russians all wear red clothing, in Ainu dialect it is also called Red Ezo. What was acquired by advancing eastward over 3,000 ri from the homeland of Moscow to Japan by around Japan's Genbun era is precisely this land.

【Upper Left Side Section】
This land is in the eastern part of Tatary, in the region of Shibi-ashi, at 62-63 degrees north latitude. It is a night country adjacent to frozen seas where the five grains do not grow. Even in summer there is frost and snow - it is an inferior country. ○The northern sea of this country is precisely the southern sea of the night country.

【Lower Left Side Section】
This river flows eastward through the middle of Tatary, branching off from the great river called Ob, which forms the boundary between Europe and Asia, and is said to be 1,000 ri long. ○The land north of this river goes without saying, and extending to the eastern limit of Kamchatka, all became territory of Moscow from around Japan's Shotoku era.

【Lower Left Section】
Around Japan's Kanbun era, after Tatary annexed China, Tatary split into many parts. These were Moscow Tatary, Eastern Tatary, Northern Tatary, Independent Tatary, Chinese Tatary, Manchuria, etc. Among these, Chinese Tatary and Manchuria belong to the Qing. The others do not belong. ○The land southwest of Manchuria, bordering Beijing Province and Shanxi Province, is called Chinese Tatary. ○During the Qing's Kangxi reign, a new Great Wall was built north of Manchuria to defend against northern invaders. This is called Shengjing.

【Left Central Section】
The place name for crossing from this country to Ezo is called Karafuto, so the Ezo people call this land Karafuto Island, but its original name is Taraikai. It is said that children from this land are sent to Manchuria and Ezo to learn languages, and trade matters between the two countries are handled in this place.