O. All overnight excursions from the castle
Wa. Outings of various lords and ladies
Ka. Various matters concerning departures from the castle
Yo. Various matters concerning escorts

Section on Literary and Martial Arts
Ta. Various literary matters
Re. Archery
So. Firearms and artillery
Tsu. Swordsmanship, spearmanship, and jujutsu
Ne. Horsemanship
Na. Military strategy and conch shells (military signals)
Ra. Various matters concerning martial arts demonstrations
Mu. Various military matters
U. Various arts

Section on Expressions of Gratitude
　　　　　Various guidelines for handling general castle attendance and expressions of gratitude
1. On the 3rd day of the 2nd month of Bunsei 9 (1826), year of the dog, regarding the recent succession to family headship, messengers Shibuya Gonzaemon and Katayama Heishichi were dispatched, and when instructions were given to all castle attendees, Sakai Yozaemon conveyed that henceforth one should follow the guidelines as stated in the separate document, and furthermore should communicate this to all relevant parties. Today, this was communicated to all relevant parties at the castle.

　　Until now, when giving instructions to all castle attendees, those who had difficulties and could not attend the castle were to be informed through their supervisory heads or colleagues via the inspector (metsuke). However, from now on, such matters should not be communicated separately, and those who cannot attend the castle should be informed by their supervisory heads or colleagues, as should be understood in advance.

1. Regarding guidance procedures when there are audiences for expressions of gratitude:
　1. Senior retainers, Mito-Yamakawa, guard captains, associates, irregular guards, and all others down to the lowest irregular guards
　　These should be announced by the inspector (metsuke)
　　However, when senior retainers are present at audience seats, only then does the inspector provide guidance; no guidance is needed when they leave
　　Note: When senior retainers lead the way in coming and going, this is limited to tea ceremony occasions, and when coming and going to the front locked gate, the inspector provides guidance, so there is no withdrawal during coming and going
　1. Castle deputy, sons of chief retainers, sons of castle deputies, caretakers
　　These are announced by the chamberlain (goyōnin)