This is because the techniques of eclipse calculation were not yet precise. Yi Xing's attribution of eclipses to the presence or absence of the ruler's virtue was likely a expedient method to admonish kings and nobles. The theory in the "Xingli Daquan" that eclipses are "few in times of good government and many in times of disorder" is extremely thoughtless. In those times, periods of good government were rare, and most times were disordered. Therefore, eclipses were few in times of good government and many in times of disorder. Speaking in terms of the present world, one should say they are few in times of disorder and many in times of good government. The responses of Cheng Zi and Zhu Xi also arose from doubts due to their failure to understand that eclipses have regular patterns. They are not worthy of trust. The methods of eclipse calculation gradually became established during the Han dynasty, but even during the Tang and Song dynasties they were still not precise. Although they became somewhat complete when Guo Shoujing of the Yuan dynasty appeared, they were still not fully perfected. From the late Ming and early Qing periods, when Western astronomy was introduced, calendrical calculations became greatly clarified, investigations became precise, and the theories became thoroughly developed, reaching the point where calculations of eclipse limits do not err even once in a hundred times. In our Japan, not to mention ancient times, even until recent times we were ignorant of calendrical techniques and often made errors in determining new moon days. The solar eclipse of the first day of the first month of Tenmei 6 (1786), year of the fire horse, was recorded on calendars as a total eclipse, but it was actually a nine-tenths eclipse. Since then, from the Kansei era onward, Western calendrical techniques have gradually been adopted, investigations have been conducted with utmost precision, and we have reached the point where there are no discrepancies even to the smallest fraction. This is truly a blessing of peaceful times.