Item: The fifth day, clear skies. At the time when the land allocation plan (jiwari) had previously been decided, instructions had been given to proceed as in former times. However, after deliberation among the shrine community (shatō-shūchū), it was determined that there were points they wished to revise, and a messenger was dispatched to the sōkan (chief administrator) requesting that a further assembly be convened. An assembly was promptly held, and all members of the shrine community, together with the shrines officials (shikan-shū), came before the deity's presence in full accord to hold their deliberations.

The master carpenter (shō-daiku) Zaemon and the deputy master carpenter (gon-daiku) Seiemon were then summoned, and they were questioned one by one regarding the matters that master carpenter Fujizaemon had previously stated. The master carpenter replied as follows: "It is a regrettable matter concerning this honorable shrine, but during the Tenshō period [1573–1592] when the previous construction was carried out, the timber used for the earthen embankments (odoi) was somewhat too thin. Furthermore, of the thirteen pillars, nine are satisfactory, but the remaining four are somewhat too short. If we were to adjust the remaining nine pillars to match, they would be slightly low overall. In addition to this, the raised floor (ōyuka) in front of the sanctuary is narrow, and when worshippers offer sacred provisions and bow in reverence, the kazashi ornament atop their court caps (kanmuri) catches on the structure above. For these reasons, I had privately thought that these matters ought to be rectified in the next construction, and this is what Fujizaemon had stated on record. However," he added humbly, "I was uncertain whether it was proper for me to put forward what my late father had said."

Upon hearing this, the shrine officials and shrine family members (shaka-shū) expressed their great admiration, declaring it to be an exemplary act of devotion. They directed that the land allocation should be carried out entirely in accordance with the plan as laid out by Hamashu, and with that, the land allocation was formally settled on this day and all parties departed.