(Continued from previous page) Among those who attended as directing officials (sashizoe) and the Harima shrine priests, the Head Priest (Takahisa [in red]) and the Chief Priest (Mochiiku [in red]) were dressed in plain silk robes (hoi), while Iseki (Mitsuhisa [in red]) and Matsutamikyo (Iiku [in red]) — the latter two dressed in hakama and kataginu — came out, and they were informed of the substance of the private deliberations; all matters were approved. As for the trees at the rear of the main shrine hall, it was decided that if they fell within the designated lot (as determined by lot-drawing), they could be felled and removed without objection.

Item: On the twelfth day, alternately cloudy and clear. Today, the trees at the rear of the main shrine hall were felled using laborers from the local area, and the shrine supervising officials (shadō sashizoe-shū) conferred together.

Item: On the thirteenth day, clear. The large trees to the north of the wall at the rear of the main shrine hall were felled following deliberation. The Head Priest, the Chief Priest, Kean, the Kibune Priest, and the shrine supervising deputy officials (shadō sashizoe-shū) each came out. The shrine community heads stated that the large trees ought not to be cut down so readily, but due to dissenting opinions from the Head Priest and other shrine officials, three or four of the large trees were felled. Everyone frowned in apprehension, wondering what the will of the deity (shinryo) might be in response.

Item: On the fourteenth day, the shrine community heads conducted earthwork construction on the moat and earthen embankment (doi) at the shrine precinct, and the timber felled the previous day was set aside. Furthermore, the stripped/bark-removed timber was applied as boards for the shrine hall. Lord Gomi's deputy (shitadai) conveyed through the shrine administrators (zasshō) that this wood should be offered up as firewood (takigi), to which the response was that the matter would be reported to the commissioner (bugyō) and a reply would be given.

Item: On the fifteenth day, clear. The moat at the rear of the main hall, along with the tree roots, was filled in using laborers from seven districts (chō) through a system of divided labor (wari-bushin). At this time, the old earthen walls (tsuiji) from former times...
(Continued on the next page)