(Continued from previous page) Accordingly, inquiries were made to the Head Priest, and a written record was drawn up. Furthermore, it was determined that all personnel, from the chief carpenters down to the various craftsmen, should be divided into two groups: the Senior (shō) and the Junior (gon). As a result, the carpenters lodged a petition, stating that "since ancient times, at every shrine, both the Senior and Junior head carpenters have performed the wand-waving ceremony (nusa wo furi mōsu); we wish to follow precedent this time as well." Accordingly, four persons were dispatched as envoys from the assembly — the two shrine administrators (ryō-zasshō), the Uemon-no-tayū, the Mokku-no-jō, the shrine's monthly duty official (shadō tsuki-gyōji), the Monden-no-jō, and the secretary Ujiyuki — to call upon Lord Mori Jibu-no-tayū (Mochiisa [in red]). All the shrine officials (shashi-shū) assembled without exception, and upon inquiry, the following was found in the diary:

"When the Junior Shrine (gon-sha) is dismantled (hikimōsu), an offering (otomo) should be presented."
〈Reply from shrine officials: It should be dispatched at the time the furnishings of the inner sanctuary (naijin) are brought out. The furnishings referred to are items such as the hamayuka [ceremonial floor boards].〉

Item: To whom should the private scheduling of the date (uchi-hidon) be entrusted?
Reply: It should be entrusted to the Naizen official (Munekatsu [in red]).

Item: If there is no objection to having both carpenters (the Senior and Junior) participate, they should be directed to proceed as has been customary.
〈Reply: It is recorded in old documents that the carpenters should be divided between the Senior (shō) and Junior (gon) positions. Celebratory gifts (shugi) should be given to the various craftsmen.〉

Item: At the time of the pillar-raising, sake should be presented as an offering.
〈Reply: When the ridgepole-raising and pillar-raising take place on the same day, celebratory rites for the pillar-raising are not required. There is precedent for this practice from ancient times.〉

Item: At the time of the ridgepole-raising, money (ryōsoku) should be hung from the ridgepole.
〈Reply: It should be reported that during the Tenshō era, 120 kan was spent on this.〉

Item: Regarding the sacred treasures (shinpō).
〈Reply: Discussions have been held among us during this period, but as yet no plan has been settled upon.〉