(Continued from previous page) …notice was also given to the people of the local community (jigesha).

Item: The twenty-fifth day, fine weather. Today, the written document (kakitate—inventory/specifications) of the sacred treasures (shinpō) was brought to be shown to Lord Gomi. For this purpose, the following individuals proceeded together: the Head Priest (kannushi), the Chief Ritualist (shō-negi), Bungo-no-kami, Ōi-no-kami, Zusho-no-kami, Nagato-no-kami, Shume-no-suke, Mimasaka-no-kami, and the two shrine administrators (zasshō). Each matter was duly presented, but [the intermediary] Lord Suō was met, who said, "Please come again tomorrow," indicating that [he] would fortunately convey the matter to the appropriate party.

Item: On the same day, a general construction project (sō-fushin) took place at the shrine precinct. Since the Junior Shrine (gon-sha) was to be relocated the following day, various construction works were also carried out in connection with this.

Item: On the same day, a temporary shelter (kariya) to house the sacred treasures of the old Junior Shrine was constructed and was about half completed.

The location of the temporary shrine structure (kariden) was in front of the Junior Shrine, behind the Sugio Shrine, measuring two ken on each side. The pillars were of Japanese cedar (sugi), roughly hewn, constructed in the manner of a truly temporary structure. (Interlinear note: The northern edge of the treasure house and the northern edge of the Sugio [Shrine] are at the same position.) (Interlinear note: As it is a temporary structure, the entrance was opened on the east side, with the remaining three sides enclosed by boards.)

Item: On the same day, in order to relocate the Junior Shrine, two rokuros (pulleys/winches) were installed approximately eighteen ken to the north, behind the shrine.

Item: The twenty-sixth day, fine weather. Again today, as arranged the previous day, the Head Priest, the Chief Ritualist, the Former Chief Ritualist turned Buddhist monk Ke'an, Shume-no-suke, and the two shrine administrators (zasshō) proceeded together with Lord Gomi to visit Lord Suō. Lord Suō and Lord Gomi were then in the same room, and through Lord Gomi's intermediary, [the sacred treasure document] was viewed item by item. Lord Suō-no-kami stated that, for each of the various… (continues on next page)