(Two persons, including Umanosuke, came to attend.)

Item: On the same day, a messenger arrived from the Denso (court liaison officer), conveying a request that certificates (shirushi) be issued to deputies and various craftsmen regarding the sacred treasures (shinpo). Accordingly, the shrine priests (shashi) consulted with the ujibito (clan members/parishioners).

[Regarding the maker of the御掛角 (ornamental corner pieces) since the Koji era] (Written in red)

Item: On the same day, since there was an inquiry regarding the black persimmon wood (kurogaki) for the kakekado (ornamental corner fittings), and since there had been a prior report to the zaryo (estate manager) about the kakekado matter, word was sent via Saemonnosuke that a member of the ujibito group was available to do the work, and that they should come to this side. Since the group happened to be in a meeting at the Saisshitsu-tei (West Chamber pavilion) at the time, the reply sent back was as follows:

　　The kakekado of the Koji era (1555–1558) were crafted by the father (Shigenō) of Kaan (Shigekuni). The kakekado of the Tenshō era (1573–1592) were carved by the late Tamba no Kami Kaneya, and the upper wire framework (harigane no kumikake) was handled by the late Umanokashira. Given that the skill of craftsmen determines the selection from among the shrine priests and ujibito, it was decided that for this occasion, the former chief priest Iku should be responsible for the carving. Since he also has a vow (tachigan) in connection with this, he should carve and complete the piece. As for the upper wire cage-work, any suitable member of the ujibito group would be acceptable — so came the reply from the shrine council members (shashi-shū).

　　Furthermore, it was noted that inquiries should be made regarding the wood (katsuki) for the sacred bow (o-yumi). Regarding the katsuki (perhaps nurude [Rhus javanica] or haze [wax tree]):  — the sacred bow of the Koji era was made of bamboo, but as this was deemed inappropriate, in the Tenshō era the bow was made of katsuki wood.

　　Other matters are recorded in the Sōchū Hiyori-ki (the General Assembly's Daily Record).