【Records for the 2nd Day of the 4th Month】

Item: The 2nd day. Clear skies, with rain in the morning. Yesterday a menu (献立, kondate) had been submitted by the shrine administrators (shashi), so this morning it was read aloud and handed over to the deputy administrator (mokudai-daifu) for retention.

　　　　　　Memorandum
　　　　　　(Evening meal to be provided by the shrine administration office [shamu] at the time of preparing the divine robes and other garments)

　　　Fish (uo)　　　　　　　　Soup, various
　　　　　　　　　Oysters (kaki)
　　　　　　　　　　　　Namasu (vinegared dish)
　　　Pickled vegetables (kōnomono)　　　Cooked rice (meshi)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sake served

The persons to be served are as follows: five senior female attendants in charge of the divine robes (o-fuku-jōrō), and eight persons comprising the shoshi (administrative officials), mokudai (deputy administrator), and bettō (superintendent)—totaling eight portions. Note, however, that the morning meal is to be provided by the shrine administration office (shamu).

Regarding the food allocations (gegyō) noted above: one to (approx. 18 liters) and five shō (approx. 2.7 liters) of rice per distribution. Of this, two shō and two gō is allocated for the working staff (hataraki-shū), while the eight members of the formal reception staff (zashiki-shū) are each to receive one shō and six gō.

　　　　　　　2nd day of the 4th month, Kan'ei 5 [1628]　　Administrators (sata-nin):
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shinano-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Uemon-no-suke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sakyō-no-shin

　　　　　　　　　　　　(Note: The current mokudai is Hida-no-kami.)

　　　　　　　To: Lord Mokudai

[Annotation in red ink:] According to the diary of Shūken for the 2nd day: the shrine administrators (shashi) and clan members (ujibito) entered into ritual confinement (sanrō), totaling twenty-one persons, at a rate of two kan-mon per person.

Item: On the same day, Kanō Uneme arrived and viewed the paintings for the curtain-stands (o-kichō) and other items. As it was difficult to estimate the cost, the treasure storehouse (shinpō-ya) was again opened. On behalf of the shrine administrators, Mori and Matsushita attended; on behalf of the clan members (ujibito), Mondō-no-shō, Iyo-no-kami, Sama-no-jō, and others attended.

[Annotation in red ink:] [Regarding the matter of the rōmon (two-storied gate) being different/non-conforming.]

Item: On the same day, from the shrine administrators and the community of clan members (ujibito-chū), [it was raised that] in ancient times the roof was of double construction (futae-yane), and in particular both the upper and lower [structures]…

[Annotation in red ink:] Note: For the details of this matter, one should search and consult the record for the 25th day of the 4th month.