[Side note: Mochiiku, Ikohisa, Shigetsugu (at that time, serving as the deputy of the ujibito's negi priests), Mitsuhisa, Shigemura, Seihei, Yorihisa, Tokuhisa — eight persons in total.] The twenty clan members (ujibito-shū) gathered at the residence of Izumo-no-kami Ujimasu [side note: at that time, serving as the monthly magistrate (tsuki-bugyō) of the shrine lecture association (shātō kōchū)] for the ceremony of the sacred vigil (sanrō). After the ritual meal presentation of hōzō soup in three rounds was completed, each person visited the shrine and immediately entered into their sacred vigil. The clan members were:

　　Shimōsa-no-kami Hisakata　　Bitchū-no-kami Yasuteru　　Kameichi-daifu Yasumoto
　　Kuranoske Ichiteru　　　　　Uemon-no-suke Suetake　　Bungo-no-kami Katateру
　　Monomasa-no-kami Yasukuni　Ukon-shōgen Yasunori　　Zusho-no-suke Hisataka
　　Inaba-no-kami Hisamatsu　　[The above are the shrine association members (shātō-shū)]

　　Tokumatsudaifu Yasuchika　　Hizen-no-kami Sueyoshi　　Daifu-shōgen Nariつぐ
　　Owari-no-kami Yasuhira　　　Kii-no-kami Yasutō　　　　Echigo-no-kami Yoriyuki
　　Nagato-no-kami Haruhisa [later changed to Haruhisa (Genkyu), in red]　Kaga-no-kami Shigemitsu　　Oribe-no-shō Suetsugu
　　Nagamatsudaifu Sue　　[The above are the regular clan members (tsune ujibito-shū) — twenty persons in total.]

Item: On the 4th day, the weather was clear. Today again, the sewing of sacred garments (go-fuku) took place, with the same number of persons as before. There was also work on the stretching and preparation of the direct robe (nōshi) and other items of attire.

Item: From today onward, the shrine administrators (shashi) and clan members (ujibito) in sacred vigil were to visit the shrine twice daily, in the morning and in the evening. Their attire of purified robes (jōe) and plain robes (hōi) was left to individual discretion. [Side note: small sword or large sword (as appropriate).] Those in attendance wore divided skirts (shikama hakama) of the fourth rank, and sword-bearers accompanied them.

【Regarding the precedent (故実) that the curtains used at the time of the enshrinement ceremony (sengū) have no viewing holes (hitomi)】 (Written in red)

Item: On the same day, regarding the matter that the curtains had no loops (chi) attached and no viewing holes (hitomi), various precedents and original sources concerning the curtains were sought out by the shrine administrator group (shashi-shū). Ujimasu stated that, although the curtains from previous years still exist at the shrine, the matter of viewing holes simply does not arise. There are absolutely none whatsoever [i.e., there is no precedent for viewing holes in such curtains]...