【On the Matter of Coating the Inner Sanctuary Ceiling with Gofun (White Pigment)】(Written in red)

Item: On the same day, the ceiling of the newly constructed shrine hall was coated with gofun (white shell pigment). Because scaffolding (ashidai) had to be erected and the work done while lying face up, it required twice the usual labor. The clan members (ujibito) asked the shrine administrators (shashi) what kind of negligence had led to such an oversight; the shrine administrators each humbly pleaded, "As this was done by inexperienced young persons, please forgive them for this much," and since there was nothing further to be done about it, the coating was applied as it was.

Item: The smith Izumi forged the head of the sacred whistling arrow (o-kaburaya) and showed it to the shrine administrators, whereupon he was rebuked on the grounds that it differed from those in the inner sanctuary. In response, Izumi claimed that he had fashioned it in the form of his ancestors and that there should be no difference. It was then decided that the Sacred Treasure Repository (shinpō-ya) should be opened for inspection. Both Tokihisa and Kunai (Hirohisa [in red]) [side note: younger brother of Mori Mochiiku] went to examine it, and the clan members were also summoned; Izumi was brought along to inspect the pieces, and it was found that what Izumi had made was in no way different [from the originals]. Thus Izumi [the character "ha" is crossed out → replaced with "se"] acquitted himself with honor and returned home.

【On the Matter of the Hinawa-musubi Knot】(Written in red)

Item: On the same day, the shrine administrators deliberated on what should be done regarding the hinawa-musubi knots on the御几帳 (okichō, the decorative standing curtains), but no administrator had the requisite knowledge. As it happened, Nuido-no-suke Naritoki [red vertical mark] was present and stated: "During the shrine relocation (sengū) of the Tenshō era [two red vertical marks alongside], since the elder Uemon-no-taifu [ruby annotation: Naritsu (in red); red vertical mark] was performing the role of uta [singing/poetry ceremony], he alone tied the hinawa-musubi knots, and I received that transmission from him." In light of this, it was decided that matters should proceed as in previous years: the younger brother of Mori, Kunai (Hirohisa [in red]) [red vertical mark], along with Tomotsugu and others acting in place of the uta role, were taught the technique by Nuido-no-suke and performed the hinawa-musubi knots.

【On the Matter of the Mistaken Cutting of the Sacred Robes】(Written in red)

Item: On the 6th day, the weather was clear with occasional winds and clouds. Again today, the senior ladies (jōrō) supervising the sacred garment [sewing] ... [text continues on the next page]