(Continued from the previous page) ...pleading entirely in the interest of the divine will (shinryo), Mochiiku and Setsukyū [red vertical marks] conveyed their earnest supplication to Yasunaga and Shigenobu [red vertical marks], whereupon the matter was brought to a close before the full assembly (sōnaka).

Item: On the same day, twelve or thirteen tōne (shrine subordinate officials) gathered beneath the administrative hall (chōya) and twisted together the cords for the curtains (maku).

Item: On the ninth day, the weather (sign of the Rat) was rainy. It stopped from noon onward, but rained again in the evening. The number of seamstresses (onfu-nuibito) working on the sacred robes was the same as before. Work was completed on this day.

[Red annotation: Regarding the cutting of the sacred wicket gate (mi-kirido)]

Item: On the same day, in the afternoon, the master carpenter cut the sacred wicket gate (mi-kirido). [Marginal note: The head carpenter, Saemon [red vertical mark], observed seventeen days of ritual abstinence (shōjin).]

Item: On the same day, the shrine servants (jinin) gathered the sacred treasures (shinpō) and sacred robes (goshōzoku) and transported them to the御札屋 (o-fudaya, the amulet/sacred paper storehouse), where each item was displayed and reverently viewed. Notices were sent out to both the upper and lower Kamo shrines, and people of all ages, both men and women, of high and low social status, gathered in great numbers to view them with reverence.

Item: On the night of the same day, prior to the Great Purification (kiyoharae), the head carpenter performed the ritual planing ceremony (kiyo-kanna).

[Red annotation: Regarding the large tatami mat touching the sacred pillar and failing to fit into the inner sanctuary (naijin)]

Item: On the same day, when the tatami mats for the inner sanctuary (o-uchi) were provisionally laid out to check the fit, it became apparent that they were difficult to place inside. Therefore, the head carpenter was brought into the inner sanctuary and set to work shaving down the doorframe opening (o-tobira-guchi). As the measurements of the tatami had been provided by Mochiiku [red vertical mark], he made an especially earnest and private request of the head carpenter to shave down the sacred pillar (mi-hashira) quietly and discreetly. This concerned the tatami for the "guest" (o-kyakujin) space. [The mat] could not be brought into the inner sanctuary because it was obstructed by the doorframe.

Item: On the same day, at the Hour of the Monkey (approximately 3–5 p.m.), the Bureau of Onmyō (Onmyōryō) performed the Great Purification (kiyoharae). [Marginal note: For the ceremonial procedure, see the separate document.]

Item: On the night of the same day, [reading uncertain, marked provisional (仮) in red], the enshrinement ceremony (sengū) took place. For the ceremonial procedure, see the separate document.
　　After the enshrinement, the御料参 (goryo-san, the sacred offerings/visitation) took place, and a formal seating ceremony was held in the御局 (o-tsubone, the inner chamber). After the seating was concluded... (continues on next page)