Item: On the twenty-fourth day, the weather was clear. In accordance with the decisions made at last night's gathering (yoriai), sixty laborers (ninsoku) were dispatched from the local area. The ground level (jigyō) of the o-ryōya (designated building for the hafuri ritualists) and the watariya (connecting structure) was raised by three sun each; in addition, the hafuri-ya (ritualists' building) was moved by pulling, and the ground level of the nikkū o-ryōya (the building associated with the daily offerings) was leveled.

Item: On the same day, as a propitious day was near at hand, it had been determined that the raising of the pillars (hashira-date) for the hafuri-ya o-ryōya and the watariya should take place before the Hour of the Horse (noon). Timber was transported and all parties waited in readiness; however, due to the time taken by the ground-leveling work, the hour had passed, and the pillar-raising for the hafuri-ya o-ryōya and watariya took place at approximately the upper portion of the Hour of the Monkey (around 3–4 p.m.). The hare-ki (ceremonial timber) and other elements were duly erected.

[Red marginal note: Concerning the distinction between the Rōmon (two-storied gate) and the Ōmon (great gate).]

Item: On the twenty-fifth day, the morning was clear, with thunder.

On the morning of the same day, the shrine priests (shashi) and the ujibito (members of the shrine's hereditary families) went to the shrine precincts (shatō) and instructed the master carpenter (tōryō) of the Yamato carpenters that it was proper to equip the rōmon (楼門, two-storied gate) with a double roof (futae-yane). A drawing (ezu) was displayed to show the design for the double roof; however, the Yamato master carpenter objected, stating: "In what is called a rōmon, there is no such thing as a double roof. If it were to have a double roof, it should properly be called an ōmon-zukuri (great gate construction). Since the structure is designated in writing as a rōmon, it does not accord with reason to speak of a double roof. Even so, if one of this shrine's own carpenters were to declare this to be in accordance with the shrine's traditions and precedents (shahō), we would carry it out accordingly. However, looking at this drawing, it appears to be a saiku-e (a craftsman's sketch or decorative drawing), not what would be recognized as a proper carpenter's working drawing." On this basis, the Yamato carpenter refused to accept the concept of the double roof. Hearing that the carpenter had called the drawing a "saiku-e," Mochiiku and others were angered. Nevertheless, the Yamato carpenter...

---
[Red annotation at the top of the left folio:]

Senpei's note, citing the Record of Construction in the Tenshō Era (Tenshō Zōei-ki): "This rōmon was built contrary to its design drawing. In ancient times, it had a double roof, no doors, and was an open triple-gate structure (sanmon). It is a great error to have reduced it to a single roof and to have installed doors. Those of later generations should be aware of this," and so on.

Fusa's annotation: "Consulting these two records, it seems quite possible that the name 'rōmon' is erroneous. In terms of ancient construction, the name 'ōmon' (great gate) would be correct. Nevertheless, the name 'rōmon' is also quite old [as evidenced in the Hyōhanki (兵範記)...]."