[First and second lines at the beginning missing]
　　　　There are damaged locations in the town districts. Regarding remote areas, it is still unclear,
　　　　I report this. I will report the details later. The above.
　　March 27th　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Tanba-no-kami

I had reported the damage and losses from earthquakes in my territory, but afterwards, on the 29th of last month, there was an extraordinary earthquake day and night that completely destroyed the turrets of Matsushiro's main citadel and second citadel, as well as the earthen walls. The retainers' residences and even shrines and temples were all crushed. Water surged into the outer moat of the main citadel, and water flooded the entire highway, with houses swept away. The same conditions extended seven to eight ri in all directions from the castle town, causing even travelers to drown. That same evening, after the hour of the monkey, a fire broke out in a place called Senbonmura in Sarashina District. By the time I dispatched a courier on the first day of the fourth month, the fire had grown increasingly intense, and fire-fighting efforts were inadequate due to lack of personnel. I am gradually sending more people from my domain. I will report the details later, but first I submit this report. The above.
　　April 1st　　　　　　　　Sanada Shinano-no-kami

At my magistrate's office, currently in the domain territories of villages in Kubiki District, Echigo Province, from around 4 o'clock on the night of the 24th of last month, there were strong earthquakes with frequent tremors. In Kawaura village, the government office, main inn, and row house areas had pillars broken and knocked down, with walls collapsed, resulting in numerous damaged locations. In the same village and neighboring villages, collapsed houses occurred, and there were many immediate deaths and injuries. Reports have not yet come from distant areas, but I hear the situation is similar there. I will report the details later, but first I submit this report. The above.