【Right Page, Upper Section】【Illustration】
Gōshū area
　Putting silkworms in straw bundles
　to make cocoons - diagram

Silkworm shelf diagram

【Right Page, Lower Section】
As shown in the diagram, silkworms are put into straw bundles, which are then arranged standing between shelves to make cocoons.

In the Kantō area, they raise silkworms by spreading thin straw mats inside bamboo mesh baskets about three shaku wide and one ken long. When the silkworms enter cocooning stage, they stretch ropes in these baskets, put in brushwood branches, and place the silkworms there to make cocoons. Besides these, the Shinshū and northern provinces have various methods, with different tools used in different ways. One should use what is suitable according to each region. Also, silkworms that have entered cocooning stage do not eat mulberry leaves. Therefore they deteriorate quickly, so they should be handled very quickly and placed where they can make cocoons. Also, if they are piled too thickly, the urine of the cocooning silkworms will get on the cocoons and weaken the silk threads, so they should be placed quite thinly. The cocoons should all be removed and taken out on the fifth or sixth day, placed in containers and exposed to wind. After seven or eight days have passed, they should be dried in sunlight, taking care not to damage the pupae inside and let them emerge. In rainy weather, charcoal fires should be lit early and the cocoons put in drying ovens to damage the pupae inside so they cannot emerge.

【Left Page, Upper Section】
Now, after enduring countless hardships from the initial silkworm rearing, if careless handling occurs just when the cocoons are finally being made, all the previous efforts will vanish like bubbles on water, resulting in enormous losses. This should be well understood.

In the Tsurezuregusa, there is a famous tree climber who, when watching someone climb a high tree and about to come down, says "The dangerous time is now when you're almost down - don't make a mistake." The people nearby wonder, "With such a high

【Left Page, Lower Section】【Illustration】
Ōshū method
　Putting cocooning silkworms
　　into mabushi frames
　　　to make cocoons - diagram