【Right Page Upper Section】【Illustration】
Diagram of drying raw silk cotton

【Right Page Lower Section】
When there are many silkworms with thin heads during the second instar resting period and third instar sleep and awakening, and if their feeding on mulberry leaves is poor, one should know this is due to overcrowding or poor quality of silkworm eggs. Also, if there are many shriveled silkworms during the third instar period, one should know they have been affected by heat.

There are also silkworms called "ikishirazu" (not knowing when to rest). These also have various different names depending on the location. These occur frequently in silkworms that have had poor temperature management or have been exposed to cold dampness. One should also know that this occurs frequently in silkworms that develop mold during molting. Sometimes silkworms frequently climb to the edges of chopsticks. This indicates overcrowding, with silkworms that have some damage and underlying disease conditions being exposed to wind, rain, heat, and humidity. This is also called the erratic nature of silkworms. When thunderstorms frequently occur, doors should be closed immediately as this is highly toxic to silkworms. This leads to various diseases. When silkworms' heads suddenly turn red in the rearing area and they do not feed well on mulberry leaves, this indicates silkworms that were overheated during early rearing or were exposed to the heat from fires.

【Left Page Upper Section】
Sometimes silkworms cannot shed their skin when molting. This is because the mulberry preparation was poor, or there were wood fragments mixed in that injured the silkworms' backs, leading to disease.

Raising silkworms in new houses is fine in years with good weather conditions, but in years with poor weather, there are many rearing failures. This is due to exposure to dampness from fresh plaster walls. It is also good to light a small fire to remove dampness. Although there are many other silkworm diseases, they are all due to poor care from early rearing.

【Left Page Lower Section】【Illustration】
Diagram of reeling silk with a silk-reeling wheel
Diagram of dyeing silk