【Right Page, Upper Section】【Diagram】
Shape of eggs
Shape when first born
Shape on the third day
Shape on the sixth day
Shape on the tenth day

【Right Page, Lower Section】
under such conditions even poor seeds can achieve reasonable results, so much more should one expect exceptionally superior results by obtaining good seeds for breeding. However, seeds are extremely difficult to distinguish and there are many oral traditions about this.
The manner of the four molting periods, feeding mulberry leaves, even a short shortage of mulberry can cause great profit or loss.

On avoiding toxins harmful to silkworm eggs and storage methods
After obtaining seeds, place them in paper bags ensuring air circulation, and hang them in cool places from summer until the following spring. The greatest poisons to seeds are oil, salt, tobacco and similar substances, iron objects, tea, hemp seeds, and camphor. Also, they should not be hung on walls, and wrapping them in mosquito nets or summer clothing is very bad. It is said that seeds hung above lanterns will not hatch silkworms. Generally, they should not be placed near anything with bad odor, in sunny places, or near fires. All bad smells should be avoided.

On soaking seeds in cold water
Soaking seeds in cold water is primarily to remove toxic vapors. Another theory states that weak eggs will not hatch and only strong ones will emerge, thus making the silkworms' constitution stronger. Also, next year

【Left Page, Upper Section】
it is said there will be less damage during north winds in May.
Some regions do not practice soaking. When soaking in water, use a large tub filled with clean water.
《Side note: Some regions soak for thirty days during the cold season, while others soak for one night at Setsubun (early February)》On mornings with severe cold, the seeds become trapped in ice.
At such times, check for good weather at the ninth hour of midday before opening the seeds. They should be hung on poles and dried in shade.

On the benefits of cultivating mulberry trees
There are what are called "four trees and three grasses" or "five trees and eight grasses" in the world. Mulberry is one of the four trees and is a famous tree. The method of cultivating mulberry is around estates and on riverbanks

【Left Page, Lower Section】
Diagram of storing silkworm seeds