Good for the third month. "Chickweed soup": Cut and rub-wash chickweed, add third-month daikon and other ingredients. This is also prepared with miso. "Tied soup": Split eggplant in half, hollow out the center slightly, grind green Japanese pepper and mustard, also add walnuts and mix, wrap in shiso leaves, tie well with kelp as string, add to miso soup with dashi and simmer well, then add as dashi-style soup with dissolved kudzu starch. "Shinbu soup": Refers to splitting eggplant in half and also finely cutting and adding kataname. For this too, brown the miso and add dashi, grind mustard and green Japanese pepper for garnish. "Kanze soup": Cut tofu thinly and prepare with medium miso. For this too, it's good to serve with thick sauce. "Leek soup": Brown miso and add dashi, add lightly salted sea bream. Can also be prepared as clear soup. "Carp kanze soup": Fillet carp and cut small, grill and cut tofu to add, good with medium miso. Serve with mustard and Japanese pepper sauce.

▲Chapter 10: Raw Fish Salad (Namasu) Section

"Cooked namasu": Add various ingredients like sea bream, turban shell, whiting, flounder, small shrimp, etc., and add grated ingredients for preparation. For all namasu, mix when serving the meal tray. Salt seasoning is very important. Salt should be added once with good judgment. Adding it two or three times will gradually make it worse. It becomes unclean. Place ken (julienned vegetables) variously according to seasonal ingredients as prepared. "Bird namasu": Prepare any bird by sautéing in vinegar only, then add sea bream and other ingredients mixed and served. Good to add wasabi. "Dried sushi namasu": Mix various prepared whiting, needlefish, flounder, ray, squid, etc. For this, season with vinegar and salt and mix, placing only ken. "Oki namasu": Refers to making horse mackerel, grey mullet, etc. in round cuts and adding roughly cut knotweed. Mackerel is also good, sea bream, and other fish can be used. Salt seasoning is extremely important. "Carp with roe namasu": Fillet carp into three pieces, thinly slice the flesh, remove skin and cut thin. Immediately attach roasted roe. If too late, it won't stick. Then add vinegar to roasted sake and make it white.