When simmering with only salt, add a little vinegar when serving. Good for horse mackerel ▲ mackerel ▲ bonito and similar fish. "Five-color simmering": Grill Spanish mackerel plain and simmer in dashi soy sauce. "Puffed sauté": Cut sea cucumber large, simmer deeply in dashi soy sauce, add when serving and plate as is. Also called "vinegar pot." Good with abalone and squid too.

"Zororigoto": Finely chop fish roe, blanch well, add beaten small birds ▲ duck, also add Chinese yam, simmer in dashi soy sauce. If using only fish roe, it's called "fine fish roe sauté."

"Salmon sauté-grill": Make like cedar-grilling. Use half the fish roe as paste, half as balls. Season with dashi soy sauce, add flesh with intestines and liver. When it comes to a boil, add both balls and paste, stir together and serve immediately. Good with whole peppercorns.

"Simmered medley": Dashi soy sauce is good. Add a little salted salmon skin and thin flesh, black beans, bitter skin, pickled plums, prepared bamboo shoots, wood ear mushrooms, almonds, kumquats, etc. Simmer and top with egg crumbles. In summer, serve chilled.

"Shunkan": Blanch bamboo shoots well and cut variously ▲ abalone ▲ small birds ▲ fish cake ▲ pen shell ▲ eggs 《marginal note: grilled wheat gluten》 bracken ▲ sagara seaweed ▲ Add any of these and simmer in dashi soy sauce. Also, remove bamboo shoot nodes, stuff with fish cake, simmer and slice to add.

"Wild boar soldier sugar": Prepare duck like sautéed bird, simmer in dashi soy sauce. When boiling, adjust seasoning, mix udon flour dissolved in dashi until sticky, serve when it comes to a boil. Also good with cuckoo and quail.

"Fresh skin": Whether wild goose ▲ or duck, skin and prepare, pour boiling vinegar twice, also prepare the meat with one vinegar pour for base flavoring. Season with dashi soy sauce, when boiling add the matching bird and serve as is. Top with water dropwort or other garnishes as desired. Also good topped with crumbled white sea bream.

"Thin sauté": Whether small or large birds, add a little shadow to dashi. "Deboned": Cut duck's tail end, remove bones from there to the legs, stuff with egg fish cake, sew the opening closed, simmer like boiled bird and serve sliced in rounds. Leave the red legs and hip bones.

"Boiled bird": Simmer long in dashi soy sauce with bones. "Sautéed bird" uses duck