This should be done. For minced flounder, cut finely into small squares (one bu square), dry well and additionally place on a roasting pan. Pour seasoned soy sauce with delicacies over it.

"Abalone namabi": Slice abalone thinly crosswise, dry slightly and serve with irizake (seasoned sake) poured over.

"Chilled dishes": Daikon radish, melon, eggplant, lotus root, arrowhead, apple, peach, plum, apricot, chestnut, pear. Besides these, various seasonal items are good.

"For liquid dishes": Sea bream roe, same entrails, mackerel entrails, pufferfish ovaries, sardines, sea urchin, round herring, same roe, naruko, duck entrails, salmon entrails, hararashi-zuki, pounded bonito, skylark, quail. Besides these, there are various others.

"For vinegar pickles": Myoga ginger, ginger, plum, bayberry, bamboo shoots, coastal hogfennel, Japanese spikenard, lotus root, carrot, water pepper, perilla, Japanese pepper, silvervine. Besides these, various others. However, add three go of salt to one sho of vinegar.

"Abalone entrail salad": Boil and grind abalone entrails, add grilled miso and ginger, grind well, pour over abalone with lotus root, sauté and mix as is.

"Flat shell entrail salad": Parboil and cut abalone entrails, mix with ginger miso and sansho miso. For this, sauté flat shells.

"Noto seaweed": Wash with water, knead with irizake, add chopped ginger, sprinkle pepper powder and serve.

"Bean sprouts": Serve like grilled water dropwort. Also good with irizake.

"Egg lotus root": Pour only the yolk part of eggs into lotus root holes, close the opening, boil and slice to serve.

"Chinese jellyfish": Remove salt, add chopped ginger, pour irizake with vinegar dropped in.

"Floating wood": White rice served with ginger vinegar.

"Sea anemone": Ginger vinegar and irizake are also good.

"Endless pickles": Chili pepper, wood ear mushroom, pickled plums, bamboo shoots, same sweet skin, sake lees, kelp, scallop adductor, kumquat, cockscomb seaweed, ginger, myoga, burdock, bayberry, carrot, dried citrus peel, koji, tied green seaweed - use whatever is available at the moment from the above items. Others can be made as desired.

　　　▲Chapter 17: Final Course Section

"Udon": No matter how much flour you knead, for salt proportions, in summer add three sho of water to one sho of salt, in winter add five sho, knead to the right consistency with this salt water, pound well in a mortar until the dough is at the right stage, then roll very beautifully without any cracks or splits.