Cool for three days while pickling, then open and make into bundles that can be kept indefinitely. There is also a method of keeping them pickled in tubs as is. Alternatively, pickle in sake lees, add salt and place in jars - this makes it even better. Red meat should not be kept for long periods.

"Method for Preserving Bamboo Shoots": Boil thoroughly early on, add salt to sweet rice wine, season with two or three portions of salt to make it quite salty, and pickle. They will maintain good color indefinitely. Remove the salt before using.

"Small Eggplant": Same as above - they will stay green until they emerge next year. For these, it's good to remove the salt two days before using.

"Rokujō Ginger": Cut tofu at the right time, boil in heavily salted water, skewer and dry.

"Shirakawa Sweet Rice Wine": Crack three shō of white rice, steam well and cool. Add five shō of kōji and five shō of water, knead well, strain through a water bag, discard the pressed lees, and make with that water. Stir occasionally. Good after three days in summer, five days in winter.

"Yubeshi Preparation": Like yuzu miso, cut an opening, discard the flesh, grind miso, ginger, pepper, etc. well, mix in kaya flour and apricot kernels as is, fit the lid back on, steam thoroughly while dried, and hang in a drying net - this is good.

"Method for Preserving Taro Stems": Peel the skin, tear finely, tie the thin parts together, and air-dry in partial shade - this is good.

"Ice Konjac": Boil well and expose to snow as is - it will freeze. Same method for tofu.

"Kokerazushi Preparation": Grate sake fish, make the flesh flat and large, season rice with salt and mix together, then simply apply pressing.

"Salt Proportions for Soup": In summer, add five gō of salt to one shō of ash; in winter, add three gō - this is good. However, there are oral instructions that vary by region.

"Dusting Powder": Add salt and ash, knead in a mortar, and it will immediately turn white.

"Masaki Soy Sauce": One to (10 shō) of barley, pound to white, roast and crack. One to of soybeans, boil like miso. Three shō of rice also made white and cracked. Combine with the beans, mix with barley flour, sprinkle flour on top, place on boards, cover with garden bed leaves and let ferment. When well fermented, add eight shō of salt and two to of water to make. For the second batch, add four shō of salt, one to of water, and four shō of kōji, leave for thirty days then open.

"Sengoku Style": One to each of soybeans and barley, one to and one shō of water, four shō of salt, three shō of kōji. Mix all of these together, mix in barley flour and sprinkle on top, let ferment, then the above...