Let it ferment, and when it has developed well, remove it, roughly crush it, dry it slightly in the sun, being careful not to let the "flowers" scatter, and store it in paper bags. At any time, 5 days before use, add 4 gō of koji, 2 gō 5 shaku of salt, and 1 shō of water to make it. In winter, 10 to 15 days before is good. Boil the koji, salt, and water vigorously, let it cool well, put it in a tub or jar, place it in sunlight, and stir 5-6 times a day. Keep it outside until it develops color. However, if making 5 shō total, add 3 gō of salt each time - this is good.

For fish lees pickling: salt for two nights, pickle in lees, and press heavily. Ready in 5-6 days.

"Arrowhead (kuwai)": If you peel taro and potato skins and soak them in flour, they won't change color for 5-7 days.

"Preparation of Fukume": Grill dried fish, pound it on a board, shred and grind it - this is good. Can be made with needlefish, salted shark, smelt, or anything.

"How to Store Green Melons": Add snow from the cold season with much salt, boil it and store in a jar. Cut melons in half, remove the center well and pickle. Will keep until next summer. Also store leeks and cowpeas this way.

"Dried Bamboo Shoots": Cut any way, briefly parboil in salt water, dry well and store in jars. Color won't change until next year. Oral instruction: take out and dry again in September-October - this is good.

"Dried Eggplant": Dry raw and store in jars - this is good. Also dry this 3 times in September-November - this is good.

"Crucian Carp Soup": When in a hurry, add a little vinegar to white sugar - it will cook quickly. If left long, the sweetness of the sugar will be noticeable later. For 10 people, add 2 ladles and half vinegar - this is good.

"Making Dried Shiitake Fresh": Soak the white undersides in sugar water and they will become fresh.

"Keeping Yuzu Green Until Next Year": When they're about plum-size, store with 1 shō each of rice bran and salt, adding a little bronze shavings. When using, remove salt from the night before.

"Kneading Consistency for Kinton": Knead when it reaches the consistency of miso soup stock - this is good. For suiton, kuzu, and sōmen, the hot water should have this same consistency - there are oral instructions. In any case, grate kuzu finely - this is good.

"When Making Irizake Quickly": Add 2 pieces of bonito flakes and 5 gō of dashi to 1 shō of sake, taste it, and add tamari to finish. For umeboshi, add 6-7 to 1 shō of sake - this is good. Both salt and tamari are good. Boil this before adding.

"Ninuki": 5 gō of miso, 1 shō 5 gō of water