【Right page】
One item: In the second month of the second year of the same era, the year of the Snake (1689), he went up to Edo as an attendant for the lord's alternate-year residence (sankin), having returned [to Aizu] previously.
　　　Note: During the journey, he was appointed as a temporary inspector (kari-metsuke) and performed said duty.

One item: In the sixth month of the same year, he was sent to Edo on duty rotation (kinban), completed one tour of duty, and returned.
　　　Note: During his tour, he served as a through-passage temporary inspector (hikitōshi kari-metsuke).

One item: In the seventh month of the third year of the same era, the year of the Horse (1690), he was sent to Edo on duty rotation, completed one tour of duty, and returned.
　　　Note: During his tour, he served as a through-passage temporary inspector (hikitōshi kari-metsuke).

【Left page】
One item: In the first month of the fourth year of the same era, the year of the Goat (1691), he was appointed as a permanent resident foot-inspector (jōdzume o-hiroshiki o-kachi-metsuke) at the lord's formal reception quarters, granted an additional stipend of three koku and one person's ration (ichinin-fuchi), and went up to Edo in the same month.

One item: In the third month of the sixth year of the same era, the year of the Rooster (1693), upon the passing of Lady Enyū-in, he was appointed in the fifth month of the same year as a permanent resident foot-inspector (jōdzume o-kachi-metsuke) at the upper residence (kami-o-yashiki).

【Written in red】One item: In the first month of the eighth year of the same era, the year of the Boar (1695), he was appointed as a permanent resident foot-inspector (jōdzume kachi-metsuke) at the Shiba residence.

One item: In the fifth month of the eighth year of the same era, the year of the Boar (1695), he was appointed as a rotation catering chief (kōtai o-makanai-gashira), immediately performed duty rotation service, and returned [to Aizu] in the ninth month of the same year.