【Right page】

　　Wife: A daughter of Andō Kyūsuke Tsuneoki. Died of illness on the twelfth day of the second month of the eleventh year of Hōreki, the year of the Snake (1761). Posthumous Buddhist name: Baishōin Shunshiki Myōzō Daishi. Officiant monk: from Shūtokuzan Jōnenji temple. Place of interment: Ōkuboyama.

One item: In the fifth month of the fifth year of Shōtoku, the year of the Ram (1715), in accordance with his father's petition, he was granted his first formal audience [with the lord] (omemie).

One item: In the second month of the seventh year of Kyōhō, the year of the Tiger (1722), in accordance with his father's petition, he was appointed to castle guard duty (goban), and served as castle guard (gojō goban) in the unit of Obara Gorōemon.

One item: In the sixth month of the twelfth year of the same era, the year of the Ram (1727), he was granted, without discrepancy, one hundred koku of hereditary stipend (atoshiki gochigyō).

One item: In the first month of the eighteenth year of the same era, the year of the Ox (1733), due to the reorganization of the unit of commander Obara Gorōemon,

【Left page】

　　he was transferred to the subsequent post, becoming a member of the unit of Tanaka Kahei.

One item: In the second month of the same year, having received orders to assist with the construction work (otetsudai fuishin) of the moat dredging (ohori sarae) at Edo Castle, he was ordered to travel to Edo in accordance with the rotation of duty guards (kinban), and traveled there at his own expense. In the sixth month of the same year, his duties were completed and he returned home.

One item: In the seventh month of the same year, having diligently and without delay performed his duties in assisting with the moat-dredging construction work, he was awarded one piece of silver (ginshi ichimai) as a reward.

　　　Note: It was reported to [the lord's] hearing that he had traveled and performed his duties entirely at his own expense without borrowing any funds, and a commendation was issued accordingly.