[Right folio]
(Continued from previous page)

...including training mounted samurai (kōshi) and foot soldiers (ashinarami) in the arts of the bow and gun practiced by the various units, the methods of drums and gongs (kinko no hō), and also in the context of bird hunts (tori-gari), regulations were to be established in accordance with the above principles. Furthermore, since all members of the military service (buyaku no menmei) were to be ordered to undergo training in the official school's military science, the oral transmissions (kōju) could not remain confined to only some individuals—they needed to be made generally available. Since Kazuma was originally a disciple of Kurokauchi Jūdayū, he was ordered to convey to Jūdayū the oral teachings (kōju) of the Hōda family transmission that he had further studied in Edo, and to provide instruction beginning with those portions whose examination (ginmi) in military drills had been completed. Moreover, it was noted that the teachings transmitted here in (Aizu) were not necessarily free of errors. If there were superior elements

[Left folio]
in the Hōda family transmission, it was of course appropriate to revise accordingly. Since they were of the same school (dōmon), there might be some hesitation about conveying the oral teachings of the Hōda family transmission; however, since this matter was one in which training had been ordered from above (i.e., by the domain), it was fundamentally different from studying a subject as a personal pursuit or hobby. He was therefore instructed to bear the above in mind.

　　Note: In accordance with the main text above, he was so ordered. Furthermore, he was additionally ordered that until the formal examination (ginmi) had begun, he should provide instruction to those who privately desired it (nochimochi no mono) at his own discretion. Regarding lending the martial training hall (bukamai) on meeting days (kaijitsu), although this was intended, since there were domain construction works (go-fushin) underway, for the time being...

(Continued on next page)