[Right folio]

Item: In the second month of the second year [of Kyōwa], the year of Inu (戌), the rented official residence (okashi-age yashiki) formerly belonging to Kōsaka Kинаi, [in the Beishiro ■-chō district], was transferred and granted to him.

Item: In the sixth month of that same year, due to the heavy burden of his current duties, he was relieved of his post as instructor of military science (heigaku shinan), as he had requested.

Item: In the eighth month of that same year, he traveled up to Edo (the shogunal capital) for his term of duty (kinban), and in the third month of the following year, the year of I (亥), he returned [to the domain] as part of the escort for his lord's journey back to Aizu.

Item: In the fifth month of that same year, during his lord's return journey to the domain, the number of porters and horses available along the road had been reduced, making the circumstances particularly arduous. Despite this, he served diligently and also took on the extraordinary labor of coordinating the allocation of horses and porters for the members of the escort party. In recognition of this effort, as a reward,

[Left folio]

...he was granted two bundles of cotton (wata).

Item: In the eighth month of that same year, during the toritoi-gari (bird-hunt drive), he went out and shot down a bird, but as it was difficult to dismount from his horse, he was unable to do so. Nomura Chūjirō happened to see this and, after receiving his acknowledgment, dismounted and retrieved the bird, handing it over to him. The circumstances of this joint credit (ai-uchi) were reported to the go-yūhitsu-sho (the secretarial office). The response was that this was an entirely reasonable matter and that it should be duly conveyed through proper channels — however, it was communicated to him that this was not to be considered a joint credit (ai-uchi) but rather a matter of individual achievement (ikko no shōbu).

Item: From the sixth month of the first year of Bunka (文化元年), the year of Ne (子), since his lord's return to the domain, the staff in the nakama (colleagues' quarters/administrative office) had been few in number and the workload heavy. During his lord's residence in the domain,
(Continued on next page)