[Right folio]
(Continued from previous page) ...throughout the period of his lord's residence, he served diligently without interruption and was therefore granted two bundles of cotton (wata) as a reward.

Item: In the fifth month of the second year [of Bunka], the year of Ushi (丑), he was appointed to the concurrent post of chief superintendent of post-stations along the road (michiyuki ekimachi shimeyama uwayaku) as well as the post of women's transit-pass inspector (onna kitte yaku). He was further instructed to concurrently oversee the post-station checkpoints of Ama[gi]-Yunomoto (天城湯本). For these additional duties, he was granted three ryō of gold per year as a supplementary stipend (honen) without any deduction (go-kariage nashi).

　　Note: He was additionally instructed to prepare and distribute a code of conduct (okite-gaki) in order to reform the manners and customs along the post roads. In accordance with this, he summoned the post-station wholesalers (toiya) from throughout the domain to the magistrate's office (kōjisho) and, after instructing and admonishing them, distributed the code of conduct. Furthermore, in order to further reform the customs and manners, he traveled to various places within the domain

[Left folio]

...making his rounds, and administered instruction and admonishment to those associated with the post stations.

Item: In the sixth month of the third year [of Bunka], the year of Tora (寅), he was appointed to oversee river transport on the Agegawa river (Agegawa tsūsen-gakari) and was instructed to carry out construction works along the Agegawa waterway.

　　Note: In connection with the above, after conducting an inspection survey of the river course, construction works were carried out between Nojiri village and Tokusawa village, and he returned [to the domain capital] in the ninth month of the same year.

Item: In the tenth month of that same year, as a trial of river transport, rice was loaded at one hundred bales per shipment, and two successful runs were completed downriver without incident.

Item: In the sixth month of the fourth year [of Bunka], the year of U (卯), as a contingent of men had been dispatched, he was to be appointed to the duty of arranging lodgings (oyadoriwari goyō). In previous postings, however...
(Continued on next page)