【Right page】
Gibōshi　In spring, shoots emerge from old roots. From one root emerge dozens of leaves that are round in shape with pointed tips, about 6-7 sun in size with many vertical striations. In summer, it extends a round stem about 3 shaku high. Many flowers cluster at the stem head, each flower about 1 sun 5 bu long, white colored with six petals in a half-open state. Long stamens extend outside the flower, resembling the form of cranes and herons. After flowering, it forms thin pods with small black seeds inside. It withers after autumn.

(There is one variety in Hyōgo called tama-no-kanzashi. The leaves are like jade hairpins but narrower. The flowers are white, opening from evening and withering by morning. When fully open, they resemble yamatan flowers (Lilium concolor). There is also one variety in Kyoto called gibōshi. Also called)

(Sagi-sō (Chikuzen), Amana (Echigo), Tsuchi-renge (Ushū), Iwana (Seshū), Saji-gibōshi (Washū), Wasure-gusa (Bōshū). The leaves are slender and long like short bamboo sheaths. They grow in clusters from one root and open purple flowers in autumn. The color is pale)

(These also do not open completely. Local people eat the leaves, which have a sour taste (Chinese name: zǐ zān). There is also one variety called bun-chau. The leaves are narrower than jade hairpins but larger than purple hairpins with silver edges. Another variety)

(Has extremely narrow leaves with purple flowers called (Chinese name: xiǎo zǐ (kinran)), and white-flowered ones called (Chinese name: xiǎo bái (ginran)). Another variety has yellow vertical stripes on the leaves called kin-gibō-)

(shi, and those with white vertical stripes are called gin-gibōshi. Generally called suji-gibōshi. In autumn they open pale purple flowers. Leaves grow alternately on the stem. This is)

(Chinese name: jiān dào yù zān)

Primary properties
△Sweet, pungent, cold, non-toxic. Treats carbuncles and swelling, neutralizes all poisons.

【Left page】
[Nōzen (Chinese name: zǐ wēi)]
　Noseu (Wamyōshō)　Makayaki (same source)　Nōzen-kazura

[Sixth month season]