【Right page】
Kikyō (Platycodon grandiflorus)　Grows naturally and abundantly in the mountains. Also found in sunny fields. In spring produces seedlings from old roots. Resembles shashin (Adenophora triphylla) but lacks hairs, and when cut, white sap emerges. Round stem reaching 3 shaku in height, sometimes 4-5 shaku. Leaves are oval with fine serrated edges, growing alternately. Some have two leaves growing opposite each other, or 3-5 leaves growing opposite. From the sixth month onward, produces one flower at the stem tip. Well-nourished plants have flowers between each set of leaves. Single-flowered, tubular form with the tip divided into five petals, petal tips pointed, blue-purple in color. After flowering produces round pods about the size of soapberries (mukuroji), containing many fine seeds. When the fruit ripens, the plant withers. There are also many cultivated varieties. There is one called mon-kikyō, single-flowered with a shallower tube than usual and flatter flowers. Comes in two colors: deep purple and light purple. There are also double-flowered varieties (available in purple and white), semi-double, and fully double varieties (available in purple and white). Round, flat, fully double varieties exist (available in deep blue and light blue). There are also forms that appear compressed and flattened, with flattened stems as well (available in several varieties: single and double petals, deep blue, light blue, deep yellow, light yellow, white, etc.). White flowers with purple spots are called Sendai-kikyō. There is also botan-kikyō with large, double flowers.

△ Primary properties: Bitter, pungent, balanced, non-toxic. Benefits the five organs and intestines, supplements blood and qi, and moves all types of qi downward.

【Left page】
[Ominaeshi (Chinese name: bàijiàng)]
Omoigusa (from Man'yōshū)　Konotegashiwa　Ominaeshi (both from the same source)
Jorōbana (from Wamyōshō and Kokinshū)　Ominaeshi (from Bizen)　Kikuka-jo
Chimegusa (from Wamyōshō)

[Seventh month season]