(Each was to set forth and debate the profound principles of his own school.) Representing the Hossō school was Gennin; the Sanron school, Dōshō; the Tendai school, Gishin; and the Kegon school, Dōyū. Each of these was among the most eminent and learned monks of the age, and so the debate was of a magnitude to astonish even the heavens. Some sharpened the spearheads of the doctrines of the Five Natures (*goshō*) and the Eight Negations (*happu*), contending in vigorous disputation; others arrayed their arguments in the formations of the Three Truths (*santai*) and the Ten Mysteries (*jūgen*), seeking to determine the victor. With all of these schools as his opponents, the Venerable Kūkai alone expounded the lofty doctrine of sudden awakening and the attainment of Buddhahood (*tongaku jōbutsu*). His eloquence welled forth like a spring, surpassing even the great debaters of ancient India; the lamp of his wisdom shone with brilliant light, so that one might have wondered whether Śākyamuni himself had appeared. The meaning and purpose of sudden awakening, its textual and doctrinal implications, were made manifest here; the deep truths of the teaching of divine powers reached their fullest expression anew.

It was widely acknowledged that the purport of the supreme vehicle (*saijōjō*) surpassed all the other schools. And yet the assembled monks still appeared to harbor doubts about the path of attaining Buddhahood in this very body (*sokushin jōbutsu*). And so Kūkai resolved to demonstrate the true proof of this reality. Turning to face the south, he entered into deep contemplative absorption, and formed with his hands the mudrā of Mahāvairocana. In that very instant, the flesh-body born of his father and mother was transformed, and he became the golden Mahāvairocana Buddha. Upon his head he wore the jeweled crown of the Five Buddhas, and from within his body he radiated golden light that illuminated the imperial palace. Without departing from this defiled world, he manifested the form of the Pure Land; without casting aside his ordinary body, he revealed the Buddha-body. At this, the Emperor himself rose from his seat and made obeisance, and all the assembled ministers bowed their heads in reverent worship.