(Hachiman Daibosatsu,) in accordance with the capacities of sentient beings and judging the times, appears sometimes as Śākyamuni Buddha and at other times manifests as Amitābha Buddha. It is said that there was indeed a divine oracle declaring: "It was I who, in India, transmitted the esoteric teachings to the Tripiṭaka Master Śubhākarasiṃha." Truly, the dependent and proper states (*eishō*) of the Dharma-body of Principle and Wisdom temporarily divide into the names of inner and outer aspects; the causes and effects of Mahāvairocana and Vajrasattva mutually manifest the virtue of teacher and disciple, with the roles of giver and receiver alternating — now bestowing, now receiving. Who could know that Daibosatsu and the Great Master are manifestations of one and the same being? Thus, according to the teaching of Śākyamuni Tathāgata, who is the original ground (*honji*) of the Great Bodhisattva, the Great Master must be among the congregation on Vulture Peak. And if one follows the teaching concerning Amitābha Buddha, then Nāgārjuna Bodhisattva is Myōun Tathāgata — that is, Amitābha, the Well-Gone One (*Sugata*). This being so, is it not abundantly clear that Hachiman and the Great Master are of one body? Furthermore, there are accounts that reveal the Great Master to be a transformation of Kannon (Avalokiteśvara). In the *Nihon Shinsenki* (Record of Japanese Divine Sages) by Genen Bosatsu of Yukawa, it is written: Kōbō Daishi appeared in India as Queen Śrīmālā, manifested in China as the Great Master Nanyue, and appeared in Japan as Prince Shōtoku. All of these are the original and manifest traces (*honjaku*) of Kanzeon Bosatsu (Avalokiteśvara), and are his transformative incarnations (*gonge*) in the Pure Land and the defiled world alike. Although one might say this one and that one differ in their outward functions, they are all, at root, manifestations of a single Buddha. Truly, these are miraculous deeds of boundless divine efficacy, beyond the reach of heart or words. Here there is a place called Mount Murō, a peerless sacred peak in the realm of Japan. This too, in Yamato—

【On the Sacred Ground of Mount Murō】