Kūkai was greatly pleased and took up residence at this temple from time to time. For this reason, even to the present day, Kōfukuji remains a branch temple of Tōji.

Thereafter, upon returning to Mount Kōya, Kūkai summoned all of his disciples and spoke to them thus: "I have dwelt upon this mountain, erected a pagoda of sixteen jō, and lined up the rooftiles of various halls and buildings, yet the work of construction has not yet proceeded as I had wished. Nevertheless, the karmic bonds of teaching in this land are drawing to a close, and the time has come for me to gradually enter into eternal meditation (nyūjō). In that case, would my foremost disciple, Zen Master Jitsue, carry on this work?" The Zen Master replied, "I shall endeavor to the best of my ability." Kūkai said, "The Zen Master serves as teacher to the sovereign and will have no time for private affairs. Then what of Zen Master Shinnyo?" He answered, "I shall simply follow your command." Kūkai replied, "The Zen Master has aspirations toward other lands; it would be difficult for him to remain in one place." "What of Zen Master Shinga?" He replied, "I too shall follow your command." The Master said, "And yet he too has other intentions." "What of Zen Master Shinzei?" He answered, "I have duties to fulfill for my patrons (danna). Nevertheless, how could I dare disobey your command?" The Master replied, "Having received a pledge from others, one must not break it." "What of Zen Master Shinshō?" He answered, "I am engaged in building a small hall in the eastern quarter of the capital and have no leisure. Nevertheless, how could I dare disobey your command?" The Master said, "This too is reasonable. He will not be able to come to this mountain."

Zen Master Shinzen alone harbors the intention to guard the Master's legacy. For this reason, this mountain (Mount Kōya) is entrusted to Zen Master (Shinzen). However, since his own capabilities are not yet fully mature, the Great Virtue (Daitoku) Jitsue should assist and support him, adding his efforts to the work.