[Header Right]
Taking them together and receiving them is a celebration of oneself. However, the earthenware vessel for hot water should be stacked under the soup-poured rice. The fifth portion of divided rice is also taken separately from the main banquet tray and cedar arrangement trays, spreading celebration widely, and is a prayer for long-lasting prosperity. Soon hot water is offered in white golden ladles with white water. After the banquet trays are cleared, turtle incense is offered. With eight kinds of fruit, there should be an understanding of the five colors. Since this exhausts the Shinto way and is a ceremony of yin-yang harmony, in this grand celebration, whatever celebratory words are spoken should not change. However, the formal three献 (three rounds of sake offering) should be done respectively. Each has its own carving method, and the preparation is also separate oral tradition. For relocation banquets, the hot water is white rice porridge. Otherwise it is white water

[Header Left]
hot water. All should be served in white golden ladles.

▲Regarding the First献 Zōni (New Year's soup)
1. Zōni represents and cooks the five organs of the supreme king
1. Heart corresponds to fire element, red color. Bonito represents the lower part
1. Spleen corresponds to earth element, yellow color. Skewered abalone represents skin and flesh
1. Liver corresponds to wood element, blue color. Taro cut into round lengths represents eyes and nails
1. Lungs correspond to metal element, white things. Rice cake connects to breathing
1. Kidneys correspond to water element, black color. Dried sardines connect to ears

The above is called zōni. Beginning with salt, the leftover sake is poured into the zōni, and

[Lower Right]
Five-Three-Two Main Course

Large-medium ring
　Pickled vegetables

Three-grade ring
　Soup《chicken, grilled wheat gluten, shiitake mushrooms》《butterbur, daikon radish》

Large-medium ring
Blue namasu《sea bream, kumquat, chestnut, ginger, water dropwort》

Ear earthenware chopsticks
Pepper salt

Large-medium ring
　Dried mullet roe

Three-grade ring
　Rice

Dimensions
　Five-five-three dimensions
　Also used for seven-five-three
Five-five-three method also used for five-three-two

[Lower Left]
Five-Three-Two Course

Large-medium ring
　Kelp cut square arrangement

Large-medium ring with wooden legs
　Three rush grass arrangements

Right dimensions same as above
No need for marking

Large-medium ring
　Sufficient cedar arrangement

Three-grade ring
　Soup《rolled items, sillago roe, early bamboo, bamboo shoots》