[Header Right]
For formal three-献 ceremonies, it should be male butterfly style. From the first献 onward, it should be female butterfly style. The paper should be matched, and the twist should be fukusa paper collar.

▲Regarding the number of sake vessel knots
For New Year's there should be twelve. This celebrates the twelve months. The sake vessel should have three places. This is based on the first three days. Even in years with thirteen months, the number of twists should be twelve. There are oral traditions regarding leap months.

▲Regarding house-moving ceremonies
For the hot water served with formal three-献 banquets, white shells are served in white gold color. After the banquet is finished, turtle incense is immediately offered, and rice is served in three献 following the zōni soup.

▲Regarding seated banquet decorative items
Place double two-合 measures, place two carp, one pair of birds, made as doves, with carp as the main fish.

[Header Left]
The carp bellies should be matched together. For one pair of flat vessels, the way to wrap the spouts is: one male butterfly, one female butterfly combined for one use. All should be white paper with lower layers in crimson. However, sake vessel spouts should not be wrapped. Pine fried items, bamboo grass fried items, kelp, skewered persimmons, herring mountain, red-eye fish, miscanthus, pomegranate - twelve types in total.

▲Regarding groom-taking and bride-taking ceremonies
The above house-moving is generally the same. However, for hot water, white water hot water is served in white ladles. All turtle legs should be struck flat with white paper. White water hot water is for bride-taking and all others. Porridge hot water is only for house-moving.

▲Regarding birth celebration ceremonies
Make small carp-pounding rice cakes

[Lower Right]
Attach three pieces.
▲For departing to battle, combine "victory" with striking and rejoicing.
▲For returning from battle, combine "strike and win" with rejoicing.
For the above handover ceremony, when there are two people, decorate and place in the center, and separately present triple-stacked earthenware on three-tiered stands, with sake cup ceremonies using sake vessels and ladles.

○Formal Three-献 Diagram
The first diagram is as follows. On the left side, pile roasted salt high in earthenware as shown in the diagram, and place rings under the earthenware. On the right side, there should be earthenware with rings. Pour a little sake. On the left side, in earthenware with rings, pile chopped arame seaweed high.

[Lower Left]
On the right side, in earthenware with rings, pile jellyfish high. In front, place white chopsticks of one shaku two sun length in eared earthenware.

▲Second course side dish
Shaved crucian carp, there should be earthenware with rings. The crucian carp is cooked curved. For coming-of-age and wedding celebrations, since there are always two people, everything should be prepared in sets of two in the same manner.