[Header Right]
The legs with blades in the middle are called "separate legs."
From this begins the first offering.
Similarly, the five types of shaved items should be the turtle of Horai. This is a celebration of ten thousand years.
Thus the arrangement is as follows:
Black　Blue　Should be arranged on turtle shell
　White　　Birds should also be arranged
　　　　on turtle shell
Yellow　Red　Five types on the left of the tray
　　　　Birds on the right
▲Regarding the cutting board
Length three shaku, width one shaku eight sun. However,
the combined width and length of four shaku eight sun represents
Amida's forty-eight vows.
The thickness of the cutting board at three sun represents the three-part
sutras. The height of the legs is three sun three bu,
the width of the legs three sun two bu, thickness
one sun five bu, totaling eight sun represents the eight-petaled lotus
flower. The total circumference of the cutting board

[Header Left]
is nine shaku six sun. Nine shaku represents the nine grades of the Pure Land,
six sun represents the six characters. Amida has no lifespan
limit. Takamyōjin is a deity who
protects life for a long time. The original ground is
Amida Buddha. This interpretation
is not unusual. Thus it is a prayer for long
life and perfect longevity. All of this
concerns the etiquette of kitchen knives and cutting boards.
Ordinary cutting boards are a separate
matter.
▲Regarding ordinary cutting boards
Be calm and undisturbed. Being reliable is
called banquet composure. Morning worship means respecting
the lord and revering the gods with uprightness -
this is morning worship. The four virtues are: the lord's benevolent virtue, the
virtue of sun and moon, the benevolent virtue of parents -
these are they. Sometimes stars descend from heaven
to this seat and provide divine protection.

[Lower Right]
One grilled small bird　blue skewer　small kaya wood　eight sun
One grilled swimming crab　plate　seven sun
One clear soup (goby fish, small shrimp)　(hatsutake mushrooms, persimmon broth)　light soy sauce
One spiny lobster　boat arrangement　bowl　eight sun
One thick-simmered burdock (kudzu starch, sansho pepper powder)　stacked box　eight sun
One clear soup (small miso) grated mountain yam
One sake accompaniment (salted bonito, salted abalone, salted sea bream, line-caught yellowtail)　mixed roasted sake　medium plate
One squid black preparation　peeled ginger　straight　seven sun

[Lower Left]
One fan shell　small skewer　kaya wood　eight sun
One clear soup (cod roe, tofu yuba)
One vinegared mozuku seaweed　ginger sauté　long straight　seven sun
One grilled colored sardines　small kaya wood　eight sun
One chopped greens with salt and vinegar　lidded tea bowl　(small plate) lightly pickled daikon
One abalone vinegar shell　brocade-style　medium plate　seven sun
One egg-bearing crucian carp sushi　square plate　seven sun
One small flounder　　　small kaya wood　seven sun
One clear soup (goose thigh, seaweed eater)　light soy sauce
One sake wheat gluten　cut kelp　pickled plum　stacked box　eight sun