[Header Right]
It must not be made of hinoki (Japanese cypress) wood. However,
there should be a form for wrapping with kaburatō-maki (turnip-head wrapping).
It should be wrapped with black leather. Above that
it may be wrapped with paper.
The twist should be fukusa (silk cloth).

▲Making kitchen knife handles
The handle opening should be made as a koiguchi (carp's mouth). However, when not wrapping with kaburatō-maki, even if not as much as a koiguchi,
it should appear slightly indented.
Making the handle into a koiguchi: In the reign of Emperor Gushun,
he studied the nine mountains and eight seas
in the garden courtyard. Then evening showers fell heavily
and from the water a carp emerged
holding a sword in its mouth. Taking this up
and learning from it, make it into a koiguchi and wrap
with kaburatō-maki. Even without wrapping with kaburatō-maki,
make it like a koiguchi and wrap
with paper.

[Header Left]
[Diagram] Peak angle eight-eight, nine-nine beginning, peak round
As shown on the right, make the blade thus and carve
and wrap the handle. Long ago the sword that emerged from water
had no inscription and no handle. On the surface...

[Lower Right]
(Flat plate) Simmered dishes (mountain yam, oyster mushrooms, bracken fern, Shinano pickled plums)　(Clear broth) Soup (trefoil, kelp, root potato, wakame seaweed, cut shiso, cut water pepper)
(Medium plate) Sake-flavored vinegared dish [nuta-namasu] (devil's tongue, young myōga ginger, green beans, Japanese pepper leaves, sake lees, miso)
　　Third tray
(True water pepper miso vinegar) Sashimi (kanten jelly noodles, plum sōmen, thin layer seaweed, cockscomb seaweed, colored agar)　Soup (grated yam, green seaweed)
Bamboo shoot soup (large bamboo shoots, round eggplant, dried gourd strips, large pickled plums)　　Eight-sun footed dish

[Lower Left]
One large plate (round mountain wheat gluten, large white kelp) Direct roasted sake　Eight-sun footed dish
　　　Medium sake
One clear soup (round... [unclear], azuki bean outer [part?]) Small miso　Seven-sun footed dish
　　　Side dishes　Various levels
One Itaya hail crackers　　　　　Eight-sun kaya wood dish  
One eggplant dengaku (Japanese pepper miso)　Eight-sun kaya wood dish
One clear soup　Tennōji turnip　Suisenji seaweed
One soaked vegetables　Carrot (donburi)　Eight-sun bowl
One matatabi (vinegar miso)　　　　　Seven-sun straight dish