【Header Right】
It becomes so. Also, as substitute for saki duck, one saki duck and one small duck serve as equivalent to one true mallard.

Fat content develops when they are fed locally, and the fat accumulates afterwards. First, from September through winter the fat builds up. In January it decreases slightly. Then from early February it increases again. Also, regarding spring birds with good fat content, there is about a 20% difference depending on the bird.

▲Monk duck (sōgamo)
This is a migratory bird. For soup, seven to eight servings. When well-fattened, nine to ten servings. For roasted bird, up to seven to eight servings. When used as substitution bird, four small ducks equal one monk duck.

【Header Left】
As equivalent. Two flavored ducks equal one monk duck. One saki duck and one small duck equal one monk duck. The ratio is the same as for true mallards mentioned above.

When the fat is poor and swollen, it is difficult to use in cooking. The bird's rank is also lower than autumn duck. During the first duck season, it can be used for good occasions. It is also called light duck (karugamo).

▲Masaki duck
This is a migratory bird. For soup, five to six servings. As roasted bird, four to five servings. When well-fattened, seven to eight servings. However, although birds come in various sizes, when used as substitute, one saki duck, small duck

【Lower Right】
Small plates (mustard, shelled walnuts, flower bonito)　　(Blue ground sake cup) Kudzu noodles
Sake cup (sugar)
　　Soup　　　　Hot water
Tea sweets (snow rice cake, Nanking rice cake, red plum rice cake, both types)　　Cedar toothpicks
Sweets　True melon (watermelon, sugar)
　　Evening meal
One (flat plate, steamed burdock, kudzu egg, kudzu mustard)　　Soup (ground seasoning, radish sprouts, hot water)
　　　　　　　　　　Rice

【Lower Left】
　　　　Pickles
　　　Two
Sake accompaniments (Echigo trout, Bizen jellyfish, simmered dish)　　Soup (evening, burdock strips, pine seaweed)
　　　Sake cup sea urchin
Following　One grilled dish (Spanish mackerel, skewer-grilled)　　One bracken fern (sword bean flavored)
　　　One sashimi (washed carp, floating sea bass, colored daffodil)　(Wasabi, sake in cup)
　　　Clear soup (mozuku seaweed, rolled whiting)
　　　Fish dish (willow fish, offshore fish, dried sardines)

　▲August, what day, what evening