【Header Right】
Two and a half birds as equivalent. Also, if using ashi duck instead of one saki duck, it equals two birds.

When the fat becomes white, it is very good quality. This comes from the area near Tennoji temple's vegetarian cuisine preparation area in our locality. If one were to speak favorably of this bird, it belongs to the waterfowl family.
Also called onagasaki duck (long-tailed Nagasaki duck).

▲Yoshizaki duck
This has the same cooking method as masaki duck. The substitution ratio is also the same. Although it is slightly lower grade than masaki duck, it is not particularly bad. The fat content is also the same. Also called yokubuku.

▲Ashi duck (reed duck)
This is the same as yoshizaki duck. For substitution bird, also

【Header Left】
the bird's rank is no different.
The meat is somewhat tender and good for cooking.

▲Kuchi duck (mouth duck)
This is a migratory bird. For soup, three to four servings. Same for roasted bird. When well-fattened, five to six servings. When using as substitute bird, one and a half small ducks for one kuchi duck. Where two kuchi ducks are used, three small ducks. When using aji duck instead, about two and a half would be fine. This is also quite good quality. It is of the same rank as small duck. The fat is also quite good.
Also called kuchihiro (wide mouth).

【Lower Right】
　Goby salad (wakame, long valley, shiso, standing chestnuts, myoga)　Soup (base, thin green onions, root potato, shiitake, mountain masu)
　Grilled dish (sweetfish, red sardines, with miso sauce)　Rice
　　　Two
Cedar simmered dish
　Duck escape-style
　　　　　　　　　　Soup (white dumplings, broad beans, seaweed, Japanese spikenard)
　Mixed dish (winter melon, sesame miso)
　　　Three
　Sashimi (vessel, golden seaweed)　　Soup (matsutake mushrooms, scallops)

【Lower Left】
　　　Sake cup mustard vinegar miso
Following
One red clam grilled (egg, small water chestnut, wood fish)　　One grilled bird (masaki, grilled burdock)
One cedar box (steamed small sea bream)　One sushi (sweetfish, water pepper, Japanese pepper)
One pepper dish (grilled eel, Chinese artichoke)
(Chrysanthemum water) Island sea bream (fallen)　　Pressed dish (cloud layers)
　First appetizer (sole leaves, grilled squid, grilled potato)
　Final appetizer (octopus Kanto-style simmered, hot water, flower shrimp)
　　　　Water dish　Pears　(wakame, daikon radish)
　Clear soup (one unknown rice with kudzu seaweed, one small fish with ground Japanese pepper, [one handle-cut mouse bamboo【continues on next page】])