【Header Right】
When made into grilled bird, it is cut into four pieces, so
it serves four people.
Coots appear in two seasons. During spring migration
they have no fat and the meat is small.
In August and September they are well-fattened with good fat content, so
the amount per bird for one person differs.

▲Large coot
These exist in small numbers in our locality, but
not enough for cooking purposes. Coming in small quantities from Ōtsu,
there are not even one-twentieth the number of small coots. Also when used for cooking,
they are not nearly as useful as small coots.
The size of the bird equals two small coots.

Snipe migration (In March and April there are distinctions between beach snipe and field snipe)
　Forty-eight snipe, varieties of snipe

【Header Left】
▲Shakunaki snipe (beach snipe)
Migrating from mid-June through August
Among beach snipe and field snipe, this snipe
is the largest bird of its kind.
For soup it serves six to seven people. Spring
shakunaki sometimes have good fat content.
There are also small ones. For stir-fried bird
it serves five to six people.
　The above two types of birds also for shitame

▲Crab-eating snipe (beach snipe)
When used for soup serves three to four people. As stir-fried bird
serves three people. The flavor is the same as shakunaki.
Also called small shakunaki.

▲Small butterfly snipe (beach snipe)
When used for soup serves two to three people.
Stir-fried bird is the same. When well-fattened

【Lower Right】
Sashimi (duck sweet skin finely prepared, salt vinegar, seasoned sake with wasabi)　　　Dove sake (chopped dove added, mixed with miso, sake added)
Side dish (grilled duck on board, tofu yuba)
　　Hot pot pull　Stir-fried bird (skylark, water dropwort)
　　Clear soup (swan intestines, lotus root stems)
　　Sweets (egg sōmen, castella cake)
　　　Later course
　　Bird rice porridge (earth-colored dove, finely chopped water dropwort)
　　　Withdrawing
　　Bird miso　served in small dish

【Lower Left】
Spring (Takasago, charm)

Oosae
　Iris
　Karasumi (dried mullet roe)