【Header Right】
people. Grilled bird is the same. This is
inferior to the blue heron. This bird is also
called "shima-mawari" (island circler). Large yellow-legged ones are also
called large herons, but large herons can be distinguished
by their white thigh joints.

▲Yellow-legged heron
For soup, serves seven to eight people.
As stir-fried bird, serves six to seven people. For grilled bird,
it's the same. It's about the same size
as the large heron. In summer, both large herons and yellow-
legged herons make good cooking ingredients.

▲Seseri heron
This is the same as yellow-legged. For soup, stir-fried bird,
and grilled bird. Serves three to four people.
Also called white heron, this is generally the
same as above. Another name is fukura.

【Header Left】
▲Magpie
This is rare, so it's not
used for cooking. Slightly smaller
than seseri. From crown to back it's beautifully
red, so it becomes a pet bird.

▲Shore heron
This is also the same; the more black the plumage becomes,
the more beautiful it is, and it becomes a pet bird.

▲Spatula heron
This doesn't appear in summer but appears in winter.
The flavor is better than ordinary herons. For soup and stir-
fried bird, serves twelve to thirteen people.
However, since there are many waterfowl in winter,
　　　　　it's not used.

Grilled bird section
▲Quail

【Lower Right】
Same (whitebait, small bird, stir-fried leek, with sansho pepper) Same (small duck, abalone cut in cubes, adzuki beans, butterbur sprouts) Same (mate, kuwae, horsetail)

Same (shrike, horsetail, mirukui) Same (duck, small clam with shell, flat shell) Same (egg cut in strips, field preparation, horsetail)

《Vegetarian same》 《Rock mushroom, burdock, walnut, sansho pepper》 Same (grind yam well, then add stretched burdock, mix and leave overnight; next morning scoop with spoon and deep-fry in oil; add one variety to anything)

《Cooked dishes combination, February portion》 Same (whitebait, yomena, horsetail) Same (whitebait, horsetail, mitsuba parsley)

Same (salmon skin, fresh bracken, shelled clam) Same (shrike, field preparation, seuro, small clam) Same (mirukui, fresh bracken, salmon skin)

【Lower Left】
Same (field preparation stir-fried, black beans, arame seaweed, sansho pepper) Same (tokobushi, with shell, fresh bracken, salted bamboo shoots) Same (dried sardine strips, bonito flakes, dried sardines, beans)

《Vegetarian》 《Aralia shoots, pounded chestnuts, sprinkled with mustard}} Same (winter gourd, shiitake, yam) Same (taro stems, grilled tofu, shiitake, small arrowhead)

《Cooked fish, March portion》 Same (dried clam, ground sesame, burdock, shiitake bamboo) Same (small bird, skin burdock, salmon skin)

Same (salmon skin, dried sardines, sasai, delicacy, black beans) Same (grilled sweetfish, leek, flying sansho) Same (squid simmered in ink)

Same (squid prepared flat, lycium, wakame, green beans) Same (small shrimp, flower squid, aralia shoots, black beans) Same (hibuku, oyster mushroom, long yam)

《Vegetarian》 《Grilled tofu and burdock cut into dice, green beans, peach kernels, as ginger substitute》 Same (bracken, shiitake, jellied konjac) Same (butterbur, grilled tofu, dried daikon, green beans)