【Header Right】
Cucumber《vinegared salad, citrus dressing, pickles》
Winter melon　soup　vinegared salad
Crow melon　pickles
　Same　the fruit is called tamago-na, a side dish
　　good for sweets
Evening glory　soup　sashimi
　Same fruit becomes tamago-na
Eggplant《soup　sashimi　whole boiled, dressed dishes　pickles》
　Snipe-style grilling　various cut and dried
Chinese wolfberry《soup　dressed dishes　simmered dishes, sashimi　rice cake　tea》
Five-leaf aralia　same as right above
Chinese chives　soup　dressed dishes
Garlic《soup　sashimi　vinegared salad, miso　soup garnish》
Welsh onion《soup　stir-fried chicken, sashimi　cedar grilling》

【Header Left】
Green onion《soup　dressed dishes　vinegared dressing, vinegared salad　sashimi》
Scallion　vinegared salad　sashimi
Wild rocambole　sashimi　dressed dishes
Bamboo shoots《spring bamboo　soup, mustard dressing　pickles》
　sashimi　sushi　pickles
　grilling　even steaming　used in various ways
Reed shoots are also used　rush shoots are the same
Bitter bamboo shoots are grilled together
with the skin and used
Chinese wakame　used like aralia
Silver vine　sashimi　pickles
　leaves are also good for sashimi
Wasabi　spiciness　soup garnish　soup
Dioscorea tokoro　simmered dishes　sweets
Kudzu starch《added to simmered dishes, somen noodles　narcissus》

【Lower Right】
　Slice and grind well, two colors in equal parts, add one-tenth part mountain yam. Extend with hot water,
　add a little cooking sake, and grill well from the board side. When fire passes through to the top,
　grill from the top side and use while it hasn't cooled, which is good.
▲Hanpen preparation　One mountain yam《one cup ground》　One tofu《one cup same》
　One fish《ground six parts》Grind these three colors well together, add salt according to cooking preference

　　　『Overview of Sushi Fish』
One　Omi crucian carp　　One　true bonito　　　One　eel sushi　One　young crucian carp sushi
One　sweetfish sushi　　One　nama-meshigoto　One　salmon sushi　One　egg-bearing sushi
One　trout sushi　One　quick sushi《octopus, abalone》　shrimp《ark shell, river fish》

▲Crucian carp sushi preparation. Pickle during the cold season, remove gills and remove intestines. Crush
　the head. Save plenty of salt. Press crucian carp onto salt from both sides. Pickle
　and crush for the duration of salt pickling. Cook black rice into hard rice and cool well. Mix salt with
　eating salt and pickle with plenty of rice. Place strong pressure from the beginning for about 20 days

【Lower Left】
　After passing, reduce the pressure to the level of regular sushi pressing. After about 70 days
　it ferments well. After a good year passes, around autumn, the flavor becomes excellent and bones
　also become much softer. Also loosen the pressure and save salt water
　on top of the lid. After taking out, place the pressure so that the inner fish and rice don't become
　hard-pressed. Save water in the said salt water.
▲Crucian carp quick sushi　Add three go of salt to one sho of sake and boil down. Add one go of vinegar. For four to five days
　of aging, don't add vinegar. Cool the rice and mix it with the said boiled sake, making it slightly more salty than eating salt.
　Mix salt with crucian carp for about one hour, then wash quickly
　and pickle with the said rice. This is good after about two months. Also, for four to five days of aging, make the rice
　salt more salty than raw fermentation. For pressing, press lightly for about two hours from the time of pickling,
　then gradually apply stronger pressure.
▲Sea bream sushi　Two sho of salt, one sho of water, boil the combined three sho down to two sho and cool well.
　Fillet sea bream into three pieces. Put into the said salt water and place weight. After two days, on the third
　day, cook one sho of black rice into eating rice. Then mix one sho of sake lees and pickle so it doesn't rub
　against the said sea bream. However, for salted salmon as well, remove salt well and prepare in the same manner.