【Header Right】
　Suitor (dumpling soup)　Ginton (silver sugar confection)
　Grilled rice cake　Kudzu rice cake
Peony flower《sashimi　dried, simmered dishes　vinegared dressing》
Peony flower　same as right above
Gardenia flower　sashimi simmered dishes
Orange daylily flower　same as right above
　Leaves are also good for sashimi　5 bu per 1 sun [about 1.5mm per 3cm]
Chrysanthemum flower　good for sashimi
Trumpet creeper flower　sashimi　simmered dishes
Honeysuckle flower　dried　simmered dishes [Japanese honeysuckle]
Sumo wrestler flower　sashimi
Water shield　sashimi　garnish
　Blanched　raw
　Something called root vegetables found in ponds
Ginkgo nut《roasted dishes　good for sweets, roasted　remove shell》
Bayberry　vinegar-pickled chilled dishes sweets

【Header Left】
Ladies' tresses《soup　dressed dishes, simmered dishes vinegar sashimi》
Mugwort　soup　rice cake
Clerodendrum　soup　dressed dishes　simmered dishes
Chickweed　soup　dressed dishes
Shepherd's purse　same as right above
Water dropwort《soup　dressed dishes　grilled dropwort, vinegared salad　added to stir-fried chicken》
Three-leaf dropwort　same as right above
Horsetail　soup　simmered dishes　vinegared dishes
Aralia cordata《soup　vinegared salad　dressed dishes, vinegared aralia　pickles》
Royal fern《soup　dried　simmered dishes, dressed dishes》
　Powder makes rice cake
Saposhnikovia　vinegared salad　vinegar pickle　garnish
Amaranth《cold soup sashimi dressed dishes, same Chinese amaranth dressed dishes》

【Lower Right】
▲Sweetfish sushi　Open the belly, don't wash at all, whether for one day or one night, salt
　and press, then the next day wash well with salt water. Remove gills and wash again with water.
　Fish-grilled miso. Pickle a little; salty taste is good. Cool well-cooked premium white rice.
　Grip rice for the belly and put it in the belly; this is good. Wash the remaining rice once with honey
　and let it drip. Pickle with plenty of rice. To eat quickly,
　press lightly. For long storage, press strongly. Save salt water
　on top of the lid. When taking out, open the salt outlet and save salt water when finishing.
▲Eel sushi　Wash well, let drip, and cut short into three or four pieces. Overnight,
　mix salt with sake, more salty than table salt. Soak in this. Next day, mix salt with rice
　as table salt. Pickle as usual; pressing should be applied to the level of pouring.
　　　『▲　Preparation of Irizake (Seasoned Sake)』
One　aged sake 3 sho　One　soy sauce 5 go　One　bonito 1 sho　slice as finely as possible
　and just wash lightly with water. If not washed with water, use 2 sho.
　Mix these three ingredients well. Heat over charcoal fire. Roast until the sake smell
　disappears. When mostly cooked, add roasted salt to taste.

【Lower Left】
　Also add vinegar according to preference. Add either while cooking. Also add
　about 20 pickled plums. Strain the bonito as is and remove. If left for a long time,
　it becomes fishy. This irizake can be made quickly.
▲Vegetarian irizake　Aged sake《1 sho》sweet sake is good
　One　kelp《2 pieces》finely chop the finest quality　One　dried gourd strips
　Finely chop the said dried gourd strips. Half the volume of kelp. Also add
　chestnuts. Crush these to half the volume of kelp. One　pickled plums
《25 if small　20 if large》
　Add 1 sho of water to the above. Mix well. Heat gradually over charcoal fire.
　When boiled down to about 1 sho volume of the original sake, add
　a good amount of salt. If insufficient, add while hot.
▲Same quick irizake　Aged sake《4 cups》One　soy sauce《1 cup》One　vinegar《half cup》
　Combine these three ingredients and bring to one boil over charcoal fire. Remove immediately. Stir with chopsticks.
　When cooled to body temperature, put on fire again and bring to a boil,
　then cool as described. If boiled three times like this,
　it becomes irizake.