【Header Right】
　Cut and pound well again, stir-fry a little more
　and add sake. Warm it and serve.
『Fish Section for Side Dishes』
Pounded bonito　Sea bream roe salted fish sauce
Shellfish intestine salted fish sauce　Mackerel salted fish sauce  
Sea urchin salted fish sauce　Cutlass fish
Sea bream intestine salted fish sauce　Bonito simmered and prepared
Horse mackerel salted fish sauce　Bonito roe intestines
Sweetfish pickle slices　Jellyfish salted fish sauce
Sweetfish roe uruka　Jellyfish
Same intestine salted fish sauce
Salt ratio: in summer, five cups of salt to one sho of fish,
in winter three cups is good. However,
there are oral traditions depending on distance

【Header Left】
One: Combine intestines and roe together
　Grind the milt well and mix thoroughly
　with the roe. For about one sho in volume,
　mix in four cups of salt and press into a jar.
　This is called intestine uruka.
One: For one sho of shucked flesh, add three cups of salt.
　When mixed and shaken, the bad water
　and sliminess are removed. Then two cups of sake lees,
　two cups of salt, two cups of aged sake. A little
　yuzu leaves. Mix the above and store in a jar.
　Use after seven days have passed, which is good.
『Sake Lees Pickled Fish Section』
Sea bream　Trout　Crucian carp
Salted mackerel　True bonito
Abalone　Sweetfish　Salmon
Turban shell　Ark shell　Pen shell

【Lower Right】
『▲Preparation of Fish Broths and Clear Soups』
Carp and crucian carp soup　Add aged sake until just covered and simmer until the sake
　has no scent. Add miso. Put in a dashi bag. If it appears too
　thick, add hot water. If lacking flavor, add a little soy sauce, which is good.
Sea bream salt-simmered　Cut both flesh and bones as usual. Add aged sake until just
　covered and simmer over low heat. When the sake has no scent,
　add water on top and prepare with salt only.
For trout and similar soups, adding a little soy sauce is good.
Octopus nanban-style　Wash well. Pound well with a pestle to soften. Cut as desired
　and simmer long with sake only, then it becomes quite tender. Add
　soy sauce on top and simmer again, then remove. Serve with wasabi soy sauce or vinegar, which is good.
Squid whole-grilled　Wash the black parts thoroughly like water and discard. Remove the shell,
　leave the hardened black parts as is. Without cutting, simmer well in thin sauce.
　Then cut into rings and put directly into the above broth, which is also good.
▲Same roe simmered dish: When opening the belly, there are white hardened parts. Take these

【Lower Left】
　Cut into two or three pieces - they are especially good for simmered dishes.
Whale soup: Cut fresh whale into good-sized pieces. Simmer once with sake like sake-simmering.
　Then discard the sake and add to miso soup. If using salted whale, remove the salt
　first. Simmer with sake as above, which is good. If the salted whale is naturally
　red in color, cut off and discard the top before using.
Sea cucumber clear soup　Split sea cucumber in two, wash and cut large. Stir-fry in a copper pot.
　Soak in lukewarm water. When serving, prepare the cooking broth to a good consistency and set
　aside. Line a bowl with yuzu rings and place the above sea cucumber on top, pour the cooking broth
　over and serve as is. Placing water dropwort etc. on top is also good.
Clam clear soup　Squeeze a little juice from the shucked meat in your hands. Then add sake and water
　in equal parts. Simmer well until the sake has no scent. Can also be made with roasted salt.
Oyster clear soup　Add salt to a pot. Remove that salt and put two or three oysters in the pot
　and crush them. Then add water to just cover the oysters. After one boil, change the salt with the flesh.
　Sometimes add a little soy sauce, and naturally add sake as well.
Abalone tender simmering method　Remove the female shell from its shell. Remove the intestines and wash well. The abalone's