【Header Right】
　　Increases and supplements the five organs
　　Draws out pus from sores and swellings
　　There are various kinds of pigeons, but
　　they don't differ much in properties
▲Thrush: neutral in nature
　　Good for gonorrhea. Good for kidney fatigue,
　　scrotum sagging and lower back pain.
　　Supplements qi
　　No toxicity. Used for various diseases
　　without particular harm
▲Cormorant: cold in nature
　　Not eaten
　This bird's
　　droppings: cure parasites in children
　　Hemorrhoids. Burn the head and
　　use when fish bone gets stuck in throat
▲Quail: sweet and neutral
　　Muscles and bones not stiff. Strengthens the interior

【Header Left】
　　and supplements the five organs
　　Add adzuki beans and ginger when
　　eating to stop diarrhea with tenesmus
　　Should not be eaten in the three months of spring
　　Conflicts with grass, enemy of meat
　　Should be known in advance
▲Copper pheasant: warm in nature
　　Good for stagnant qi in the five organs
　　Eating too much causes hemorrhoid toxicity
　　Dislikes being eaten together with buckwheat
▲Woodpecker: neutral in nature
　　Non-toxic
　　Medicine for anal fistula. Also
　　heals sores. Medicine for tooth decay
　　Make into charcoal and apply to tooth cavities
▲Wild goose: sweet and neutral
　　For various diseases, essentially non-toxic

【Lower Right】
　Flatten with bamboo or wood, cut to width of 2-3 bu
　and length of about 3 sun. Add dashi to miso and simmer.
　For topping, chives or whatever looks appropriate. Then bring to boil
　and add. Prepare this way with chicken eggs, serve with udon
　broth and mustard-sansho sauce on a plate
▲Kinton: Dissolve kudzu powder in miso soup and let cool,
　knead and mix in ground mustard and sansho, roll lightly into balls.
　This is also prepared in miso soup. There are oral traditions
▲Kudzu noodles: Dissolve a little kudzu in water and boil, adjust
　the heat and transfer to a bucket to cool, then knead the powder well.
　The right consistency is when you lift and drop it to test - knead until it becomes
　thread-like without breaking. If it breaks, it's bad. For the strainer, make a hole
　in the bottom of a ladle large enough for a finger, put the kneaded mixture inside,
　boil the pot water well and drop it in, continuously heating the bottom of the pot
　without pause. When the noodles change color, scoop them up with a water bird (ladle),

【Lower Left】
　put in water to cool, wash well and change the water frequently until they become
　white and beautiful. The broth is the same as for cut barley. Only Yoshino kudzu should be used
▲Barley noodles are made from barley flour. Cut short like cut barley,
　the broth and toppings should be like soba noodles
▲Egg noodles: Break eggs, add white sugar, boil and mix well,
　scoop with eggshell and drop in thin streams. Lift out and cool well
『○ Tea Sweets Preparation Methods』
▲Burdock mochi: Boil burdock root well and pound, grind in
　a mortar, add sugar to flour made from 6 parts glutinous rice and 4 parts regular rice,
　grind together with burdock. If too much sugar, it becomes watery.
　When right consistency, roll into balls, boil, then fry in sesame oil. Then
　boil sugar and put inside, simmer and serve. Burdock and sugar proportions are oral tradition
▲Kudzu grilled mochi: 1 sho kudzu, 1 sho water, 1 sho sugar - knead the three well
　together, roll to mandarin size, grease pan slightly,
　turn frequently and grill well