【Header Right】
▲Sea Bream: neutral in nature
　　Regulates the vital energy of spleen and stomach, good for those
　　with weak kidneys
　　Causes no harm to the five organs
　　Treats edema and rising qi
　　Strengthens muscles and bones, those with fever
　　should be cautious
　　Do not take Sogouko-en pills with black sea bream
▲Cod: very cold in nature
　　Good for cold diarrhea of spleen and stomach
　　Moves wind, eating after typhoid
　　causes chills to return and death
▲Octopus: sweet and neutral
　　　　Non-toxic
　　Medicine for rectal bleeding or hemorrhoids. Grills
　　old blood in the abdomen and moves blood
　　
　　Should not be eaten together with bottle gourd
【Header Left】
▲Shrimp: sweet and neutral
　　Has many effects of increasing vitality
　　with little harm. Moves wind and
　　causes sores. Should be avoided
　　by children with parasites
▲Sea Cucumber: cold in nature
　　Kidney medicine. Eating a little increases
　　semen. Kills poison insects
　　of various diseases. It is phlegm poison
　　Eating too much causes lung deficiency and
　　voice becomes hoarse
▲Catfish: sweet and neutral
　　　　Non-toxic
　　Facilitates urination and defecation, treats
　　edema. When milk doesn't come out,
　　good to give in miso soup
　　Should not be combined with eagle, wild boar, deer, pheasant

【Lower Right】
　Roughly cut and added. Mackerel and sea bream are good. Salt seasoning is important
Kaki-tai sashimi: fillet sea bream into three pieces, slice and stack
　for serving. Irizake is good. Instead of mustard use bonito flakes, walnuts, dried persimmons, mandarin oranges
Ogawa-tataki sashimi: fillet fresh bonito, pound well, place on cedar board
　pour boiling water over to whiten, then fold. This can also
　be combined with kaki-tai, can also be made with carp. Same irizake
Pheasant sashimi: boil whole and shred, good with Japanese pepper miso vinegar
Goose/Duck sashimi: like pheasant, or bone and
　cut into rings, good with wasabi vinegar or ginger miso vinegar
Steamed bamboo shoots sashimi: cut roots, stand upright with skin in steamer
　steam well, cut variously, good as sashimi with white vinegar
　Combine with sea grapes, abalone, shellfish, shiitake, wood ear mushrooms
Grilled sea bream/carp (sashimi that becomes nimono): cut slightly thicker than sashimi, half the roe
　pick and cut, half crush and add vinegar to irizake with salt
　seasoning. When serving, add both fish and roe. Overcooking is bad
【Lower Left】
Nobusuma: pound small birds, boil quickly like senba,
　then finely mince sea bream, pour boiling water and set aside. Thinly
　slice large abalone, when whitened it becomes like a bag.
　Season with dashi soy sauce, mix three colors together and puff up,
　wrap in the bag. Good with egg soboro on top
Ise tofu: grate mountain yam, mince sea bream and add
　one-third grated yam, add egg white to tofu, grind all
　together well, wrap in cloth in cedar box, steam and cut
　serve with kudzu soy sauce. Also good with bird miso or wasabi miso
Crucian carp aspic: add drops to hanging miso, cook until bones
　become soft. Place in wind and it will gel in one hour
Korokoro: pound small birds, boil quickly like senba and
　set aside. Grind kamaboko well to the size of a comb,
　bind with the birds, season with dashi soy sauce and serve boiled
Kinome-yaki: salt the needlefish, wrap in yuzu leaves, and on top