【Header Right】
　　Those with red inside the eyes and no whiskers are poisonous
　　Ash-colored ones can kill people
▲Catfish: cold in nature
　　Promotes appetite and stops
　　tooth pain. Lowers rising qi and removes heat from
　　the spleen. Opens the stomach
　　Supplements qi and blood, increases
　　strength. Should be avoided for night meals
　　Lumps do not circulate forward
　　Medicine for rectal bleeding
▲Dried sardines (iriko): warm in nature
　　Medicine for childhood malnutrition. Good for
　　accumulation disorders. Kills parasites and lowers
　　qi. Supplements kidneys and removes
　　phlegm. Should be boiled soft and
　　eaten with sake or soy sauce. Does not
　　greatly interfere with hundred diseases
【Header Left】
▲Squid: sweet, salty,
　　　　and neutral. Non-toxic
　　Does not interfere with various diseases
　　Increases qi, lowers parasitic accumulation and stomach
　　disorders. Medicine for night blindness
▲Sea bass: neutral
　　Supplements kidneys, increases vitality
　　Regulates spleen and stomach, medicine for deficiency
　　Good for parasitic worms in children
▲Pike conger: sweet and cold
　　　　Non-toxic
　　Supplements spleen and stomach, promotes appetite.
　　Facilitates urination and defecation, good for dampness causing
　　numbness in hands and feet. For beriberi,
　　hemorrhoids. For edema with swelling,
　　use little by little. Should be eaten for hundred diseases. Pregnant women

【Lower Right】
　Wrap in paper, steam-grill and serve with sauce poured over
Maki-yaki: Fillet sea bream, cut thin, salt and skewer before grilling
Small bird grilling uses crucian carp about 3-4 inches, filleted into three pieces
　skewered with Japanese pepper miso and grilled. Carp and catfish are also good
Snipe-style grilling: Boil eggplant, cut when tender, skewer
　with Japanese pepper miso and grill
Grilled bamboo shoots: Remove nodes from bamboo shoots, stuff with kamaboko and whole eggs
　grill with skin on and slice. Use less salt in the kamaboko
Stir-fry grilling: Prepare duck in large pieces, marinate in soy sauce, fry the skin, sandwich the meat
　and grill flat in a pan. If too dry,
　add some of the reserved soy sauce
Mino-ni (but as clear soup): Lift eggs with ladle, being careful not to break them
　add to boiling water. Various garnishes. Drop shadow into dashi broth
Mikuni refers to (but as clear soup) nori seaweed. Prepare with dashi soy sauce.
　Good to add river shrimp. Garnish with pepper powder
【Lower Left】
『○Guide to Poultry and Fish Knife Skills for Cooks』
▲In front of the cutting board, space about 1 shaku 2 sun apart
　sit respectfully, cross legs and settle waist firmly, arrange appearance, then take up
　chopsticks and knife. Hold chopsticks and knife together in right hand, align properly
　in front of cutting board as if above left foot. Chopsticks on left, knife on right
　space about 1 sun 2 bu apart, place with inscription facing up.
　When working on birds and fish, place hands on chopsticks and knife simultaneously,
　quickly separate the knife, hold chopsticks firmly upright
　as if above left foot, hold knife with blade up
　as if above right foot with tip upright and firm, work quietly and gracefully
　is best. Generally at the cutting board, indulging in hot water, speaking carelessly,
　hitting the mouth, bending the head, twisting the waist are poor manners
▲For cranes, swans, geese, ducks: first place the head forward, center on
　the cutting board, spread both wings, rest neck against left wing,
　stroke down with knife from left breast like water, stroke right side to left flank