【Header Right】
　　Should be eaten occasionally. Removes wind qi,
　　does not greatly interfere with parasites
▲Yellowtail: neutral in nature
　　Regulates spleen and stomach, fattens the body
　　Increases vitality, good for deficiency conditions
　　Stirs wind and generates sores
　　If taken in excess, causes parasitic qi
▲Conch shell: sweet and
　　　　neutral
　　Relaxes the five organs, soothes the stomach
　　Pregnant women should avoid. Disrupts
　　the blood
▲Flying fish: warm in nature,
　　　　non-toxic
　　Regulates spleen and stomach, promotes appetite. Good for a hundred
　　diseases. Supplements the five organs,
　　medicine for parasitic accumulation and apoplexy
　　For elderly and children's diarrhea, boil and
【Header Left】
　　use. It will stop the condition. For pregnant women,
　　no hindrance to difficult childbirth. Medicine for beriberi.
　　Increases vitality. Strengthens yin
　　and prolongs life. Should be eaten regularly
▲Loach: neutral, non-toxic
　　Does not interfere with a hundred diseases. Well
　　increases vitality and strengthens yin essence
▲Eel: sweet and greatly
　　　warm in nature
　　Medicine for dampness, beriberi, hemorrhoids
　　Strengthens yin and supplements the center,
　　good for cold rumbling in the abdomen
　　Treats heaviness in the lower back. Strengthens sinews
　　and bones, supplements kidneys,
　　heals various sores.
　　Always give to children with malnutrition. Medicine that treats diarrhea
▲Kuchitori: sweet, non-toxic

【Lower Right】
　Stand chopsticks there, make cuts from the left breast, fillet from the right breast, rest the head
　against the right wing, fillet the left breast, then remove both thigh joints,
　cut away from the left, place at the right far corner of the board with feet to the right,
　bend head to the left, cut away the right, and arrange at the right position.
　The body carcass should be placed at the left far corner. Wipe the board clean and rearrange from the left
　fillet, place feet to the right, cut away the thigh joint skin,
　then place feet toward the far side, arrange next to the head, remove wing joints,
　place the meat at the far center edge of the board, place wings
　below in line with the body carcass, arrange the back meat at the far center edge. Do the same with the right fillet
▲For pheasant, copper pheasant, dove, etc.: first place pheasant head to the left, beak forward, belly
　forward, wings spread flat horizontally, cut the head from the base
　and place at the left far corner, the filleting method is the same as for the right side
▲For small bird cutting forms, first the cross-cut style uses only both fillets. Cut from the base of wings and thighs,
　arrange horizontally as is, then make cross-cuts. The back meat should
　be omitted ● For strip-cut style, do as above, cut horizontally and
【Lower Left】
　rearrange into strips, then make strip cuts ● For fine-cut style,
　do as above, peel into many layers and make fine cross-cuts
　● For large-peel style, do as above, peel into pieces about 2 sun square, thickness
　about 2 bu. This is also called senbei ● For toss-cut style,
　do as above, use knife diagonally thin and make long light cuts
　● For bone style, after filleting, crush the bones of wings, thighs, etc.
　with a bit of meat attached. This is for small ducks, coots, snipe
　● For boneless style, after filleting, remove sinew and bone portions
　This is also for small ducks, coots, snipe, etc. ● For bone-attached style, turn skin and bones
　remove only wing and leg bones and shinbones without crushing, leave as is
　with meat attached. This is for larks, thrushes, etc. However, for larks,
　use shinbones to make the split claws ● For minced style, like the bone-attached above
　but mince finely like minced preparations
　This is also for larks, siskins, etc. ● For layered style, after preparation,
　layer the wings one upon another. This is for boiled birds, parboiled birds, etc.