【Header Right】
　　Eat this. Warms the interior, various
　　recurring sore medicines. Mustard,
　　garlic, wild boar, pheasant,
　　sugar - the above forbidden items should be avoided
▲Pufferfish: sweet, warm in nature
　　Supplements deficiency and kills parasites
　　Strengthens lower back and knees, medicine for hemorrhoids
　　Removes dampness, when overeaten and
　　belly swells. Intestines and blood contain
　　much poison. Should be understood. When poisoned,
　　squeeze the juice from foot roots
　　and drink plenty
▲Yellowtail: warm in nature
　　Whether dried or raw, medicinal
　　Increases vitality and fattens the body
　　Breaks blood and should be toxic to sores
▲Sweetfish: neutral in nature
【Header Left】
　　Supplements the five organs, activates
　　the spleen and stomach, strengthens muscles and bones
　　Should be eaten regularly. Even eating much
　　does not cause illness
▲Horse mackerel: neutral in nature
　　Given for various diseases, no toxicity
　　Should be eaten by elderly and those with qi deficiency.
　　Supplements five organs and promotes
　　appetite. If excessive, will
　　interfere with parasites
▲Mackerel: sweet, neutral in nature
　　　　No toxicity
　　Clarifies vision, good for chest
　　and abdominal pain. Increases vitality
　　and relieves chest tightness
　　Good for beriberi and foot numbness
　　Dislikes atractylodes and garlic
▲Salmon: greatly warm in nature
　　　　No toxicity

【Lower Right】
　Make a cut and insert chopsticks well into the inner gills, cut off
　the head from the edge of the knife's water channel, place the water spout to the right, turn the head toward
　the far side and arrange it in the left far corner of the cutting board. Then insert chopsticks into the cut opening of the body
　and lower toward the tail. Turn the body to the far side, arrange on the right far
　corner of the cutting board with the tail side to the right. Then turn the lower body upside down,
　place the tail to the left and lower from the head side to the tail side, then turn from the head side
　and arrange on the right so that the thin fillet and center cut meet. Strike the center cut
　in one blow from the middle, place the tail part on top with the tail tip to
　the left, and place under the head. Then wipe the cutting board well and pull from the upper body,
　place the head part forward, turn the fins outward, take the thin
　fillet, and place the center cut below. Arrange the body with the tail facing
　away through the center. The body should be done likewise.
For carp, crucian carp, dace, small fish, etc., first place the carp head to the left with belly facing away,
　arrange it. As before, stroke with water three times each and turn upside down,
　stroke with water as before and insert chopsticks well into the mouth, with the knife in the water spout
【Lower Left】
　insert the blade upward, and if you push toward the front as if to turn face up,
　the belly will be on top. Then place chopsticks well at the far gill edge,
　remove the far first fin, hold with chopsticks so it won't return, then flip up the front first
　fin with the knife, cut off the head as is, remove the chopsticks
　and place the head in the far left corner with water spout facing away, cut opening upright,
　fins spread to both sides. River fish should be
　filleted so the fins remain attached to the head. Then insert chopsticks into the cut body and stand, from the head
　side to the tail side, lower well. Then turn to the far side and place, arrange in the right corner as before,
　also turn the lower body upside down with the head side to the right and lower,
　arrange as before. Then wipe the cutting board well and pull the body as before,
　take the thin fillet, and arrange both the body and center meat.
Salmon, trout, sandfish, catfish, bonito, young tuna, yellowtail are just for filleting. 《Arrangement same as above》
　Sea fish have belly forward when filleting, so initially place facing away
　River fish have belly facing away when filleting, so initially place belly forward.
　This is for when working quickly.