【Header Right】
　　Hair made into charcoal powder, when moxibustion marks won't heal,
　　it is a miraculous medicine
▲Mouse: sweet-sour in taste, warm in nature, non-toxic
　　Medicine for carbuncles, swellings, and sores. Good
　　for children's intestinal worms. Should be used regularly.
　　Forbidden for pregnant women, the fetus will surely
　　die
▲Wolf: hot in nature, non-toxic
　　Regulates the five organs, calms muscles and bones,
　　strengthens the stomach, used by those with diabetes
　　to cure
▲Otter: sweet and cold in nature, neutral
　　Good for edema, abdominal distension, chronic fever.
　　Clarifies vision, good for those with
　　persistent cough that won't stop
▲Fox: sweet and cold in nature, somewhat toxic
　　Supplements deficiency fatigue, treats sores.
　　Liver roasted and drunk with hot water expels wind

【Header Left】
'○ Fruit Toxicity Records'
▲Bayberry: sour and warm in nature
　　　　　　　　　Stops vomiting and nausea, purges alcohol
　poisoning, stops epidemics, soothes the five
　organs, stops abdominal pain,
　removes phlegm
▲Apricot: sour and hot in nature
　Eating too much damages muscles and bones.
　Don't let children eat even a little, it damages eyesight
▲Kumquat: sweet-bitter,
　　　　　　　　　　　　cold in nature
　Cools alcohol, promotes appetite, circulates qi,
　cuts phlegm
▲Yuzu: sour and warm in nature
　Good for pregnant women's loss of appetite. Removes heat
　from the stomach, eliminates appetite. Also
　eliminates alcohol poisoning
▲Mandarin: promotes urination and defecation,
　circulates stagnant qi at times

【Lower Right】
　should be used▲One-sided salted cod: wash as above, remove salt leaving just
　a bit remaining and use. Cutting shapes etc. depend on the occasion▲Dried sardines
　To split: soak in hot water, wash sand etc. well, split into three
　pieces, remove bones and use only the flesh from both sides. To blanch
　means to blanch, wash sand roughly, split into three pieces and
　use. If used whole, the small bones inside are fine, making it
　hard to pick up with chopsticks and undesirable▲Dried jellyfish: wash roughly and remove
　salt slightly before use▲Sea bamboo shoots: remove salt thoroughly before
　use, cutting shapes are appropriate to the occasion▲Dried abalone: soak in rice bran water
　until it becomes soft enough to peel off easily, cutting shapes depend on occasion
　▲Dried small fish: separate and boil in water with about one-third rice bran until slightly
　soft enough to peel, split the belly lengthwise, remove intestines and sand well before use
　Cutting shapes△Quarters means removing front and back slightly and cutting lengthwise into four△Cross-section means cutting thin enough to make small cross-sections as is, then boiling before
　use△Two cuts, three cuts means cutting into that number respectively▲Ark shells, clams etc.: soak in hot water

【Lower Left】
　soak to proper softness, remove sand and skin well before use
　▲Small cuts: grill slightly as is, remove bones and use▲Pickled mackerel:
　remove skin and bones, scrape off all salt before use△Tearing
　means tearing apart by hand▲Skewered fish: use as is, but
　remove head△Washing means washing with warm water and loosening before use
　△Grilling means sprinkling a little soy sauce as is and grilling before use
　△Cut-eye means cutting△Shredding means shredding▲Roe-filled fish:
　remove head, peel skin without splitting the belly, remove fins and
　use, cutting shapes appropriate to occasion, but generally about 1.5 to 2 bu thick,
　cut cross-wise together with roe▲Aikyō: same as salmon roe-filled fish
　Cross-section means cutting thin cross-wise▲Dried cod: shaving means peeling skin and
　shaving only the flesh, using a small knife to shave lengthwise and flat, thin enough for cross-sections.
　For simmered dishes, soften by boiling before use▲Dried
　pufferfish: same as above▲Grilled whale: boil gently, cut, then
　boil again until it has a crispy texture when bitten, then use