[Header Right]
▲Regarding kelp and victory chestnuts
Kelp is considered auspicious because among all seaweeds, it is the broadest and longest. Victory chestnuts (kachi-guri) are considered auspicious because of the meaning of the word "katsu" (to win). Also, what is called "tōnansei" is gathered and eaten by immortals who live for over seven hundred years. This is made into a celebration. However, one should use the meaning of "katsu" (victory).

▲Regarding noshi (ceremonial gift ornament)
From the time of Izanagi and Izanami and the five generations of earthly deities, people had firm bodies with narrow waists, long legs, and tall stature. Imitating the appearance of people from that time, this was named "noshi" and made in Ise Province. This is a divine mystery. Ise means "people are born peacefully and harmoniously," which becomes a celebration. This is divine

[Header Left]
oracle. However, the number of noshi should be seven, five, or three strips. If there are seven noshi strips, then five victory chestnuts. If there are five noshi strips, then seven victory chestnuts. If there are three noshi strips, then there should be nine victory chestnuts. However, regarding departure for battle and return from battle, there are oral traditions. For the three ceremonial cups as well, all should be understood in the same way.

▲Regarding banquet trays
Sea bream arranged as sea represents male; sea bass arranged as river represents female. Bird mountain represents male; pine cone village represents female. Sea squirt arranged with full salt represents male; depression arranged with river water represents female. Shaved items scattered represent the national land. However, considering scattering as national land applies only to Japan. Therefore, national boundary warrior. Women's rice is hard-cooked rice, which represents male. This rice should have a belt tied with three strands. The belt of men's food wraps to the right, swept upward so the end points downward.

[Lower Right]
Seven-Five-Three Third Course

Small square gold-silver dew scattering
　Shrimp boat arrangement

Ground paper mat
　Carp sashimi《seasoned sake, wasabi, coastal silvertop》

Three-grade earthenware ring
　Soup　grain spike

Small square regulation
　Duck feather arrangement
　With mat
　Gold-silver scattering

Dimensions: finger span 1 shaku 2 sun bowl depth
　　　　　　rim height 2 sun 6 bu
　　　　　　bottom 8 sun 9 bu
　　　　　　height 9 sun 4 bu

[Lower Left]
Five-Five-Three Main Course
Five-Five-Three

Large-medium ring
　Salt-cured

Small square mat wooden stand
　Grilled yellowtail

Three-grade ring
　Soup《duck, shiitake mushrooms, yellow pond lily》《trefoil, daikon radish》

Fresh fish salad《sea bream, chestnuts, ginger, kumquats》

Ear-shaped earthenware chopsticks

Small-medium ring
　Salt

Large-medium ring
　Pickled vegetables

Small square wooden stand
　Kamaboko

Three-grade ring with upright stand
　Rice　cedar arrangement

Dimensions: diameter 1 shaku 3 sun
　　　　　　rim height 2 sun 5 bu
　　　　　　bottom 9 sun
　　　　　　height 9 sun 3 bu