【Right Side】
As the same winds continued to blow, on the 3rd day we cut down and discarded the mast, and around the 4th and 5th days, we threw overboard about half of our rice supplies to survive. After that, there were some calmer periods, so we continued drifting. Around the 6th or 7th day of the 1st month of the following Year of the Tiger, we were again tossed by great waves, so we threw overboard about half of our remaining rice. We stretched two rope bundles toward the bow and could only survive by bailing out bilge water, but since we could not clearly determine our direction, we let ourselves drift with the current. On the 11th day, the stern was smashed, the through-passage had been broken before that, and on the same day the upper shelf also split, so we tightened it with ropes and twisted them, unfurled and wrapped the sail, pressed it against our bodies. The windlass seat and single oar on the helmsman's side were also taken by the waves, so all the crew members stayed toward the bow. Then on the 5th day of the 2nd month, the bow was also smashed, and from the helmsman's side

【Left Side】
to the bow's surrounding walls were taken by the waves. We kept about 200 bags of provisions and threw away everything else while drifting. On the 1st day of the 3rd month, two rope bundles from the bow's rigging, two anchors, and five-foot planks were all taken by the waves. From then on, the wind gradually calmed, and on the 3rd day, a piece of driftwood with oysters attached floated near us at sea. Taking this as a sign that land might be approaching, we gained hope, wrote distances on a wooden tablet, and drew a sacred lot. The lot indicated the land was 1,900 ri away. Since the weather was also good, on the 6th day we tied the bow's mast to the middle car-stand to use as a pillar, hung a small sail, pulled the ropes, and ran with the wind or drifted. We continued this way through the 3rd and 4th months, and for drinking water, we collected rainwater when it rained.