Kamo Kanenori Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Upper Grade (note: 5th year of Chū) Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Oken Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade
Kamo Kanesuke (note: 15 years old) Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo ■nao (note: 15 years old) Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade
Kamo Kanekaku (note: 15 years old) Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Hokin

Upon examining all of the above, there were some differences in the format of the small folded papers, so the papers of Oken and Hokin were rewritten. Regarding the petition for court ranks, since Aki-no-suke was just recently appointed, it would be improper to put forward two or three people so soon after. Therefore, for now, Keiken and Toshitoshi shall withdraw, and only Yoho shall be petitioned for. The small folded papers will be delivered to the meeting place tomorrow morning as usual.

Miyuki explained that there was a request from the Shinto construction group that the lecture hall's earthen wall had collapsed and the lecture group's funds were also depleted, so they requested that the three groups provide financial assistance. Since this request could not be refused, it was approved and the three groups will provide the funds. Regarding this matter, the year official will visit Lord Yamato-no-kami tomorrow to make the request.

1. Since the genealogy revision has been repeatedly delayed, a meeting will first be convened in the near future, and then scribes and other people will be asked to continue the writing. Although the festival is approaching soon and Seisoku and Kunishi will likely be busy, if we say "after the festival" it will be delayed again, so it was decided to first hold a meeting and then ask suitable people to help.

1. Regarding Yoho, petitioner for Hizen-no-suke, on the 4th day Yoho suddenly sent word to Kunishi's place, showing him eight vacant positions for suke ranks, saying that Hizen-no-suke should be petitioned for. This matter does not seem to be Yoho's own idea alone. Perhaps it is a private command from His Excellency the Regent? Therefore, it was decided that only Yoho should be petitioned for this time.
A messenger from Imperial Messenger Lord Hazume, Middle Counselor, reported that the head priest wishes to resign.

1. 8th day, noon - Cloudy skies

1. Today, regarding the petition to lift the restraint on those from the three families who were under discretionary confinement, representatives Hosho and Hokaku went to Lord Hino-no-ben and returned home around the hour of the Sheep. This time too, it was difficult to obtain a ruling...