Memorandum
One: We acknowledge what was ordered when summoned to the Honorable Shrine today. However, as we need to consult with other main office authorities, we request a brief extension. The above.
　　　Year of the Boar, 3rd month, 14th day　　Koyama Village　Seibei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Seven Representatives　Kyūzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kihei
　　　To the Honorable Shrine

Since both parties submitted the above, copies of this matter are scheduled to be brought to the government office tomorrow. Though we intended to appear immediately today, the bamboo palanquin and other preparations were not ready, so we plan to appear after breakfast tomorrow morning. Given these circumstances, the small council meeting was deemed unnecessary, and Yasutsu went to explain the situation to the head priest.

One: Today the Ichiban-gamae Kagura Association presented ritual music, so the lodging was at Tsunekiyo's residence.

One: Tomorrow, the 15th, after breakfast, there is scheduled to be an examination of small documents. The head priest is on monthly duty with six officials.

15th day, Hour of the Ox, clear weather 《Side note: Today there was a notice from Ujiki for ritual music presentation and for Yasutsu to serve as prayer reciter and dancer, but since he is in a house of defilement, he declined. Yasukaku served instead. The prayer recitation was assigned to Kiyotari.》

One: In addition to copies of the written statements submitted yesterday by Koyama and Nakamura villages, one oral statement was brought. Representatives Hirohisa and Yasutsu appeared at the Western Government Office at half past the hour of the Cock (around 6:30 PM) in place of Naruhisa. When they applied to the civil affairs department, Yosōbei came out, so they did not submit the oral statement but only submitted copies of both written statements. As had been instructed during this time, all three villages were summoned and we inquired about the intentions of Koyama and Nakamura. They said that since the other main office village headmen had not yet reached a decision, they wished to request an extension. We immediately took their written statement and brought a copy. We explained that we surmised they intended to petition their respective main offices, which would then petition the government office. The response was that this seemed reasonable. In any case, regarding the pledge made during the Enkyō period...