[Continued from previous page] ...The said instructions were conveyed by the Elder (karō) to Jirōemon.

Item: 11th day of the 2nd month.
Mizuno Tōbei (Mune-■), who had been dispatched as messenger to offer congratulations upon Lord Takechiyo's hakamagi ceremony, arrived in Edo, appeared before the duty official (goyōban), and presented the letter.

Item: On the same day, at the Council Chamber (hyōjōsho), regarding the matter of frugality among the domain's retainers, the monthly duty Elder (tsukiban karō) Matsudaira Shume (Masamei/Shōmei) issued the following written notice to the various monthly duty officials:

　　　　Although the observance of frugality has been repeatedly ordered, it has been heard that there are those who disregard these instructions and indulge in fine food and heavy drinking, and who likewise depart from the established regulations at social gatherings. It is hereby commanded that henceforth everyone shall strictly conduct themselves with restraint. All personnel are to take heed of this notice. Respectfully.
　　　　　　　11th day of the 2nd month

Item: On the 21st day of the same month, an inner letter (o-uchisho) and formal letter (o-bunsho) were presented at the castle regarding the presentation of year-end congratulatory offerings, and the gifts bestowed upon the retainers were as customary.

Item: On the 26th day of the same month, by written order, dried flatfish (hoshi-karei), the domain's local product, was presented as customary.

Item: On the 27th day of the same month, His Lordship departed for Mount Hikime for a rabbit hunt.

Item: On the 5th day of the 3rd month, it was reported that when the various daimyo had gone to the castle on the 3rd to offer congratulations for the Jōshi (Hinamatsuri) festival, Matsudaira Aki-no-kami (Yoshinaga) was held back, and a notification was received from Matsudaira Shōgen (Norimuera/Jōyū), the duty official, that it had been proclaimed that the era name was to be changed to Kanpō. This notification was then circulated by Aki-no-kami.