Upon His Lordship's arrival in Edo, the written message (kōjōgaki) that had been dispatched during the journey was brought by the resident agent (rusuí) Arakawa Jūuemon (Naoaki) and presented to the duty senior councillor (goyōban rōjū) Honda Nakatsukasa-no-Tayū (Tadayoshi).

　　　　　　　Memorandum of Verbal Communication

　　　　　I had intended, in accordance with my duty of alternate attendance (sankin-kōtai), to depart my home domain on the 22nd of last month and arrive in your city on the 5th of this month. However, owing to the flooding of the Ōigawa River, those of us making the sankin-kōtai procession were delayed at various post-stations along the route. I therefore remained at the post-station of Hamamatsu in Tōtōmi Province, and plan to arrive in your city on the 7th of tomorrow. As I am eager to pay my respects to you without delay upon my arrival, I humbly request that, should I arrive in the early morning of the 7th, you permit me to call upon you before proceeding to the castle, though I recognize this may be an inconvenience. I convey this message through my messenger in order to inform you of the above.
　　　　　　　Respectfully,
　　　　　　　　　6th day of the 4th month

Item: 7th day of the 4th month (before the sixth hour [around 6 a.m.]). Proceeding directly from his lodging at Shinagawa post-station, His Lordship made his official arrival visit (gosanpu). As is customary, he made his rounds to call upon the Senior Councillors (rōjū), and met with the duty councillor Honda Nakatsukasa-no-Tayū (Tadanaga).

Item: On the same day, in connection with the same matter (his arrival), the Senior Councillor Matsudaira Ukyō-no-Dayū (Terusada) came as an envoy bearing the Shōgun's message (jōi), and conveyed its contents. (The reception of this envoy followed customary procedure.)

Item: 11th day of the same month. The embargo on the offshore entry-point (okiguchi dome) at Mikuni Harbor was lifted, and as a result, up to the 8th of this month, 16,108 bales of rice from other provinces had been purchased. The rice price had not risen excessively, and consequently no deaths from starvation had occurred. The rural magistrate (kōri bugyō) reported that the common people were greatly relieved.