(Continued from previous page) ...that currency exchange would soon begin, and that henceforth, if anyone is found setting and handling exchange rates, they shall be strictly punished. Please convey this matter to the relevant administrators. The above.

26th day of the 3rd month.

Item: On the 28th day of the 3rd month, the renovation of Lady Chikō-in's sitting room was completed, and she moved in.

Item: On the 15th day of the 4th month, Senior Councillor (Rōjū) Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu (Tadayoshi) came as the Shōgun's messenger (jōshi) to announce permission for His Lordship's return to his home domain (okuni-gokoro). As customary, a silver gift scroll (o-makimono) was received. From the Minister of the Right (Udaishō), attached Senior Councillor Matsudaira Noto-no-kami (Norikane) also delivered a gift scroll as customary (the reception of the messenger followed customary protocol). As an expression of gratitude, His Lordship made formal courtesy visits (o-kakin) to the Senior Councillors.

Item: On the 18th day of the same month, His Lordship went to the castle to express his gratitude for the permission to return, and as customary received a hawk and a horse as gifts. After this, the retainer he had brought along, Sakai Genba (Tomotaka), was granted an audience (o-mimai) and was ordered to receive two gift scrolls, which was duly completed. As an expression of gratitude, courtesy visits were made to the Senior Councillors and Junior Councillors (Wakadoshiyori).

Item: On the 19th day of the same month, His Lordship had an audience with the Duty Senior Councillor Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu (Tadayoshi) and fulfilled his obligations.

Item: On the same day, the horse received as a gift was led over by a messenger from the Duty Senior Councillor Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu (Tadayoshi).

Item: On the same day, Lord Satake Ukyo-no-daibu (Yoshimine) sent a messenger to announce that His Lordship had been ordered to take over the fire watch duties at Tōeizan (Kan'ei-ji Temple). In response, the o-rusui (resident representative in Edo) dispatched a messenger to the Duty Senior Councillor to formally report this matter.

Item: On the 22nd day of the same month, as His Lordship's departure was scheduled for the following day, the 23rd, courtesy visits were made to the Senior Councillors to give notice of departure.