(Continued from the previous page)

　　　　　　Although notice was given that this was not prohibited, said notice was issued while His Lordship was away from the domain. Henceforth, when issuing domain notes, not even the slightest amount of gold coin is to be accepted in exchange for circulation—in accordance with the regulations proclaimed in previous years. Should there be anyone who violates this, they shall surely face strict punishment. As it has been ordered that this matter be duly communicated, it is to be strictly conveyed to those of lower rank as well. That is all.

　　　　　　　　　11th day of the 5th month

Item: On the 13th day of the 5th month, via messenger, the season's first mackerel (hatsu saba), a local specialty of the domain, was presented as customary.

Item: On the 18th day of the same month, Honda Saemon, the messenger dispatched to offer thanks for His Lordship's return to the domain, arrived in Edo and appeared before the duty senior councilor (goyōban), Lord Matsudaira Sakon-no-Shōgen (Norimuら), to whom the letter was presented.

Item: On the 26th day of the same month, senior retainer (karō) Ōtani Sukeroku (Masatame) having petitioned for permission to use a palanquin (norimono), a letter (dated the 15th) was submitted to the duty senior councilor, Lord Matsudaira Sakon-no-Shōgen (Norimura), together with a written petition (with an accompanying document), as follows:

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Senior Retainer)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōtani Sukeroku
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Current year: 57 years of age, year of the Dog)

　　　　　　　　　As I suffer from hemorrhoids and am unable to carry out my duties on horseback, I humbly request permission to use a palanquin.

　　　　　　The above-named is my retainer, currently assigned duties here in Edo. As stated above, he has an ailment that makes it difficult for him to carry out his duties on horseback; I therefore humbly request that he be granted permission to use a palanquin. That is all.

　　　　　　　　　15th day of the 5th month　　　　Matsudaira Hyōbu-no-Taifu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Seal)