(Continued from the previous page)

　　　　Supplementary note: Regarding written correspondence between Edo and the home domain, correspondence relating to necessary business matters is to be treated as exceptional, but letters of inquiry sent on the occasion of joyous or sorrowful events (kikkyō) and the like are prohibited.

Item: Concerning various implements and furnishings (shodogu)

　Weapons and armor (bugu) are to be treated as exceptional; all other items are to be kept to as small a number as possible, and only plain, unrefined articles should be used. For the time being, items indispensable to the running of the household are exempted, but implements for amusement and entertainment are entirely prohibited.

　　　Proviso: Even with respect to weapons and armor, items of lavish and elaborate craftsmanship that are out of proportion to one's means and standing (bungen) are prohibited. The fuchi (collar fittings), tsuba (hand guards), and menuki (grip ornaments) are indeed fittings for one's personal sword (sashiryō), but even so, excessive connoisseurship and indulgence in these items beyond what is appropriate to one's station is prohibited. As for inrō (medicine cases) and sagemonо (hanging decorative objects), one is even less entitled to indulge in fussy connoisseurship of such things. Furthermore, retainers' short swords (wakizashi) with fittings and mountings (koshirae) disproportionate to their station are henceforth prohibited.

　　　Supplementary note: Regarding the implements of women — those that are not equipment required for formal public service — the number of such items should be reduced as much as possible, and the use of gold or silver in combs (kushi), kōgai (hairpins), and kanzashi (hair ornaments) is prohibited. Even items already in one's possession are henceforth to be suspended from use.

Item: Concerning wedding ceremonies (konrei)

　Although rules on this matter have previously been established, henceforth they are to be made even more modest. Woven textiles such as sha-aya (gauze-weave silk), chirimen (crepe silk), rinzu (damask silk), donsu (satin damask), and shusu (satin) are prohibited for any purpose other than clothing. Items incorporating gold thread are even more strictly prohibited. Regardless of how small the item may be…

(Continues on the next page)