(Continued from the previous page)

　It is our hope that through frugality, the household finances may be sustained, that our descendants for generations to come may serve without hardship, that each person may prosper in accordance with their station, and that the common people of the domain may live in peace. This being so, just as has been proclaimed since the time of our predecessors and as was ordered in previous years, all should be devoted above all to frugality without disregarding the state of the harvest; yet it would appear that all manner of outside considerations are being weighed, and each year things tend toward greater luxury and ostentation. Henceforth, this is to be curtailed. We hereby renew the order: for a period of five years beginning this year, strict frugality is to be practiced. As for ourselves, we shall wear cotton clothing as daily dress here in this domain and shall practice frugality in food and in all other matters — and word of this shall gradually reach you all. All retainers of this domain are to observe the foregoing articles without exception; even if one happens to have goods brought from elsewhere or items already on hand, any articles that are excessively luxurious or elaborate and unsuitable for the present circumstances are to be set aside and not used. Furthermore, should anyone notice matters not covered by these regulations — whether regarding public spectacles or anything else of any kind — each person is, of their own resolution and conviction, to practice frugality accordingly.

　Now, in recent years there have been a great many petitions and requests of various kinds. If these regulations are properly observed, there should not be so many petitions to make. The same applies when stationed in Edo and when serving as envoys to other domains. If frugality has been practiced beforehand, one should be able to fulfill one's duties in a manner befitting one's means and station. Henceforth, even if petitions of an especially difficult or unreasonable nature are submitted regarding current circumstances, they shall not be entertained or granted. When a retainer has been assigned to Edo duty, should it come to pass that he fails to carry out his service — and if there are numerous such petitions and excuses — then, depending on the circumstances, he shall be relieved of his Edo assignment, and that duty shall be transferred to another person. In such a case, those who have been so relieved of their duties should consider carefully what this means for them. On this matter, each person should at all times bear in mind their own responsibility and resolution.

(Continues on the next page)