(Continued from the previous page)

　　— and should even one more person among them follow suit with even a slight increase in expenditure, then the rest will inevitably do the same. In this way, even without anyone being deliberately negligent or lax, things will gradually tend toward greater luxury and splendor. There is no need to enumerate each case regarding food and other goods; the very same logic applies in its entirety to all such matters. Therefore, any person among ten who wears conspicuously fine attire is guilty of extraordinary impropriety and misconduct. It is understood that there may be cases where one has no choice but to wear out old garments that happen to be on hand and then turn to something of ordinary quality; however, from this point forward, in accordance with the regulations, old items are to be used for one or two years, and any new items made thereafter shall, without exception, be restricted to cotton, cloth, or *kamiko* (paper clothing). Now that we have once again issued these strict frugality orders to all retainers without exception, should anyone in the vicinity ever come to violate these regulations, we regard the difference between such conduct and proper conduct to be as vast as that between clouds and mud — that is, as great as heaven and earth. Even if a person has otherwise served without difficulty in their daily duties, a single act of misconduct in defying these regulations shall be met with swift and appropriate disciplinary action. Each person is therefore to understand this matter thoroughly and observe it without laxity or negligence at all times. Furthermore, in keeping with the spirit of frugality, those of lower rank who wear plain and simple clothing may find themselves traveling without attendants; in such cases, it is important that they take care to avoid showing any discourtesy toward outsiders and those of other domains. Even if one were to be excessively polite and courteous toward a person of low standing, that would merely invite a momentary laugh and would pass without particular difficulty. This point goes without saying for anyone who has given the matter proper thought, but it has been written down here in passing; take heed and conduct yourself accordingly with all due care.

　　　　　Seventh month, twentieth day