(Continued from previous page)

　　　　　　　　However, in cases involving brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts, or other close relatives who are in a condition difficult to abandon and for whom there is no other person available to provide care, such absences shall be permissible provided that the matter is reported to the appropriate authorities at that time.
　　　　　　　　　　Seventh month.

1. On the first day of the eighth month, as a celebratory gesture, an envoy was dispatched in the customary manner, and a sword (*tachi*) and a substitute for a horse (*umashiro*, i.e., a monetary gift in lieu of a horse) were presented as offerings.

2. On the second day of the same month, in accordance with custom, the first mackerel of the season (*hatsusaba*) — a local specialty of the domain — was presented by written letter.

3. On the eleventh day of the same month, in connection with the frugality orders that had been issued to the domain retainers, the senior retainers (*go-karō-jū*) directed the town magistrates (*machi-bugyō*) and district magistrates (*kōri-bugyō*) to issue the following written notice regarding frugality to the towns and rural villages (*chō-zai*):

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Town Magistrates:

　　　　　　　　　　　Memorandum

　　　　　One: For a period of five years from this year until the Year of the Tiger, strict frugality orders have been issued beginning with the lord himself and extending to all domain retainers. In light of this, the townspeople are to be made aware of this intent, and there shall be absolutely no conduct that could be considered extravagant or luxurious.

　　　　　One: In accordance with the above frugality orders, townspeople will naturally be wearing plain, coarse clothing (*sofu*) and other humble attire; however, they must take strict care to ensure that this does not lead to any disrespectful behavior toward the samurai retainer class (*samurai-jū*).

　　　　　The above is to be duly communicated to the townspeople as well. That is all.
　　　　　　　　　Eighth month, eleventh day.