[Upper Section]
This Week's Movies

"Wife of the Earth"
Director: Fukada Shuzo
Script: Arata Masao
Cinematography: Watanabe Kenji
Shochiku Ofuna Production
Cast:
Murai Gentaro: Kawamura Reikichi
Wife Kane: Katsuragi Fumiko
Murai Shuichi: Ryu Chishu
Son Seiichi: Otsuka Norio
Hikoichi's wife Oasa: Kuwano Michiko
Shibata Sueko: Mito Mitsuko
Hiru Mitsuko: Hirano Ayuko
Shiraishi: Konoe Toshiaki
Satsuma old man: Nodera Shoichi

Synopsis: The Murai family, whose main business was overseeing charcoal burning operations, was in great commotion preparing to welcome their only son Hikoichi returning home after three years. Especially Oasa, who sat before her mirror for the first time in a long while, could not hide her passionate feelings for Hikoichi. However, Hikoichi betrayed the warm hearts of the villagers who had gathered thinking he had returned in glory, rejected the earnest love of his parents, Oasa, and his own child Seiichi, and as soon as he could arrange funding for the factory he was managing in Tokyo, he promptly returned to the capital. At Gentaro's suggestion, unable to bear seeing Oasa's disappointment, she was to go to Hikoichi. Oasa was a pure and gentle daughter-in-law who worked tirelessly helping the elderly parents as the wife of a busy farming household. So as not to become a burden to her husband who had become a city dweller, she went to the village headman's place to learn clothing care and new etiquette.

"Five Retainer Men"
Original Story: Maeda Yutaka
Script: Mitamura Yutaka
Direction: Nikawa Buntaro
Cinematography: Ishimura Sotetsu
Shochiku Kyoto Films
Cast:
Konomura Daikichi: Kawanami Ryotaro
Okouchi Zenbei: Yamaji Yoshito
Zakoji Genzaburo: Yuki Ichiro
Iikai Gorodayu: Yamada Torahei
Fake ronin: Takamatsu Kinnosuke
Retainer Matsudaira Tateaki: Nakamura Yoshimatsu
Kinjo-ya Ukichi: Hori Masao
Nakamura Nakazo: Bando Tachinosuke
Mojiharu: Fushimi Naoe
Komakata's thief-taker Yasaburo: Kato Kan'ichi
Mikawa-ya's daughter Oshin: Okawa Misuzu

Synopsis: On a stormy night in Edo with pouring rain, the master of Mikawa-ya had been killed by someone. Among those who happened to be at the scene around the same time, both the moneylender Kinjo-ya Ukichi from Mikawa and Nakazo were seen, and among them was Konomura Daikichi, a retainer who was actually a masterless samurai who got a hint about Sadakuro. Naturally suspicious eyes fell on Daikichi, whose conduct had not been good, but Daikichi himself acted innocent. He had been receiving pocket money from his teacher Mojiharu and had been exchanging faint romantic feelings with Oshin, the daughter of Mikawa-ya. Here, Daikichi once spent a night at the police station under suspicion of murder, but after meeting Oshin, he fell into middle-aged love, and moreover, thinking that Oshin did not dislike Daikichi, he planned to kill the thief-taker Komakata's Yasaburo with money, have Daikichi killed by Oshin, remove the obstacle to love, and then make Oshin his own.

December 16th to 20th

[Middle Section]
Next Week - Opening December 21st!
"Ghost Story of the Mandarin Duck Scroll"
A spectacular supernatural film mobilizing all actresses from Shinko Kyoto!
A bizarre and spectacular tale centering on the revenge of beautiful sisters who possess these male and female mandarin duck bells, mementos of their mother who met a tragic end, unfolding in a world of various supernatural horrors and thrills, with the sensuous beauty and splendor of Ooku court ladies in intoxicating spring evenings.

Newly joined from Shochiku Girls' Opera, Kumoi Yaeko and Matsuura Taeko make their debuts, with total mobilization of Shinko Kyoto actresses including Suzuki Sumiko and Mori Shizuko, plus special appearances by Nakamura Senjo and Nakamura Kosen from Shochiku Kyoto's Yanagi Sakiko Theater Company. A truly luxurious all-female film. Directed by Kito Shigeru of "Arima Cat" fame.

"Two Are Young"
An extremely reckless elopement tale!
Kawazu Seizaburo, Takatsu Keiko
Furukawa Tomi, Tsukiji Mayumi
Hayama Chiyoko, Oi Masao

Grand New Year Opening
"Family Diary"
Original Story: Yoshiya Nobuko
Script: Ikeda Tadao
Cinematography: Saito Masao
Music: Ito Senji
Serialized in Osaka Mainichi & Tokyo Nichi Nichi
A Shimizu Hiroshi Production

Cast:
Tsuji Ichiro: Uehara Ken / Tsuji Tomoe: Fujino Hideo
Uno: Kuwano Michiko / Policeman: Sakamoto Takeshi
Shinako: Takasugi Sanae / Kazuko: Yoshikawa Mitsuko
Ubukata Shuzo: Saburi Shin / Matsuya: Takamatsu Eiko
Hara Kikue: Miyake Kuniko / Doctor: Mizushima Ryotaro
Yaeko: Miura Mitsuko / Kanekichi: Torchka Kozo

Shuzo, who broke up with his lover Kikue and married Shinako for future advancement while attending university research labs, and Ichiro, who married the waitress Uno against his parents' opposition, were close friends.
Ichiro, who had been in Dalian, got a job at a Tokyo photography company, so he returned to Tokyo with his child Kanekichi and came to live near Shuzo, resuming their old friendship. The virtuous Shinako took a liking to Uno, who was spirited and uneducated but cheerful and friendly.
One day, Uno visited Kikue, who was managing the Lira Beauty Salon and with whom she had a close relationship, and heard about the past between Shuzo and Kikue from her sister Yaeko. Kikue then decided to expand into Ginza at the recommendation of Uno and Shuzo, and with Shuzo's pure friendship, decided to open a shop on the second floor of his friend Kubo's building.

"Song of the White Heron"
Takada Kokichi, Fushimi Naoe
Fushimi Nobuko, Hisamatsu Mitsue
Yanagi Kikuko, Amano Jinichi

[Lower Section]
Simultaneous with "Cradle Song"

One of Shinko Kyoto's Three Major Summer Productions

Six Major Stars in Grand Competition
Otani Hideo
Asaka Shin'ichiro
Onoe Eigoro

Original by Osaragi Jiro, Directed by Nishihara Takashi
Utagawa Kinue
Takayama Hiroko
Kunitomo Wakako

"Earth Mine Group"
The first talkie version of the masterpiece that once swept all fans into a storm of excitement

Opening December 24th