Above is the cube root method position　　Square root and cube root quick technique oral transmission　　Below is the cube root method position

One　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One
▲Nine-nine subtraction　　　　　　　　　▲Nine-nine subtraction
Two　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Two
Master's multiplication of three methods　　▲Previously double division reference
Division reference after breaking calculation
Three　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three
Present life multiplication ● place on left　Present life nine-nine small angle subtraction
▲Previously place triangle multiplication　　Four is
Present life addition ● left　　　　　　　Present life double ● previous reference
Multiplication-subtraction reference　　　　Addition division reference
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Five same as three　Six same as four
Four same as two　Five same as three　　　Seven same as three　Eight same as four
Six same as two　Seven same as three　All same as before　All same as before

The various items above should be written on the abacus. Once learned, they will not be forgotten. My technique is easy to learn with one-two-three. If someone wishes to study this, they may be called my disciple.

One: What is called "turtle calculation" refers to nine-nine subtraction calculation. This is bad, so now we use "eight calculation see one." Not knowing this is also bad.
One: Eight calculation see one　　　　Called the first fixed method
One: Square root method　　　　　　Called the second fixed method  
One: Cube root method　　　　　　Called the third fixed method

In all mathematical arts, there is nothing that is not "eight calculation see one." However, square root and cube root methods are secret techniques of mathematics, difficult for people of the world to obtain. But if one does not know the letters of "iroha," how can one read kana writing? In the shortcut Jinkōki there is something called "crow calculation." There is no one in the world who does not know this. This is precisely the technique of square root and cube root. This should be understood from this.

One: In the Jinkōki, there are ● nine hundred ninety-nine crows. One crow