Allow passage according to their permission. The aforementioned room heads and
　　　　assistant attendants may pass through at any time for official business upon
　　　　permission, reporting to the reception hall. Regular retainers
　　　　shall not be allowed passage after the fifth and half hour (around 7 AM) at night.
　　　　　This is also because at the Lower Residence of the Western Citadel, the closing time
　　　　　has recently been set at the fifth and half hour, so it is limited to that closing time.

1. When there are five or more night gate passages after the ninth hour (around 12 AM),
   it becomes an all-night watch duty, so this matter should be reported to the
   guard captain the following morning and a request for night watch stipend should be submitted.

1. In case of nearby fire, retrieve the fire coat from the quarters
   and wear it.

1. When there is a horse departure, from the middle stone in front of the main entrance
   toward the gate, place pedestal lanterns
   on both sides, two units in total. 《Candles should be received at the reception hall》

1. In case of fire outbreak, when the source of fire is discovered, from handling until return,
   keep the keys deposited, and after returning when gate entry is completed, store them.
   Of course, when depositing the keys, this matter should be
   reported to the guard captain.

1. When honored guests enter and return at night through the back gate,
   place one pedestal lantern in front of the main entrance.

1. When messengers or foot soldier messengers from other residences arrive,
   go down to the lower seat board of the guard post and call up to report
   to the reception hall.
   For messengers returning from the Three Great Houses, open the gate.
   When messengers or foot soldier messengers arrive at night, have them wait,
   report to the reception hall, and as soon as the main entrance opens,
   open the wicket gate to allow passage.
   For messengers from the Three Great Houses, even at night, open the gate
   according to the guard captain's instructions. When foot soldier
   messengers arrive at night carrying document boxes or official letters,
   tags, or small colored goods, relay them through the lattice
   and have them placed on the lower board of the gate to be submitted to the
   addressed location. If large colored goods cannot be relayed through the lattice,