【Right Page】
On the Masterpiece "King of Kings"
Writer Mushanokoji Saneatsu
It made me think of Jesus's life, and I was happy to see the customs of that time. There were too many miracles, but I thought that was effective for a film. The person who played Jesus really brought out the feeling well. It's quite a large-scale and long work, but I thought Protestants would be deeply moved when they see it. I was pleased that watching it made me think of Jesus anew. The apostles, Peter, Judas, and Mary Magdalene also had good feeling.

【Left Page】
Writer Kurata Hyakuzo
It's quite a good film. Cinematic scenes unfold one after another. The plot follows the Gospels exactly with no new interpretation whatsoever, but while adhering to that plot, it captures it cinematically very well. Actually, before seeing it, I thought this film would surely disappoint me. That was firstly because the plot was conventional, and secondly because of the disillusionment that comes from the actor playing Christ, which is most troublesome in such cases. However, Warner's Christ this time is truly excellent. He is a truly spiritual, gentle, and in some respects even spiritual enough to be called divine Christ. His movements have no exaggeration or noisiness, forming an elegant and pure character. He is somewhat weak in his weakness. But because of that, his gentle, saint-like character comes out well. And internally he is certainly not weak, definitely showing sharpness. Especially the feeling of his thin hands is beautiful, pure, and a superior Christ with power. Because of this Christ, the whole work lives. Maria, Judas, Pilate, the high priest, etc. are all adequate. Among actors I've seen recently, I was most impressed with this Christ.

Poet Senga Genmaro
"King of Kings" was a powerful film. The actor who played Christ didn't move much but brought out a sublime feeling. In scenes like the confrontation with Pilate, he was a Christ with an unusually oppressive presence. Peter and Judas were also good. The part where they catch fish and find gold coins in their mouths was interesting. From Pilate's palace to the crucifixion, I felt the boldness of the lines and found it overwhelmingly interesting. The scene of Lazarus's resurrection also felt tremendous. As a biography of Christ's life, it was well-organized and deeply impressive.

Painter Kono Michisei
I was truly impressed. I haven't seen such a good film recently. I truly thought Christ's good qualities were well expressed. The film had no waste and I was impressed by how it continuously drew people's hearts. And it is truly beautiful. At the end, I felt a bit tearful. I was truly impressed.

Painter Umehara Ryuzaburo
To learn about Jesus's biography, seeing such a film once gives you a better outline in your head than reading books ten times. Also, the customs of that time and the appearance of that region are well understood, making it of great educational interest. The scenes with many people appearing and other large-scale aspects were especially interesting.

Film Critic Sugiyama Shizuo
As the most complete cinematic translation of the story of Christ, I was impressed above all, indeed almost entirely, by McPherson's skill as an adapter.

Writer Amino Kiku
I thought the beginning part with Mary Magdalene was a bit too flashy, but overall I was impressed. The words of the Bible were well brought to life, and while watching, I felt like reading the Bible again. The person in the Christ role, though it must be a difficult role, performed it well without being unpleasant. Ernest Torrence in the role of Peter seemed perfectly cast. The latter half of the film often brought me to tears. It's a film that would be safe to show to children and beneficial as well.