(Continued from the previous page) ...there are facilities prepared for this purpose. The structure resembles a snow privy (toilet), inside which a seat-like device is installed with a round hole bored through it. One places the anus over this hole and steams it. However, there is a proper method for this as well. First, before steaming, one should enter the hot bath and warm the body thoroughly. Afterward, place a wet towel around the rim of the hole, forming a circular ring about one sun (approximately 3 cm) away from the hole, and then press one's anus firmly against it for steaming. It is quite a comfortable sensation. At Umeya Inn in the same location, there is something called a "cabinet bath" (todana-buro). This too is a bath for steaming hemorrhoids and works in the same manner as described above. There is also a hot waterfall (yu-daki) used to treat hemorrhoids. This is called the "Yin-Yang Bath" (In'yō no Yu): one stream falls from above in the usual manner of a waterfall, while the other shoots upward from below to a height of approximately four to five shaku (roughly 1.2–1.5 meters). This too requires care in its use; one should consult the inn regarding the proper method.

○Public Bath (Sentō)　Located beside the main road, this is called the Sokokura Sōyu (communal bath), and is the bath used by the men and women of the area.

○Nature of the Hot Spring　A mixture of sulfurous and saline elements.

○Indications and Therapeutic Effects　Hemorrhoids, gonorrhea/urinary disorders (rinsitsu), hernia/abdominal pain (senki), stroke/palsy (chūki), bruises/contusions (uchimi), urinary dribbling (rinreki), tapeworms (subaku), vaginal discharge (koshike), menstrual obstruction/amenorrhea (menstrual irregularity).

　　　　○Notable Sites

Taikō Stone Bath　About two chō (approximately 218 meters) along the road from Sokokura toward Kiga, there is a bridge called "Mannen-bashi" (Bridge of Ten Thousand Years). Crossing this bridge, one will find a stone monument for the Taikō Bath (inscribed by Lord Fukuba Bisei).

○Origins of the Taikō Stone Bath