《Located at seventy-seven ri and six cho in the ushitora direction》

△ Kakeroma: Located seventy-seven ri in the ushitora direction from Chuzan.

△ Oshima 《Also called》 Sho-Ryukyu (Little Ryukyu): Located in the ushitora direction of Toku Island. It is eighty ri from Chuzan. However, as mentioned before, sixty cho equals one ri. When using this region's road measure of thirty-six cho per ri, it is over one hundred thirty ri. ○ From Ryukyu to this island, one can arrive by ship in three days. ○ The island is thirteen ri long. There are seven magiri (administrative districts): Nishi-magiri, Higashi-magiri, Kasari, Nase, Yanki, Sumiyo, and Koimi. ○ There are 231 villages in total on the island. ○ The products include many sweet potatoes, as well as rice, millet, beans, cotton, bamboo, cattle, horses, rabbits, pigs, wild boars, sea cucumbers, shochu, red palm, and black palm (trees for oil extraction). ○ There are three high mountains on the island: Shimizu Mountain, Kikuka Mountain, and Eimei Mountain (on these three mountains there is a strange beast called "konnanji" that eats people). ○ About one ri north of the island, there is a large stone. It is round in shape like a pillar. It is about one hundred shaku high. The surface of the stone is carved with the form of a dragon king. There are also several lines of characters carved, but they are all in variant forms and cannot be read. According to the tradition of the local people, it was built in ancient times by Tensōn-shi, the founding ancestor of the national kings.

△ Kikai: Ninety ri from Chuzan by Ryukyu road measure, one hundred fifty ri by this region's road measure. ○ This is the most distant boundary in the ushitora (northeast) of Ryukyu. This is precisely where the monk Shunkan was exiled. ○ Belonging to this are places called Tokari and Shichitō (Seven Islands). ○ On this island there is a beast called "heirotsubaa." Its form is as shown in the diagram. It speaks well and also laughs when it sees people. It does no harm.