There are five islands in the inui (northwest) direction.

△ Tonaki Mountain: There are many cattle and horses on the mountain. There is a temple called Goho-an. There is an event called bon-odori (Bon dance).

△ Aguni Island: There are many cattle and pigs on the mountain. ○ The specialty products are iron trees, butsureigi trees, and kotarame trees.

△ Ie Island: It is a rocky mountain, with yellow sand all around. ○ It is comparable to Aguni Island. When the tide rises, it is separated by three to four cho, but when the tide recedes, one can walk across. ○ There are fields on the mountain with much millet, Japanese millet, beans, and wheat.

△ Habe Mountain, also called Iheya Island. ○ It is located thirty ri in the inu-i (northwest) direction from Chuzan. By this region's measure of distance, it is fifty ri. ○ The rice from this island is the finest. The products include five grains, sea urchins, hairy fish, and banana fiber. ○ There is one high mountain in the center of the island that winds like a dragon. In that mountain there is a deity called "kokun-ro" that always appears in the form of a beautiful woman. If women pray to it, they will have good fortune.

△ Sulfur Mountain, also called Black Island. ○ Because there are many birds on the mountain, it is also called Bird Island. ○ It is located thirty-five ri in the inu-i direction from Chuzan. However, as mentioned before, sixty cho equals one ri. When this region's road measure of thirty-six cho per ri is used, it is fifty-eight ri and some. ○ There are about 120 houses of sulfur collectors. ○ People's pupils are like those of sheep and not clear. This is because they are steamed by sulfur vapors. ○ There is a mountain on the island called Kaisui Mountain.

There are eight islands in the ushitora (northeast) direction.

△ Yoron: Fifty ri in the ushi-tora (northeast) direction from Chuzan. By this region's road measure, it is eighty-three ri and some. ○ There are many banana and oak trees.

△ Erabu: Sometimes mispronounced as Irafu.

△ Toku Island: Sixty ri in the ushitora (northeast) direction from Chuzan. By this region's road measure, one hundred ri.

△ Yuro: Located four ri in the ushitora direction from Toku Island.

△ Uken-nu: From Chuzan...