1. On the same day, for the same purpose, a tea ceremony was conducted at Unshōji Temple.

1. On the 1st day of the 5th month, for the same purpose, through messenger and guard captain Takada Kozaemon (Isshō) (wearing noshi-me and long hakama), ten silver pieces were presented as incense money to the main hall of Zōjōji Temple (the directive was issued on the 2nd of last month).

1. On the same day, as the memorial service was completed, through messenger and resident agent Miyakita Jūrōzaemon (Sadayoshi), one box of celebratory dishes for ending the period of abstinence (five sea bream) was presented (the written instruction was given on the 24th of last month).

1. On the same day, [the lord] made his castle attendance (yesterday on the last day of the month, a written directive signed by the senior councilors came from Goyōban Inoue Kawachi-no-kami). Regarding the matter of assistance with construction, there were repeated gracious words from above, and furthermore [the lord] received a sword (Sahironobu's blade, valued at 25 gold pieces) and withdrew. As thanks for this, [he] made courtesy visits to the senior councilors and sent a military officer as messenger to the junior councilors and a guard as messenger to the attendants.

1. On the same day, through a messenger, the first mackerel of the domain's products was presented as usual.

1. On the 2nd day of the 5th month, regarding the recent bestowment of the sword, [the lord] wrote letters to Honda Ōkura (Naganori) and other senior retainers and castle deputies.

1. On the 3rd day of the 5th month, as the Shogun's mourning period ended and he was to visit Momijiyama, [the lord] performed preliminary visit duty (in formal court dress) (the directive was issued on the 29th of last month).

1. On the 4th day of the 5th month, as celebration for the completion of the aforementioned visit with full attendance, [the lord] attended the castle (the directive was issued by the chief inspectors on the 3rd yesterday).

1. On the same day, as celebration for the Boys' Festival, through a messenger as usual, summer robes and single-layer garments were...