Page 45

Number 20: Winter - One Soup, Five Dishes

Mukōzuke (Appetizer): Mixed dressed vegetables
                      Daikon radish
Namasu dish: Carrot
            Fried tofu
            Shiitake mushrooms  
            Green seaweed
Ken (garnish)
Ken details in previous volume

△Details of the mixed dressing are thoroughly described in menu number 3.

Soup: White miso
      Thick mozuku seaweed
      Azuki beans
      Dissolved mustard

△Wash and arrange thick mozuku seaweed, cut slightly and simmer. △Cook azuki beans well without letting them fall apart, add to soup. Add dissolved mustard.

Rice and pickles

△Refer to menu number 1.

Choko (Small cup): Shiki-niku (base layer)
                   Julienned udo
                   Acorn potato

△Peel udo and cut into julienne strips of about one sun length, blanch lightly. △Boil acorn potatoes, cut into cubes and stack. △Remove pits and skins from plums, strain through a mortar, thin slightly with kelp stock and sake, and spread on the bottom of the choko cup.

Flat dish: Sengiri-tate (julienne arrangement)
          Yōkan-fu (sweet jelly-like wheat gluten)
          Freshly pickled matsutake
          Fan-shaped turnip
Sui-guchi (aromatic accent)
Hot water finish combination

△Simmer yōkan-fu. △Boil freshly pickled matsutake in salt stock, cut and layer, then simmer. △For fan-shaped turnip, peel the turnip and cut, shape into small fans, slice thinly, boil, layer and add to soup.

Kuwashi-wan (Refined bowl): Thin kudzu thickening
                           Green buckwheat noodles
                           Oyster mushrooms
                           Roasted chestnuts
Grated wasabi or
Ginger cut with hot water finish combination

△Prepare green buckwheat noodles as done at soba shops, place in a mortar, pour hot water over and serve individual portions. △Wash oyster mushrooms, cut into thin strips and simmer. △Wash chestnuts, remove outer shell and roast, remove inner skin, boil, cut in half and add to soup.

Daibiki (Platform dish): Braided hat yuzu
                        Asakusa nori seaweed

△Wash yuzu, cut lengthwise in half, remove the flesh, soak the peel in hot water. Scrape away the white pith inside, prepare sesame miso separately and set aside. Soak yuzu flesh in hot water, remove thin membrane, cut finely, boil and season lightly before adding. Put this miso into the yuzu peel, fold in half to resemble a braided hat, arrange in a steamer and steam. △Cut Asakusa nori into appropriate square pieces and lightly toast.

Continued next