Part Two　　　　　　　　　　　Page 48

White dumplings
Duck melon
Sweet bowl　Shimeji mushrooms
Tied knots
Chinese yam
Thin
Kudzu thickened

　　　△Peel duck melon round like balls, boil and simmer, add two or three pieces. △Wash shimeji mushrooms, trim and remove stems, boil and add to soup. △Peel Chinese yam, slice thinly, soak in salt water, tie in knots, steam in a steamer and add to soup.

Daibiki　Flower yokan
　　　　Plum blossom kelp

　　　△Flower yokan is available at confectionery shops.
　　　△Plum blossom kelp is available at kelp shops.

Jūbiki　Okara (soy pulp)
　　　　Simmered plums
With sugar

　　　△Season ordinary tofu lees lightly, stir-fry until crumbly, mix generously with white sugar and coat. △Simmer plums, gently remove skin and peel, coat well with the above sugar-mixed lees.

Hitashi-mono　Spinach
　　　　　　　Yamabuki (globeflower)

　　　△Boil spinach and cut evenly. △Yamabuki is available at Haneda-ya.
　　　○Pour raw soy sauce over it

Suimono　Clear broth
　　　　Nameko mushrooms
　　　　Suizenji nori seaweed
Aromatic accent　Myōga ginger

　　　△Wash nameko mushrooms, remove dirt and simmer. △Soak Suizenji nori in water, cut into strips and add to soup. ○When in a hurry, blanch in boiling water. Cut myōga ginger lengthwise thinly for aromatic accent.

Vinegared dish　Black-skinned mushrooms
　　　　　　　　Soft roe
　　　　　　　　Red daikon
In choku bowl
Mustard vinegar miso

　　　△Boil black-skinned mushrooms in salted dashi, season, cut and layer. △Boil soft roe, wash well and cut evenly. △Chop daikon into golden threads as in the previous □ section, soak in vinegar and dye with a little red coloring.

Torizakana　Matsuro potato
　　　　　　Yoshiwara plum
　　　　　　Elder burdock

　　　△Blanch matsuro potato quickly, slice thinly, place on a grill and grill with soy sauce. △Put Yoshiwara plum in a choku bowl. △Scrape burdock well, cut to about 1.5 sun length, slice thinly lengthwise, or chop finely into white hair-like strips, boil, season and coat with mustard sesame.

Mizumono　Asian pear
　　　　　Kunenbo citrus
　　　　　Murashigure confection
Decorative flowers
Details in the back of this book

　　　△Core out a large Asian pear front to back, removing the seed area in a circle, stuff the hole with peeled mandarin oranges, peel the pear skin in hexagonal shape, cut from the edge to make the shape of a makuwauri melon. △Wash kunenbo citrus, peel in rounds about half way, peel seven or eight thin layers and stack them. △Cut murashigure finely - this is available at confectionery shops.

Tea sweets

　　　See the first menu