This also happens. Also, sometimes the substitute is written in the Aoi section and the original person is written elsewhere. This should be done according to circumstances. Also, when there are impediments among those from First Elder to Fourteenth Person, they are naturally moved up in order, which is the same as with the duty head's posted notices.

1. Regarding the writing method: The character "廻" (procession) is written leaving about two sun of space at the top of the paper. The character "来" (coming) is written with one character space from "廻." 《Marginal note: Order varies》 Small characters of two characters are written leaving about two sun of space at the bottom of the paper. The right line is written leaving about two and a half sun from the edge of the paper. The character "葵" (hollyhock) is written half a character above the beginning of the names. The same applies to "Sand" and below. Names are arranged in upper and lower rows. The upper name is written from the same alignment as the character "廻." The space between names is about two sun. The lower name is written about three sun below the upper name. The end of the lower name《Marginal note: Order varies》 is aligned accordingly. The era name and date are written one character below the beginning of the names, and "On-shūri" (Honorable Repairs) is written behind the era name in line with the names. Next, "On-mokudai" (Honorable Deputy) is written. The characters "御" (honorable) and "理" (repairs) are written in alignment, with one character space left before writing "mokudai" (deputy). The paper consists of seven sheets of folded cedar paper in sequence. The ceremonial paper and outer wrapper are of the same paper.

This is a copy of the Great Procession from the time when Kiyokage served as Administrative Deputy in the fourth month of Hōreki 12 (1762).

【Red ink: About two sun】　【Red ink: About two and a half sun】　　　　　　【Red ink: About two sun】
　　　Procession　Coming on the 10th day, Festival Officials at Various Places《Marginal note: Order varies》

1　Aoi (Hollyhock)
　　　Governor of Sado【Red ink: About three sun】　Assistant Governor of Tanba
　　　Governor of Awaji　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Assistant Governor of Harima
　　　ーーー　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ーーー
　　　Administrative Officer

1　Sand【Red ink: Group of seventeen people】
　　【Red ink: First Elder】　　　　　　　　【Red ink: Eight】
　　　Master of University Studies　　　　　　Governor of Suō
　　　ーーー　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ーーー

1　Boat【Red ink: Same as above】
　　【Red ink: Two】　　　　　　　　　【Red ink: Nine】
　　　Head of Palace Maintenance　　　　　Master of Taxation