It seems it will not work out properly. Calculations are made for the remaining portion and allocated to the five villages. If there are extra people【Vermillion: from the transmission of Takaaki Yasutane】, they are added one by one in order starting from Kawakami village.【Vermillion: from the transmission of Yasumune】According to one theory, they should be added to the lower villages, but recently they are added to the upper villages.

1. Regarding the method of writing notices: For Kawakami village: the first purification head《Marginal note: only the name》, the representative of the highest position rank《Marginal note: only the name. Originally it was seating order, but since Enkyō 3rd year, by imperial command it follows position rank》, first elder, sixth elder, eleventh person《Marginal note: only the name》, next in irregular order《Marginal note: only the name, following the order in the head's diary》. For Ōmiya village: second purification head, second representative, second elder, seventh elder, twelfth person, next same as above. For Koyama village: third purification head, third representative, third elder, eighth elder, next same as above. For Nakamura village: fourth purification head, fourth representative, fourth elder, ninth elder, next same as above. For Okamoto village: fifth purification head, fifth representative, fifth elder, tenth elder, next same as above. However, the Shoshi-dayū is written only as "Shoshi-dayū" at the end of this.

【Vermillion: I say privately, the head priest is not included in the total number of people but is excluded】

For monimori (ritual officials): For Kawakami village《Marginal note: chief negi, Shingū negi, Wakamiya hafuri, Ōta hafuri》, for Ōmiya village《Marginal note: Kifune negi, Wakamiya negi, gon-hafuri, Sawada hafuri》, for Koyama village《Marginal note: gon-negi, Ōta negi, Kifune hafuri, Nara hafuri》, for Nakamura village《Marginal note: Nara negi, ujigami negi, Kataoka hafuri》, for Okamoto village《Marginal note: Kataoka negi, Sawada negi, Shingū hafuri, ujigami hafuri》, etc. Monimori should be written one character lower than the line of people's names. The era name should be written one character lower than monimori. This should be arranged by referring to previous notices.

1. Besides the purification heads, representatives, and first through twelfth elders, each village is allocated so many tens of people. However, there is also a theory that the eleventh and twelfth persons are included in the total count. Since the Shoshi-dayū is recorded as "Shoshi-dayū" at the end of Okamoto village, his name is not listed separately. This is also included in the numerical allocation. Care should be taken not to omit anyone from the count《Marginal note: According to Takaaki's transmission, it is proper to allocate so as not to line up at the end of Okamoto village》.

1. Regarding the monimori shrine officials, even if there are impediments, they are written without concern.

1. If a representative has an impediment, a substitute person is written, and nothing is written in that person's seat. Of course, "substitute" is not written either, but only "代 (dai)" is added to the shoulder as usual.

1. When a purification head enters the sanctuary for religious retreat and there are impediments, requiring the appointment of a substitute, the substitute's name is