【Right Page】
There is also something called kichijisō (Chinese name: details unknown). It is commonly said that it blooms when there are fortunate events.
When it flourishes, it has flowers. Those that produce flower stems between new and old or early and late leaves are only two or three species. Listed on the left:
Daylily (kensō), forget-grass 《Bencao Gangmu》 Its leaves are also present in winter, producing tender leaves in spring, and in summer extending stems between the early and late leaves, opening six-petaled yellow flowers at the stem tip that bloom in the morning and wither in the evening. Zhou Chu's "Fudoki" states that if a pregnant woman wears this flower, she will bear a male child. Also, some have leaves that wither in winter and grow in spring, extending flower stems from the center. Also, golden daylily 《Runan Pushi》, striped daylily 《Zhongshan Chuanxinlu》, red daylily 《Daylily Collection》, etc. are varieties of this species.
Pond lily (heihōsō), kōhone 《Bencao Gangmu》 grows in ponds and marshes. The initial leaves in water are smooth and thin. Their

【Left Page】
emergence occurs with pairs growing opposite each other front-back and left-right. The luxuriant green leaves initially float on the water surface, later emerge above water, and as tender leaves grow from the center, yellow five-petaled flowers bloom alternately between the early and late leaves, with the early flower-leaves gradually withering and rotting, continuing from late spring until mid-autumn.
Crow onion (asō), white thread grass 《Jiuhuang Bencao》 grows in shady, moist places in mountains. Its leaves do not wither through winter, producing tender leaves in spring and opening white thread-like flowers between new and old leaves in summer, forming spikes.
Plantain (shazen), ōbako 《Bencao Gangmu》 grows wild abundantly along roadsides and in gardens. Its leaves grow in pairs opposite front-back and left-right, spreading on the ground like wheel spokes. In summer, flowers bloom alternately between the early and late leaves, forming spikes. There is one variety with large leaves that has different spikes.