【Right Page】
Sweet banana (kanshō/nihamigusa) "Bencao Gangmu"　Banana (bashō) "Same book, Explanation of Names, Japanese-Chinese Common Names"

It is a product of warm countries. In midsummer, new leaves grow twisted to the left from old stems. The leaf stalks overlap each other and eventually form a trunk. Large ones reach over one jō (about 3 meters) in height. During summer and autumn, it produces bracts from its center and flowers bloom. They hang down, roughly resembling an inverted lotus flower. They are yellow-green in color - these are not petals but bracts. Left and right, front and back, they alternately open in pairs, with flowers growing side by side inside. The shape of each flower roughly resembles a canna flower. It has pale yellow stamens covered with yellow-white pollen. It is incorrect to consider one bract as one flower. All the way to the stem tip, there are bracts, flowers, and fruit formation. From the first petal to the stamen traces of five or six petals,

【Left Page】
they cluster together. Five-ridged and green in color, they fall without ripening. However, those in warm countries do ripen. The common belief that their flowers are rare is mistaken. They inevitably store buds in the stem core, bloom after five to seven years, then immediately wither. Having flowers marks one life cycle. Many cannot withstand winter freezing and their inner stems rot and decay. Therefore, they cannot reach the trunk top to bloom. Some people consider this inauspicious and refuse to plant them. The "Zunsheng Bazhen" states: "One should not plant many banana plants indoors, as they will bring misfortune over time." The name "nihamigusa" (garden-invisible grass) means it should not be seen in gardens. Generally, plants whose new leaves grow twisted include red banana (himebashō) "Sweet Banana Collection, Fresh - Same Variety," turmeric (ukon/ukonsho) "Bencao Gangmu," zedoary (hōgajutsu/gajutsu) "Same as above, Curcuma, Japanese-Chinese Common Names," taro (u/imo) "Same as above," and canna (danka/dandoku) "Medicinal Garden Revival," etc. I omit their descriptions.