【Left Page, Upper Section】

Contusion measuring 1 sun 2 bu at the frontal tuberosity, contusion measuring 1 sun 8 bu along the sagittal suture, contusion measuring up to 1 sun 2 bu directly below the eyebrow, swelling of the right joint, abrasion wounds on the index and thumb, abrasion on the dorsal side of the left little finger, scattered abrasions from both knee joints down to the lower legs, abrasion on the inner side of the left thigh.

Shimanuки Yasogoro (age 19) — Minor injuries
Komatsu Town, Higashi-Okitama District, Yamagata Prefecture
　Contusion and swelling of the forehead, contusion of the right joint.

Ishii Tsunezo (age 27) — Minor injuries
Sakuragi-cho, Shitaya Ward, Tokyo City
　Contusion and swelling from the 8th to 10th ribs on the left side, contusion of the inner side of the left thigh, laceration of the first metatarsophalangeal joint area of both feet.

Nomoto Eisaburo (age 37) — Minor injuries
Tomita, Yaita Town, Shioya District, Tochigi Prefecture
　Transverse laceration measuring 1 sun 2 bu at the crown of the head, pain in left and right chest, contusion between the eyebrows approximately the size of a 50-sen silver coin, contusion over the entire side of the right lower leg, general bodily pain.

Uchida Toramatsu (age 34) — Minor injuries
Tsuchiya, Yaita Town, Shioya District, Tochigi Prefecture
　Abrasion wound at the right upper eyelid/eyebrow area, abrasion on the right nostril wing, contusion and swelling of the left chest wall.

Hirose Kanjiro (age 29) — Minor injuries
Aoyagi, Yanagawa Village, Naka District, Ibaraki Prefecture
　Fracture of the outer end of the left clavicle, abrasion of the left knee joint.

Kajiki Shogoro (age 49) — Serious injuries
Kita-Oguni Village, Nishi-Okitama District, Yamagata Prefecture
　Abrasion on the dorsal side of the left shoulder blade, contusion and swelling between the 7th and 8th ribs, contusion and swelling on the inner side of the thigh, dislocation of the left elbow joint radius, abrasion on the posterior side of the left knee joint.

Hirose Gensuke (age 38) — Minor injuries
Aoyagi, Yanagawa Village, Naka District, Ibaraki Prefecture
　Contusion measuring 1 sun 9 bu at the left crown of the head, abrasion on the left frontal bone area, abrasions on both wrist joints.

Hirose Unотaro (age 21) — Minor injuries
Aoyagi, Yanagawa Village, Naka District, Ibaraki Prefecture
　Contusion of the left frontal bone area, abrasion of the left chest, abrasions of both knee joints, abrasion of the right wrist joint.

Takeshima Yogoro (age 39) — Minor injuries
Shinmachi, Yonezawa City, Yamagata Prefecture
　Abrasion on the left forehead, abrasion on the right frontal bone area, contusion and swelling on the front of the right thigh.

Naito Kyusaburo (age 18) — Minor injuries
Kubota Village, Minami-Okitama District, Yamagata Prefecture
　Abrasion on the forehead, contusion of the right crown area (length: 2 sun 1 bu).

Ishido Hatsutaro (age 36) — Minor injuries
Mameda, Kawakami Town, Nasu District, Tochigi Prefecture
　Swelling of the facial area, abrasion of the left shoulder blade, abrasions of the lower jaw and nose, contusion and swelling between the 7th and 8th ribs on the right chest, contusion and swelling of the right knee joint, abrasions of the 3rd finger on both hands.

【Left Page, Lower Section】

Yoshino Yotaro (age 23) — Minor injuries
Kincho 3-chome, Kanda Ward, Tokyo City
　Contusion and swelling of the left shoulder blade area, contusion of the right abdominal wall, contusion and swelling of the lumbar region, abrasions of the 2nd and 3rd fingers of the left hand.

Nishiyama Shintaro (age 63) — Serious injuries
Mato Town, Nasu District, Tochigi Prefecture
　Contusion of the right facial frontal bone area, abrasion on the posterior side of the right elbow joint, abrasion wounds on the left 1st and 2nd fingers, contusion and swelling on the inner side of the left shoulder joint, contusion and swelling of the posterior one-third of the right thigh, and contusion/abrasion swelling.

Kojima Yaejichiro (age 27) — Minor injuries
Kushida Town, Haga District, Tochigi Prefecture
　Contusion and swelling on the dorsal side of the left knee joint, contusion and swelling of the lower one-third of the inner left thigh, contusion and swelling on the inner and outer sides of the right forearm, contusion and swelling of the lower one-third of the left lower leg.

Shioya Genkichi (age 55) — Minor injuries
Nishi-Nasuno Village, Nasu District, Tochigi Prefecture
　Contusion of the crown and back of the head (length: 2 centimeters), contusion and swelling of the 1st and 2nd intercostal joints of the left chest wall.

Kato Masayuki (age 23) — Serious injuries
Itado Village, Iruma District, Saitama Prefecture
　Abrasion wound on the left thigh, contusion/swelling and abrasion wound on the outer side of the left thigh at the knee joint, contusion swelling on the outer side of the right thigh and joint contusion.

Abe Kichi (age 50) — Minor injuries
Yabuki Village, Nishi-Shirakawa District, Fukushima Prefecture
　Swelling of the right upper eyelid, abrasion wound on the lower lip, swelling of the right lower jaw, contusion wound on the lower one-third of the left upper arm, abrasion wound on the left knee joint.

Shimoyama Gengoro (age 27) — Minor injuries
Within the Fukushima Station premises, Fukushima Prefecture
　Contusion measuring 1 sun 2 bu at the right crown and back of the head, contusion wound on the right shoulder blade, contusion and swelling of the lower pelvic area of the right abdomen.

Muto Kazuo (age 29) — Minor injuries
Kamishishi Village, Kita-Aizu District, Fukushima Prefecture
　Laceration wound measuring 6 bu at the upper right crown, diagonal contusion measuring 6 bu at the left crown and facial crown area, abrasion at the tip of the nasal bridge, contusion wound on the right shoulder blade, pain throughout the body.

Hangaya Gejyu (age 26) — Deceased
Ono Village, Futaba District, Fukushima Prefecture
　Combined contusion and abrasion wound measuring 1 sun 2 bu running from the left occipital area toward the facial forehead, cranial contusion, hemorrhage of the right eyelid, protrusion of the right eyeball, abrasions of both left and right chest walls, contusion of the left wrist joint, abrasion wounds of both elbow joints.

Iizuka Koichiro (age 25) — Serious injuries
Soka Town, Kita-Adachi District, Saitama Prefecture
　Transverse laceration measuring 3 sun running from the left forehead to the parietal tuberosity, hemorrhage of the right lower eyelid, hemorrhage of the cheekbone, lower one-third of the left thigh [record appears incomplete].

Kikuchi Takeshichi (age 23) — Minor injuries
Shukugo-cho, Utsunomiya City, Tochigi Prefecture
　Contusion and swelling of the lower one-third of the right forearm, abrasion wound on the left forearm, contusion of the lower jaw, contusion wound of the left knee joint and contusion swelling of the dorsal foot, abrasion wounds of the lower one-third of both thighs.