Approved by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications on March 26, Meiji 25; First issue published February 10, Meiji 22. [Right margin]

All rights reserved. [Top margin]

[Upper Right Section]
　　　Announcement
《Celebrating Issue No. 200》

Our Fūzoku Gahō is about to welcome the auspicious milestone of its 200th issue. Looking back, since we first published this journal in Meiji 22 (1889), we have weathered the storms of time and the vicissitudes of the world without meeting with unexpected calamity, steadily advancing toward ever greater prosperity. This is entirely due to the warm support and patronage of our many devoted readers. As this is also a month to celebrate long life, we consider it a most auspicious occasion indeed. We humbly express our congratulations and, in our modest wish to repay the deep kindness we have long received, we shall draw upon historical precedent to celebrate the present imperial reign and gather together all manner of auspicious things in life to compile a beautifully crafted volume. It will detail the historical evolution and changes in customs, practices, and furnishings, and will be a handsomely produced work containing dozens of exquisite, color lithograph illustrations of unparalleled elegance. We aim to publish this around mid-November. Upon opening it, auspicious clouds will seem to drift and billow, brocade-like brilliance will dazzle the eye, the pages will radiate splendor, and an air of good fortune will fill the hall.

[Lower Right Section]

Published under the auspices of the Railway Bureau of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. Price: 1 yen 50 sen. Postage: 6 sen.
New Edition Release Announcement

Greater Japan
Complete Map of Railway Lines
Revised new edition of June, Meiji 32 (1899), now including Taiwan railways and an index table.

Since this map was first released with official approval, it has met with extraordinary acclaim, and both the first and second printings sold out immediately. Having long been out of stock, we are now pleased to release the corrected fourth edition. The purpose of this map is to comprehensively present the railway lines currently operated by both government and private railways in our country, clearly indicating their locations and directions. Accordingly, not only completed lines but also those under construction and those for which official construction permits have been granted are all recorded without omission. Cities, post towns, major rivers, and roads along the lines are also recorded as accurately as possible. Furthermore, this map includes a Japanese Railway Index Table, which contains a line-by-line overview, as well as a table of stations and mileage for completed railways. For anyone wishing to understand the state of railway lines in our country, this map provides an excellent and immediately comprehensible reference. We respectfully ask all gentlemen to purchase a copy without delay, so as not to fall behind in their knowledge of railways.

　　　　　　　Kanda Ward, Tōri Shinishichō (Telephone: Main Exchange No. 970)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tōyōdō Branch Store
　　Sold at:　Nihonbashi Ward, Tōri 3-chōme (Telephone: Main Exchange No. 28)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Maruzen Co., Ltd. Bookstore