[Sacred Temple] Spring and Autumn Sacrifices: In the first month of the 58th year of Kangxi, Purple-Gold Officer Tei Jun-soku petitioned to use the grand sacrifice (tairo) for sacrificing to Confucius and the lesser sacrifice (shoro) for sacrificing to Duke Qisheng. The numbers of ritual vessels (shaku), silk (haku), grain offerings (shijō), and ritual dishes (hendo) are detailed in the accompanying diagram. For sacrificial items not available in this country, local products were used as substitutes. Three days before the sacrifice, all participants observed purification and abstinence. One day before, ritual rehearsal and inspection of sacrificial animals were conducted. On the appointed day, the king dispatched a Purple-Gold Officer to sacrifice at the Qisheng Shrine at the hour of the Ox, and sent a Legal Affairs Official to sacrifice at the Sacred Temple at the hour of the Tiger. All performed the ritual of three kneelings and nine kowtows, followed by the drinking of blessed wine and receiving of sacrificial meat. This ritual began in the second month of that year. Previously, Purple-Gold Officers or Chief Secretary Officials served as chief celebrants, performing eight prostrations without the drinking of blessed wine or receiving of sacrificial meat, only burning paper money without using silk, and without purification or animal inspection rituals. As this seemed too simplified, a petition was made to establish the current proper ceremonial form.

Sacred Temple Sacrificial Items Diagram
[First Level]
Position of the Most Sacred Teacher
[Second Level]
　Ritual cup, seasoned soup
Silk, ritual cup, thick soup
　Ritual cup, seasoned soup
[Third Level]
　Sugar cane substituting for water chestnuts, sheep substituting for deer
White cakes, black cakes, water chestnuts, deer jerky
　Oranges substituting for dates, banana fruit substituting for chestnuts
Shaped salt, fish, dates, chestnuts
Millet, rice
Sorghum, grain
　　　　Sheep substituting for deer
Leek pickle, fermented sauce, turnip pickle, deer sauce
　　Gastropod substituting for rabbit
Celery pickle, rabbit sauce, bamboo shoot sauce, fish sauce
[Fourth Level]
Sheep (whole body)
Cattle (whole body)
Pig (whole body)
[Fifth Level]
Candle
Incense
Candle