people to pray.
　Generally, for genuflection and prostration, all join their palms together in reverent prostration, prostrate on the ground for a long time before rising, and rub their hands together as a sign of respect. For women's
　prostration, they first wave both hands left and right three times, then perform reverent prostration and kowtow, which is the same as men's ritual. This is first performed when meeting parents-in-law and respected
　elders; in ordinary interactions there are no such ritual courtesies as mutual prostration.
　Generally, when worshipping Buddha, first perform reverent prostration with one kowtow, four prostrations with nine hand waves, then kowtow once more and stand up,
　then perform thirty-three hand waves. When fathers or elder brothers make vows and seek divine help on behalf of sick persons, they together perform three hundred thirty-
　three hand waves.
　　Learning
　The Sacred Temple is located at the north gate of Izumizaki Bridge in Kume village, facing south. Upon entering the main gate, the courtyard is about ten
　mu square, with a worship platform set up above. The main hall has three bays with an image of the Master in front, and wooden tablets of the Four Associates are also installed,
　each holding a classic text. On the central beam above, there is also an engraving,
Imperial calligraphy of the four large characters "Teacher for Ten Thousand Generations" displayed on a placard. Former envoys Wang and Lin each have commemorative inscriptions. Wooden tablets
　are erected on the left and right (much text not recorded). In the thirteenth year of Kangxi, the temple was established, but there was no school yet. In the fifty-
　sixth year of Kangxi, Purple Gold Official Cheng Shunze, because the school facilities were incomplete, took the intention of the two officials Wang and Lin's
　temple records, petitioned and built the Minglun Hall, and also divided a small three-
　bay section near the north wall in the hall to enshrine Qisheng together with the Four Associates' spirit tablets. In the fifty-seventh year, construction began in the seventh month of autumn and was completed in the tenth month of winter. The left and right corridors of Minglun Hall store classic texts and books, roughly complete. The king
　also ordered Purple Gold Official Cheng Shunze to publish and print them.