The sixteen articles of the Sacred Edict with commentary were lectured several sections at a time on auspicious days of the month. According to old custom, one Purple Gold Official
　supervised education, visiting the lecture hall every third, sixth, and ninth day of each ten-day period to inspect the diligence and laziness of students, while also managing
　tribute ceremonies for travel to and from China and assisting in grand ceremonies. Also, from among the Inner Officials, Chief Interpreters,
　and Scholars of Kume, one person well-versed in literature and principles was selected as a lecture teacher, and one
　person skilled in sentence reading was selected as an exegesis teacher. The lecture teacher received an annual stipend of twelve koku and
　established a school within the Qisheng Shrine to teach accomplished interpreters and scholars. The exegesis teacher received an annual
　stipend of eight koku and established a school at the Upper Tianfei Palace to teach beginning students aged seven and above.
　(Shuri also had three village schools; in other villages, sons and younger brothers of petty officials and commoners used monks as teachers, all learning the national script, with cursive writing but no standard script) Within the Lingxing Gate
　in the courtyard there is a stone stele with a record by Official Cheng Shunze, the summary of which is as follows: "Ryukyu is distant in the
　ocean, ten thousand li from China. Since early Ming it has communicated with China and received royal rank. In the twenty-fifth year of Hongwu,
　princes and sons of court ministers first entered the Imperial Academy, and thirty-six surnames of Fujian people were also sent
　there to provide instruction. During the Wanli period, Purple Gold Official Cai Jian first painted a sacred image and led the local gentry
　to worship it at home. In the eleventh year of Kangxi, former Purple Gold Official Jin Zhengchun petitioned to
　establish a temple, and the king approved the proposal. Thus they selected a site in Kume village, ordered craftsmen to prepare materials, transported them and applied
　axes and adzes, applied red paint, and completed it by the thirteenth year of Kangxi. The following year they sculpted a sacred image in the temple
　and erected the Four Associates on the left and right. The king ordered Confucian ministers to perform the ritual of
　sacrificial offerings on the first ding day of the second month of spring and autumn. Having renewed the magnificent architecture and solemnized the ritual vessels, how splendid it is, truly called most flourishing. This minister Shunze respectfully
　received the imperial command, took up the brush to record the complete story of the construction, and also carved it in stone to preserve it for posterity." In the year of Kang-