Zen Buddhism
The country has no Daoist priests, but Buddhism has two types: Rinzai Zen and Shingon teachings. Rinzai Zen follows the Zen tradition, and besides ritual recitations, they mostly study poetry. Shingon teachings perform prayers for people and write talismans and incantations, with particularly numerous prayers for blessings in the 1st, 5th, and 9th months. Both sects abstain from meat and alcohol. Those residing in the various temples of Shuri are all Rinzai Zen, while in Naha, only three places - Tozen-ji, Seitai-ji, and Kogen-ji temples - are Zen temples, and the rest are all Shingon teachings.

This country has had Buddhism since the Tang period, when National Master Butchi Enyu crossed the sea to study and practice, thus beginning Rinzai Zen. The sutras in their collection include the Lotus Sutra, Vimalakirti Sutra, Shurangama Sutra, Dharma Treasure Platform Sutra, Emperor Liang's Repentance, Records of Linji, Records of Zhongfeng, Blue Cliff Record, and others. There is also the "Three Sounds Collection" written by three monks: Sekioku, Zhongfeng, and Yudo, all of whom were people of the Yuan period. There was also Zen Master Kosen, originally from Fujian who later resided at Mount Obaku in Japan and wrote the "Washing Clouds Poetry Collection" and "Buddhist Country Verses Collection." His junior disciple Tenchi was a Fujian monk skilled in calligraphy.

The country prohibits monks from crossing the sea to enter China, but there are those who go to Japan for study and practice. Monk robes are mostly made of vermillion-yellow silk and pongee. Outside the kasaya, there is another garment shaped like a vest, called "dan-zoku" (cutting off the secular). Hats are mostly made of felt, like Chinese bamboo hats.

Monk Stipends
After monks are tonsured, their names are registered and submitted to the Office of Buddhist Affairs, and all receive rice stipends. The monks of Engaku-ji temple maintain the incense and fires for the royal family's ancestral sect, so their stipends are particularly substantial at eighty koku per year. Tenno [text continues...]