(Continued from previous page) ...an envoy and keeper of the Edo residence, Kōsaka Buemon Yoshitoshi, was dispatched to the Senior Councilors [of both baileys].
　　Note: Although [the lord] should have gone in person to both baileys to express gratitude, due to illness an envoy was dispatched instead.

1. On the same day, since [the lord] was ill, an envoy and keeper of the Edo residence was dispatched to duty administrator Honda Nakatsukasa-dayū Tadayoshi for official notification that attendance at the castle the following day would be difficult.

1. On the sixth day of the sixth month, on the occasion of the Noh performances, one box of ceremonial food was presented through envoy and keeper of the Edo residence Sakata Shichizaemon Nagatsune. (A written notice had been received from the duty administrator on the second day of the month.)

1. On the eleventh day of the same month, as [the lord] had recovered from his illness, a notification was sent to duty administrator Honda Nakatsukasa-dayū Tadayoshi via envoy and keeper of the Edo residence Sakata Shichizaemon Nagatsune, stating that [the lord] would be able to participate in future emergency deployments in the event of fire in the vicinity of Tōei-zan.

1. On the thirteenth day of the same month, [the lord] attended the castle at the West Bailey to celebrate the seventh-night ceremony [of Takechiyo-sama's birth], and then proceeded to the Main Bailey to offer congratulations. (Notification had been received on the eleventh day of the month.)

1. On the same day, Kasuya Jidayū Okufumi was sent as a proxy pilgrim to offer prayers at the two shrines of Ise as previously vowed. At the Inner Shrine, an offering of 500 mon in first-fruits money, 2 ryō for kagura performance fees, and 5 silver pieces for prayer fees were presented. At the Outer Shrine, 500 mon in first-fruits money was offered. Jidayū departed from Fukui today.
　　Note: Regarding this proxy pilgrimage, it was reported by the Fujinami chief priest that prayers had been continuously performed for eleven years since the prayer petition was sent in the eleventh year of Kyōhō (1726). This proxy pilgrimage was therefore dispatched [to conclude the arrangement].