**[Continuation from Previous Page: Regarding the Gift Presented to Ashida Zusho]**

The gift items were delivered by the Sōja-ban (Master of Ceremonies), Matsudaira Kii-no-kami (Nobamine).

Item: On the twenty-fifth day of the sixth month, on the occasion of the presentation of Tango Festival (Boys' Day) congratulatory offerings, the official letter (go-yōsho) and formal shogunal letter (go-bōsho) were delivered at Edo Castle. Gifts to the domain's retainers were distributed in the customary manner.

Item: On the twenty-eighth day of the same month, as an expression of gratitude for the gifts bestowed upon the envoy dispatched to offer thanks for the lord's return to the domain, a letter was sent to Edo.

Item: On the fourth day of the seventh month, at Atagoyama, a ryōuchi (practice bout / demonstration match) performed by disciples of Hasegawa Buzaemon (Shoukoku), Tsuda Gennosuke (■■), and Tsuda Denshichi (Yasu■) was observed [by the lord or a senior official].

Item: On the fifth day of the same month, it was proclaimed that whereas previously the duty of "horse-keeper" (uma-mochi go-yaku) had been assigned only to those with a stipend of 150 koku or above, henceforth it would also be assigned to those with 100 koku, and that upon such assignment, a role stipend (go-yakuryō) of 150 koku would be granted.

Item: On the sixth day of the same month, the senior councillor (go-karō) Inaba Uneme (Masamichi) was ordered to retire (inkyo) on account of old age and physical infirmity.

Item: On the same day, as a midsummer Bon Festival (shōryōe / o-shōgatsu) congratulatory offering, gold was presented via an envoy in the customary manner.

Item: On the same day, due to the birth of a person descended from a Kirishitan (Christian) lineage, the required notification document (go-shōmon) was submitted to Edo.

Item: On the seventh day of the same month, at Reigan-ji Temple in Fukagawa, the twenty-seventh memorial service (go-ki) for Lady Seishō-in was held in advance (o-torikoshi), and a tea memorial ceremony (o-chanoyu) was performed.
　　　Note: During the same month, the same ceremony was likewise performed at Unshō-ji Temple.

Item: On the eighteenth day of the same month, via an official letter, the first catch of cod (hatsu-tara), a local product of the domain, was presented as a gift in the customary manner.