(Continued from previous page)

　　　　　　…adopted son, a disciplined younger brother, a nephew, or other such relatives — and on these grounds petition for individuals to be called into service as successors, even those who are not yet of appropriate age or who are clearly not fit for domain service. This has resulted in departures from proper established procedure. Henceforth, those who are clearly unfit for domain service shall not be called into service in the first place. If a petition is submitted after the individual has reached appropriate age, and if the petitioner is the son of a person who himself rendered service — and furthermore if there are dependent relatives (yakkai) involved — the matter shall be duly examined when a vacancy arises. Those who are the sons or younger brothers of persons employed in other households or trades, and others who are appointed by special direction from above, are to be treated as separate cases. The foregoing is to be understood and borne in mind by all those in supervisory positions. The above.

　　　　　　　　Eighth month, twenty-first day

---

Item: On the twenty-second day of the eighth month, through the domain physician Kōno Senjuin, approximately two hundred seeds of Korean ginseng (Chōsen ninjin) were privately received as a grant (hairy ō).

Item: On the twenty-sixth day of the same month, at Matsuodera-yama, Tsuda Gennojō (Ryūriku) conducted a test-firing of a large cannon (ōzutsu), which was observed [by the lord]. Following this, at Atago-yama, Utsunomiya Tsunemon (Shūkan) demonstrated rocket fire-arrows (bō-hiya), which were also observed.

Item: On the twenty-seventh day of the same month, at Atago-yama, Amamori Yahei and Atobe Matahachi■ demonstrated rocket fire-arrows (bō-hiya), which were observed.

Item: On the second day of the ninth month, as a congratulatory offering for the Chōyō Festival (Double Ninth Festival), a kosode robe was presented through an envoy, as customary.

Item: On the third day of the same month, by means of an official notice (o-fure-tate) from the Senior Inspector (ō-metsuke)… 

**[Continues on the next page]**