One: On the twenty-second day of the eleventh month, seedlings of Korean ginseng (chōsen ninjin) that had been received through unofficial/private channels arrived in Fukui today, having been escorted along the road by the foot soldiers (okachi) Nirakuza Manjirō and Tajima Heidayū.

One: On the twenty-eighth day of the same month, in order to pay respects and inquire after the lord's well-being during the cold season, a messenger, the grand guard (ōoban) Amemori Shōkurō, was dispatched to Edo. He departed Fukui on this day.

One: On the eleventh day of the twelfth month, the aforementioned messenger Amemori Shōkurō arrived in Edo on the ninth day and appeared this morning before the duty councilor (goyōban) Matsudaira Sakonshōgen (Norimuら) to present the letter.

One: On the twelfth day of the same month, in accordance with seasonal custom during the cold season, the finest fresh cod (ichibanki nama-tara), a regional product of the domain, was presented as a gift via a letter.

One: On the thirteenth day of the same month, a written notice was issued from the office of the ōmetsuke (grand inspectors) and passed to the resident deputies (rusuī) of Lord Matsudaira Aki-no-kami (Yoshinaga) and Lord Arima Nakatsukasa-no-tayū (Yoriaki), who then circulated it as follows:
　　　One: Whereas until now there has been no monthly presentation on the third day to the Nishi-no-Maru (the western compound of Edo Castle), henceforth such presentations shall be made.
　　　One: On the fourth day of the sixth month and the third day of the tenth month, offerings to both the Hon-maru (main compound) shall be refrained from.
　　　　　　　Twelfth month

One: On the fourteenth day of the same month, a circular notice (mawashijō) arrived from the grand inspectors (ōmetsuke) regarding the copper mines, as follows:
　　　One: As the output of copper has not been properly controlled in recent years, the copper guild (dōza) was previously established and a notice was issued directing that copper not be traded outside the copper guild and that all copper be sold to the copper guild. However, there are rumors that copper is being stockpiled at the mines and sold elsewhere. Should such practices indeed be occurring, they are the height of misconduct. In each domain, strict measures shall be taken...
　　　(Continued on the following page)