[Right page]
〇Also, tempura foods should not be eaten, even if they are vegetables. Green vegetables, taro, pumpkin, burdock, lettuce, etc. are bad. Also, all vegetables that have wilted in the sun or are half-cooked are said to be bad.

〇Potatoes, sweet potatoes, Chinese yam, carrots, daikon radish, etc. are fine if well-cooked, but even these are bad if half-cooked.

〇For fruits, well-ripened peaches, plums, pears, apples, grapes, strawberries, etc. may be eaten little by little, but unripe green ones must never be eaten. Also, refrain from mushrooms.

〇In hot weather, we all tend to drink much hot water, but those who regularly suffer from diarrhea should refrain as much as possible. Also, it is good to drink boiled water cooled down. Since boiled water has lost its vapor, it is not sweet, so it is good to add a little grape wine, tea, or shochu before drinking.

〇Old cow's milk, or anything with a slightly sour smell, and any oily foods whatsoever must not be eaten even in small amounts. Also, rice cakes, dumplings, and other hard-to-digest foods must definitely be avoided.

[Left page]
〇If we say this is bad and that is bad like this, it may seem there is nothing to eat, but that is not the case. One should eat easily digestible foods in moderation [empty stomach is not good], exercise the body moderately [overexertion is not good], rise early in the morning and take walks [night walking because of heat is not good], keep one's dwelling and toilet clean [when excrement and urine are allowed to accumulate, they eventually become a medium for cholera transmission], sweep the garden clean, ensure proper drainage flow, take care that fresh air circulates everywhere, nurture one's spirit so the body does not become fatigued, be careful not to worry, grieve, or become angry, and spend each day with an active and refreshing spirit - then there will definitely be no worry of being afflicted with cholera.

〇Now, goldfish and crucian carp live in water, while humans live in air, so if one stays constantly in good air, disease will not develop, and if one stays in bad air, receiving disease is natural law. Try putting goldfish or crucian carp in dirty water and watch - gradually they will...