【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　40
attacked. This led to the Battle of Nagakute, but this time it was a great defeat for the Takeda forces, and as a result, in March of Tensho 10 (1582), their strongholds were invaded by Oda Nobunaga and Ieyasu, leading to the complete destruction of the Takeda clan. In June of that year, Oda Nobunaga was killed by Akechi Mitsuhide at Honnoji Temple, and from this point it became Hideyoshi's stage. Hideyoshi and Ieyasu fought once at Mount Komaki, but they soon reconciled, and when Hideyoshi conquered the Hojo clan at Odawara in Tensho 18 (1590), Ieyasu also vacated his domains and offered them to Hideyoshi, personally participating in the campaign. At the end of that campaign, Ieyasu was transferred to the Kanto region by Hideyoshi. At this time, Tadatsugu had already retired and his son Ienext had succeeded him, but he also followed Ieyasu and moved to Usui Castle in Kozuke Province. The one who came after Ienext was Ikeda Sanzaemon Terumasa, who also controlled the three castles of Ushikubo, Shinshiro, and Tahara, governing a domain of 152,000 koku. Niregi Castle was abolished at this time. However, after the Battle of Sekigahara in Keicho 5 (1600), Terumasa was granted a fief of 520,000 koku at Himeji in Harima Province for his merits and left Yoshida Castle. His successor was Matsudaira Genba-no-kami Iekiyo with a stipend of 30,000 koku. Subsequently, there were frequent changes of castle lords: Matsudaira Tonomo-no-suke Toshitada in Keicho 17 (1612), Mizuno Hayato-no-sho Tadakiyo in Kanei 9 (1632), and Mizuno Kenmosu Tadayoshi in the same 19th year, but the highest stipend was about 45,000 koku. In Shoho 2 (1645), Ogasawara Iki-no-kami Tadatomo became castle lord and continued for four generations through Naganori, Nagasuke, and Nagashige. Following the Ogasawara clan, in Genroku 10 (1697), Kuze Izumo-no-kami Shigeyuki came, but after ten years of residence, he was replaced by Makino Bizen-no-kami Naruharu in Kyoho 2 (1717). Naruharu's successor was his son Daigaku Narihide. The clan that replaced the Makino as castle lords of this area was the Okochi clan. The Okochi clan first came transferred from Furukawa in Shotoku 2 (1712) during Nobuchika's time, but was once transferred to Hamamatsu in Kyoho 14 (1729), and was replaced by Matsudaira Bungo-no-kami Sukenori, who was again replaced by the Okochi clan in Kyoho 2 (1717). The stipend was 70,000 koku. At that time the Okochi were in Nobuchika's generation, and then through Noburei, Nobuaki, Nobuyori, Nobutaka, and Nobuyuki to Nobufuru. This was the last castle lord, and the Yoshida Castle site is where the present Chubu

【Left Page】
62nd Regiment barracks are located.
　　　　　　Niregi Castle - Its History and Munemitsu - Shigesada's Death in Battle -
　　　　　　The Tensho War - Yasunaga's Military Achievements
　A small river called Asakura flows north of Higashida. This is the lower reaches of the Semi River, and on the highland overlooking this river is the old site of Niregi Castle. There are various theories about the history of this castle, but it seems factual that it was built by Toda Danjo Saemon-no-jo Munemitsu during the Meio period. Munemitsu initially resided at Ueno Castle in Hekikai District, but in May of Kansho 6 (1465), together with Matsudaira Izumi-no-kami Nobumitsu, who was the seventh-generation ancestor of Tokugawa Ieyasu, he received orders from the Muromachi shogunate to pacify uprisings within Mikawa Province, which is a famous story also recorded in Ninagawa Chikamoto's diary. Munemitsu later moved his residence to Oitsu in Atsumi District, further succeeded the Isshiki clan, and established a base at Tahara around Eisho 13 (1516), but later found the opportunity to build a castle at this Niregi as well, entrusting Tahara to his son Norimitsu while moving here himself. This was probably around the early Meio period. After Munemitsu's death, there is evidence that both Norimitsu and his second son Yoshimitsu also resided in this castle. Afterwards, this castle seems to have been abandoned for a while, but in Tenbun 10 (1541), Tamba-no-kami Yoshimitsu, who was Norimitsu's great-grandson, restored it from Kaji village in Ushikubo. Tonomo-no-suke Shigesada, who retrieved his mother from Yoshida Castle in Eiroku 7 (1564), was indeed his son. Shigesada died in battle during the attack on Yoshida Castle in November of that year, so his younger brother Jinpei Tadashige succeeded him. However, he also died of illness in May of Eiroku 10 (1567). At that time, his son Yasunaga was still only six years old, so a clan member named Toda Denjuro Yoshikuni assisted him and became deputy commander. Thus, both during Takeda Shingen's attack in Genki 3 (1572) and Takeda Katsuyori's assault in May of Tensho 3 (1575), it was during Yoshikuni's regency period, but through the valiant efforts of their retainers, in the Tensho battle they obtained eighteen enemy heads, which were reportedly presented for Ieyasu's inspection. This
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　41