all sounds contain the voice of 'A'. Therefore it becomes the mother of all voices. It is quite reasonable that the letter 'A' is placed at the head here." Consulting books such as the Shoku Nihongi and Jinnō Shōtōki, the Empress Dowager's name was Yasukabe-hime, her Buddhist name was Kōmyōshi, and she was the daughter of Fujiwara no Fuhito. Her mother was Tachibana no Michiyo of First Rank, née Agata no Inukai. When Emperor Shōmu was Crown Prince, she became his consort at age sixteen. When he ascended to the throne in the first year of Jinki, she was granted First Rank and became Great Lady, giving birth to Emperor Kōken and a prince. In the first year of Tenpyō she was made Empress. 《The Imperial Court Epigraphy Collection quotes the Fujiwara family records stating her mother was Junior Fourth Rank Lower Kamo no Asomi Hime, who first married Agata no Inukai Sukune Azumahito but returned due to circumstances》《The different account states she became Empress in the eighth month of Tenpyō 1 at age twenty-nine》. Although Tōdai-ji and the provincial temples throughout the land were established by Emperor Shōmu, they were all at the Empress Dowager's urging. When Emperor Kōken received abdication, in the second year of Hōji she was granted the honorary title Tenpyō Ōshin Ninshō Kōtaigō. She died in the sixth month of Tenpyō Hōji 4 at age sixty. 《When Emperor Shōmu abdicated, she took Buddhist vows together with the Emperor》 In this month on the day kinoe-u, she was buried at Saho-yama in Soenokami District, Yamato Province." The name Kōmyō should be taken from the Konkōmyō Saishōō-kyō (Golden Light Sutra). However, the biography of Kōmyōshi in the Genkō Shakusho states "her appearance was beautiful and radiant, hence the name," which is likely a fanciful interpretation." Tanna is an abbreviated form of danna. The Collection of Translated Names states: "The character danna means 'almsgiving' in Chinese. If internally there is faith, externally there are fields of merit, and there are material goods, when these three things harmonize, the mind generates the dharma of giving and can break through greed and stinginess - this is called danna."