This was the place where Confucian scholars of the four disciplines received their education. It was the most important position in Japanese and Chinese learning. The four disciplines were: Kiden (historical records), Myōkyō (Confucian classics), Myōhō (law), and Sandō (mathematics).

The bureau also enshrined the Former Sages, Former Teachers, and Nine Worthies, performing the Seidian ceremony during the second months of spring and autumn. The Eastern and Western divisions were headed by the two houses of Kan and Kō. Confucian scholars from various clans would consult these two houses.

The head of the bureau was selected from among Confucian scholars. The chief administrator of the bureau was called Daigaku-no-kami (Head of the Imperial University) 《Chinese title: Guozijian》. Other positions included: Suke 《Chinese: Guozi-siyi》, Jō 《Senior and Junior, Chinese: Guozi-cheng》, Hakase (Professor) 《one person, Chinese: Daxue-boshi》, Jokyō (Assistant Professor) 《two people, Daxue-zhu》, Jikikō (Lecturer) 《two people, Zhi-xueshi》, On-hakase (Phonetics Professor) 《two people, specialists in phonetics》, Sho-hakase (Calligraphy Professor) 《two people, Shuxue-boshi》, Myōhō-hakase (Law Professor) 《two people, Lüxue-boshi》, San-hakase (Mathematics Professor) 《two people, Suanxue-boshi》, Gakushō (Students) 《400 people》, Monshōshō (Literature Students) 《20 people》, Tokugyōshō (Advanced Students) 《10 people》, Sanshō (Mathematics Students) 《30 people》, etc.

The Engi-shiki states that "summer and winter seasonal robes are provided to professors of the Imperial University." In ancient times, each province had a school with one professor and one physician each. Students numbered: 50 in major provinces, 40 in superior provinces, 30 in middle provinces, and 20 in lower provinces. Medical students were reduced by four-fifths 《10 in major provinces, 8 in superior provinces, 6 in middle provinces, 4 in lower provinces》, as seen in certain records.

○The Seidōtsū 《Volume 11》 states: "According to our country's system, on the first ding day of the second months of spring and autumn each year, the Seidian ceremony is performed at the Imperial University, worshipping the Former Sages and Former Teachers, with the Nine Worthies as associated deities." The Seidian ceremony was first performed on the ding-si day of the second month of the first year of Taihō under Emperor Monmu. From then on, it was practiced by successive generations until around the Bunmei era.