Thus it states. According to the Shoku Nihongi, in the winter tenth month of the sixth year of Hōki under Emperor Kōnin, Right Minister Kibi-kō passed away. Prior to this, the Seidian ceremony at the Imperial University had not been properly established in its ritual form, but the minister researched the ritual codes and for the first time properly arranged the ceremonial vessels, making the ritual observance worthy of viewing.

《Konakamura Kiyonori says this passage refers to the time of Emperor Kōken. However, certain books that place this around the third year of Hōki are in error. Kibi-kō was dismissed from his position as general in the first year of Hōki and retired in the second year.》

The Seidian ceremony: On the day of the festival, at the fifth hour before dawn, the Director of Suburban Shrines leads his subordinates and shrine officials to set up the divine seat of the Former Sage in the central bay of the shrine hall. Confucius's disciple Yan Zi is placed in the seat of honor, with Min Ziqian through Ran You comprising four seats placed east of King Wenxuan, with west as the position of honor. Additionally, five seats from Zilu through Zixia are placed west of King Wenxuan, with east as the position of honor. In total eleven seats, all facing south. The offerings include the three sacrificial animals and rabbits. The three animals 《large deer, small deer, and pigs, five each, with the five organs added, plus rabbit hash》

In Chinese lands, the three sacrificial animals are cattle, sheep, and pigs. In our Imperial country, the above substitutes are used. When the ding day of the second months coincides with the festival of the Garden Korean deities and the Kasuga festival, or falls on certain other days, the three animals and rabbits are omitted and

【Diagram: Chart of the Former Sage, Former Teachers, and Nine Worthies in Our Country's Seidian】
Ran You, Zhong Gong, Ran Boniu, Min Ziqian
Former Teacher Yan Zi
Former Sage King Wenxuan  
Zilu, Zai Wo, Zi Gong, Zi You, Zi Xia

In the twelfth month of the first year of Jingo-keiun under Emperor Takano, Assistant Professor of the Imperial University Zen Daikyū submitted a memorial stating... by imperial edict, the Master was given the title King Wenxuan.