Carp and crucian carp of five sun or larger, fifty in total, are used. The three sacrificial animals and fish are all provided by the Six Guard Offices.
Also, if that day coincides with national taboo days, harvest prayer festivals, or solar eclipse phenomena, the next ding day is used. In years of mourning, according to the imperial edict regarding following auspicious dress, such ceremonies are also suspended.

○ In the Shoku Nihongi: "Daiho 3rd year, 7th month, day Kōgo, Shōgoi-jō Kamitsuke-no-asomi Otarashi was appointed Governor of Shimōsa." 《From Daiho 3rd year to Wadō 1st year, he served for six years. This was the beginning of appointed governors for this province. Although provincial governors are mentioned before this time《The Seinei Chronicles record "dispatched Harima provincial governor Iyobe-no-Kodate to seek offerings"》they were temporary administrative officials. Later, governors, vice-governors, secretaries, and clerks were all collectively called provincial governors》

○ In Ruijū Sandai-kyaku, Volume 5《page 53 left》: "The Great Council of State respectfully reports: The matter of provincial governors and vice-governors serving four-year terms.
We have respectfully examined the Selection and Appointment Code, whereby all transitions of senior officials of Initial Rank and above are limited to six evaluations. This was changed and established as four years on Keiun 3rd year, 2nd month, 16th day. On Daidō 2nd year, 10th month, 19th day, it reverted to the code text. On Kōnin 6th year, 7th month, 17th day, it returned to the Keiun regulation. On Tenchō 1st year, 8th month, 20th day, vice-governors and above were separately assigned to six-year positions. Officials are what the people depend upon; people are what officials are based upon. In recent years, the character of good officials has been rare, and we hear that the suffering of impoverished people does not cease. We ministers believe that even good people can overcome corruption in three years, but even with four villains, it is difficult to restore achievement in nine years. Therefore, regarding governance