"This is who I am. If there is anyone among the Odawara forces who thinks himself worthy, let him approach and take my head!" He raised his fan and beckoned to them. Then a resident of Odawara named Yamanaka Shuri-no-suke announced himself and approached closely. Yamashiro galloped up to him and said, "You appear to be one of Ujitsuna's retainers. Take my head and make it your claim to fame!" and attacked him. When Yamashiro's retainers rushed alongside to prevent their master from being killed, many of Shuri-no-suke's retainers came galloping up and surrounded them, so finally Yamashiro-no-kami had his head taken by Shuri-no-suke.

That Lord Yoshiaki had long displayed rebellious intentions in both Sōshū provinces (Kazusa and Shimōsa), with all people fearing the poison of dragons and serpents, and all citizens lamenting the harm of tigers and wolves. But when he was suddenly destroyed and his lineage permanently extinguished, there was no one who did not admire the extent of Ujitsuna's military accomplishments. {{Note: In documents of Ujimasa held at Hokekyō-ji temple: "At the time of the single battle at Kōnodai, battle positions were established" etc.}} {{Note: This appears to be the 24th day of the 11th month - did Ujimasa also dispatch troops to this location?}}

In the Hondo-ji death register {{Note: 7th day}}: "The battle of Sagamidai in Shimōsa Province - Lord Ōyumi and his father and son, and Motoyori, these three noble persons, and over a thousand others died in battle {{Note: This was a single battle at the second hour of the monkey-rooster period in the 10th month of Tenbun 7 - although all suffered, they ultimately achieved salvation}}"

○ In the same book {{Note: Volume 4, Battle of Takano-dai section}}: "Ōta Genroku Suketaka, a resident of Edo in Musashi Province, conspired with his younger brothers Gensaburō and Genroku to ally with Satomi Yoshihiro of Bōshū, attack and capture Edo Castle, permanently govern Toshima District, and follow in the footsteps of their ancestor Dōkan to take Edo Castle." They made this agreement, and as this was a matter of great importance...