Tenbun 7th year, 6th month, 28th day, within Hachiman estate, Shimōsa (and so forth)　　　Shōsen
　　　　4th month, 20th day, handmade items at the gate front (and so forth) (probably Tenbun 8th year, Tsuchinoto-I)　　Tōyama
Undated, 4th month, 28th day, Mama-san Kōbōji　　　　　　　　　　　Hara Shikibu-no-Taifu Tanekiyo
Undated, Rabbit year, 8th month, 15th day, grass cutting below Mama temple (and so forth)　　　　　　Sugi Sano and four others jointly signed
Undated, 6th month, 1st day, concerning the round trip to Kokufu Mama Hōdō (and so forth)　　　　　　Sadatane
Karyaku 3rd year, 3rd month, 14th day, donated rice fields to Mama temple (and so forth)　　　　　Saemon-no-jō
Kan'ō 1st year, 7th month, 11th day, respectfully donated Senda estate, Shimōsa Province (and so forth)　　　　　Taira Taneaki
　　　3rd year, 4th month, 4th day, within Soya village, Akiyama village (and so forth)　　　　　　　Ōsumi-no-kami Taira Tane[?]
Kōryaku 3rd year, 2nd month, 2nd day, concerning the lands of Kokufu Mama Hokkeidō (and so forth)　　　　　Taira (monogram)
Eikyō 12th year, 10th month, 25th day, chief priest position of Mama Konponji, Shimōsa Province (and so forth)　　Tanenao
Kyōtoku 5th year, 6th month, 14th day, within Hachiman estate, Katsushika district, Shimōsa Province (and so forth)　　Tanefusa

Seven ancient stone monuments (Shōwa 4th year, Kinoto-U, 7th month; Ryakuō 5th heaven; Bunwa 3rd year, Kinoe-Uma, 7th month; Meiō 8th heaven, Tsuchinoto-Hitsuji, 6th month, 23rd day, Nichiryū; Tenbun broken monument; Kemmu 2nd year, Kinoto-I, 4th month; Meitoku 3rd year, Mizunoe-Saru, 5th month, 7th day)

Mama-ura (also called Irie, Hama, I, or Osuhi): The marshland stretching from Tsuki Bridge along upper Mama and curving around to Suwata - this is the ancient Mama Bay. To the south of this area flows a small stream, and the muddy fields south of this stream were probably also part of ancient Mama Bay. (Note: The theory that the villages in this area are remnants of that time is likely incorrect. The ancient conditions should be discussed by actually walking the land. ○ There is Kakemama village downstream on the Futoi River. Does this place have some connection? ○ There is a reservoir here that distributes water to twelve villages in Gyōtoku territory. The eastern side of this reservoir is called Imukai village. The original character name was apparently Sasazuka. It is said there were once residences of a thousand households.)

From Kōjinshū, Spring Section: "At Mama Bay, were precious shells once gathered? Their traces faintly float in the spring night moon" - Chikage