Would there be any land that remains unchanged? Therefore, it seems certain that this mountain was already temple grounds before Tekona drowned herself. 《In the 24th year of Empress Suiko's reign, the Empress fell ill. When Prince Shōtoku built a temple and prayed, the Empress's illness was cured, and many court officials built numerous temples and pagodas.》By the 33rd year of Suiko's reign, there were only 46 temples, 816 monks, and 569 nuns.

Mama in Katsushika was an ancient provincial capital (kokufu). 《The "Wamyōshō" Volume 5 states "The provincial office of Shimousa Province is located in Katsushika." Today, about one chō away from Mama-san, there is a shrine called Fuchū Rokusho, and there is also a place called Kōnodai. About five chō away are Kokubu Village and Kokubunji Temple. All evidence shows that Mama-san was also part of the ancient provincial capital.》

The provincial capital was an agata (county) and imperial estate, so while there were provincial governors (kokuzo) and county chiefs (kenshu) stationed there to administer regional politics, officials from the capital also traveled back and forth, making it an extremely prosperous place even in the countryside. 《The "Kojiki" records that during Emperor Seimu's reign, Takenouchi no Sukune was appointed as minister and established provincial governors for large and small provinces, and also established boundaries between provinces and appointed chiefs for large and small counties.》It was considered significant enough to be called either a "distant court" or a "rural capital." 《The "Ryakuge" Volume 3 states that "distant court" refers to provincial capitals of various provinces, and in western regions refers to Dazaifu. Volume 18 mentions that Echizen's provincial capital was referred to as a "rural capital."》After the 33rd year of Suiko's reign, this mountain had already become temple grounds. 《The "Kokushiryaku" under Emperor Kōtoku states that "since Suiko's time, Buddhism has destroyed propriety and ceremonial codes have gradually fallen into disuse," which serves as additional evidence. From Suiko's 33rd year to Jomei's first year is five years.》

Even if one argues that during Empress Suiko's time it had not yet become temple grounds, it is undoubtedly true that it became temple grounds after Emperor Shōmu's 9th year of Tenpyō. 《In the third month of Emperor Shōmu's 9th year of Tenpyō, an imperial edict ordered that "each province shall create sixteen-foot statues of Shakyamuni and Bodhisattva images, and copy the complete Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sutra in 600 volumes." This was the beginning of the provincial temples (kokubunji). From this time onward, temples clearly became numerous throughout the country. From Emperor Jomei's first year to Tenpyō 9 is one hundred