《This amounts to 109 years.》 Since Empress Suiko's reign, monks and nuns gradually increased in number and temples became numerous, but they were simply sacred places for propagating Buddhism, with no particular sect established. It appears that this mountain (Narita-san) also had no specific sectarian affiliation until it was designated as Tendai sect after the 24th year of Enryaku.

《If we date Tekona's drowning to Emperor Inkyō's time, it would be 316 years until Tenpyō 9. Even if the mountain became temple grounds during Suiko's time, counting back from year 33 to Inkyō's reign would be 217 years. How could a grave site be maintained without loss for over 200 years without a designated caretaker? Therefore, of the two theories, dating it to Emperor Jomei's time should be considered superior. 177 years after her death, this mountain became Tendai sect, and after another 460 years it became Hokke sect.》

《From Enryaku 24 to Bun'ei 1 is 460 years. After another 238 years, she became the guardian deity of this mountain. From Jomei's first year to Bunsei 13 amounts to 1,202 years. While ordinary people's rotting flesh has not yet completely decayed, their names quickly decay and disappear. Yet Tekona, who was born in the countryside as a poor maiden lacking even proper clothing, continues to be known, revered, and honored even after a thousand years. Though this might be called the virtue of a chaste woman, how could this be within the reach of ordinary people? That her name does not perish after a thousand years truly shows she attained the way of the golden immortal (Buddha). How could this not be most venerable?》

Tekona of Mama's burial site《To the right side facing the tower gate stands an ancient pine tree. This marks Tekona's burial site. The current pine appears to be less than 800 years old, perhaps having withered once and been replanted.》

In the Man'yōshū, Volume 3, Yamabe no Sukune Akahito's poem reads: "Ware mo mitsu / hito ni mo tsugen / Katsushika no / Mama no Tekona no / okutsuki tokoro" (I too have seen it and will tell others of Tekona of Mama in Katsushika's burial place) 《The "Man'yō-kō" states that "tekona" is "hateko" with the "ha" omitted. Also, "teko" means beloved child, a term of endearment, and "na" is also an honorific term. The "Ryakuge" explains that "teko-na" means "until the end," with "na" meaning woman. According to Motoori Norinaga's theory, "teko" is an eastern dialect term for girls from ages 3-4 until marriage. Sugamaro's theory states that "teko" applies to both boys and girls, referring to young children who don't leave their mother's side. Following in mother's footsteps...》