1. May the spiritual consciousness of the Fujiwara clan's successive Grand Ministers of State and the Senior First Rank Lady Tachibana, the late mother of the Empress,
   constantly serve the former emperors, accompany them in the Pure Land, long watch over future generations, and always protect the imperial court. From ancient times until today,
   those who serve as ministers and exhaust their loyalty in service to the nation, as well as their present descendants, shall all benefit from these merits, each continuing the precedent,
   firmly maintaining the propriety between lord and vassal, long perpetuating their fathers' and grandfathers' names, broadly benefiting all living beings, universally encompassing all classes, equally resolving anxieties and sorrows, and together
   escape from the dust and cage [of worldly existence].

1. May it be that if evil rulers or treacherous ministers violate and break these vows, those persons and their descendants will surely meet with disasters and calamities, and for generation after generation will long be born
   in places without Buddha's teaching.　12th year of Tenpyō, 2nd month, 14th day

○In the bell inscription: In the reign of Emperor Seiwa, Assistant Junior Secretary Sadayo newly cast one great bell and erected it with a bell stand, whereupon the esoteric teaching flourished greatly {{etc.}} On the 24th day of the 9th month of the 8th year of Kenchō, year of hinoe-tatsu, the patron Taira clan again obtained a temple bell.
Since the reign of Emperor Shōmu, over a thousand years have passed, and bells have been cast three times {{etc.}} 3rd year of Hōreki {{year of mizunoto-tori}} 3rd month, monk Ryōei respectfully recorded, Transmission Lamp Great Ācārya Dharma Seal Shōkai. From this we can infer how flourishing the incense and flower offerings were in ancient times. There are several foundation stones within the temple grounds, said to have been excavated from a place formerly called "the Hall" {{the former hall was from the temple}}

[Note: "簴" is interchangeable with "虚." Therefore 簨簴 (shunkyo) = 簨虚. A hanging frame for bells, chimes, drums and the like. 簨 is the crossbeam, 虚 is the vertical post.]