【Right page】
skin and flesh, use vegetation as hair, dwellings as clothing, and gates and doors as caps and sashes. If one can achieve such conditions, this would be dignified and elegant, and thus constitute supreme good fortune.

○Master Chao says: When people lie down, in spring and summer they should face east, in autumn and winter they should face west. This is the standard method.

○Master Sun Zhenren said: Dwelling places should not be ornate and luxurious, causing people to become greedy and insatiable. Simply keep them clean and free from wind, rain, cold, and dampness - this is good. For clothing and utensils, do not use precious gems, gold, and treasures. Always maintain frugality - this is good.

○He also said: Clothing, food, and sleeping arrangements should all be appropriate and able to harmonize with the seasonal qi - only then does one fully practice the way of nurturing life.

The Tang dynasty's Sima Chengzhen's "Tianyin Zi Yang Sheng Shu" (Book on Nurturing Life by the Hermit of Heaven) says: What is meant by "peaceful dwelling"? It does not refer to magnificent halls, deep chambers, multiple cushions, or wide couches. Rather, it means sitting facing south and sleeping with one's head to the east. Yin and yang are in proper balance, light and dark are equal. Houses should not be too high - when high, yang becomes excessive and there is too much light. Houses should not be too low - when low, yin becomes excessive and there is too much darkness.

○The "Geography New Book" says: In human dwellings, one should simply plant trees. If one cultivates bamboo on all four sides, it will be verdantly lush, not only promoting vigorous growth but naturally eliminating vulgar qi. Plant peach and willow in the east, plant mulberry and elm in the west, plant plum and jujube in the south, and plant crabapple and apricot in the north - this brings good fortune. Plant scholar trees at the central gate and three generations will prosper. Plant elm behind the house and a hundred ghosts will retreat and hide. It is appropriate to plant pomegranates in front of the hall for many

【Left page】
descendants and great fortune. Twin jujube trees at the gate entrance add joy and auspiciousness.

○"Essential Knowledge for Household Management" says: Generally, residential land should be level and flat - this is called "liang soil." When the back is high and front is low, this is called "jin soil." Living in either brings good fortune. When the west is high and east is low, this is called "lu soil." Living there brings wealth and honor, and should produce worthy people. Generally, for houses and dwellings: flowing water on the left is called the Azure Dragon, a long road on the right is called the White Tiger, a pond in front is called the Vermillion Bird, and hills behind are called the Black Tortoise. This constitutes the most auspicious land.

○"Secluded Mountain Dwelling Affairs" says: Mountain living surpasses city life because it has eight virtues: one is not subjected to harsh etiquette, does not see bothersome guests, does not indulge in wine and meat, does not compete over fields and houses, does not concern oneself with others' favor or disfavor, does not get involved in disputes over right and wrong, does not worry over minor debts, and does not discuss official careers. Those who go against this are like eating at a monk's cattle inn or doing business at a horse station.

○It also says: Living in the mountains has four principles: trees without regimented rows, stones without fixed placement, houses without grand ostentation, and mind without scheming concerns.

○"Jingshu Hall Miscellany" says: The sound of flowing water can nourish the ears. Green trees and grass can nourish the eyes. Reading books and contemplating principles can nourish the mind. Playing the qin and practicing calligraphy can nourish the fingers. Strolling leisurely with walking stick and shoes can