【Right page】
The Inner Classic says: If you carefully harmonize the five flavors, the bones will be straight and the sinews flexible, qi and blood will flow, the interstices will be dense, and you will long possess the mandate of Heaven.

○The Huainanzi says: Too much joy causes yang to fall; too much anger breaks yin.

The Master of Heavenly Concealment says: Purify the body and empty the mind, dwell deep in quiet rooms, gather the heart and restore one's nature, abandon form and forget the self. When the myriad methods are spiritually penetrating, this is called the gate of the five gradual stages.

【Left page】
Maxims for One's Seat

Sima Wengong's Six Verses on Understanding Chan

Anger and rage are like raging fire; profit and desire are like sharp blades. Being constantly sorrowful all day long is called the Avici Hell. Yan Hui was content in his humble lane; Mencius was peaceful in naturalness. Wealth and status are like floating clouds - this is called the Land of Ultimate Bliss. Filial piety and fraternal respect reach the gods and spirits; loyalty and trustworthiness are practiced even among barbarians. Accumulating good deeds brings a hundred auspicious signs - this is called creating cause and effect. Benevolence is humanity's peaceful dwelling; righteousness is humanity's correct path. Practicing these sincerely and for a long time is called the indestructible body. Moral virtue cultivates one person; meritorious virtue benefits all things. Becoming virtuous and becoming a great sage is called being Buddha and Bodhisattva. Words become teachers for a hundred generations; actions become laws for the world. What cannot be concealed for long, long periods is called the Treasury of Light.

Ji Zhongsan's Five Difficulties

In nurturing life there are five difficulties: Not abandoning fame and profit is the first difficulty; not eliminating joy and anger is the second difficulty; not abandoning sounds and colors is the third difficulty; not reducing rich flavors is the fourth difficulty; spirit becoming thin and essence scattering is the fifth difficulty. If these five are not removed, even though the heart... [continues]