【Right page】
Frugality
Being frugal yet able to give is benevolence. Being frugal with few desires is righteousness. Making frugality a family law is propriety. Teaching descendants through frugality is wisdom. Being frugal yet stingy is not benevolence. Being frugal yet poor in seeking is unrighteous. Being frugal toward one's parents is improper. Accumulating through frugality to leave to descendants is not wisdom.

Wasting Away in Vexation
When things in the world do not go as desired, people readily become vexed, but such vexation only increases their affliction and provides no benefit whatsoever to the matter at hand. The enlightened see through this - they simply handle the situation without adding this additional layer of entanglement.

Leisure
Rather than devising a hundred schemes, it is better to be at leisure. To attain this before growing old is true leisure. To gain even half a day's leisure in this floating life - these are all [the desires of] those who truly wished to be at leisure in the past but could not, who envied leisure but had not yet achieved it. How can leisure be easily obtained? However, when the ancients created characters, the character for "leisure/ease" (閑) and the character for "restraint/prevention" (防閑) are the same. This has deep meaning. "Eating one's fill all day with nothing to occupy the mind" is difficult indeed. Even when gentlemen dwell in leisure, though they do not go so far as petty men who stop at nothing evil, many still indulge freely in sensual pleasures and drinking

【Left page】
vessels. This is why it is valuable to use propriety for restraint and prevention.

Flowers Last Not Ten Days
After a year of cultivation, flowers bloom for no more than ten days. There are also the variables of wind and rain that break and destroy them. Comparing this to human life: after a lifetime of toil and suffering, the times when things go as one wishes are merely a few years.

From Ten Years to Seventy Years
From age ten and above to seventy, each person has their occupation, and none can avoid labor. Only those under ten years old are [exempt] due to youth, and those over seventy due to old age. Except for these two categories, there are none who do not labor. Only the wise...