(Continued from previous page) Since no instructions had yet been issued, [the village headman Yatarō] went to inquire of Jinuemon-dono today. The officials replied, "Are you still constructing the road?" He answered, "We have stopped for now," to which they responded, "In that case, there is no objection. We have ordered that it is unnecessary. If it is built again, we will file a complaint." This was duly reported.

Intercalary Eighth Month, 15th Day

One matter: Regarding whether the sequential transfer of posts (jidai ten'nin) following the resignation of the head shrine priest should be reported to both the Imperial Court and the Shogunate — as this matter had been repeatedly delayed for various reasons, it was decided to make the report the following day, and accordingly a written petition was composed on the spot.

　　　　　　Oral Petition Humbly Submitted

One: In the second month of this year, we submitted a written notice that Tomino Sanmi (the head shrine priest) wished to resign from the position of head shrine priest. In response, Andō Suruga-no-kami-dono instructed us to delay the matter a little longer, and he has continued to serve until now. We were instructed that, in accordance with the shrine's established precedent, the sequential transfer of posts should proceed from the Kibune Shrine's hafuri (officiating priest). However, the Sei-hafuri (chief officiating priest) Hayashi Sanmi claims that his position is hereditary (fudai) and therefore not subject to transfer, causing the matter to stall. Regarding the sequential transfer system, when the position of Gon-hafuri (provisional officiating priest) fell vacant in the fifteenth year of Genroku [1702], a lawsuit was filed and after extensive deliberation, on the twenty-first day of the tenth month, it was decreed by Suruga-no-kami-dono, based on the articles of regulation, that the sequential transfer should be carried out. Thereafter, during the time when Lord Hiramatsu Chūnagon served as Tendō (the Court's liaison), Hayashi Kunai Gonno-Taifu reported the position of Kibune Nigi (shrine official) to the Court, and the sequential transfer was duly executed. We humbly request that you issue the order for the Sei-hafuri to be transferred without delay this time as well. Respectfully submitted.

　　　　　　　　Intercalary Eighth Month, 15th Day, Year of the Tiger　　　Representative of Kamigamo Shrine
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Ōkura Gonno-Taifu