Prepare miso with dashi, simmer well, add sake and salt, garnish with powdered sansho pepper.
"Small fish soup": Small crucian carp, shrimp, or dried squid, adjust as above,
add wife's burdock, daikon radish, bamboo shoots, anything according to preference, same for sake, salt,
and garnish. "Cod soup": Good as clear soup with kelp dashi, good to place kelp on top,
good to add male basket seaweed and katanori, add dashi. Also good to add stuffed clams and simmered flesh,
etc. Similarly, iced cod is also good for soup. "Whale soup": Drop shadow into clear soup,
can also prepare as miso soup. Wife's burdock, daikon radish, stems
and stalks are good. Bamboo shoots, myoga according to preference. For whale, prepare and briefly
pour boiling water over, or briefly simmer whale until tender.
Some start hard then become tender - this should be understood. "Fugu soup": Remove skin,
discard intestines, carefully remove the hidden liver in the head, wash thoroughly until no blood
remains, cut and first soak in body broth, also add clear sake.
For the base, make slightly thinner than medium miso, when it comes to a boil add the fish, after one boil

add body broth, adjust salt and taste, then serve. Garnish with garlic, eggplant.
"Flathead" and other fish are also prepared as "fugu-style." Also remove and discard skin,
good to add fugu skin. Prepare same as fugu.
"Anglerfish soup": Remove skin, fillet and cut, knead skin and seaweed, put in boiling water,
when it turns white, open and cool with water, then pour sake over and set aside. When miso soup
comes to a boil, add fish, add body broth, adjust salt and taste, then serve. Also
for clear soup, use only dashi with a little shadow dropped. At this time add garnishes according
to preference. "Kotatami" is prepared as thoroughly cooked soup, warm the soup and
just before serving, make string sea cucumber, kamaboko into crumbles, add green nori, etc.
and serve with proper taste. Also good to add grated mountain yam. In the past, mountain yam
was not added. "Harara soup": Good to add harara thin flesh, grated, etc. Prepare with medium
miso, add dashi. When adding oysters, etc., miso adjustment is by oral tradition.
"Loach soup": Add dashi to medium miso, simmer well, add body broth and