It is also called "ae" (salad/mixed dish). "Mizu-ae" (water salad): Add vinegar to roasted sake, good with sliced burdock root, roasted small fish, dried squid, roasted fish roe, small birds {{side note: grilled and added | dried}}, salmon, green nori, myoga buds, wood ear mushrooms, burdock root. Mix and combine from the above ingredients. It's good to add chopped sansho pepper leaves. "Mikawa-ae" (Mikawa-style salad): Chop cucumber with skin, sprinkle with a little salt and knead, quickly rinse and squeeze out, add dried bonito flakes, thin poppy seed miso with roasted sake vinegar and mix. When it's tough, remove the skin before preparing. "Ao-ae" (green salad): Boil roasted small fish well to make stock, simmer well with tamari soy sauce, grind green soybeans, season with salt and mix.

▲Chapter 11: Sashimi Section

"Shimofuri" (frost-fall): Fillet sea bream, cut at the right time, put in boiling water, when it turns white remove and cool, then arrange. Roasted sake is good, mustard may also be provided. "Kaki-dai" (scraped sea bream): Fillet sea bream into three pieces, slice thin and pile up for serving. Roasted sake is good. Place mustard. For garnish use dried bonito ▲ ku-nenbo ▲ mandarin ▲ kumquat. "Ogawa-tataki" (river-pounded): Fillet fresh bonito and pound well, attach to cedar board, pour boiling water to whiten, then arrange. 

This can be served in place of scraped sea bream, good combination. Can also be made with carp. Similarly with roasted sake. "Susuki" (silver grass): Good with green vinegar or soy sauce lees. "Mana-gatsuo" (true bonito): Good with roasted sake or ginger vinegar. "Whale": Make thin, pour boiling water, good with sansho miso vinegar. "Shark": Remove skin and prepare, pour boiling water to whiten well, good with ginger vinegar. Good to blanch quickly. "Same" (shark): Same as shark above. "Kochi" (flathead): Peel skin and make thin. Good with ginger vinegar, roasted sake, or knotweed vinegar. "Anglerfish": Also whiten with ginger vinegar. "Sawara" (Spanish mackerel): Roasted sake, ginger vinegar. "Nama-gatsuo" (fresh bonito): Good whitened. Also prepared as is. Mustard vinegar. "Carp": Roasted sake good. "Crucian carp": Also good with roasted sake. "Sweetfish": Also good with roasted sake. "Eel": Grill white and good with green vinegar. "Pheasant": Boil whole and pluck, good with sansho miso vinegar. "Duck/goose": Like pheasant. Or debone and slice, good with wasabi vinegar or ginger miso vinegar. "Chicken": Also prepare like pheasant. "Small duck": Combine with pheasant sashimi and blanched sea bream flakes, serve with wasabi miso vinegar. For garnish use dried laver and kumquat. All birds should be plucked.