To prepare, first sauté the skin, then add the meat and sauté, seasoning with dashi soy sauce. Sometimes add sauté sake ▲ water dropwort ▲ scallions ▲ rape blossoms, etc. are good. Garnish with hot water ▲ wasabi.

"Jibu" means to sauté duck skin, season with dashi soy sauce, let it sizzle, then add the meat.

"Nobusuma": Pound small birds and quickly simmer like thin cuts. Then finely mince sea bream, pour boiling water over it and set aside. Thinly slice large abalone - when blanched it becomes like a pouch. At this point, season with dashi soy sauce, and when it comes to a boil, add the three ingredients and mix together so they become wrapped in the pouch. Good topped with egg crumbles. Various garnishes.

"Simmered": White-grill crucian carp and simmer in dashi soy sauce.

"Ise tofu": Grate Chinese yam, mince sea bream and mix, add one-third yam. Add egg white to tofu. Mix everything together well, line a cedar box with cloth, wrap and steam, then slice and serve with kuzu starch sauce. Also very good with bird miso or wasabi miso. Can also be made with tofu alone, ground well and prepared the same way.

"Kuzu sea bream": Cut sea bream like grilled food, skewer and boil, serve with kuzu starch sauce. Kuzu daikon is prepared the same way.

"Tofu": Fluffy, simmer briefly once or twice in dashi soy sauce and serve quickly.

"Cooking tofu": Add dashi to kneaded miso. Top with bonito flakes, ginger ▲ black sesame ▲ walnuts, etc.

"For colored simmering": Add vinegar to dashi soy sauce - anything is good.

"Cousin simmering": Add azuki beans ▲ burdock ▲ taro ▲ daikon ▲ tofu ▲ roasted chestnuts ▲ arrowhead, etc. Good with medium miso. Called "cousin simmering" because ingredients are added one after another.

"Lark ball sweets": Good with egg fish cake inside.

"Tofu eggs": Grind tofu, dye lightly with gardenia, add a little kuzu powder, prepare fluffy like eggs with dashi soy sauce. Just like real eggs.

"Crucian carp aspic": Add shadow to dripping miso, simmer until bones soften, then place in the wind - it will gel within an hour. In summer, good to add tengusa seaweed.

"Wheat gluten wild boar soldier sugar": Wheat gluten