"Tsurin sake": Roast one sho of black beans and let cool, add 1.5 sho of good sake and let steep. Drink when the beans become soft and swollen.

　　　▲Chapter 16: Appetizers Section

"Fluffy eggs": Break eggs, add one-third volume of dashi soy sauce and irizake (seasoned sake), puff up well and serve. If it becomes hard, it's no good. Adding chicken skin or leg feathers will make it expand. Also called "sumatomo."

"Rolled kamaboko": Attach kamaboko to grilled wheat gluten, arrange kelp on top, roll tightly and tie the top, add a little salt and boil, then slice.

"Rolled squid": Wash dried squid, sprinkle a little kudzu powder and roll, tie with straw, press in hot water, let cool and slice.

"Pounded squid": Grill the outside, then pound and shred well on a board.

"Sprout rolls": Wrap yam in kelp, boil and cut into various shapes. Also sprinkle a little kudzu powder.

"Namabi": Cut fresh bonito to proper size, sandwich between cedar chopsticks, boil until firm, then grill, slice and serve with soy sauce. Can also be made with flounder.

"Salmon namabi": Cut fresh salmon lengthwise like shark or mochi, soak in salt water for a short time, then dry and grill before serving.

"What is called 'hawk feathers'": Attach kamaboko to cedar board, put kelp in between and boil until separated, cut diagonally and arrange to look like hawk feathers.

"Shavings for adding to sake": Dried cod ▲ dried squid ▲ split dried salmon ▲ dried cuttlefish ▲ smelt roe ▲ fukume ▲ iriko ▲ skewered abalone ▲ bonito flakes ▲ wakame ▲ green seaweed ▲ rokutei. Choose combinations from the above. Rokutei is pickled with tsuki-ga-nani.

"What is called揉み麩 (kneaded wheat gluten)": Knead wheat gluten well with sake and simmer in dashi soy sauce. Also add dried plums and flat bonito, can also simmer with aged sake.

"Tamatsusa": These are snake gourd seeds. Also called kinmoji. Sauté in soy sauce. Additionally, adding apricot kernels, peach kernels, black beans, chili peppers, ginger, etc. is good. Bottle gourd seeds can also be used.

"Butterbur sprouts": Boil, skewer, coat with sansho miso and grill. Can also be prepared without boiling.

"Cut sansho": Remove the white part inside sansho pepper, grind well and add bonito flakes and miso. Adjust to a good level of spiciness.