Make it with water.

"Oral Instructions for Tanuki Soup": Prepare the meat, add pine needles, garlic, and yuzu, fry in aged sake, then wash with water, add good sake and salt, then put in soup - this is good. Otter is prepared in the same way.

"For Bean Sprouts": With soybeans, adzuki beans, cowpeas, or kidney beans, soak in water and sow in soil in a cutting box - they will soon sprout. Use when they have grown 1 sun 4-5 bu (about 4-5 cm).

"Washed and Dried Rice": Use the finest white glutinous rice, wash with water during the cold season, place in a tub and change the water daily, soak for 14-15 days to bleach, then steam well, hang-dry, crack, and sift through three grades - this is good. Remove the coarse parts - this is good. The medium grade is best.

"Green Bean Flour Preparation": When green beans are unavailable, lightly boil daikon radish leaves, remove the fibers, squeeze out water, place on a roasting pan, grind in a medicine grinder and add - this will make even white ingredients green. Add yuzu leaves sparingly just for fragrance - this is good.

"Salt Proportions for Cold Noodles": Add 1 shō 5 gō of salt to 5 shō of water - this is good. It is difficult to cook. There are oral instructions for summer and winter adjustments.

"For Kneading Sugar": Crush and add one egg - the egg will pick up all the scattered sugar and it can be removed. Also works for honey.

"Hama Nattō": Cook 1 to of beans like miso and remove, add 1 to of wheat flour, mix well and let ferment, cover with straw mat and leave for about 3 days. When you check and it has fermented well, remove the cover, let cool outside, turn top to bottom and ferment again. When well fermented, gather together and prepare with 6 parts water to 3 parts salt. 5 parts water to 5 parts salt is even better. Stir occasionally. Stir well for 30 days. Although it's made during the summer earth season (doyō), it's good to keep until around September 9th. For fermentation method oral instructions: when placed on boards, pile to about the height of door crossbeams - this is good. If too thick, it's bad. After stirring for 30 days, when it's mostly ready, add chili pepper, ginger, etc. and finish the flavoring well.

"Masaki Soy Sauce": Barley, 1 shō of white variety, soak overnight in water, boil gently, drain in a basket, steam 8 gō of beans, steam until edible, heap up, sort and wash with water, dry and roast to the right degree, grind finely until smooth, remove hulls. Mix these two ingredients, steam until soft, spread evenly to a thickness of about 5 bu (1.5 cm), sprinkle 2 gō 5 shaku of wheat flour on top and bottom.