If this is done, there will be no future trouble, so if bitten by a dog, quickly squeeze out the blood, then wash well with cold water. When the bleeding stops, examine carefully where the dog's teeth made contact. At the bottom, there will be something like white kudzu paste attached to the flesh. This is congealed saliva. After thoroughly scraping this out and squeezing out blood again, wash again with water, and the poison will be removed, preventing future trouble. However, this must be done immediately after being bitten, as there is danger of poison remaining if time passes. For bites where time has passed, stuff much tinder into the wound and light it, or apply gunpowder thoroughly and burn it to destroy the poison, or apply seven to eight moxa cones, or apply human feces and perform moxibustion on top - this is even better. If time has passed and the wound has begun to heal, cut the wound slightly to draw out blood, then make a paste using fine powder of croton seeds or cantharis mixed with oil and a little wax to draw the poison outward. If many days have passed, use two monme of nux vomica and one monme of rhubarb as one dose, add one gō of water and decoct to five shaku, using two to three doses, or grind to fine powder and take with hot water. This will cause paralysis throughout the body followed by diarrhea, leading to recovery. If the condition progresses to imitating dogs, take the patient to a well, strip them naked, and pour 145-150 buckets of water until the body trembles and teeth chatter uncontrollably. At this stage there are methods using cantharis, but usually water is effective. ▲For poisoning from eating taro, squeeze ginger juice into sugar water until it is too spicy to bear and drink. ▲Those with tinea cruris who travel may experience unbearable itching. This disease has poison within the fatty tissue that spreads. Using inappropriate topical medicines carelessly can cause the toxic qi to attack inward, transforming into various diseases and often leading to death, so one should understand