Squeezing and applying this is also good. Decocting cloves and
holding them in the mouth is also good. If you grind allium and apply it to the cheek,
it will raise small blisters and the pain will become milder.
When the pain is strong, take about ten monme of pure silver,
roll it thin, decoct it in water and
hold it in the mouth. Do not swallow it. Alternatively, stirring fine
powder of borneol into vinegar and holding it in the mouth is also good. This
can be swallowed without harm. If even these methods
do not stop the pain, mix four rin of borneol and two rin of opium
with sake and insert it above the decayed tooth.
When this dissolves, it should be spit out -
do not swallow it. Alternatively, inserting about five bu of a lump of sal ammoniac
is also good ▲For nosebleeds, those with excess qi and blood (abundant blood) should
not stop them suddenly. However,
if while traveling much blood flows and is difficult to stop, cold
water should be drawn in through the nose and spit out through the mouth
repeatedly. If a post station is near, at a pharmacy
buy about three or four monme of dried alum, mix it into five or six
shaku of strong vinegar, and blow it into the nose with a bamboo tube.

Alternatively, add a little vinegar to dried alum,
soak cotton or cotton thread, or kneaded paper in it,
and insert it into the nostril. If there is no dried alum, raw
alum ground to fine powder may be used. Birch polypore and horse mushroom
and similar substances are good for stopping bleeding from all cuts,
so they are essential items to store during
travel or military service. If available, tear them to good size and
soak them in vinegar with dried alum, then insert into the nostril - this is most
effective. Continuously pouring cold water on the head and warming both legs
in hot water is also good ▲Abdominal pain that sometimes occurs
and sometimes stops, saliva accumulating in the mouth, facial color blue and
yellowish, lips excessively red, and sudden
nausea when approaching food - those with these symptoms
are mostly suffering from roundworms. For those with such symptoms who experience
sudden severe abdominal pain that is unbearable
while traveling, decoct about four monme of licorice root,
add about two monme of fine licorice powder and good honey,
stir and take it. This is not to expel the worms
but to temporarily calm the worms until