Apply this to the surface and it will surely come out. Alternatively, mix one praying mantis
with half a croton seed, knead them together and use. This
is also good. The previously mentioned spindle tree seeds and charred pine needles
are used for removing all kinds of splinters. Praying mantises have
the effect of drawing out iron. If sago palm leaves are decocted and
taken internally, it is said to be effective for those who have been pierced with needles,
which must be effective against iron needles ▲When a needle has been accidentally
swallowed and entered the throat making it difficult to come out, cut off the head
of a toad, turn it upside down and squeeze out the blood,
then slowly drip about one cup's worth into the throat,
and after a while, the needle will become soft
and come out ▲For vomiting that will not stop, if there is good quality soil,
dig about one square foot of that earth,
add freshly drawn water and stir it up, let it sit briefly,
then take the clear water from the top and boil it
into hot water, add fourteen or fifteen drops of ginger juice
and use. This is called earth syrup water. If the soil contains sand
and other impurities and is of poor quality,
there is what is called "furnace center yellow earth" - the bright red

burned earth from under old hearths, which pharmacies call "crouching dragon liver."
Take the clear water from stirring the fine powder of this earth in water
and decoct it for use, which is also good. To this
also add ginger juice. For various diseases where vomiting
will not stop, this is effective when used. Using this
water to decoct pinellia alone is
even better. ▲When gums are swollen and
eating is troublesome, frequently apply deer antler ash {{available at pharmacies}}.
Alternatively, mix equal parts of gallnut powder with charcoal
powder, add a little salt and apply
- this is also good. Also, after decocting and gargling with figs,
applying these medicines makes it even better
▲For bee stings, bundle cut pieces of fresh taro stems
and rub vigorously - the pain will immediately heal.
When fresh taro stems are not available, moisten dried ones
and use them. Fresh taro can also be substituted. Alternatively,
first remove the stinger, light a candle, and let the wax
drip onto it - this is also good. Or wash with urine
first, then apply dental plaque - this is also good ▲When the nose suddenly