When constricted, if you quickly have someone urinate on it, it will immediately release, it is said. For this too, applying tobacco tar or tobacco ash would be good. ▲When one eats too much dried cooked rice (hoshiii) or Dōmyōji rice in its dry state and it swells up in the belly causing abdominal distension and suffering, one should drink soy sauce. For bamboo or wooden splinters, use spindle tree seeds or charred pine needles. Alternatively, if you use equal parts of pine needles and balsam (hōsenka) stems, leaves, and seeds burned and ground to fine powder, it is said to treat needles, splinters, and fish bones stuck in the throat. This should also be used. For fish bones stuck in the throat, roll malt sugar into dumpling-sized balls and swallow. Or place saltpeter powder on the tongue, wait for it to dissolve and swallow it down. Also, when broken bamboo from scrubbing brushes gets into miso soup and is accidentally swallowed, causing abdominal pain afterward, the medicine for bamboo and wood splinters can be taken internally. ▲Night blindness is water qi stagnating in the membrane of the eyeball. If this is treated using the treatment methods for dropsy described later, it will heal quickly. If good quality Chinese atractylodes is not available, use Sado atractylodes alone ground to fine powder.

For eye drops, use eel gallbladder. The gallbladder is a very small sac within the eel's intestines containing bitter water. Extract this, pierce it with a needle to squeeze out the bile, add a little water to it and apply as drops. Taking eel gallbladder internally is also good. During the height of summer, after being on a boat all day, one may suddenly develop night blindness that evening. This is water qi evaporating from the water, striking the eyes and penetrating into the membrane. This should not be alarming. This disease will heal quickly as long as urination improves. ▲When stung by a poisonous insect and it's unclear what kind of insect it was, first squeeze out the blood, wash the area well with water, then apply dental plaque, or light an oil-soaked wick or kindling and drip the oil onto it. Dripping candle wax is also good. Applying fine powder of cockscomb ore and realgar is also good. ▲If you realize you have been poisoned, quickly drink oil. Sesame oil, rapeseed oil, perilla oil - any kind will do. Arsenic, arsenopyrite, cantharis beetle - whatever