Whatever kind of poison it may be, if you quickly use one or two gō (合) of this [oil], it will well contain that poison like binding and tying up an enemy, absolutely preventing it from causing harm. Therefore, if you remember this well, you can avoid disasters to yourself and also save others. In recent years, since Dutch medicine has been practiced in the world, immature and incompetent doctors have carelessly misused narcotics such as opium, datura flower leaves, and nux vomica seeds, often harming people. For those types, there are specific antidotes for each poison, but if you quickly use oil, it will not lead to death.

People say that licorice well neutralizes the poison of various medicines, but while this may be so for extremely mild poisons, it has no effect on severe ones. Also, while it is said that human breast milk and fresh squeezed fig juice well neutralize all poisons, they may be used for mild cases. ▲For sudden death, refer to the previous section on sudden death. For vomiting blood, there are various distinctions. Blood that is dark black in color and immediately coagulates to become like chicken liver - this overflows from the stomach, which is the sac that receives food and drink, so it contains

rice grains or sticky clumps of coagulated liquid. This is easy to treat. Blood that is red in color and frothy comes from the lungs, which are the sacs where breath enters and exits to maintain life, when they are torn, so even a little is difficult to treat. Also, when blood vomiting from the lungs comes from what has accumulated in the lungs, it coagulates and comes out as dark purple color, so at a cursory glance one might think it came from the stomach, but since this contains thread-like substances mixed in, it should not be confused. For these two types of blood vomiting, there are various causes, but if it is blood vomiting from the stomach, first prevent nausea from occurring again and do not carelessly use medicines that tend to cause stagnation. When traveling and there are no suitable medicines available, use the earth syrup water and hearth soil water mentioned in the previous section for stopping vomiting, or stir red ochre powder in hot water and use it. Once the nausea has settled, it is good to use medicines like Sanōtō to purge downward. Sanōtō is from Tang