One monme and two bu of rhubarb, six bu each of coptis and scutellaria from Tang as one dose. When it boils, remove it from the fire immediately and strain out the dregs before use. Alternatively, one monme and two bu of rhubarb, six bu each of cinnamon twig, peach kernel, and mirabilite, two bu of licorice - combining the five ingredients to make three monme and two bu as one dose, add plenty of ginger and decoct for use. This is called Tōkaku-jōki-tō (Peach Kernel Order the Qi Decoction). There are various treatment methods, but when traveling, these should suffice. This hematemesis occurs mostly in heavy drinkers, so even if it can be cured, alcohol must absolutely not be consumed. Many die from recurrence. Also for hematemesis from the lungs, initially it is good to first use earth syrup water or freshly drawn water, but when vomiting blood again in large quantities, some die suddenly, so if there are no suitable medicines available while traveling, roasted salt should be ground to fine powder and used with freshly drawn water. If there is no roasted salt, it is good to grind roasted regular salt to powder for use. Alternatively, break pottery into pieces of about ten monme, decoct in water, add two to three monme of calcined alum powder with sugar and stir

together, cool and use. Or, grind one monme of dragon's blood and two monme of calcined alum to powder, add an appropriate amount of sugar, and use with freshly drawn water - this is best. For subsequent treatment, there are two different approaches: using three to four monme of Canton ginseng as one dose, decocting it concentrated, adding two to three shaku of children's urine at a time, and having them drink it continuously; using Sanō-tō with saltpeter or mirabilite added; using Chikuyō-sekikō-tō, Bakumondō-tō and other such distinctions. Even if this were recorded in detail, there would be much that laypeople would find difficult to understand, so I will not elaborate. However, what is called sandy raw rehmannia - taking the juice of raw rehmannia for use - is good for any symptom, so if available, it should be used quickly.
▲Cellulitis: There are cases where it tries to develop but doesn't, and the person dies suddenly as is. Calling this apoplexy or stroke and leaving it as is without investigation is lamentable, so this matter should be recorded and shown to many people. At the very beginning, cellulitis is merely like a millet grain, extremely small, but deep inside, hardly