The prescription consists of: Pueraria root (kakkon) 1 monme 6 bu, ephedra (maou) 1 monme, cinnamon twig (keishi), peony root (shakuyaku), and jujube (taisou) 8 bu each, and licorice (kanzo) 2 bu, making one dose 4 monme 4 bu total. If this is reduced by one-third, one dose becomes 3 monme 3 bu. Smaller doses than this are ineffective.

Now, even after inducing sweating, if tenesmus (anal tension and feeling of incomplete evacuation) still does not stop, it is because there is toxin in the intestines that should be purged. In such cases, signs will necessarily appear on the tongue: a thick white coating will form, and the back of the tongue will turn yellow, or the entire tongue will take on a yellowish tinge. This serves as the indication for using purgatives.

When there are no tongue abnormalities but tenesmus persists, purgatives should not be used hastily. For purgatives, Choi Shouki-to (Regulate the Stomach Decoction) is good. Its formula is: rhubarb (daiou) 1 monme, mirabilite (boushou) 2 monme, and licorice (kanzo) 2 bu 5 rin, even when reduced to half the original amount. This licorice should not be reduced further. Add 1 go 2 shaku of water and boil down to 6 shaku for use. Peony root and other herbs may be added to this formula. For severe cases, Dai Shouki-to (Major承気湯), or pills containing croton seed such as Shien or Bikyu-en may be used. Depending on the pulse and tongue condition, large amounts of aconite may also be effective, but since even physicians rarely understand these distinctions well enough to make decisive judgments, it is better not to act rashly. Since frequent use of purgatives may actually worsen tenesmus, when traveling and it's difficult to make a clear decision, it may be better not to use medicine and observe the natural course of the disease. Therefore, it's difficult to record each case individually here. This disease often responds well to moxibustion, so it's good to apply moxa at points called Tenshu on both sides of the navel, or to heap salt in the navel and burn much bagged moxa on top of it. Also, measure the width of the mouth between the lip and flesh, cut paper into a square of that width, make a hole in the center, place this hole over the navel, and apply moxa at eight points in the four corners - left, right, up, and down. This is called "Eight Flower Moxibustion." This moxibustion is effective for cholera (acute gastroenteritis) and abdominal masses with hernial pain.