For those who experience this, Chinese evodia is effective, so it should be used by adding it abundantly to formulas like Immutable Gold Correct Qi Powder (fukankin shōki-san). Jianzhong Powder is also good. Or, using the prescription called Evodia Decoction is most effective. The prescription is: one monme of evodia, eight bu of ginseng, six bu of jujube, two bu of licorice with added fresh ginger, decocting one gō two shaku of water down to six shaku for use. It is extremely effective. This medicine also has many experienced cases of effectiveness when used for hiccups or dizziness and vomiting that occur with each meal.

Also, there is "true headache" where one feels pain in the center of the brain, which soon becomes severe and unbearable, or one becomes dizzy and loses consciousness, soon the hands and feet become cold, the pulse becomes deep and weak, the nail color turns blue, the lips become white, and breathing nearly stops. Most of these cases are difficult to save. Quickly apply moxibustion to the Baihui point at the center of the head, the Tianshu point on the abdomen, and the eight-flower moxibustion mentioned earlier, and continuously take Ma-huang Aconite and Asarum Decoction (maō bushi saishin-tō), which consists of three ingredients - Chinese aconite, asarum, and ephedra, one monme each - brewed strong.

Adding sal ammoniac as a powder medicine is also good. The previously mentioned white mustard seed and borneol drawing medicine, or the fusui technique, tongue medicine, etc., may also be tried. Depending on the symptoms, strong emetics should be used, but those prescriptions are difficult to include in this volume. There are other prescriptions that could be used, but they are difficult to transmit to laypeople.

▲For eye injuries where the eye becomes red and painfully inflamed, decoct white plum (pickled plum) and frequently steam it. Also good is grinding narcissus root to extract juice and adding calcined alum about the size of a small ear pick as eye drops.

Bedwetting can be caused by overeating, roundworms, or abdominal spasms - it is not uniform. For overeating, reduce food intake; for roundworms, purge the worms and it will heal. Those caused by abdominal spasms are difficult to cure quickly. Persistent bedwetting is common in those who are naturally timid and lazy, making it a disease difficult to cure quickly, but while traveling or in military camps...