If a traveling companion has this affliction, secretly obtain cat feces that has been on a roof and exposed to rain and dew for several months, dry it in the sun and make it into fine powder, then form pills and use daily - this has miraculous effects in treating bedwetting. It is also good to roast it over fire, powder it, and make pills. It is also said that black-boned chicken droppings are effective, but I have not yet tried this.

▲Being bitten by a cat is treated much the same as being bitten by a dog as mentioned earlier. When cats eat mint, they invariably become intoxicated. Since mint is said to effectively control cat poison, it can be taken internally, or if fresh leaves are available, they can be rubbed into the wound after treating it like dog bite poisoning.

▲Being bitten by a rat is the same as dog poisoning. For this too, the Chinese say to apply cantharides, or to burn cantharides to ash and mix with musk for application, but it is more convenient to use the commonly available bean cantharides. Applying realgar powder is also good, so it should be used for very shallow wounds. After thoroughly squeezing out blood from the wound site, fill with fine saltpeter powder, tinder, or gunpowder, ignite, and disperse the toxic qi. Oak bark is said to effectively neutralize rat poison, but I have not yet tried it. It is said to burn cotton seeds and fumigate the bitten area with the smoke, but I have not tried this either. The recommendation to apply cat feces is probably meant to control the poison. In any case, both poison from animal bites and various insect bites all leave toxins in the flesh that become future harm, so after washing well, nothing is better than applying something to draw the poison out and remove it. This principle should be well understood.

Metrorrhagia is a women's disease. When women encounter this disease while traveling, they cannot continue their journey and are greatly troubled. There is also a method of treating this by washing the genital area with cold water.