squeeze it out is good. Even if left as is, it would eventually disperse, but doing this makes it even better. In general, alcohol coagulates blood while vinegar dissolves blood, yet bone-setters in the world who use alcohol to mix their medicinal applications are making a mistake in understanding. Common people should also understand this principle well.

For those who have fainted from contusions, they should be rescued as described in the section on lightning death under the "ra" section. Also, lay them on their back, straddle them, and with both palms, press the lower abdomen while saying "un," using all one's strength to push upward from below. This is also one method of resuscitation. Consider this together with the previous section on lightning death, and use these methods for all cases of sudden death.

Starvation death occurs when one dies after not eating for several days. For those whose breath has stopped but not much time has passed, put a little salt in hot water, place several hand towels or similar cloths in it, wring them out lightly and replace them repeatedly, starting from around the navel area and steam-warming the entire abdomen without exception. When the warmth penetrates well into the interior of the abdomen, breath will emerge. At that time, probe the nose with a paper twist to induce a light sneeze, and if miso soup is available without diluting it, add about half hot water to it and have them drink it little by little. If it is water boiled with white rice, that would be best. After some time has passed, have them sip thin gruel, then give them white rice porridge for one or two days, and on the third day give them regular rice. When trying to save starving people, if you give them rice, some die as soon as they eat it. Therefore, in years of famine, those with good intentions should understand this principle well, and for those who have not been able to eat for several days, even thick porridge should not be given suddenly. In rescuing all starving people, one should have this understanding.

When trying to draw water from a well that has long been abandoned