▲When rice cakes and such get stuck in the throat and will not go down no matter what, people say to wrap a fan bone in paper and push it in, but this often just injures the throat uselessly without effect. Using dried taro stems to push it down seems better than fan bones, but nothing surpasses drinking oil to lubricate and make it slide down. For these cases, drinking just one or two shaku achieves the effect. Even with funori seaweed kneaded in hot water with the dregs squeezed out and discarded, dumplings or rice cakes stuck in the throat will go down. Since it is best to act quickly in such matters, after understanding this principle, one should make judgments according to the circumstances.

▲When there is strong blood rushing to the head with stiff shoulders, dizziness, headaches, etc., causing suffering during travel, if one knows this arises from constipation, it is good to use purgatives for bowel movement. However, if one purges too much, the epigastrium becomes blocked instead and the blood rushing to the head increases. At such times, using bitter-tasting things like coptis, picrorhiza, bear bile, pig bile, cow bile, or phellodendron bark decocted and concentrated, or darasuke and similar preparations, will cure the blockage.

If the blood rushing to the head is strong and one suddenly becomes confused and about to lose consciousness, one should quickly drink a cup of cold water in one breath. Long ago, when Prince Yamato Takeru crossed Mount Ibuki in Omi, enduring rain and mist, he was affected by the mountain's miasma and became dazed as if intoxicated. When he drank the clear water at the foot of the mountain and recovered, this was because of water's effectiveness.

When women give birth and immediately drink a cup of cold water, there is absolutely no risk of fainting and dying. Therefore, the Kagawa school has a "black medicine" - burned young hemp sprouts taken with cold water before the placenta descends - which works not because the hemp sprouts are effective, but because the water is effective