The person holding below the navel should remain standing as is, enduring without moving at all. Simultaneously with cutting the rope, climb onto the tatami or platform, place hands on the hanged person's head, and with combined strength to prevent the body from moving, slowly seat them on the tatami. Then release the hands that were holding below the navel, and with the thumb, index finger, and middle finger, firmly grasp and massage the nape of the neck and neck muscles for quite a while until it penetrates inward and makes the hanged person grimace. Then grasp the flesh at the center of both shoulders and twist it back, as described in the section on lightning strike death. After this, curve the fingers of the right hand flat and strike firmly at the area of the 6th and 7th vertebrae of the spine. This will restore consciousness. At this time, splash much water on the face, and if there is no sneezing medicine, insert a paper twist deep into the nose to induce sneezing. If breathing does not return with this, place mouth to mouth and try blowing in breath strongly.

While there is no breathing, no medicine should be used at all. On the contrary, it will stop respiration and invite death, as mentioned before. Again apply resuscitation techniques to the shoulder well (kensei), celestial pivot (tenshu), inner thigh and other points, use bellows to blow air in strongly, press the chest and ribs to restore breathing, or attach bellows to the anus to blow in air, or blow in tobacco smoke. All of these should be tried by referencing what is described in the section on lightning strike death. If time has passed since the hanging, blood will collect and coagulate around the throat area, so pierce many three-edged needles and apply suction cups to draw out the blood. If blood comes out, the person will surely revive. If even a little breathing can be observed through the movement of lamp wicks, bird feathers, or candle flames as mentioned before, moxibustion should also be applied at 2-3 points around the crown of the head at the midline and baihui point, and at points like tenshu on both sides of the navel. All such treatments should not be done hastily