All of these are the same as for dog poison, so they should be compared and treated accordingly. For treating mamushi (pit viper) bites, there is another method. This is said to be what hunters do in the mountains. The method is to cover the bitten area with the bowl of a tobacco pipe, press down with all one's strength without releasing the hand, and after a while, when the flesh swells up and fills the pipe bowl in a round shape, cut that part and squeeze out the blood. Then push gunpowder from a fowling piece into the bite wound, surround the rounded flesh, pack it high, and set fire to it to burn. This method is convenient and easy to perform for cutting out the affected area, so after doing this, it is good to apply realgar, copper sulfate, and such. In the mountains, they say to wash the area where blood was squeezed with urine, then pack it with gunpowder and burn it. This is also good.

Also, taking the soft parts of dried persimmons or skewered persimmons, boiling them in vinegar and eating much of it, eating the remainder, or decocting and using it is also good. Or washing the wound with persimmon tannin is also good.

For those who are suffocated by smoke and lose consciousness, quickly use sneezing medicine to induce sneezing, and have them take much radish juice. If they still do not recover, using emetic medicine will make them vomit black, foul liquid and be cured. Also, for those affected by poisonous smoke, grinding peach kernels and stirring them in hot water to drink is said to have the effect of encapsulating oil poison. Whether it be smoke from accidental fires or poisonous smoke, if one loses consciousness and cannot breathe, as mentioned for lightning strikes, first ensure breathing is restored, then give radish juice. Otherwise, it will be difficult for it to go down the throat. For minor burns, applying radish juice is good.

▲If suffocated by smoke, quickly blow breath toward the ground - this is because when engulfed by smoke, if one crawls on the ground, it will not lead to losing one's life. Since smoke rises upward, in case of accidental fires