In such cases, even if clothing catches fire, by crawling to exit that place and escaping, whether the fire on clothing is extinguished or the clothes are stripped off, life can be saved. This should be well understood.

▲There was someone who killed a house centipede with the bowl of a tobacco pipe and immediately died after smoking tobacco with that same pipe. This is known to be because the poison of the house centipede combined with the tar of tobacco to become a violent poison. If such a thing happens, drinking oil quickly or using an emetic will certainly prevent death. These things should also be remembered.

▲Pubic lice also grow in head hair. For this too, if calomel is applied to the roots of the hair, they will naturally die. Also, decocting and washing the hair with sophora root is good. However, whether on head hair or pubic hair, when lice appear, it is mostly due to syphilis, so treatments to eliminate the poison should be applied.

▲There is something called chancre, where sore like a bean appears on the penis, which then spreads and the glans gradually becomes ulcerated, eventually breaking off and leaving the person disabled. During travel, when one's conduct is poor and poison is transmitted from courtesans with syphilis, applying inappropriate ointments without judgment often becomes the cause of ulceration. If this sore appears while traveling, one should carefully observe the pus ripening, pierce it with a needle to drain the pus, then sprinkle cattail pollen powder on the area. Applying ointment may actually increase the ulceration. In any case, without proper internal treatment, it is difficult to properly eliminate the poison, but here we speak only of relieving immediate suffering during travel, and this should not be considered proper medical treatment. Also, mixing a little calomel with cattail pollen for application is good.

▲There is something called "hair cut," where the penis develops something like abrasions that become ulcerated. This is also syphilis