Those who have frozen to death and whose breath has stopped are easier to save than those who have drowned and swallowed water. Even if the exterior is frozen and has become like ice, if there is even a little yang qi remaining inside, they will surely come back to life. However, to panic and try to warm them with a bonfire or such is the action of those ignorant of proper reasoning, and it will instead make rescue difficult, so one should understand this well. The method to save them is to first seat the frozen person and pour large amounts of cold water from the head over the body, or dig into the ground leaving only the head and face above ground, cover with soil and bury them to observe, then after one or two hours have passed, dig them out and examine - if the body has become soft, they are surely ones who can be revived, so they should be saved as described in the section on lightning strike death. For those frozen to death, if breath somewhat emerges, it is best to first give them squeezed ginger juice to drink. Decocting crushed ginger for use is also good.

▲When fingers and toes are painful from freezing and lose sensation, they will soon fall off. For this, dissolve horse manure in extremely hot water and soak the fingers in it for about half a day, and they will return to normal. To prevent this beforehand, mix 60 monme of white wax with 2 go of sesame oil in winter (1 go in summer) melted over fire, knead in 60 monme of camphor, and apply this to hands and feet. This medicine can also be used to treat chapped and cracked skin. In the extremely cold regions of northern countries, many people lose fingers and toes to the cold, so those heading to places like Ezo should prepare this in advance. To prevent this affliction beforehand, it is good to bathe in water daily.

▲For skin and flesh that has broken and festered from freezing, mix camphor dissolved in shochu with clarified lime water that has been stirred up, soak cloth in this and apply it. Alternatively, applying the aforementioned mixture of sesame oil, white wax and camphor is also good. Or washing with warmed human urine or vinegar is also effective. Or applying the mixture of chicken egg and hemp oil used for the aforementioned burns