For cases where the cause cannot be determined, one should rescue using the treatment method for lightning strike death mentioned earlier. In rooms where many medicines are stored, or when opening the lid of sealed containers where aromatic substances are kept, some people die from suddenly being exposed to those vapors. For such cases, pouring vinegar over the head and face, or dropping it into the mouth can revive some people. This should be well understood.

▲Opium or opium poppy is called an anesthetic agent. For example, like the mind becoming confused when intoxicated with alcohol, or like blocking the eyes, mouth, and nose so that one cannot speak, see, or hear, or like binding the hands and feet so that one cannot move - it is a medicine with such effects. One must understand its function well before using it, and unless the method of use is extremely skillful, it only causes harm without benefit to the disease. When this substance is used, coughing stops immediately, pain becomes lighter as it is, and those who cannot sleep will sleep well. Therefore, recently heartless

Dutch doctors, seeking immediate effects and trying to impress people, use this without considering the later harm it causes. As a result, patients sleep without waking, or their eyes become clouded and cannot distinguish objects, soon losing consciousness without awakening, or experiencing headaches, dizziness, tinnitus, facial redness, or unbearable itching all over the body. In severe cases, there is mental confusion with delirious speech, or slow and sluggish pulse, cold lower back and legs, abdominal spasms, and finally becoming like apoplexy and dying. If such symptoms occur and one is certain that they are harm caused by using this medicine, one should quickly use emetic agents to induce vomiting, and blow sternutatory medicine into the nose to cause sneezing. For emetic medicines, refer to what was recorded in the section on cholera mentioned earlier. For sternutatory medicines, choose from those listed in the section on lightning strike death. Vinegar and musk are said to neutralize the poison of this substance well, but since musk nowadays is often adulterated and has little effect, it is better to give large amounts of vinegar. For mild cases of dizziness, there is no need to use emetic medicines, just vinegar