Buckthorn seeds (sorishi) about 2 monme should be decocted and taken. This treats by purging greatly putrefied water.

▲There is a disease called sakashita-yamai (downward disease), which is jaundice (ohan) that turns yellow due to blood deficiency. The medicines to be used for this were described in the previous blood section, in the hemorrhoids passage.

▲Some people use something called "correcting ash" in sake to fix sake that has spoiled and developed a sour taste, then sell it. If one drinks this excessively, it unknowingly harms the intestines and stomach, exhausts the body, obstructs the circulation of various bodily fluids, and causes symptoms of paralysis and dysfunction, becoming the cause of gout or stone strangury, which is a urinary disease that produces stones in the urinary tract. Therefore, sake made using ash should absolutely not be drunk. This is something that sake drinkers should pay attention to and choose carefully.

▲For small blade wounds, as soon as one realizes they have been cut, immediately press the cut area with fingertips to prevent bleeding. If more than half an hour passes, it will naturally heal and return to normal on the same day. If the wound is somewhat large, fill the wound opening with ash from a brazier that has no charcoal powder or ash lumps, and bind it. This will generally stop the bleeding.

Lime has good blood-stopping effects, so one should prepare blood-stopping medicine using this in advance. The method is: knead finely powdered quicklime with egg white, dry it in the sun until it hardens, then powder it finely again and store it.

If the wound is large and bleeding won't stop, stir finely powdered quicklime in water, filter out the clear supernatant and wash with it. If there is no lime, ordinary lye can be used. If that is also unavailable, wash with cold water.

Using shochu was an ancient practice; few people use it now. Suturing wounds is the domain of surgery, but as long as one sews so that skin edges don't misalign and there are no folds, it is not particularly difficult. Use needles for sewing clothes and cotton thread for suturing.