▲The pus from moxibustion is due to internal toxins leaking out as the illness attempts to heal, so disliking this and trying to dry it quickly is inferior to not performing moxibustion at all. Therefore, one should roast and knead leaves of Japanese silver leaf (tsuwabuki) or Japanese aucuba over fire and apply them, or apply some ointment that promotes suppuration to draw out much pus.

▲For mushroom poisoning, while it is said that taking human excrement immediately neutralizes it, it is better to drink oil rather than use such filthy substances. Black soybean juice and muddy water also neutralize this poison, but among mushrooms there are extremely poisonous ones. I have personally observed in the fields of Shimotsuke Province mushrooms resembling shimeji that grew immediately from the saliva of a dying snake that fell from trees to the ground. If one mistakenly eats these, one will immediately be poisoned and die instantly. Whenever one knows something is poisonous, it is best to quickly induce vomiting. Emetics should be sought in the section on cholera.

There are laughing mushrooms (warahitake) that grow on maple trees, maitake that grow on rotting stumps of various trees, and I have heard that on Hachijo Island there are strange mushrooms that, when eaten, make one want to climb to high places. Since all mushrooms should not be eaten carelessly, one should be especially cautious when traveling.

Yu [Bathing] When one experiences dizziness or fainting after bathing, spray cold water on the face and pour it over the entire body, or have them drink it - this is also good. Vinegar is also effective. If after recovering one still feels depressed and unwell, use Keishi-ka-ryukotsu-borei-to. The prescription is: cinnamon twig, peony root, dragon bone, oyster shell - each 8 parts; jujube 6 parts; licorice 2 parts - combine these six ingredients to make 4 monme, add 2 slices of ginger, decoct 1 go 2 shaku of water down to 6 shaku.

Me [Eyes] When dust, sand, etc. enters the eye, put ink on the tip of a brush and wipe inside the eye. Or applying diluted ink is also good. Do not touch with fingers. This will make it worse.

▲Causing the eyeball to protrude from the impact of a blow