complete preparations cannot be made, so one should use the previously mentioned Kenchū-san mixed with hot water to induce sweating. To induce sweating, one may use thin rice porridge, udon, bukkake soba, chicken egg soup, or for sake drinkers, sake with ginger and miso. In our country's past, when catching a cold, it was common practice to use hip baths to induce sweating, which was called "yuyude" as seen in old tales. While traveling, rather than using half-hearted medicines, performing this "yuyude" method to induce sweating is more effective than medicine.

Decoctions of yuzu peel, bitter orange peel, or mandarin orange peel also effectively induce sweating. Recently, Dutch physicians have been recklessly advocating about "inflammation" (kinshō) and applying leeches, puncturing collateral vessels to draw blood, and using purgatives on patients with early-stage typhoid who should be made to sweat, often worsening their condition. Unlike miscellaneous diseases, in typhoid and seasonal epidemics, if you purge those who should sweat, use ginseng and aconite on those who should be purged, or give purgatives to those who need ginseng and aconite, you can kill a person with just two or three doses of medicine. This is frightening, so even laypeople should be aware of this. Especially when encountering this disease while traveling, rather than doing reckless things, it is better to avoid medicine and observe the natural course. This is because the human body has what is called "natural receptive power" - a mechanism to naturally eliminate disease. One should think well on this principle.

▲For vitiligo (white ringworm), grate fresh green walnuts with a wasabi grater and apply it, as it will generate pus and heal, preventing the poison from attacking internally. Alternatively, grinding together one green walnut with two croton seeds is most effective.

Hizen-sō (syphilis) is a type of poison that foreigners transmitted to prostitutes in Nagasaki in Hizen province long ago, from which it spread. During the Ashikaga period, syphilis was...