If taken, it will detoxify. Also, if about two monme of alum is ground into fine powder and taken with cold water, this also detoxifies.

▲Even being bitten by a person should not be taken lightly, as it can be dangerous. If blood comes out and the pain is unbearable, quickly wash while pouring urine on it. Or collect urine in a vessel, soak the fingertip in it, and after the bleeding stops, wash well with cold water. Then light a match stick or paper twist soaked in oil with fire and drip it into the wound, or apply moxibustion six to seven times.

▲When rice cakes or dumplings get stuck in the throat and are difficult to swallow, drinking two to three shaku of sesame oil will make them go down quickly. Alternatively, blowing strong vinegar into the nose or taking it orally is also good. Fresh daikon radish juice is also effective.

▲For hernia pain, boil the roots of Job's tears and use it. This is called "one-dose medicine for hernia" because it is said to be effective with just one dose, and is sold as patent medicine. Also, drying and chopping the stems and leaves of smartweed and decocting them is effective. Or there are those who sell equal parts of chinaberry seed, fennel, and Chinese aromatic wood, with double the amount of Job's tears root added, claiming it to be a wonder drug for hernia. These have superior effects compared to ordinary doctors' medicines.

Job's tears root and smartweed are abundant, but they can be difficult to obtain when needed, so those with this chronic condition should prepare them for travel. Alternatively, the previously mentioned Kenchū-san also has the effect of treating hernia, so that would work too. For hernia where the scrotum suddenly swells, taking large amounts of finely powdered fennel is effective.

▲When one has drunk shōchū and cannot sober up easily, one should drink large amounts of strong vinegar. If someone is poisoned and their complexion turns blue and they are about to have convulsions, quickly probe the throat and...