Make them vomit. Or using emetic medicine is good. Or having them quickly bathe in hot water will detoxify, it is said. When one drinks shōchū and then drinks much water, there are those who die suddenly, it is said.

▲What is commonly called "sunpaku" originally refers to white-colored worms about one sun (inch) in length, but the flatworms or long worms that are flat and long, resembling braided cords in shape, are called sanada-mushi (tapeworms). This was mistakenly called sunpaku worms, and the condition of cramping pain from the lower abdomen to the lower back and legs also came to be called by this general disease name through association with these worms.

In this condition, there are indeed cases caused by these worms growing in the intestines. When these worms are expelled, five to six shaku or more than one jō may be passed and pulled out. The remainder appears not to die but continues to grow, and there are cases where a total of more than ten jō to more than twenty jō have been passed. To treat these worms, one should abstain from food and drink, and substitute kaya nuts alone for three meals a day for seven days, then the worms will surely die and be expelled - this is wonderful. Also, what are commonly called roundworms, worm-like creatures resembling earthworms that multiply and cause various ailments, will all be expelled and cured if one eats kaya nuts.

Also, there is something called agi (asafoetida) which has an extremely foul odor. This is also effective against worms. If one adds one-tenth part tōō (gamboge) to this and uses it for a long time, it will effectively expel worms.

Also, if one adds seven to eight bu of grass aconite per dose to the previous hernia medicine and decocts it very thickly over a slow fire, it will effectively treat temporary suffering. Also, putting miso on garlic and roasting it over fire before eating is effective.

▲For abrasions, applying fish glue plaster is good. The method is to grind thirty monme of benzoin into fine powder...