The creative force of the universe is inexhaustible, and it is not necessarily the case that there is no reincarnation. What I secretly fear is that for those who are reincarnated by the creative force, even their essential nature and destiny cannot yet be determined. Seeing that the worthy sages of Confucius's school and the Zhou dynasty do not reincarnate, are they not on a higher level?

Wang Guiliang and Su Zizhan were great men of their generation, but they too were deceived by the "opening of doors" trick. What they completely failed to understand was that when monks collectively stuff a leather bag into a shrine, it certainly cannot be done by someone with light and small strength - the one who initially closes it has also calculated this well. What I observe is that those who practice and hear the Way all speak of the principles of daily ordinary life, without strange deceptions that mislead people. This is the truth. In the Han and Tang dynasties, people were not born from birds and mountains - this had already declined. In later ages, people are not born from stars but from monks. The gradual decline of the world is like this. I truly fear that in future ages, there will not be a single person who undergoes reincarnation.

On Human Reincarnation
Question: Humans are a microcosm of heaven and earth. Heaven has day and night; humans have life and death. Heaven has cyclical movement; humans have reincarnation. This is certain. If humans do not reincarnate as humans, how could they be like grass and trees, naturally arising and naturally ceasing?

Answer: Heaven's cyclical movement creates the seasons and day and night. Human cyclical movement makes the blood and vital energy flow throughout the body. This is how humans correspond to heaven. However, humans are also material beings, but they are the most spiritual, able to illuminate all things for ten thousand li and encompass the subtle existence of heaven and earth. Before humans and things are born, we speak only of principle (li), not of nature (xing). This is what is called "destiny when in heaven." When born, they receive the qi of heaven and earth to form their material substance. When substance has qi, then it has nature, principle, and spirit within it. Therefore, when humans are born, they borrow material form to preserve qi. Thus mind and spirit commune without transcending this one cavity of the body. When humans die, qi disperses, spirit perishes, and the material form decays. Only nature and principle return to heaven. That qi is like heaven's sweet dew, and the material substance is like earth's receiving vessel. When the vessel is clear, the dew is clear; when the vessel is turbid, the dew is turbid. If there are differences in the size of the vessel, then the dew...