We have never heard of a hot spring like this anywhere else in Japan other than Atami. According to Mr. Walton's treatise on hot springs, such springs must be located near the seashore, with several outlets open, one of which opens into the sea. At high tide, this underwater outlet is blocked by seawater and cannot flow out; instead, the water reverses into its reservoir and erupts through another outlet. Springs of this type are called "interval springs" (kansen, i.e., intermittent springs).

In former times, when the spring had finished its eruption, swarms of thousands of beetles would gather and fly about, eventually mixing into the hot water and being carried away by the current. However, during the Bunka era (1804–1818), a monk named Tokuhon (the founding priest of Ichigyō-in temple in Komagome, Tokyo), moved by the strange and pitiable spectacle, performed Buddhist rites and erected a stone stupa, after which these insects never appeared again. The people of the village have passed this story down through generations, considering it a miraculous event. The stone stupa still stands within the wooden fence today. Alongside it, several stone Buddha statues have been enshrined, said to have been erected by the monk Kwan'yo (head priest of Seitoku-ji temple in Asakusa, Tokyo) and others.

Additionally, there is a stone monument erected by the British Minister, the Right Honourable Rutherford Alcock, who bathed in this spring in the seventh month of Man'en 1 (1860). Several dozen characters are engraved upon it, containing the words: "Admiring the wondrous scenery of mountain and sea, I erect this stone so that later generations may know that it was we English who first came here to take our leisure."

○ Seizaemon-yu (Seizaemon's Bath)　Located on the north side behind Hamacho, behind Tenjin-yama. It flows day and night without ceasing (as with all springs described hereafter). According to tradition, a farmer named Seizaemon fell into this spring pit long ago and died, hence the name.

○ Hōsai-yu　Also called Heizaemon-yu. Located in Kozawa; therefore it is also called……