This spring is also called the Kozawa Bath. There are two spring sources: one is located on the residential land of Sawaguchi Yazaemon, and the other wells up in the garden of Fujii Bunjirō. The collected writings of Gidō Nikkō state (Gidō being a dharma heir of Musō Soseki): "On the twenty-sixth day of the second month of the eighth year of Ōan [1375], after finishing a meal, I went out with my disciples and toured the village lanes and monks' quarters. A Taoist monk pointed to a certain place and said, 'Once, a man called Heizaemon committed deceitful acts and caused harm; he built his mansion on this very land, but when he was put to death, the building sank into the ground. Everyone says he fell alive into hell, and to this day the place is called Heizaemon's Hell.'" This likely refers to this very hot spring hollow (the *yutsubo*).

○ Furo no Yu (Bath Spring)　This spring wells up in the garden of Ōki Enzō (known as Takasagoya) in Sakachō.

○ Kawara no Yu (Roof-Tile Spring)　Located on the eastern beach, this spring was originally called Kawara no Yu (Tile Bath). It is said that in the sixth year of Kanbun (1666), Inaba Minononokami, the lord of Odawara Castle, built a bathhouse for the village people and roofed it with tiles (*kawara*), and so the locals came to call it the "Tile Bath."

○ Sajirō no Yu (Sajirō's Bath)　Located in the garden of Uesugi Sukeshichi, in front of the gate of Iōji Temple in Hamachō. This bath is particularly effective in treating eye ailments, and is therefore also called the "Eye Bath" (*Me no Yu*). It is also said to be remarkably effective when used to wash burns.

○ Nonaka no Yu (Midfield Spring)　Located in a rice field at the foot of Uenoyama hill, to the north of Kozawa. Although it wells up day and night, people do not bathe in it. In this vicinity, hot springs bubble up wherever the ground is dug.

○ Mizu no Yu (Water Bath)　Located in the garden of Akutagawa Bunpei (known as Wakamatsuya) in Sakachō. It is mild and tasteless, resembling ordinary water that has simply been warmed. Hence the name.