Hot springs gushed forth from the sea, and it was discovered that all the fish and shellfish had died from scalding. According to the records of Junior Empress Chikafusa, quoting from the Izu Fudoki, it states that "it was established during the Yōrō era of the 44th Human Emperor, Empress Genshō," but the details of this account are also unclear. Later, in the first year of Tenpyō-shōhō (749 CE), in the year of the Metal Ox, the fourth patriarch of Hakone-san Kongō-ōin, Saint Mankan (The saint was from Luoyang, son of novice monk Chijin. He had previously completed the recitation of 10,000 volumes of the Hōkō Sutra, which is why people called him Saint Mankan. In this year, he built the Jinguji temple at Kashima in Hitachi Province. In the seventh year of Kōnin, responding to Emperor Saga's imperial edict, he set out for the capital but died suddenly upon reaching Yōna District in Sanshū. He lived to be 79 years old and was buried in Kuwahara Village, Hakone), pitying that such miraculous hot spring water was flowing wastefully into the sea and that fish and shellfish were dying from it, searched for the spring's source and relocated it to the mountainside. He enshrined Sukunahikona-no-kami nearby and established it as Yunomae Gongen with Yakushi Buddha as the main deity. That spring is the Ōyu (Great Hot Spring), and the Gongen shrine still stands majestically today. Later, in the fourth year of Kanpyō (892 CE) under Emperor Uda, in the year of the Water Rat, Ki no Haseo came to this region as provincial governor and wanted to explore the spring's source. He had the ground dug deep, but at a depth of several fathoms, he only found a large rock with several holes like lotus pods on its surface, and ultimately could not determine the source, so he gave up. There are various other local legends, but most of these are wild and unreliable tales, not worth recording at all.

○Yuko (Hot Spring Houses)
Yuko were formerly called kyakuya (guest houses), limited to twenty-seven households including the Imai and Watanabe families.