(Continued from the previous page) The "small island offshore" (oki no kojima) that was composed about in verse refers to this island. There are over forty households, most of whom make their living by fishing. There is a Hatsushima Shrine, dedicated to the deity Konohana-Kawatsukihime. It is said that this goddess was the first to discover the Hashiriyu hot spring of Mount Izusan. Throughout the island, narcissus flowers grow abundantly, and the islanders harvest them to use as fertilizer. There is also crinum lily (文殊蘭, Crinum asiaticum), which grows to a height of five or six shaku (approximately 150–180 cm), with large flowers and leaves that greatly astonish the beholder. There are also large rats the size of cats; apart from these, it is said that no other animals or livestock inhabit the island.

○ The Echo Stone (Ōmu-seki/Parrot Stone)　This is located several dozen chō to the south of the highway leading to Mishima post station. It belongs to Tanna Village in Tagata District, approximately three-plus ri from Atami. The stone stands over one jō and six shaku (approximately 4.8 m) tall and over six shaku (approximately 1.8 m) wide. When human voices or any other sounds resound against this stone, there is not even the slightest gap between the original sound and its echo — the response is instantaneous. In the account by Chikkei (there exists a written piece recorded by Chikkei Nishihara Akira during the Meiwa era), it is stated: "Could this not be the 'Echo Stone of the Goulou Peak on the Southern Peak' mentioned in the Kōmonki (Record of Extensive Hearing)?" In recent times, however, it is said that the stone suffered damage from a wildfire and its resonance has been greatly diminished.

○ One-Cup Spring (Ippai-sui)　Located in Taga Village, beside the Shimoda Highway. It is a small spring of barely over one shaku (approximately 30 cm) across, yet it is so clear and cold that it resembles crystal. It is traditionally said that when the Right General Minamoto no Yoritomo passed through this place, he was overcome with thirst and scooped up the water to drink. In addition, there are numerous historical sites in the area, including Komagatadō (the place where Yoritomo's horse is said to have been buried), Kuromine (there is a pond at the summit), Chōshiguchi, and Bin no Sawa (all of which have Jizō halls tended by lay priests), among others — though all of them cannot be recorded here in full.