○Tenjin Shrine　Located east of Hamamachi (Beach Town). It enshrines Kanpō (Sugawara no Michizane). According to tradition, when Kanpō was exiled to Tsukushi (Kyushu), he personally carved seven likenesses of himself, and the one enshrined here is said to be one of them. The shrine was originally located on Tenjinyama (Tenjin Hill) in Wada, but was moved to its present location in more recent times. The Uchida family manages the shrine's rituals.

○Shrine of Kaki-no-Moto of Ki　Located south of Onari Bridge in Yokomachi (Side Street). It enshrines the Buddhist priest Kaki-no-Moto of Ki (Ki Sōjō). According to local tradition, Ki Sōjō Shinzei was once implicated in the affair of Empress Somedono and was exiled here, where he ultimately died. However, this account is greatly in error. According to the records of Buddhist priests, Shaku Shinzei was a native of Yamashiro Province, the son of Danjō-daihitsu Ki no Misono, and one of the ten great disciples of Kōbō Daishi (Kūkai). During the Jōwa era, he received an imperial edict to travel to Tang China, and upon returning to Japan, he was appointed as the head (chōja) of Tō-ji Temple, and later became a sōjō (bishop). He is said to have passed away on the twenty-fifth day of the second month of Jōgan 2 (860) at Jingo-ji Temple on Mount Takao.

The discourse in the "Honchō Kōsōden" (Biographies of Eminent Monks of Our Country) states: "People have spread the story that Shinzei became a demon due to his infatuation. I have long doubted this. (Omitted) After reading the 'Zenke Hiki' (Secret Records of the Zen Family) cited in the Shingon transmission texts, my doubt was finally resolved. It states that a monk from Mount Kinpusen, while performing prayers for the illness of Empress Fuji, saw her countenance and fell in love with her, then transformed into a demonic spirit and entered her bed-chamber. Kiyoyuki was a great Confucian scholar of his time, and his accounts are not mistaken. It is therefore certain that this affair had no connection to the Venerable Shinzei. And so forth."

This explanation is sufficient to correct the erroneous tradition. Nevertheless, it remains unclear why this location came to enshrine this particular bishop (Could this be a corruption derived from the story of Ki no Hiroaki? This warrants further investigation). As for the claim that a certain stone in the precincts of Tenjin Shrine in Hamamachi is the tomb of Empress Somedono, the forced nature of this association is so extreme that it is not worth discussing.