《Marginal note: There was also a pine tree planted by Fujifusa Nyūdō, large enough to shelter an ox as recorded, but it has now been burned. His beloved saddle and prayer beads were also burned, and the pine tree planted by Ungo Kokushi has now withered.》

○Kaizōji Temple: Also a branch temple of Myōshinji, located in Minakuchi Village. It has Butsutoku Kōtsū Kokushi as its founder and the two masters Goan and Senkei as its restorers, though the exact periods of their activities are not known in detail. The temple grounds are pure and beautiful, suitable for sightseeing.

○Iōji Temple: Called Zenzeizan, located in Hamachō. It was formerly of the Shingon sect and a branch temple of Izusan. In the 18th year of Keichō (1613), Zen Master Taikyō Motogai from Harima Province restored it, and it became a branch of Myōshinji. 《Marginal note: In the records kept at Sōunji Temple in Sagami, there are references to "Sōshū Atami Iōji Temple" in Hōjō Sōun's handwritten documents, indicating that this temple was already of the Rinzai sect and belonged to Sōunji at that time. This also proves that Atami Village once belonged to Sagami Province, but unfortunately these records are no longer available to us.》

Within the temple grounds is the grave of Ōta Komachiyo. Komachiyo was the great-great-grandson of Saemon-no-jō Dōkan and the elder brother of Shinrokurō Shigemasa, ancestor of the former Kakegawa domain lords. He committed suicide within the temple grounds in the 8th month of Eiroku 7 (1564) at the young age of only fourteen.

○Chōonji Temple: Originally located in Wada Village, it was a branch temple of Myōshinji, but in recent years it has been abandoned and its site is difficult to locate.

○Daijōji Temple: Located above Yuzenshya in Honchō, called Tsūkōzan, it belongs to the Nichiren sect as a branch temple of Honkakuji in Mishima Station. This temple was originally a Shingon temple, but in the spring of Kōchō 2 (1262), Saint Nikkō 《Marginal note: One of the six dharma heirs of Nichiren》 came and converted the resident monk Gyōman, causing him to change his robes and convert his sect. At this point, Gyōman changed his name to