He changed his name to Nichigyo, invited Ko (Nikko) to be the founding priest, and himself became the second abbot. At that time, the venerable Nichiren was in exile in Ito in this province. When he heard of this auspicious event, he drew his own likeness at age 42 reflected in a water mirror, carved it himself, and gave this portrait to Ko (Nikko) to be enshrined at this temple. What is now enshrined before the main Buddha is this very image. The temple also houses mandala scrolls written by the two masters Nichiren (dated to the Koan era) and Nisshin (dated to the Bunmei era). Behind the main hall, stone steps numbering several dozen lead directly up to a Shichimen shrine, which offers an extremely fine view. Within the temple grounds is the grave of Asakawa Mokuō, and in front of the gate stands a monument erected by his son Zen'an. The inscription is by Kameda Bōsai, the calligraphy by Ōkubo Tenmin, and the seal script title by Masuyama Kashū. There is a temple bell said to have been cast during the Bunka era.

○ Seigon-in: Called Hōkaisan, located in Kamishuku. Formerly it was of the Shingon sect and called Dōkōji. Around the Shōhō-Keian period, the Jōdo sect monk Zen'yo Seigon came and restored it, calling it Myōju-an. Later, the villagers, admiring his virtue, called it Seigon-in. It is now a branch temple of Zōjōji in Tokyo. During the Kansei era, the resident priest Chōsatsu consulted with village headman Imai Handayū and moved the temple to its present location (it was originally near the Yuzen Shrine), and invited Chihon from Banryūji in Tokyo. Chihon transferred this to Fukujaku of the Tokumon lineage at Chōsen-in, establishing it as a precept hall for the first time and consecrating the temple grounds. The principal image is Amida Buddha, traditionally said to be the work of Eshin and to have been the devotional Buddha of Chiba Tsunetane. The affiliated Kannon Hall is located in Arajuku and originally enshrined one hundred bronze statues of Kannon. In recent years it suffered a disaster, and now only barely...