...only fifty images remain, it is said.

○ Site of the Gyōden (Temporary Imperial Lodging)　Located to the south of Shinjuku. According to the Izu Records (Izushi): Yūbyō (the third Tokugawa Shogun, Iemitsu) wished to bathe in the hot springs and in the third year of Kan'ei (1626) ordered the Sakuma clan [text damaged by insects] to construct the lodge. When it was completed, an unforeseen matter arose and the Shogun ultimately never visited. Afterward, he ordered it to be demolished. Prior to this, in the third month of the ninth year of Keichō (1604), the Divine Founder (Ieyasu) accompanied by Gorōtamaru (Yoshitoshi) and Chōfukumaru (Yorinobu) was traveling to Kyoto, and passed through Atami, bathing in the hot springs for a full seven days. Perhaps Yūbyō (Iemitsu) wished to follow this precedent. Documents related to the construction at that time are said to be held by the Watanabe family. I (the author) examined these through a manuscript copy held by the Uchida family. The site covers more than five tan of land, situated at the center of Atami village, level and flat with an exceptionally fine view. To the northwest, old trees stand in rows and grow thickly; beyond them are traces of a surrounding moat (the locals in this area call this the "Hori" (moat)). Nearby there are also traces of a riding ground. In recent years, the Atami School has been built on this historic site. The school building is grand and imposing, and it is said that academic affairs are beginning to flourish.

　　　Products (Local Produce)

The land of Atami is exceedingly narrow. Although surrounded on three sides by mountains, they are all barren peaks; though open to the sea on one side, this yields only modest fishing and angling. Agricultural land remains scarce. How much less, then, could there be room to produce other goods?
Indeed, upon consulting the Nikkōshū (日工集), it states: "On the seventeenth day of the second month of the seventh year of Ōan (1374), I went to Atami on behalf of a hot spring physician... (abbreviated)... I then composed verses in response to the same rhyme, inscribed at the Onsen Kōsai Settai-an (Hot Spring Universal Salvation Hospitality Hermitage)" (The history of the Settai-an is described separately.)