May 16th

Magistrate (Bugyō)
○Both the construction department and repair department should manage within their allocated budget amounts, etc.
1. Matters regarding reduction of granted items
1. For tools and equipment that are not urgently needed, repairs should be postponed for two to three years
1. Regarding reduction of paper usage and all other expenses across all departments
1. Matters concerning examination of transient workers
1. Regarding floating personnel (unassigned workers) receiving two-person stipends: Until now they have been kept on out of compassion and assigned as regular personnel, but there seem to be few openings for regular positions afterward. Therefore, their stipends will be withdrawn. This matter should be conveyed to them.
   However, if there are those who would face severe hardship, this should be reported after careful examination.
1. Kinda Tadashichi's son Seitarō and Kubo Nakazō's son Chōzō: These two currently have no official duties, so although they receive three-person stipends, due to strict economizing measures, this will be discontinued going forward. This matter should be communicated to them.
1. Excess personnel from all departments will be uniformly designated as floating personnel, and when appropriate openings become available in succession, they may be assigned as regular personnel after examination. Based on personnel calculations from the Year of the Rooster 28 years ago, excess personnel will become floating personnel. Name registers should be submitted. Details regarding excess personnel should be reported from each department.

   However, the documents previously submitted will be returned.

Chamberlain (Goyōnin)
○Regarding foot soldiers: When they become elderly or ill, they make requests, and until now they have been quickly reassigned to other positions out of compassion, but since there have been reports of inadequate arrangements, going forward such reassignments will be made only after examination.
1. Among the minor attendants, small tool handlers, and groundskeepers, there is excess personnel, so they will be designated as floating personnel and successively assigned to appropriate openings.
1. Palanquin supervisor Shimada Gen'uchi will be relieved of his supervisory duties due to old age and granted a lifetime stipend for two persons. One of the remaining three supervisors will become floating personnel.

Personal Attendants (Osoba)
○There are five pages' supervisors, but as before, four will be appointed and one position will be eliminated.

Kanazu Magistrate
○Three persons within the group are excess personnel and will be designated as floating personnel.

Inspector (Metsuke)
○Two warehouse guards will have their positions eliminated, and furthermore, matters within their purview should be examined in detail.

Ninja Supervisor
○The subordinate officers of the ninja group will be designated as floating personnel.