There is a destined time, and if I became a formless disease, I would long escape the harm of crucifixion and burning, penetrate into flesh and skin, and deal with people one by one. It would not be difficult to kill all the people. Thus I finally became a type of incurable malignant disease called "baidoku" (syphilis), led eighty-four thousand followers across all nations, constantly entering and leaving human bodies, fearing neither emperors nor sages, nor being ashamed before gods and buddhas.

Originally possessing mysterious supernatural powers and gaining mastery over gathering, scattering, hiding, and manifesting at will, no spiritual medicine could possibly counter me, and I wielded ever greater influence. Then Chen Sicheng of the Ming dynasty first opposed me, writing a book called "Baichuang Bilu" (Secret Records of Syphilis), selecting the Twelve-Formula Huadu Pills using fresh milk. Also, "Wanbing Huichun" (Spring Return for All Diseases) presents the Five Treasure Pills, and "Waike Zhengzong" (Orthodox Manual of External Medicine) presents the Purple Gold Pills.

Later in Japan, during the Meiwa era (1764-1772), Tachibana Shōken wrote "Baichō Shōji Hikan" (Secret Mirror of Syphilis Symptoms and Treatment). During the Tenmei era (1781-1789), Asai Echigo no Kami published "Baichō Yakugen" (Brief Words on Syphilis). Katakura Genshū wrote "Bairai Shinsho" (New Book on Syphilis and Leprosy). During the Bunka era (1804-1818), Ishibashi Chūan wrote "Baidoku Yōhō" (Essential Methods for Syphilis Treatment). Sugita Riukyō wrote "Baichō Shinsho" (New Book on Syphilis). Though there have been many subsequent works by various authors, none are books of practical experimentation and thorough reasoning - they are merely written with academic materials and thus not to be feared.

Chen Sicheng attacked my followers and achieved some small victories, claiming certain curative effects in his "Baichuang Bilu," but I have many followers with mysterious supernatural transformations. If one encounters these, even Chen Sicheng would have no technique to effect a cure. Also, while the Five Treasure Pills and Purple Gold Pills are excellent prescriptions, achieving rapid effects with them is extremely rare. Moreover, for those whose symptoms don't respond, money is wasted without effect. Already in Dokushōan's "Baichō Kuketsu" (Oral Instructions on Syphilis), the Five Treasure Pills are criticized. This Dokushōan was one I should fear, but he left the world in middle age. The followers of Tachibana and Asai sometimes boast of temporary coincidental successes, or sometimes...