"What joy could compare to your arrival! Nothing could surpass this. However, there is one difficulty here. We wish to revere you, sir, as Grand Marshal, but several medical country lords who were previously made marshals reject you, severely berating that 'he is not accustomed to the wars of wealthy nations and is not fit to be a marshal for expelling mold bandits.' We humbly request that you engage in debate with them to clear our doubts as well." 

When told this, Junju showed not the slightest hesitation and replied, "I have already responded to your invitation. How could I go against your noble command? Discourse with the various marshals is something I have wished for from the beginning."

The country lord immediately transmitted the command and summoned the Grand Marshal, Vice Marshal, and other military generals. These individuals were the rulers of medical arts countries: Yamai Yōminbu, Ryōbōan, Yabui Chikuan, Jiryō Yōsen, Gakui Sukatan, Numeta Junsai, Fujitsu Ton'yoku, Kuchiri Kōan, Fugaku Benkō, and others - all of whom were beloved and trusted by the current country lord.

On the lower level, the subordinate military generals were arranged in orderly formation: over three hundred medicine generals including Sankirai-zai, Gohōtan, Shikintan, Keijūsen, and others, along with Sōfū-gedokutō, Shōkan-haidokusan, Ryūtan-shakatō, Bōfū-tsūseisan, Keibō-haidokusan, Rikumotsu-gedokutō, Tsūten-saizōsan, Kyūōsan, Hakushūsan, Hanhi-gan, Munikō, Musankō, Man'nōkō, Aka-man'nōkō, Kurokōyaku, Sokukoushi, Aburakōyaku, application medicines, washing medicines, steaming medicines, and other medicinal preparations.

At that time, the Birth-Accompanying God looked around the assembly and said: "As you all know, the Mold Army is strong and the nation is in danger, and our lord's suffering is particularly severe. It is not that each of your military strategies is foolish, but we have yet to see signs of pacification. Therefore, I have advised our lord to bring Lord Junju and give him the position of marshal, with the Four Heavenly Kings including Enjūgan as generals, to leave the castle and do battle. As has been done until now, with Rikumotsu-gedokutō, Sōfū-gedokutō, Nindō, Jūyaku, or Gohōtan, Shikintan, washing medicines, steaming medicines, ointments..."