Moving forward on his knees, [Junju said]: "Just as Kushōjin has said, today's council is a matter of great national importance. To utter improper slander while setting aside the field marshals is extremely rude. Nothing could be more outrageous than this. Moreover, to revile our Four Heavenly Kings is to be jealous of the worthy and reject ability. You are the ones who should be the traitors to the nation." Before he could finish speaking, the two men responded: "Junju, you commoner, why do you insult us in this manner? We too have received appointments as vice-commanders for the campaign against the syphilis enemy. We cannot bear to sit idly by while national affairs are mishandled. Should we call it an error to defend the toxic evil of the military generals you brought? Furthermore, your comment about being 'idle flatterers' was a loose-tongued remark. We demand to hear your reasoning once more," striking the floor and pressing closer. Junju straightened his demeanor and said: "Indeed, I shall explain the reasoning. Do you discuss medicinal generals while knowing the properties of medicines, or do you discuss them without knowing medicinal properties? When medicines like Shippōgan, Jisōgan, Enjūgan, Baikōsan, inhalant medicines, mercury pills, spirits, calomel, quicksilver, raw milk, and light powder are used as cold medicines, even if they cure syphilis once, they will later cause drug poisoning that destroys the nation. This is where your ignorance lies. Shippōgan was regularly used by Master Yoshimasu Tōdō with great success, and Jisōgan was regularly used by Elder Tokuhon with great success. These two great generals are calomel preparations. Shippōgan acts vigorously, while Jisōgan acts gently, and its efficacy greatly surpasses others, which is why I use it. Also, various inhalant medicines, suction medicines, and fumigation agents that substitute for Baikōsan are much gentler than other prescriptions, yet their efficacy greatly surpasses others and effectively expels syphilis poison. Moreover, violent medicines like raw milk, spirits, Zokushippō, and precipitate are difficult to use carelessly, so I choose the gentle and pure general called Enjūgan, and when used in place of violent medicines, its adverse reactions are very mild, yet its efficacy surpasses what other medicines can achieve. It is the greatest general for expelling syphilis poison. Gohōtan, Shikintan, Keirokosan, Keijūsen..."

[Chapter 2, Page 7]