【Right page】
escape, we do not know. Some of these are cured through diaphoresis (promoting sweating and surface release), some are cured through vomiting and purging, and some are cured through digestion without vomiting, purging, or diaphoresis. Therefore, when using strong medicines, some develop fever and rashes, some have natural diarrhea, and some somehow feel unwell and lose appetite—this too is the medicine's side effects.
At such times, one should stop the battle until the mood improves, restore one's forces' vigor, and when good appetite returns, resume battle with the previous day's medicine generals. However, one must carefully observe whether the first battle will surely win or not, and then fight afterward.
Generally, in battle one must first assess the enemy general's wisdom, courage, and true strength, select an appropriate great general to face them, and respond to the changes of the moment in fighting, or else there can be no principle of certain victory. For example, in cases that should be completely cured with syphilis powder, even if one uses healing sore pills or longevity pills, about half seem to be cured, but if the medicine is not appropriate, complete cure

【Left page】
will not occur and patients will regress during continued treatment. Therefore, when one sees that it does not respond to the symptoms, one should simply change the prescription—please consider this carefully," 
he said. Both men were satisfied and withdrew from their seats, when from the lowest seat Beraboan raised his voice: "I too have a question. Some countries are immediately infected even from one encounter with a country suffering from syphilis, while other countries do not become infected even after lifelong marital relations with a syphilis-afflicted country—why is this?" Junchoku looked at him from afar and said, "This is quite a serious question. Generally, there exists what is called 'innate poison' in the human body. Those who have this poison easily harmonize with improper evil qi. Therefore infection occurs. Syphilis, scabies, smallpox, measles, etc. are not diseases that originally existed in the land of Japan, but have crossed over from foreign countries since medieval times. This poison harmonizes with the innate poison of the human body and causes infection. Those without innate poison do not become infected. Those with light innate poison, even if infected,