【Right Page】
With Itami (Pain) serving as the rearguard, they advanced toward Inkei-do (Penis Road) with over a thousand cavalry. Daio-botanpi-to (Rhubarb and Peony Bark Decoction) led his forces to hide in ambush at a treacherous mountain pass. In the Syphilis Army's camp, Ketsunetsu (Blood Heat) caused such disorder and chaos throughout the country that they thought the Medicine Army would surely withdraw their troops and seek peace negotiations. However, when they saw Enjumaru dividing his forces to advance toward Inkei-do, they became greatly enraged and sent word to Ketsunetsu's forces saying, "Then we shall pursue and attack from behind."
Kotsu-itami-ugokazu (Immovable Bone Pain) led all his forces without leaving any behind, opened the camp gates and sallied forth, routing the Medicine Army's rearguard in one breath, and charged out riding on their momentum. Earlier, Enjumaru had reached Inkei-do, set up his battle formation, and challenged them to fight. Ketsunetsu likewise advanced his formation, spurred his horse to the front, and shouted, "Weak general of the Medicine Army, quickly surrender your head!" Enjumaru sneered coldly and replied, "You lawless villain, rather than spouting useless boasts, quickly become a ghost under my spear!"

【Left Page】
Gripping his Ryokuchin Spear (Green Sunken Spear), he advanced. Ketsunetsu wielded his eight-foot serpent halberd and drove his soldiers forward to meet him in battle, but unable to match Enjumaru's valor, his battle formation appeared to weaken. At that moment, Kotsu-itami's forces attacked from behind the Medicine Army with fierce momentum, and even the mighty Enjumaru could not handle enemies from both front and rear. In confusion, his battle line collapsed and he fought while retreating. Kotsu-itami and Ketsunetsu, riding on their victory, pursued him to the area of Shofuku (Lower Abdomen). Then Enjumaru suddenly arranged his formation in a long serpent shape, and as he raised what appeared to be a signal beacon, Daio-botanpi-to emerged from the direction of Jokan (Upper Epigastrium) with a force of troops, striking at the rear of the Syphilis Army like a thunderbolt falling. Kotsu-itami and Ketsunetsu were greatly surprised and shouted, "The enemy has set a trap! Fighting on flat ground would be disadvantageous. Quickly retreat to Inkei-do!" But while they were shouting, Daio-botanpi-to steadily advanced his attack, using medicinal liquid to...