【Right Page】
When he said this, Jishitsu-Jirō (hemorrhoids and anal fistulas) also scratched his head and said, "I have no particular clever plan either. First, I shall follow your orders." He immediately sent a messenger running to convey instructions to Shitsuzutsū (damp headache). From that day, the syphilis army attacked Zunōzan (Brain Mountain), and General Shitsuzutsū used magic to raise a south wind, stirring up earth and sand to shake the earth veins around the hairline and temples. The severe pain in the head was as if it would split, the people's suffering was extreme, and they continuously reported the emergency to the royal castle. The king also suffered from anxiety and distress because of this, unable to find peace, and called Junchoku to ask for a plan. Junchoku calmly said, "My lord, please endure for a while. This is the situation where the syphilis bandits are suffering and agitated from being attacked by the medicine army - this is their desperate action. Our brave general Enjugan is there, so with his martial prowess he will defeat the headache before long. Just be patient and wait for the right time." The king relied on this, endured his anguish, and waited for good news. At this time, Enjugan heard that the syphilis army was invading the head region and called Daifu-

【Left Page】
-tō, saying: "The syphilis army is now ravaging the upper region and the people are suffering greatly. We must rescue them quickly. I will secretly lead a force to the head region, defeat General Shitsuzutsū, and riding on that momentum, threaten the bandit camp at the throat gate. You should divide your forces to break up the camps of small bandits like moxa sores around the anus, lift up the skin and flesh to heal those areas, and weaken the power of the hemorrhoids." After finishing their consultation, in the camp they raised high the banners of the two generals, selected elite soldiers from their subordinates to guard them, Enjugan led five hundred cavalry toward the upper region, and Daifutō headed toward the anus with two thousand cavalry. Unaware of such developments, Shitsuzutsū was encamped at Tōkōzan (Head Mountain), daily attacking and performing magic, moving the earth veins and tormenting the people, when suddenly a squadron of war horses rushed to the front of the mountain like heavenly deities.