【Right Page】
The suffering never ceased. Up until now, they had sent Rikumotsu Gedoku-tō (Six-Substance Detox Decoction), Ryūtan Shakan-tō (Gentian Liver-Purging Decoction), Sankirai-zai (Sarsaparilla Preparation), Gohō-tan【Note】, Shikin-tan (Purple Gold Pills), Keijū-sen (Chicken Juice Decoction), or Keifun-zai (Calomel Preparation), Kyūō-san (Chuanxiong and Rhubarb Powder), Hanbi-gan (Anti-Nasal Pills), and other reinforcements, but the bandits were strong and they could not achieve victory, bringing the nation to the brink of crisis. Then, advised by the Guardian Spirit, the king finally realized his mistake and decided to rely on Tokujitsu Junchoku as commander-in-chief. However, since he was still in Mankichi Country formulating plans for governing the nation, they first summoned his subordinate, the brave general Enjumaru, made him the supreme commander for pursuing and attacking the syphilis bandits, and planned to hold battle immediately.

The two bandit generals had previously heard news from Mankichi Country and knew that their parents had been killed by Enjumaru, so when they heard that he was advancing toward this country, they felt both joy and sorrow. They rejoiced because they would encounter their sworn enemy, and they worried because Enjumaru was peerlessly brave and could not be easily defeated. At this point,

【Note: A patent medicine that was said to be effective against syphilis around the mid-Edo period.】

【Left Page】
The two generals concluded that "ultimately, the only way to accomplish our goal of revenge in this battle is to borrow the power of the Great King of Syphilis." They made this decision in council, and both generals together raised clouds, rode the wind, and immediately went to the Syphilis King's location. They bowed twice and shed tears profusely, saying: "Great King, you must surely have heard—our father Gekan Sōsei was pitifully killed by Enjumaru in Chōroku Country, and Jōkō Ketsudoku was also killed by that wretch in Mankichi Country. That bitter resentment penetrates to our very bones and is unforgettable. Now Enjumaru has come as a punitive force to Sukehachi Country, which we have invaded. He is our parents' sworn enemy and especially a grave enemy to the Great King, so we intend to kill him by any means, but his martial prowess is unparalleled throughout history and beyond what we peers can match. We humbly beg that the Great King lend us the strength of one arm to kill that medicine pill and allow us to fulfill our loyal filial duty." They respectfully made this plea. The Syphilis King listened in detail