【Right page】
Using mercury pills for eight months of drastic aggressive treatment was also a mistake, and for these five years in total I suffered uselessly. If I were to treat this now, I would first use one dose of the mild medicine Sankirai-zai (sarsaparilla preparation), and if ineffective, use one dose of Shippō-gan (Seven Treasures Pills). If this causes no swelling or pain in the mouth, I would double the dose again, and if the mouth swells and hurts but the disease is not cured, I would wait for the mouth to heal and then use Enjū-gan (Life-Extension Pills). In this way, there would be no five years of suffering, and complete cure should be achieved in just four to five months. In today's world, the number of people who, like myself, err in treatment and suffer for years, losing their fortunes to disease and medicine, becoming disabled, or dying unnatural deaths, is beyond counting. This is deeply lamentable. My purpose in writing this book is solely to inform the world of these matters and enable people to avoid the harm of syphilis for a long time. Therefore,

【Left page】
those who worry about this disease should read this book and the appendix "Miscellaneous Talks on Syphilis" many times, thoroughly understand the principles, and then use appropriate medicines according to the condition of their disease. This would be far superior to using medicines from dishonest doctors or doctors with superficial knowledge - they would not waste fruitless months, not spend useless money, the disease poison would be expelled quickly without recurrence, and there would be no re-infection. There is not a single falsehood among the medical techniques recorded in this book. If I were to openly reveal the two formulas Enjū-gan and Baikō-san (Syphilis-Effect Powder), I would have nothing to fear before Heaven and Earth's divine powers, nor anything to be ashamed of before great men and gentlemen. However, being a wandering physician without steady income, keeping these two formulas secret as a means of livelihood is something I deeply regret in my heart. I hope that you esteemed readers will kindly show generous understanding.