【Right Page】
　Ryūkan-bō, Jōkan-bō, Ryūen-bō, Jōkyū-bō, Rinkyō-bō, Myōnichi-bō (the above in Hotoke-iwa Valley)
　Shōsen-bō, Hongetsu-bō, Enkan-bō, Jōryō-bō, Jōkū-bō, Tsūjun-bō, Kōzō-bō
　Tsūshō-bō, Ninshō-bō, Chūon-bō, Jōon-bō, Gyōjitsu-bō, Daigo-bō, Shukō-bō
　Jōyū-bō, Myōchin-bō (the above in South Valley), Fudō-bō, Chikan-bō, Sekizen-bō, Enyū-bō
　Ōshō-bō, Kyōkan-bō, Shinmyō-bō, Jōfuku-bō, Shōen-bō, Kyōjū-bō, Shōhan-bō
　Kantoku-bō, Yuikyō-bō, Jūkō-bō, Yōnan-bō, Ensen-bō (the above in West Mountain Valley), Tairin-bō
　Kōzen-bō, Zenkyō-bō, Junkyō-bō, Jitsuzō-bō, Bungetsu-bō, Risen-bō, Renshō-bō
　Kyōkō-bō, Myōen-bō, Shinkyō-bō, Konzō-bō, Shōkaku-bō, Ōshū-bō, Rinshu-bō
　Dōryū-bō (the above in Zennyo-shin Valley)
Magistrate's Residence: The road in front of this gate reaches from the west side of the Onmakanai slope behind the palace grounds to Shiken-chō, Hara-machi, and Rengeishi-machi, serving as the route from the mountain precincts to Chūzen-ji, Jakkō, Arasawa, or the Ashio area.

【Left Page】
Fire Watch Residence: This faces the Group Leader's Residence. As preparation for fire prevention within the sacred mountain precincts, there were watch posts here and at Shimo-Hatsuishi, with duty rotations at two locations. From the sixth month of Keian 5, the Hachiōji Thousand-man Unit was assigned this duty, with two leaders and attendants from both groups on duty. However, in the early Kansei period, the Hatsuishi post was abolished, leaving only this one location. Since then, there has been one thousand-man leader, five group leaders, forty attendants, and additional foot soldiers guarding the mountain precincts. Originally they rotated every fifty days, but now they serve for half a year.
Seiryū Gongen: Also called Ryūjin Shrine. Originally the shrine building was located near the Fire Watch Residence area, where there was also a large pond. The area from around the Magistrate's Residence to the monk quarters was called Zennyo-shin Valley because of this shrine. Since the enshrinement, the pond was filled in to create the Fire Watch Residence, and when the nearby Shiken-chō also became residential land for court musicians or retainers of the Yamaguchi family, the Ryūjin Shrine was moved to its current location at the foot of the mountain. This shrine dates to when Kōbō Daishi traveled to Tang China and stayed at Seiryū-ji temple on Mount Tendai, where he prayed to that temple's guardian deity.