【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Doi Ōi-no-kami Minamoto Asomi Toshikatsu
　Daishō-in Gekkei Sōshiki Koji (Kan'ei 4, 11th month, 14th day)　　　　Sakai Bingo-no-kami Minamoto Tadatoshi
　Kūin-ji Ketsuден Chōei Dai-koji (Kanbun 2, 7th month, 16th day)　　　Wakasa Shōshō and Sanuki-no-kami Minamoto Asomi Tadakatsu
　Daiyū-in Nagai Gettan Koji (Kan'ei 2, 12th month, 29th day)　　　　　Nagai Ukon-no-dayū Ōe-no-Naokatsu
　Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade, Governor of Shinano Province, Ōe surname, Nagai clan (Kanbun 8, 9th month, 11th day) Konzan Koji《no name given; presumably the tombstone of Nagai Naomasa》
　The above stone pagodas are arranged in two rows to the west of Shaka Hall

Inuhiki Jizō-son (Dog-Leading Jizō)　《There is a small hall at the roadside next to the main gate of Myōdō-in in Hara-machi, and alongside it there is also a small hermitage of the hall》
　According to the abbreviated origin story, this hall's site was where in ancient times, when Saint Shōdō opened this mountain, as he climbed Nantai-san, the flow of this Tamozawa was treacherous, and he wandered here for a while seeking a shallow crossing. Suddenly Jizō-son appeared, comforted the saint, and guided him across to the other side.
　Due to this, during the Daidō era, stone Jizō statues were erected on both banks of this stream, and gradually the main hall and monastery quarters were built, with incense, flowers, and lanterns offered, maintaining religious services day and night without fail. 《Jōkyō era》

【Left Page】
　《suffered a fire, and afterward during the Shōtoku era reconstruction, the current principal image was moved here. The old principal image is enshrined in the rear hall》Afterward, with a certain person as patron, the Enmei Jizō-son that had been established at Chūzen-ji was moved into this hall. Traditionally, because the mountain paths were treacherous and difficult for the elderly and weak to traverse, and particularly because it was a sacred precinct where women could not ascend, it was brought down to this place for the spiritual benefit of all sentient beings. Indeed, this sacred image was created by Saint Shōdō and formerly stood at Chūzen-ji Yumoto - this is what is called Inuhiki Jizō-son.
　In medieval times, there was a person called Itabashi Shōgen, lord of Itabashi castle in Tsuga District of this province. His heart was arrogant and he showed no reverence for buddhas and gods, constantly enjoying killing and hunting in mountains and fields. One time, accompanied by his men, he hunted near Usagi-jima at Yumoto of Chūzen-ji, spread mats on the lakeshore and indulged in drinking, saying: "This Jizō of Yumoto is said to be the work of Saint Shōdō and a miraculous buddha - if so, it should show its divine power. I happen to have brought one dog for hunting purposes. If I tie this dog and the Jizō together at the neck and throw them into this lake water, which will win? If it is truly a miraculous buddha, then the Jizō should