【Right Page】
Flying Sake Pot (Tobi-chōshi)　This vessel appears on Mt. Nantai, Mt. Nyohō, and other high mountains without a fixed location. It is said that even ascetic practitioners conducting annual mountain training sometimes do not see this vessel for two or three years. Its shape resembles a small iron sake pot without a lid. It is said to be something that mountain spirits favor as a plaything.

Mt. Futago (Twin Mountain)　Both "Yakumo Goshō" and "Moshiogusa" list it as being in Shimotsuke Province. Some say it may be a mountain in Shimotsuke Province, but not a mountain of our locality. However, the name Mt. Futago has existed in our locality since ancient times, and local people have passed down the tradition, saying there is a mountain called Futago in the mountain range of Jakkō and Arasawa, though it is not a particularly prominent mountain. In my consideration, between Mt. Nantai and Mt. Nyohō stand two mountains called Ō-manago and Ko-manago, rising prominently between the Nikō peaks. Since these "true children" stand side by side, I know these to be the twins of our locality, so I am certain these should be considered Mt. Futago.
　　A poem sent with a keepsake to a woman who went to Shimotsuke Province

【Left Page】
"Gosen-shū" Parting: "Though we cannot cross Mt. Futago together, I send this seeking that reflection in the bright mirror there" - Anonymous (attributed to Hitomaro in "Rokujō")
"Rokujō": "In Shimotsuke, I trusted someone with a double heart like Mt. Futago" - Kisen Hōshi  
"Kashū": "In this long world, the roots of Mt. Futago with you - morning mist rises never knowing satisfaction" - Nobuaki
"Meiyori": "Having conceived at Mt. Futago's bamboo grass plain, bearing too much into the world, I may fade away" - Goyori
Same: "Will travelers see it as a mirror? The moonlight emerging over Mt. Futago's jeweled comb box" - Same

Fudō Rock (Fudō-iwa)　Located at the foot of the mountain on the north bank of the Inari River. It is named so because its shape resembles the form of Fudō Myō-ō (Acala). It is about three jō in height.

Grinding Stone Rock (Surus-iwa)　This is also in continuation of the previous location. In the countryside, the mortar used to hull rice grains is called "surus." This is also named for its resembling shape. It is about two ken square and six ken in height.

Ice Rock (Kōri-iwa)　This is also in the same location as the previous ones. It is not named because the rock resembles ice, but because there is ice in the rock cave of this place even during the blazing heat of June. It is a surface of rock stone in a shaded area, with giant rocks...