[Right page]
Main Shrine of Sansha Gongen: Copper-roofed, entirely painted red, facing south, 2 ken by 3 ken, raised floor construction, box ridge, gilt metal fittings, railings, carved decorations with coloring, three doors on the front, painted black, three alligator-mouth bells hung. Sacred fences encircle all four sides, also painted red. There are gates on the front and east sides, and the inner courtyard is paved with jewel stones. When the priest Shōdō climbed the mountain in the 7th year of Kōnin accompanied by Kyōbin, Dōchin and others, he worshipped the manifestation of the three deities at the summit of Mount Nantai, and when descending the mountain, he built a shrine building at the foot - this refers to our shrine. This is called the founding of the enshrinement of the three shrines.

《Note: On the 27th day of the 4th month of Genroku 4, when Prince-Priest Kōben, the chief priest of our mountain, first climbed the mountain, he performed sacred music and composed poetry before the deities as offerings》

"Visiting the thousand-year shrine of Chūzen, I perceive spiritual wonders; snow accumulates in winter's colors, flowers bloom on April branches. Lake light connects to the blue sky, sunset shadows float on clear ripples; keeping mind beyond the human world, hastening return, I compose this poem."

Worship Hall: Copper-roofed, entirely painted red, with verandas on four sides. 5 ken by 6 ken. Enshrines Jizō.

Honji Kannon Hall: West of the worship hall, copper tiles, painted red. The principal image is Senju Daishi, a standing wooden statue, 1 jō 6 shaku tall, plain wood, carved by priest Shōdō. The left and right sides of the hall enshrine statues of the Four Heavenly Kings. This is the 

[Left page]
18th temple of the Bandō pilgrimage.

A plaque with what is said to be a devotional song to Kannon hangs in the worship area, reportedly from a work called "Bandō Pilgrimage Record":

"Climbing to Chūzenji to worship the lake, pillar waves stand on the song beach path"
"At Fudaraku, climbing to worship the lake, the vow of the standing tree on the shore is eternal"

Subsidiary Shrines: Myōken Hall《with worship area, raised floor construction, has worship hall》Konpon Hall《enshrines Kokūzō as principal image》
Kaidan Hall《enshrines the Three Saints of ordination as principal images》Makaraten Hall, Sannō Shrine

It is said that this mountain was named Mount Fudaraku because long ago, the founding priest, during the many years since establishing this mountain, frequently received miraculous benefits from Kannon. Especially in the 3rd year of Enryaku, when he climbed the mountain and perceived the spiritual influence of the Great Being on the southern shore of the western lake, he carved its sacred form with his own hands and enshrined it. Moreover, when the priest contemplated deeply, he realized that the various miraculous signs shown by Kannon Bodhisattva throughout the mountains of Nikkō were not merely due to his own faith, but that this mountain must surely be a sacred realm with karmic connections to the Great Being.