【Right page】
With branches and leaves flourishing through the four seasons, rhododendrons grow to heights of two to three or four feet, and there are many large azalea trees thick enough to embrace, forming forests. At the summit, the divine beauty of the four directions is indescribable in words. The reason a shrine is enshrined at the peak is that the monk Shōdō first attempted to climb the mountain in the fourth month of Jingo-keiun 1 (767), but thunder roared along the way, he lost his way, and could not ascend. Fifteen years later, in the fourth month of Ten'ō 1 (781), he again attempted to climb but failed. In the third month of the second year, he copied sutras, drew Buddha images, went to the foot of the mountain and chanted sutras for seven days, made vows to the divine spirits, and prayed that if he could reach the summit, he would place the sutra scrolls and Buddha images at the peak as offerings to the divine spirits of heaven and earth, vowing to revere their divine authority. Finally, on his third attempt, he reached the summit. At this time, the monk enshrined a divine shrine to worship the divine spirits of heaven and earth. Later, during his ascent in Kōnin 7 (816), he worshipped the manifestation of three deities and enshrined them - this was the beginning of the enshrinement of the Nikkō Sansha Gongen. There is a stone called Taimenseki (Face-to-Face Rock) on the mountaintop, said to be the stone where he worshipped the divine manifestation in Kōnin 7. There is no time to record other matters.

【Left page】
One should actually climb to the summit to know its divine beauty.

Man'yōshū 11: "Like jet-black hair, on Mount Kurokami's sedge grass, light rain falls steadily - my thoughts grow ever stronger" - Hitomaro
Shoku Kokinshū: "Like jet-black hair, crossing Mount Kurokami at dawn, I became wet with dew under the trees" - Same author
Shin Goshūishū: "What will befall me - white snow falling on nearby Mount Kurokami" - Minamoto no Yorimasa
Horikawa Hyakushu: "The traveler's sedge hat must have rotted away during the rainy season at Mount Kurokami" - Kinsane Ason
Same: "Like jet-black hair, when snow falls on Mount Kurokami, even the valleys are buried" - Toshiyori Ason
"Like jet-black hair, if snow accumulates on Mount Kurokami's peak, would it look like flowing hair?" - Ryūgen
Fubokushū: "Gazing while they scatter, I call to you - flowers have bloomed on Mount Kurokami" - Saigyō

Kanei 13, 21st Memorial Service Imperial Gathering with court nobles and temple abbots climbing the mountain, when Minister Ano Fujiwara no Kiminari climbed in early fourth month:
"Viewing from the sedge bridge, unlike its name, white snow remains on Mount Kurokami"

Keian 1, 33rd Memorial Service Imperial Gathering with court nobles and temple abbots climbing the mountain, when Minister Sanjō Fujiwara no Sanenori climbed in early fourth month:
"Timeless phenomenon - even through summer, white snow falls on Mount Kurokami"