【Right page】
Lake Nan (Nanko): This is what is called the lake waters of Chūzen-ji. It is the greatest lake, measuring approximately three ri east to west and approximately one ri north to south. It is also named Hakkudoku Pond, as seen in the temple records. It is said that there are forty-eight lakes on the mountainsides and foothills, but their exact locations are not clearly known. As recorded in the Great Master's writings: "Looking toward the southwest, there is yet another great lake extending approximately over one thousand chō." Because of its pure, cold water, no fish live in it, and there is not a speck of dust; white waves constantly lap against the shores. Even in drought years or during prolonged rains, the water neither decreases nor overflows. Ever since the priest Shōdō toured here in the first year of Jingo-keiun, it remains a wondrous sight and should be called a great lake of extraordinary beauty.

Nangan Bridge: Located above the falls outlet of Kegon Falls. A wooden bridge spans the waterway where the lake water flows toward the falls outlet. Flower-offering pilgrims cross this from Uta-no-hama to reach Bessho. Alternatively, there is a branching path from Ashio over the pass, where at the ridge top it diverges toward the Chūzen-ji road. From there, pilgrims travel the treacherous mountain paths to worship at Chūzen-ji.

Uta-no-hama (Song Beach): This is the southern shore of the lake. In ancient times, when the venerable master Shōdō toured and practiced here along the lakeshore,

【Left page】
heavenly beings descended and sang songs of praise. Hence, this place has been called Uta-no-hama (Song Beach). At this historic site, there is a place called "lodging" where flower-offering practitioners now retreat. This is said to be that historic site.

Tera-ga-saki: On the southern shore, west of Uta-no-hama. This place was not established by Master Shōdō but was founded by the Great Master Jikaku. In the first year of Kashō, fourth month, he arrived at this place and founded Yakushi Hall, enshrined a hand-carved principal image, and buried a medicine jar at the center of the hall, naming it Yakushi-ji Temple. This medicine jar is said to have been transmitted from the Indian physician king Giba to the priest Ichigyō. I have heard that this matter appears in the five scrolls of imperial writings among the ancient records of our mountain. Because there is a Yakushi Hall on a small mountain promontory extending about eight chō from the southern shore, this place is called Tera-ga-saki Yakushi-ji.

Nichirin-ji Historic Site: When the priest Shōdō built a temporary hermitage at Uta-no-hama, one night in a dream he beheld the appearance of the Five Great Deities within a great solar disk. Therefore, he carved the Five Great Deities and at this