【Right Page】
It was named so because it resembles a dragon's head. When autumn comes, it becomes a famous spot for autumn leaves, so it is also called by the alternate name "Momiji Falls" (Maple Falls). This waterfall has several waterfalls before it drops into Lake Chuzenji, and the spectacular scenery is beyond description. A rough sketch of its general appearance was shown earlier.

Jigoku Chaya (Hell Tea House) - It is located about one ri beyond from the vicinity of Chuzenji Bessho, following the lake water, crossing the Orai Bridge. It got its name because there is a cave at the foot of Mount Nantai to the east of this tea house, and since the depth of the cave bottom is unknown, the local people called it "Jigoku-ana" (Hell Hole). Because it is near that area, it came to be called Jigoku no Chaya (Hell Tea House). Since it is far from Yumoto, it was established for travelers to take a rest.

Mokusho-ji Temple Ruins - This is also located on the eastern mountainside of Yumoto Orai Bridge. It is said to have been founded by Kobo Daishi, but now only the old site preserves its name.

Genshakubo Pool - Refers to the inlet on the east side of the lake. This is where this monk drowned himself in ancient times. Every year during the July Hamazenchō ceremony, the Amida Sutra is tied to bamboo grass bundles as spiritual offerings and thrown into the lake, and when the priest

【Left Page】
performs memorial services, the Amida Sutra immediately sinks as if being pulled into the bottom of the water. The monks and laypeople performing zenchō find this mysterious.

Hachi-yama (Bowl Mountain) - It is a round mountain. It connects to the north of the lake and south of Mount Nantai.

Hachi-ishi (Bowl Stone) - Located in the lake. It is named so because it is near Hachi-yama.

Shijō-ji Temple Ruins - In front of Hachi-yama by the lake. Built by Kobo Daishi. This ruin was originally called Kaidansho.

Hokke Mitsugon-ji Temple Ruins - On top of Hachi-yama. Built by Ajari Shinsai.

Tenpōrin-ji Temple Ruins - At the foot of Hachi-yama. Built by Kyōbin.

Hannya-ji Temple Ruins - Located on the shore of the western lake. Built by Kobo Daishi.

Bonji-iwa (Sanskrit Rock) - Located in the lake water in front of Hannya-ji Temple. Kobo Daishi inscribed Sanskrit characters on it.

Wakamatsu-saki, Oimatsu-saki - Refers to the area around the Nichirin-ji Temple ruins and the area around the Hannya-ji Temple ruins.

Shimeji-gahara - Sometimes called Senjōgahara or Akanuma-gahara, but these are alternate names for Shimeji-gahara