【Right Page】
　It is not that this place exists separately. The original explanation for calling it Akanuma is that there is a sacred swamp with spring water gushing forth in this field, and because the founding monk drew ritual water (aka) here, later generations came to call it Akanuma-gahara. It is also written as Akanuma because according to another theory, when there was a battle of the gods, blood flowed and made it red. The name Senjōgahara (Battlefield Plain) is also said to have originated from this. This plain extends for three ri (about 12 km) from the vicinity of Chūzenji Bessho to the entrance of Yumoto. It is also written as Shimeji-gahara or sometimes as Chumeji-gahara.

《Shinkokin》Still I rely on the moxa of Shimeji-gahara, as long as I exist in this world　《This poem is also said to be a sacred poem of Shimizu Kannon》
《Shinsenzai》Why is it that the winter grass of Shimeji-gahara has withered away without such moxa　《Anonymous》
《Rokujō》In Shimotsuke, the moxa of Shimeji-gahara - does one burn oneself with one's own thoughts?　《Same》
《Shinroku》The grass-grown Shimeji-gahara is frost-withered, and there is not even the hope of what might have been　《Kinugasa Naidaijin》
《Fuboku》The promised bracken shoots of Shimeji-gahara have sprouted below and aged through the years　《Shunzei》
《Same》In Shimotsuke, hidden in the grass of Shimeji-gahara, what feelings burn without reason　《Mitsutoshi Ason》

【Left Page】
　It is said to be three ri from the vicinity of Chūzenji Bessho to Yumoto. Following along the edge of the lake for about one ri, there is a place called Ayame-ga-numa, which is at the end of the lake and was so named because iris grass grew abundantly there. From there, passing through groves of trees and crossing Akanuma-gahara for about two ri, one reaches Yumoto. It is entirely a vast plain, mostly grassland, with various kinds of flowers and plants. Spring comes late here, and only around the fourth or fifth month does it finally receive the spring season, when hundreds of varieties of flowers bloom all at once, creating a gorgeous display like spread flower carpets. Therefore, it is also called Onhanabatake (Imperial Flower Garden).

　The Story of Senjōgahara
　It is said to be a place where battles of the gods occurred in ancient times, and even in much later ages, Lord Mitsukane of the Kamakura court subjugated Oyama in Shimotsuke. This happened in the first year of Eitoku, when Oyama Umanosuke Yoshimasa and his son Waka-inu-maru communicated with the Southern Court and rebelled against Kamakura's orders, so the Right Guard Commander set out on campaign. At this time, the Oda Sanuki-no-kami Priest and his son from Hitachi led the van