【Right Page】
It is also said to be the inner sanctuary (oku-no-in) of Mount Nantai. The mid-slopes of the mountain are entirely covered with layers of deep greenery, with many fir and hemlock trees. In the shaded areas of the trees, there are many famous local products called Shirane ginseng, Shirane hollyhock, Shirane orchid, and other rare grasses and precious trees. Medicinal products, beginning with coptis, are too numerous to enumerate. Because it is a sacred mountain, climbing it easily is not permitted. It is said that an animal called musk deer lives on this peak. Though no one has seen its form, those who have climbed the mountain occasionally pick up what they believe to be its droppings and return with them. The fragrance is especially superior to what is called sand musk. Whether it is truly the droppings of that animal, one would like to see its form. Lake Amida lies between Mae-Shirane and Oku-Shirane.

Kuriyama District: Ten villages in Shioya County - Nishikawa, Hinata, Yunishigawa, Torobe, Kurobe, Kami-Kuriyama, Shimo-Kuriyama, Nokado, Kawamata, Kawaharu and other villages. From the area around the sacred mountain precincts to the north, corresponding to the north side of Mount Nyohō, passing through the secluded valley between Nyohō and Nantai, crossing the steep mountain called Fujimi Pass. The era when the village settlements were established is also not known.

【Left Page】
It is extremely mountainous village settlement, so even the farmland is merely created by digging between rocks and stones, therefore the harvest is small, and they do not have a year's supply of food stored for husband and wife. Both men and women enter the mountains to work. Men hunt birds and beasts, either eating them or selling them, and others cross secluded valleys and sharp peaks to gather rock mushrooms. They cut trees and saw them into boards to take to Nikko, but because the mountain paths are narrow with many plank bridges, they cut them into three or four shaku lengths to carry on their backs, or transport them by pack horse, but since they are thin mares, the steep paths are rugged and not easy to traverse. They all exchange them for rice and grain before returning. In winter, some stay home and make wooden bowls, wooden ladles, wooden clogs, etc. Recently they produce containers made by bent-wood crafting called Kuriyama buckets. These are said to be buckets for drawing water from valley streams. Women and children also wear rough clothing and enter the mountains to gather firewood, and when acorns and chestnuts are abundant according to the season, they gather these as food preparation. Also, the leaders of Kuriyama do not shave their topknots. It is said that in ancient times, remnants of the Heike clan hid in these mountains. They claim the surname Komatsu, but since they have no ancient documents or old artifacts stored in their homes, their lineage is not certain.