【Right Page】
The details are not well known, but at that time there were also four or five copper smelting huts lined up beside the garrison office.

Silver Mine: Located west of Ashio Town, about two ri away, in an area with terrain spanning about four to five chō. The silver mine became the property of the Nikko Gate Master, and while it was a mountain where villagers worked and paid taxes, now that silver no longer comes out, smelting operations have ceased and an overseer has been appointed to manage the location.

Mount Kōshin: This is about three ri northwest from the town. This mountain has various natural curious rocks, forming scenic beauty as if created by heaven. Recently, people have been engraving and viewing illustrations of the mountain's strange sights, so local people serve as guides. Some say that because a white monkey lives in this mountain, it is called Mount Kōshin, or also referred to as the Pure Land of Monkeys.

Famous Products of Various Places in Nikko:
Copper 《comes from Ashio》 Silver 《same as above》 Bear bile Bear hide 《these also come from the Ashio area》
Soapstone 《The stone called Nikko soapstone, used to make seals and other crafted items, comes from the Ashio mountains. Now the high-quality stone has been exhausted, and mostly only white stone remains》

【Left Page】
Birds:
Jihi-shin bird 《Considered a sacred bird of this mountain. It lives around Chūzenji or the Kuriyama area, and also flies into the sacred mountain precincts to sing. The bird's name comes from its calling voice》
Robin 《Those living in rocky mountains are considered the best》 Mountain dove Mountain pheasant Woodcock Rock swallow Wren 《Those living in mountain valleys have very high-pitched voices》
Flying squirrel 《Though not a bird, it flies well, so it is included in this section》

Fish and Insects:
Yamame trout Cherry salmon Char 《Live in the Daiya River and other valley streams》 Salamander 《These live in mountain valley streams in various places. They have four toes and are used to treat childhood nutritional disorders》

Medicinal Products:
Coptis Direct-root ginseng Nikko ginseng 《This refers to seed ginseng. Because mountain villages have much barren land, much is cultivated within the divine territory. There is always profit in this. There are many other medicinal herbs, but they are not all recorded》

Plants and Trees:
Shirane hollyhock Shirane orchid Shirane ginseng 《Each grows on Mount Shirane》 Snow-breaking grass Bitter peach Rock plover
Rock mirror Orangutan head Hemlock cherry 《These all grow in the mountains》 Nikko orchid 《This refers to spring orchid》
Senju ganpi 《Grows in Senjugahara by the lake. Considered a famous variety》 Smartweed of Tade Lake Rhododendron Azalea 《Many large trees on Mount Nantai》