【Right page】
There is a theory that it might have been a place name that existed there, and though it is not certain, since there were things I had heard handed down, I have recorded them briefly here.

Nikkō Imperial Domain (13,000 koku)
The boundaries of the Nikkō Imperial Domain are: to the east, along the Utsunomiya Highway to Ōsawa Station, four ri from Nikkō; along the Mibu Highway to Fubasami Station, five ri; to the west, to Ashio, six ri; to Kuga Village, seven ri; to the northwest (inui direction), to Kuriyama Village, seven ri. Going to the inner area of Chūzenji, reaching Yumoto, there is the border with Kōzuke Province, but since it is a place where human traces have disappeared, no one knows for certain, though it would be about nine ri from the Nikkō entrance. To the south, from Ashio northward to the mountain valley border of Aizu Domain, this too has many high mountains and steep valleys that people do not reach, so it is difficult to know for certain, but it would be about eight ri or more.

From the sacred mountain precincts to Edo via the Onari road is about thirty-six ri; to Utsunomiya nine ri; to Nasu Ōtahara eleven ri; to Takahara Pass about eight ri; to Mito in Hitachi Province thirty-five ri; to Echigo Province sixty ri; to Oyama in this province sixteen ri; to Mibu about eleven ri; to Tochigi about twelve ri; to Kōzuke's

【Left page】
Myōgi Mountain twenty-seven ri; to Maebashi twelve ri from Ashio; to Numata fourteen ri.

Matsubara Town: This is the entrance town to Nikkō where a gate is established. In ancient times, this area is said to have been a pine grove.

Ishiya Town, Gokō Town: It is handed down that these three towns came to line up their eaves in complete town rows only from the Kan'ei era onward. Before that time, Gokō Town was called Shin-machi (New Town) and was located in the Nakayama area within the sacred mountain precincts. Ishiya Town and Matsubara Town consisted of houses scattered here and there within the sacred precincts, or in various places outside the sacred precincts near the mountain edges. In the 17th year of Kan'ei (1640), for certain reasons, Shin-machi was moved below Hatsuishi Town. At that time, the four temples—Jōdoin, Kan'onin, Jitsukyōin, and Kōjuin—were granted the former town site as temple grounds and relocated there. Other lay houses scattered in various places inside and outside the mountain precincts were moved to Inari Town and Matsubara. At that time, all three towns were called Shin-machi.

Ryūzōji Temple: Located on the north side of Ishiya Town, it is called Zuiunzan. It is a branch temple of Myōdōin in Hara Town, and inside there is a Kan[non statue]