【Right Page】
So it is said. Leading the musicians of the Bureau of Court Music who perform as lion bodhisattvas, they proceed to the curtained pavilion. I take my seat in the musicians' area and while seated there, hand over the catalog of court dances. This is because the bamboo flooring of the Honji-dō is cramped, so seats must be arranged here. The performances include Tōrika, Tōtenraku, Battō, Genjōraku—some with butterflies' sleeves wafting incense, others with karyōbin's wings turning clouds. The sounds of the music resonate in the sky, creating a feeling as if the plucking sounds of the koto join in harmony.

On the 21st, the initiation ceremony of the Samaya precepts is performed before the deities. The instructor is Prince Gyōzen Hōshin'ō. The recipient is Prince Sonkei Hōshin'ō. The Great Ācārya is said to be the Great Priest of Bishamon-dō. The court dances are Saisō, Rō, Shin Makachi, Kanshū, Rinka, Dakyūraku, and Komainu. The testimony for the final prayer day is given by Great Priest Kōkai. After the religious ceremonies ended, both clergy and laity are said to have made offerings, but as for His Excellency's condition, he did not do so that day but offered sacred streamers the following day.

【Left Page】
I too had some illness and served on this occasion. On the 24th and 25th, it is said that 5,200 monks recited the Lotus Sutra in its complete form of ten thousand volumes. On the 26th, there was said to be a sacred Nō performance. Master performers of sarugaku such as Kanze and Konparu gathered in great numbers. The sounds of flutes and drums resonated in the sky, and this too could be said to be like stopping the flowing clouds.

Thus various great religious assemblies were conducted without incident, and people's joy knew no bounds. It is reported that the Great Tree's (Shogun's) mood was also not perfunctory. Taking advantage of having a day or two of free time, and thinking it would be regrettable not to see the famous places, I invited one or two acquaintances and temporarily visited places like Takino'o and Jakkō, touring various locations. I omit the detailed particulars as usual, and write down only the outline of this occasion's ceremonies as a souvenir for the capital.

Even the mountain today cannot hide behind its name— in the sacred teaching that scatters the light of the rising sun like flowers.