【Right page】
Nagasaka: Refers to the slope road ascending to the left from in front of Jinshaō Shrine. This is the main road to the shrine and sacred mountain precincts. The road width is about four ken, and after climbing about one and a half chō, there is a flat area. The corner ahead features the earthen walls of the Head Temple's compound, with Jōdo-in on the right corner, Kannon-in on the left corner, followed by Jitsukyō-in and Kōjuin on the south side of the Head Temple. These are among the twenty temple residences of the monks. This area is called Nakayama. Following along the Head Temple grounds around the flat area, the left side is the former palace site, and the right side is the broad street in front of the main gate of the Head Temple, from which one can see toward the front of the shrine and glimpse the stone torii gate in the distance.

Morinaga's Stone Pagoda: Located within the precincts of Jōdo-in above Nagasaka slope. There stands a pagoda for Tō Kurō Morinaga. According to ancient local tradition, this stone pagoda is made of flat stone with the six-character sacred name inscribed on the front, the secular name "Adachi clan" inscribed on the right side, and "Tō Kurō Morinaga" inscribed on the left side. Some ancient records of this mountain note that there is a grave of Tō Kurō Morinaga to the east of Sanyūbō temple (which is the current site of Jōdo-in). Old records also mention that Morinaga's grave tree was toppled by fierce winds on the 29th day of the 2nd month of Enpō 8.

【Left page】
At that time, a descendant of the Adachi clan who served the Lord of Hikone, now called Onoda, comes to offer tea ceremony donations to this pagoda annually and sends representatives for worship. In recent years, there is also said to be a plaque with the characters "Morinaga Hall" written by the retired Lord Matsudaira Rakuō. This Morinaga was a retainer during the founding period of Lord Minamoto no Yoritomo, initially called Tō Kurō, later becoming Shinano no Kami. When the Right General passed away in the first month of Shōji 1, he took the tonsure and adopted the name Rensai, dying in his private residence at Amanawa in Kamakura in the second year.

Former Palace Site: Located to the west, facing the Head Temple.
Initially, the palace was first built on the current site of the Head Temple. The area now called the former palace site was originally the temple grounds of Zazen-in, but in Keichō 18, the head priest of Zazen-in had doctrinal disputes and was forced to retire, leaving the site abandoned. In Kanei 18, when the Head Temple was rebuilt at its current location, the palace was simultaneously reconstructed at the former site of Zazen-in. During the great fire of Jōkyō 1, the palace was protected by firefighting efforts and escaped the disaster, but during the Kyōhō period...