【Right page】
Since the palace was demolished, when the Shogun family makes pilgrimages, the main temple (honbo) has been used as a temporary shogunal residence. The sites of the main gate, service gate, and buried gate are located along the main road. Since then, when repairing the shrine and mausoleum, many structures such as construction offices, workshop sites, and duty stations have been established on the former palace grounds, and after official business is completed, entry into the compound is again prohibited.

Omakanaizaka (Catering Slope) - Refers to the stone slope that goes around the outside of the palace grounds and descends to Nishimachi (West Town). It is also called Fudo Slope, named after a temple called Fudobo located at the bottom of this slope.

Anyo Marsh - A marsh road leading from the west valley toward Shingu. Here, marsh water flows from the valley behind Ryukoin Temple. It has been called Anyo Marsh since ancient times. However, when the Shingu branch temple was established and temple grounds were constructed at this location, it came to be called Anyoin after the place name. The slope is also called Anyo Slope.

New Road - Refers to the flat main road on the north side of the palace grounds. It runs east-west, from the stone

【Left page】
torii gate in the east to the Jogyo Hall in the west, and what can be seen far beyond is the Nio Gate of the mausoleum. Local people also call this road Fukudo.

Shingu Horse Ground - Refers to the road from below the Nio Gate of the shrine to the torii gate of Shingu Gongen. It is about two cho in length. To the north of this road stands a pagoda with a spire.

Bell Tower - The bell tower is within the temporary shrine compound. The bell-ringing quarters consist of three monks - Kyuzenbo, Enonbo, and Renzōbo - who serve as bell-ringing attendants in three buildings, with provisions also distributed among the three. This is not included in the count of eighty temples. The bell was cast in Manji 3 (1660) and recast in Bunsei 7 (1824). The hall has four pillars, red lacquer finish, and a horse chestnut bark roof. There are also small roads between these grounds running east-west.

Site of Zazen Temple - As recorded in the previous section, the current site of the former palace was originally the old site of Zazen Temple. This temple was one of the thirty-six temples among the mountain community's monks, and its founder was Shōzen Sōzu, a leading disciple of the venerable Shōdō. Successive head priests used the character "Shō" in their Buddhist names. However, this temple was not one of the head temples of the mountain.