【Right page】
During the time of Head Priest Kochibo Shosen, this occurred in the autumn of the eighth month of Ninpei 3 (Mizunoto-Tori, 1153). After another fifty years had passed, in Jogen 4 (Kanoe-Uma, 1210), Head Priest Shinchibo Hoin Ryusen again relocated [the shrine] to behind the Jogyo-do hall, the former sacred site. This was because each time the divine authority became unsettled, [the shrine] was moved to various locations. This time they determined this place to be an unchanging shrine ground, and to permanently pacify the divine authority, the great assembly consulted together and offered the Hokke Hakko lectures and various other Buddhist services with solemn reverence. However, there must still have been something that did not accord with divine judgment, as the frequent divine rage did not cease. All the mountain monks were filled with fear, and for a while the matter of relocation was suspended, passing through unexpected years.

When the time came, the 22nd Head Priest Tajima Hoin Bengaku newly received the title of Head Priest of Komyo-in, and because Shogun-ke's (Lord Sanetomo's) devotion was particularly deep, he again petitioned Kamakura for shrine relocation and reconstruction. In Kenpo 3 (Kinoto-I, 1215), they divined a new shrine ground west of the main hall and constructed the sacred buildings. {{This is the site of the present worship hall.}} This site was truly an unchanging sacred ground, for from this time the divine rage also ceased, and the divine will became peacefully settled. From Kenpo 3 (Kinoto-I) until now,

【Left page】
approximately 620-plus years have passed. Indeed, this Great Gongen is the tutelary spirit of Nikko, and there is nothing concerning the order and disorder of the realm that does not relate to these mysterious responses, nor any fortune or misfortune in the land that does not fall under this deity's profound insight. Truly, the remarkable spiritual efficacy has been beyond counting since ancient times. Now I will record one or two examples to illuminate the divine virtue.

During the reign of the 52nd Human Sovereign, Emperor Saga, in the Daido era, the rebel ministers Naishi-no-kami Kusuriko, Fujiwara no Nakanari and others deceived the Retired Emperor, encouraged him to rebellion, and raised troops at the eastern barriers, plotting to seize the realm. When this matter quickly reached the Imperial Court, there was group deliberation that the three barriers should urgently be blocked, Sakanoue no Tamuramaro was chosen as the pursuit and subjugation commander, and Nakanari and others were pursued and attacked. At this time, an imperial messenger was sent to our shrine with earnest prayers for the defeat of the court enemies. The divine response was remarkable - finally the traitorous minister Nakanari and others were executed, and the Retired Emperor also took the tonsure. Thereupon all the disturbances completely calmed, and the four seas became peaceful.