【Right Page】
Due to Nari-kō's request, [the deity] has now descended here. This place is not my dwelling. On this peak resides a female deity's sacred spirit. You should enshrine [me] in this land. If you allow me to dwell peacefully at Chūzenji Temple, I will protect the Buddhist law and people until the end of time. Having finished speaking thus, [the deity] disappeared. Therefore, [the deity] came to be worshipped at Chūzenji Temple. Also, according to the revelation of Sonsei (sacred star), ritual practices were performed and the sacred manifestation of the spirit deity was requested. Immediately the spirit deity manifested, with an appearance like that of a celestial maiden, dignified and beautiful, adorned magnificently with golden crown and jeweled necklaces. Attending ladies-in-waiting surrounded the figure front and back, young servants filled the left and right, and exotic fragrances wafted about. Beholding the noble appearance of the spirit deity's manifestation, [the witness's] heart's desire was fulfilled. Immediately a shrine building was constructed on the elevated ground, the deity was ceremonially invited to reside there, and [someone] personally wrote the dedication plaque calling it "Nyotai Chūgū" (Female Body Central Shrine). A chamber was granted to Dōchin, and from this time Dōchin became the founding ancestor of the Takino-o masters.

Stone Torii Gate: Located about twenty ken outside the tower gate. This torii was erected by the Kaji clan.
Shadow-manifestation Stone: Located to the west of Bessho. This is the stone where Kōbō Daishi beheld the manifestation of the female deity in ancient times. It is a stone of about three by four shaku.

【Left Page】
Sutra Container: This bronze vessel appeared from beneath stones beside the path leading from the Shadow-manifestation Stone west of Bessho to the tower gate in the ninth month of Bunsei 6 (1823). In ancient times, there was a shrine in the area of present-day Bessho, but because the Inari River's repeated floods collapsed the mountain base, in Shōhō 2 (1645), with Great Monk Kōkai of Bishamonkō as the main patron, during the shrine reconstruction, the shrine buildings were moved to the ancient Bessho site, and Bessho was moved to the old shrine location.

【Illustration and Description of Sutra Container】
Length: over six sun
Outer container: three sun three bu in diameter
Bronze container: Another sutra container is stored within this. That sutra container bears an inscription. This is the outer container and bears no inscription. This lid was covered with a round mirror. While it was kept at Bessho, someone stole that mirror.