【Right Page】
This peak has been called Amida-ga-mine since ancient times.
Gyōja-dō (Ascetic Hall)　From the vicinity of this hall begins the path for annual peak ascetic practices and meditation. To the east of the road there is a guard post. This is placed for security because it continues with the sacred mountain of the shrine's inner sanctuary. The principal image of the Gyōja-dō is a statue of En no Shōkaku along with Zenki and Goki, created by Unkei. Going south from here, descending several hundred steps of stone stairs, there is sacred water.
Yakushi Sacred Water　A water basin is placed at the mountainside of the stone slope road, holding clear water within. It is said that when those suffering from eye diseases pour this sacred water on their eyes, it is efficacious. Going a little further along the slope road, there is a hall in the middle of the path. The interior of the hall serves as a three-shaku-wide passage for coming and going, with a platform set up on the right where Yakushi is enshrined, and a veranda built on the left as a retreat place. The sacred statue is said to be made by the founding master and is a spiritually powerful sacred image.
Jizō Rock　Exiting the Takino-o descent path and going down the slope road from in front of the main gate of Ryūkō-in toward Shingū, on the left side, near the high stone wall of the outer enclosure of the sacred mausoleum. This is where the founding ancestor Dōkō

【Left Page】
In the fourth month of the first year of Jingo-keiun, when he planned to climb to the summit of Nikō and came to this place, a sacred figure appeared on the rock to comfort and console the master. This place is also called Jizō-yōgō-ishi (Jizō Manifestation Stone), and a stone monument inscribed "Jizō Rock" was erected beside this rock. However, during the Enpō years, when Abe Kūen's tomb was built within the outer enclosure, it was located close to the south of this Jizō Rock, so the Abe family created a three-shaku stone seated Jizō statue and placed it on this rock. Therefore, the local people call it Kūen Jizō. The family also built a stone lantern for perpetual lighting nearby.
Jie Daishi Hall　Located on top of the mountain behind the Shingū shrine grounds. It is said that in the 17th year of Kan'ei (Kōshin year), Tenkai Dai-sōjō personally pulled ropes to build this hall as a prayer for the birth of a young lord of the ruling house. Facing south (two ken by three ken), the hall interior is divided into three parts, with the central room having a front area of one jō square, a Sumeru platform set up to the north, and the true image of the Great Master enshrined there (a stone statue, made by Mokujiki Tanshō). The eastern room is seven shaku wide.