【Right Page】
　There is no entrance to the front of the mausoleum. This was designed to prohibit people from climbing up
The Two Great Masters　Jie Daishi and Jigen Daishi, these are named and called the Two Great Masters. At this mountain too,
　the sacred images of the Two Great Masters are moved monthly among the temples within the mountain compound, excluding Ryūkōin, to the other twenty-five temples,
　and it is established that they are moved to the main temple when January arrives. At Tōeizan as well,
　they make monthly rounds of the temple quarters, and in October they are moved to the main temple. Jie Daishi's personal name was
　Ryōgen, his secular surname was Kizu, and he was born in Asai District, Ōmi Province. He was born on the
　third day of the ninth month of Engi 12 (Year of the Water Monkey), and passed away on the third day of the first month of Eikan 3 (Year of the Fire Dog). Therefore his posthumous name
　is said to have been granted as Ganzan Daishi
Mountain Asceticism and Meditation Practice　This is an ascetic practice that the monks of this mountain have kept secret as an ancient tradition from olden times,
　so to speak of it in detail would be a most sinful act. Moreover, to record only what I have vaguely heard with my foolish brush
　would be a most foolish undertaking. Even so,
　to cease entirely without recording it would also not accord with the true intention of the Nikkōzan-shi

【Left Page】
　Now, to briefly summarize what I have vaguely heard and record its meaning: when the founding
　master opened this mountain, initially he entered from Mount Izuru, and together with his disciples
　climbed many mountain peaks and ascended numerous steep precipices. Gathering the Dharma-seeking of the great king who served the hermit Asi
　and the austerities of the Great Being of the Snow Mountains, he made them the morning and evening practices of master and disciples. Accumulating difficult practices
　day by day and hardships year by year, he finally completed the meritorious work of founding this mountain. Thereafter,
　after the master's death, more than ten disciples, looking back upon their teacher's founding work from afar, and also remembering how the master had once
　during his travels through mountains and rivers directly witnessed miraculous buddhas and deities at various places and invited them to various locations,
　together felt longing and reverent admiration, gathered and spoke with one another:
　"If from now on we follow in the footsteps of our master's austerities and annually offer supreme
　Dharma gifts to the buddhas and deities that our master invited, no endeavor of gratitude and appreciation of virtue could surpass this. To transmit prayers for the longevity of heaven and earth,
　and the practice of seeking enlightenment above and teaching below to future generations of Dharma descendants would also be incomparable to this great practice."
　Each making this great resolution, from then on they undertook the practice of mountain asceticism annually.