【Right Page】
　This is how it came to be. Indeed, even on mornings of severe winter, they would carry their shakujō staffs through deep snow, enduring the cold suffering of the red lotus and great red
　lotus hells. Sometimes they would fast in rocky valleys, contemplating the hardships of hungry ghosts, and at other times
　they would crawl through steep precipices, enduring the sufferings of animals. Besides these, the various hardships during their practice cannot be fully described with the brush.
　For this reason, from ancient times this has been called the practice of the Ten Realms.
　The forward and reverse [routes] of the three peaks, the sequence of the five meditation peaks, the scheduling of entering and exiting the peaks - all of these are deeply secret
　matters, and all the various methods of ascetic practice and diligent cultivation are said to be most precious things in this world.
　That this great practice has continued without interruption for even a single year from the distant past when the ten disciples were alive until now is truly due to the virtue left by the founding master, which should be revered and honored. However,
　since these are secret practices and it is difficult for those in secular life even to hear about their origins in detail,
　they should not be recorded here in full detail.
Great Thousand Rounds　This practice [began when] long ago the founding master traversed peak after peak, and at the places where he sensed the mysterious presence of buddhas and deities,
　he established shrine precincts. Later, [these deities] were all invited to the

【Left Page】
　mountain compound. [Practitioners] make daily circumambulations of all these large and small shrines, performing sutra recitation, ritual offerings, and other
　religious practices. Therefore, even if they encounter acquaintances along the way,
　they do not speak but continue their rounds in silence. Consequently, laypeople, not knowing these secret ritual methods,
　say it must be a practice of silence. Also, the schedule for this practice is from January to May,
　then from May to September, then from September to the following January - altogether using five-month periods as
　opening and closing [cycles] to perform prayers for patrons, so I have heard.
Naruko Talismans　When practitioners reach mountain paths and either lose their way, or when the three demons create clouds and mist
　to block the path ahead, and attempt to create various other obstacles, if they scatter these talismans
　the path ahead can immediately be found, it is said. When exiting the peaks, they scatter and give them
　to boy and girl children who request them. The design of these talismans depicts various forms
　printed from woodblocks. These are also called protective amulets against evil.
Ishihara Hayato of Kobugahara　He lives in a place called Kobugahara in Ōashi-gō within the Nikkō domain.