Even now earthquakes occur from time to time, but there have been no injuries to people or horses. However, it appears that there may be deaths among those who had come for pilgrimage to Zenkoji Temple or for seasonal work, but our investigation has not yet been thorough. I will report the details in due course, but I first submit this notification. The above.
　　26th day of the 3rd month　　　　　　　　Hori Nagato-no-kami

In Iga-no-kami's domain of Shinano Province, from around the hour of the Boar on the 24th day, there was an earthquake. Houses in the villages of Inariyama within Sarashina District collapsed from the shaking, and fires from the houses caused almost the entire village to burn down. The relay system for people and horses cannot function. Additionally, in Chiisagata District, there were collapsed houses and damaged areas, and deaths of people and horses. Local officials have reported that tremors continue intermittently even until the 26th day. I will report the details later. Since the aforementioned Inariyama village is a matter concerning auxiliary post stations (sukegō), and Iga-no-kami is currently residing in Osaka, I submit this notification. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Retainer of Matsudaira Iga-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Oshima Kukunojō

At my residence in Matsushiro, Shinano Province, from around the hour of the Boar on the 24th day (the day before yesterday), there was a great earthquake. Within the castle, residential quarters, turrets, and surrounding walls were extensively damaged. In the retainers' residences, the castle town, villages in my domain, and other administrative areas, many houses collapsed and there were numerous deaths. Particularly in the village areas, there were also fires. Moreover, landslides occurred in the mountain areas, burying the Sai River and causing water to accumulate, gradually reaching full capacity. Of course, there is no flowing water at all, and the ferry crossing at Tanbajima post station on the Hokuriku Highway has dried up. Depending on the direction in which this overflow water bursts out, it is difficult to calculate what kind of changes might occur. And even now it shakes from time to time. Regarding the details...