Regarding the villages of Takai District and Minochi District in Shinano Province, which are my deputy magistrate territories: From around the hour of the dog on the night of the 24th of this month until around the hour of the boar, there was a great earthquake, followed by continuous tremors with earthquakes occurring intermittently, which finally subsided around the hour of the rabbit on the following 25th. However, the ground split and cracked, muddy water gushed out, there were many collapsed houses and deaths of people, cattle and horses. There were those whose entire households died without exception, countless injured people, and villages where entire villages became nothing but collapsed houses. Reports continue to come in about this unprecedented catastrophic event. Regarding Nakano Village under the jurisdiction of the camp, there were only damaged houses and such, and the camp itself suffered no particular problems. I will report details later, but first I submit this report. The above. Shinano Province, Takai District, Nakano Camp
25th day of 3rd month　　　　　　　　Deputy Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Takagi Seizaemon

Regarding my territory of Takada in Echigo Province: Concerning the great earthquake from around the hour of the boar on the 24th of last month, the situation is as I reported on the 4th, but since then it has not ceased, with tremors occurring day and night intermittently. On the 29th of the same month around the hour of the horse, there was strong shaking, and reports have come from my territory that damage has increased further in various places, with rice storehouses, temples and shrines, and houses in both towns and countryside suffering more collapses and damage. I will report details later, but first I submit this report. The above.
7th day of 4th month　　　　　　　　Sakakibara Shikibu-no-taiyu

In the territories of Takai District and Minochi District in Shinano Province under Izumo-no-kami's domain: From around the hour of the boar on the 24th of last month, due to the great earthquake, houses collapsed from shaking and people and horses died. Furthermore, both banks of the Shinoi River collapsed and were submerged, buried by the flow, and gradually pushed up toward the land areas