Second Report on the Earthquake

Regarding the villages in Takai and Minochi counties of Shinano Province under my jurisdiction as deputy administrator and temporary custodian, for which I submitted a report at the end of last month: After reporting on the circumstances of the great earthquake disaster that occurred on the night of the 24th of last month, the tremors have not ceased, and even now occasional tremors continue. While it is not fourteen or fifteen times day and night, there are gradual shakings, and sometimes strong ones occur. Therefore, the villages are in fear, and not only are they unable to clean up the aftermath, but they have no mind for agriculture and are in confusion and panic. To reassure them, I and my assistants and clerks are making rounds of the villages, doing our utmost to persuade and inform them so that agricultural work will not be delayed.

Furthermore, on the 27th of last month, there was a consultation from a retainer of Sanada Shinano-no-kami regarding this earthquake: At the Kokuzōzan area, approximately twenty chō upstream from the Tanbajima post town ferry crossing on the Hokurikudō highway, about two and a half ri away, in the Hirahayashi village territory under his domain, a landslide occurred and debris flowed into the Sai River, filling it up and blocking the river channel. This has stopped the water flow and created a dam, with water currently flooding the upstream flatlands. However, if this accumulated water breaks through, the blockage site will naturally be washed away by water pressure, and we are concerned about what kind of flood might occur at that time. There was also a matter of notifying the villages along the Chikuma River in my administrative territory to be prepared.

As a result, the Chikuma River is currently seven to eight shaku below normal water level, and the villages along this river are worried and have evacuated to higher ground in the mountains, living in distress. If the blockage is opened, we don't know what will happen, and if several days' worth of accumulated water is suddenly released, another water disaster may occur, causing extraordinary public unrest and anxiety.

I believe the earthquake situation should now come to an end. Therefore, this report...