About two and a half ri upstream, in the territory of Sanada Shinano-no-kami at Hirabayashi Village, in the area called Kokūzō-san, a mountain section of approximately twenty chō collapsed and was pushed out into the Sai River, burying it and blocking the river flow. This has dammed up the flowing water, creating a reservoir that is currently flooding the flatlands upstream. However, if this dam breaks, the naturally buried dam site will be washed away by water pressure, and we worry about what kind of flood this might cause.

The villages along the Chikuma River under my jurisdiction report that there has been communication from Shinano-no-kami's retainers, and as a result, the Chikuma River is currently seven to eight shaku lower than normal water levels. The villages along the river are worried and have evacuated to high ground near the mountains, concerned about what will happen if the dam breaks open, and whether water disasters and abnormal events might occur. The people's mood is particularly unsettled and anxious.

I ask that you carefully consider the situation of disaster and hardship I have described above, and please authorize a loan of 2,500 ryō in gold to the villages listed in the written report for recovery methods and major repairs to irrigation channels damaged by private construction work. Without this, there is no way forward for recovery, and if hardship continues and misguided popular sentiment arises, I am deeply worried and concerned about what might happen.

Regarding the people of the villages under my jurisdiction, it is lamentable that last year, when they petitioned with sincere hearts to increase rice tribute in recognition of imperial benevolence that was unmatched by other jurisdictions in the province, the people had to live in dugouts and abandon their homes. I would like to request that through your benevolent consideration, you provide a long-term installment loan. In that case, this borrowed amount would be distributed to villages according to their capacity through installment lending.