Lord Nakatsukasa-taiyu and Lord Yamamoto were burned, and Lord Takai burned as well. Lord Kurokawa's residence was half-burned and stopped there. In this area, most of the houses that did not burn collapsed. West of Koishikawa Gate suffered some damage.

《Box 13》Around Iida-machi, Manaita-bashi bridge, and Kudan-zaka slope had minor collapses. Though carefully inspected, Bancho alleys showed no major incidents. Koji-machi main street suffered some damage, and low-lying areas around Hirakawa-cho, Hayabusa-cho, Yamamoto-cho, and Tani-cho suffered considerable damage.

《Box 14》Outside Yotsuya Gate, along Temma-cho street to the Okido checkpoint area, houses could be seen collapsed in various places, but there were no major incidents up to the Kocho area in Naito-Shinjuku. However, the stone walls of the Tamagawa aqueduct's Mannen-hi were damaged and water overflowed. From Tenno-yokocho to the Samegahashi area suffered much damage. The street in front of Aoyama Zenkoji temple was severely damaged, and areas from Dogen-zaka, Shibuya Kozawa, Aikegaya, to Shimomeguro suffered minor damage. Chojamaru and Kogai-bashi areas were slightly affected, and Higakubo and Ryudo areas all showed minor damage scattered throughout. Azabu had minor collapses throughout, and Hiroo, Shirogane, and Meguro areas all had some collapsed locations.

《Box 15》In the Hongo-Yushima area, places with minor collapses could be seen in various locations, but nothing particularly serious occurred. However, sake fermentation rooms collapsed with tremendous damage. On the Koishikawa side, areas below Kikusaka and Tamachi had many collapses.

《Box 16》In the Komagome-Sendagi area, various places had minor collapses. From below Hakusan to below Sashigaya-cho and Tomisaka-cho had many collapses, while Sugamo and Somei areas had few collapses. There were minor collapses up to the Oji and Itabashi areas.

《Box 17》Outside Koishikawa Gate, at the Mito domain residence, the hundred-unit barracks and the mansion opposite completely collapsed, with five or six units burned. From below Ushi-tenjin, Suwa-cho to the Ando-zaka area, everything had many collapses. At Ryukei-bashi, Lord Matsudaira Sanuki-no-kami's mansion burned. From there, the street in front of Dentsuin temple had few collapses, but the back gate street had many collapses. Kohinata Suido-cho and Sekiguchi Aoba had collapses visible in various places, and Mejiro and Shiina-cho were affected...