184　　　　　　The Role of the Intestine in Dysentery, Typhus and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　In the case of typhus-paratyphus pathogens as well, is the susceptible organ similarly the intestine?
　First of all, particularly if we rely on laboratory animals, this does not seem to be the case at all; animals show complete indifference to these pathogens ingested orally. Experiments have shown us that guinea pigs, rabbits, and all kinds of lower primates can be given large amounts of typhus bacterial cultures orally without showing any abnormal symptoms.
　In these animals that show such lack of susceptibility to pathogen ingestion, it is true that among all organs, the intestine is the one with susceptibility. To bring out this susceptibility, we have no choice but to rely on force against the bacteria; that is, we must make it easier for bacteria to approach the essence of the receptive cells (Cellules réceptives) of the intestinal wall. Normally, these cells are protected against pathogen invasion by a rather thick mucous layer. This mucous layer is placed between the pathogen and susceptible cells when pathogens are swallowed. If we can remove even a little of this mucous barrier, we can manifest intestinal susceptibility.
　To remove the mucous layer from the intestinal wall, to polish its inner surface, no one had administered bovine bile as we did in our experiments.
　Bile has, among its various properties, the quality of forming an excellent choleretic agent. By this property, bile causes the secretion of extremely large amounts of bile in rabbits and guinea pigs. Through this type of effect, bile produces violent desquamation of the surface layer of the intestinal wall. Sweeping away the mucus from the intestinal wall surface, the intestinal wall exposes the intestinal inner surface and, more precisely, exposes the receptive cells. Under such circumstances, swallowed pathogens come into direct contact with these cells.
　Laboratory experiments confirmed our expectations. That is, while normal rabbits can withstand almost infinite amounts of typhus-paratyphus pathogens when untreated, after treatment with bile, they show susceptibility to relatively small amounts of pathogens; animals may even die.
　An interesting fact is that we see the entire organism markedly losing its resistance following the swallowing of bovine bile. The susceptibility-enhancing effect of bile is felt even when bacteria invade the blood.

　　　　　The Role of the Intestine in Dysentery, Typhus and Cholera　　　　185
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Therefore, if it requires 1/6-1/20 of paratyphus culture to kill normal rabbits not sensitized by intravenous injection (Note: 1/6-1/20 indicates 1/6-1/20 of one agar culture slant), it shows that 2-3 times less amount (1/15-1/45) is needed to cause death in rabbits of the same weight previously sensitized with bile. Hence, bile ingestion confers susceptibility in animals particularly to typhus-paratyphus pathogens administered orally or hematogenously.
　In autopsy of sensitized animals, the following findings are observed:
　The intestine is congested over almost its entire surface. The small intestine region is almost transparent and filled with mucus; within this mucus, entire detached epithelium can be seen floating.
　Microscopic examination also shows selective localization of pathogens: when culturing from organs, paratyphus bacilli choose, as their main sites, though not absolutely, the intestinal contents and gallbladder, where the bacteria are often in a state of pure culture.
　The predominance of macroscopic lesions in the intestinal region and the selective distribution of bacteria proven by culture provide evidence supporting the affinity these bacteria have for the intestinal tract.
　This affinity is always the same regardless of where the pathogen enters. Even when pathogens are introduced directly into blood, peritoneal cavity, or subcutaneously, the final result is the same: invariably, pathogens come to the intestinal mucosa.
　Therefore, despite oral administration of typhus bacteria, in animals sensitized with bile, they are found in the intestines, excluding all other organs. Hence these infections are considered as entero-infections, on par with dysentery infections.
　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　What we explained regarding the problem of typhus-paratyphus bacilli applies, with expanded scope, to cholera vibrios as well.
　In studying the mechanism of cholera infection in animals, our co-author Masaki was able to describe symptoms reminiscent of the aforementioned symptoms.
　Vibrios introduced into the peritoneal cavity rapidly reach the general circulation, then pass through it to enter the intestines, where they can remain for 2-3 days. According to culture, vibrios in the jejunum, ileum, and