XII
　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery,
　　　　　　　　Typhus, and Cholera

　Immunisation Par Voie Bucclale Contre la Dysenterie,
　　　　　　    la Fièvre Typhoïde et le Choléra (1)
　　　　　　　　"All living elements acquire a certain degree of immunity" Metchnikoff 
　　　　　　　　　　(Immunity in infectious diseases)

　Whenever one wishes to perform preventive vaccination against intestinal typhus or cholera, it is always carried out by the subcutaneous route. This practice, which has been implemented for over 30 years, has become a kind of reflex with virtually no opposition.

　There is only difficulty in selecting which vaccine to use. Today about 10 types of vaccine preparations are known, each with its own advantages: there are killed bacterial vaccines and live bacterial vaccines, vaccines heated by dry heat at 120° and vaccines heated at 53°, autolytic vaccines and sensitized vaccines; some prepared with fats and others prepared with ether; vaccines with iodine, fluorine additions, etc.

　What are these vaccines based on? This is a problem that sometimes perplexes even specialists. However, what seems to raise no doubt in the minds of hygienists is the method of vaccine application. To confer immunity against intestinal typhus or cholera, regardless of the nature of the vaccine used,
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) At the Department of Hygiene, Paris Medical University. Lecture given at the International Hygiene Course (January 26, 1927)

　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera　　　　191
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
everyone agrees that the only route of administration is subcutaneous.

　Where does this near-certain conviction come from? To understand this, let us trace back to its causes. This requires us to recall the distant past of the original experiments that became the starting point of current techniques.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

　Two German researchers, Beumer and Peiper, studied typhus infection in guinea pigs in 1888. They injected various amounts of virus into these animals: some died, others survived. One day, when they had to perform an experiment requiring the use of a certainly lethal dose of virus, they recognized the need to establish controls. After some hesitation, they decided to select controls from among a group of guinea pigs they had already used. They were confident that among all those injected with lethal doses of typhus bacilli, the controls would die within that evening. However, when they saw the next day that the majority of controls survived and showed no disorders, their surprise was beyond measure. They conducted an investigation, which revealed that the surviving controls had clearly received small amounts of typhus bacilli previously.

　This incident had no sequel: it was soon forgotten. No more than 8 years later, two other German bacteriologists, R. Pfeiffer and Kolle, judged it necessary to return to this experiment that could not be explained at the time. In their research to understand what had occurred in Beumer and Peiper's experiment, they discovered a strictly specific bactericidal substance in the blood of guinea pigs inoculated with bacteria, that is, a substance that acts only on typhus bacilli.

　These researchers declared that this was the key to the immunity observed in Beumer and Peiper's guinea pigs. They said it should be the same in humans, because if typhus immunity is the action of bactericidal power, this same ability should be recognizable in the serum of people who have experienced typhus and have thereby become immune to new typhus infections. Indeed, when examining the blood of patients recovered from intestinal typhus, they found the same bactericidal substance that Pfeiffer and Kolle had previously seen in guinea pigs inoculated with bacteria.

　Thus they faced an extremely interesting and valuable fact worthy of great study. This bacteri-