6　　　　Table of Contents
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
　　types. Important significance of skin tissue in biological defense.
　Structure of epidermis; permanent renewal through exfoliation. Presence of phagocytic elements in Malpighian layer.
　　Presence of wandering cells in areas of skin connective tissue elements. Diverse
　　functions of skin. Cutaneous respiration. Action of sebum. Skin absorption capacity. Sweat glands. Mechanical action of skin. Natural immunity in invertebrates and vertebrates.
　Anthrax disease in large animals and guinea pigs. Prophylactic vaccination in each animal. Significance of skin in anthrax infection. Proof of skin susceptibility. Skin infection and skin immunity. Active prophylactic vaccination of skin and systemic immunity resulting from innate immune state of other organs. Intradermal prophylactic vaccination in layers. Anthrax toxin. Importance of entry portal for vaccines.
　　Immunity through subcutaneous route: Plotz's experiments on rabbits. Proof of immunity in sheep.
　Significance of skin in staphylococcal and streptococcal infections. Prophylactic vaccination by intradermal killed bacterial inoculation against skin lesions. Rapid manifestation of immunity. Immunity by antivirus patch method.
　　Vaccine therapy in humans. Explanation of its action. Unknown participation of antibodies.
　　Turning point of vaccine therapy: prevention of healthy receptor cells. Skin origin of staphylococcal and streptococcal infections in humans.
　Jenney's experiments on skin infection and skin immunity in swine cholera. Research by Meyer and Batcheld on skin prophylactic vaccination using mouse pasteurella.
　Probable significance of reticuloendothelial system in skin immunity. Mechanism of local immunity.
　　Literature.
Chapter X　Cutaneous Immunization Method・・・・・・・・154
　Prophylactic immunization method. Mazucchi's experiments on prophylactic vaccination of sheep against anthrax;
　　Velu's similar experiments. Research by Brocq-Rousseu and Urbain on horses immunized percutaneously against anthrax. This method shows milder reactions compared to severe reactions in subcutaneously vaccinated animals. Cutaneous prophylactic vaccination of horses and mules by Nicolas in Levant troops; 1924-1925
　　　　Table of Contents　　　　7
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
　　campaign results through that period. Prophylactic vaccination of large numbers of sheep and cattle in Morocco by Monod and Velu.
　Therapeutic immunization method. Clinical observations in various staphylococcal and streptococcal infections: furuncles, carbuncles, whitlow, mastitis, catarrhal purulent otitis, middle ear abscess, barber's itch, purulent dermatitis of newborns, small pustular rash, ozena, infected corneal wounds, chronic lacrimal sac abscess, dacryocystitis, ulcerative blepharitis, stomatitis and alveolar periostitis, burns, infected wounds, phlegmon, osteomyelitis, contaminated punctures, whitlow in bulls, chronic phlegmon with multiple abscesses in horses, cellulitis periostitis in cows, puerperal fever, prophylactic treatment of puerperal fever, infectious endometritis and puerperal fever ulcers, cystitis, pyelonephritis. Local prophylactic vaccination methods before and after surgery. Literature.
Chapter XI　Significance of Intestine in Dysentery, Typhoid and Cholera
　　　　・・・・・・・・・・・・180
　Selective affinity of viruses for certain tissues—anthrax bacilli, smallpox vaccine, staphylococci, streptococci—; mutual relationship between infection pathway and immunity pathway. Apparent lack of selective affinity of dysentery, typhoid and cholera pathogens in laboratory animals. Macroscopic changes following intravenous injection of dysentery bacilli and selective localization of bacteria. Intervention of intestinal mucus between intestinal receptor cells and typhoid-paratyphoid and cholera pathogens.
　　Use of sensitization method with bovine bile. Affinity of typhoid-paratyphoid virus for intestinal wall. Masaki's experiments on affinity of cholera virus for intestinal wall. Confirmation by research of Glotoff, Horowitz-Wlassowa and Pirojnikowa. Need to modify concept of virulence: two-factor virulence action. Importance of this significance for immunity research. Illustration of various phases of infection attributable to immunity. Literature.
Chapter XII　Oral Immunity against Dysentery, Typhoid, Cholera・190
　Origin of prophylactic vaccination by subcutaneous route. Experiments by Benner and Peiper on guinea pigs. Bactericidal power in serum of vaccinated guinea pigs by Pfeiffer and Kolle