200　　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
on the 2nd day 50 drops; on the 3rd day 60-70 drops.

Of the 117 patients treated orally in this manner, only 1 died shortly after admission; 5 patients did not improve with treatment. Among the others, 111 were cured 4-5 days after treatment. The failure rate was 5%, which is far lower than the failure rate seen after treatment with anti-dysentery therapeutic serum.

Somewhat similar results were obtained in Russia by Gloukhof and his co-authors. During the epidemic that occurred in Leningrad in the summer of 1925, these authors performed oral vaccine therapy on 105 dysentery patients. Of these, the course could be observed in 81 patients. Among these patients, 19 cases were severe with toxic symptoms, including fever, vomiting, frequent bowel movements, and severe abdominal pain; there were 20 moderate cases and 42 mild dysentery patients.

Treatment consisted of swallowing tablets containing 1 billion each of Shiga and Flexner-type dysentery bacilli. These tablets were dissolved in 50cc of saline solution; the suspension thus created was swallowed on an empty stomach. The daily dose for adults was 2-3 tablets. All other medications were prohibited.

Within the first 48 hours, the majority of patients showed improvement in general condition, with reduced tenesmus, decreased frequency of bowel movements, and cessation of vomiting. However, pain continued for some time along the large intestine. Compared to other dysentery patients treated simultaneously in the same hospital with specific serum, patients who received vaccine therapy showed even better results. If we consider only severe and moderate patients, the mortality rate of those treated with serum was 27.7%, while those treated orally with vaccine showed a mortality rate of only 7.7%.

The mechanism of this vaccine therapy, according to us, is the same as that of preventive immunization: the healthy remaining intestinal mucosa is immunized by the action of the oral vaccine. The intestinal mucosa becomes non-susceptible and impermeable; therefore neither bacteria nor toxins can pass through the intestinal wall and invade the body.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In the case of enteric typhus and cholera as well, as we have previously demonstrated,

　　　　　Oral Immunization Against Dysentery, Typhus, and Cholera　　　　201
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
the excellent receptive organ is still the small intestine. If this is so, clearly this is the organ that should be studied for prevention. If the small intestine is what bears all the importance of infection, should we not attempt to implement entero-vaccination (intestinal vaccination) to confer immunity to animals?

However, when we attempted to realize this latter approach, we encountered difficulties unknown in our research on dysentery. In the case of dysentery, the endotoxins contained in the vaccine serve to drive out the mucus lining the inner wall of the intestine, thus creating the necessary contact between the vaccine and the cells to be immunized.

In the case of typhus or cholera preventive vaccines, the situation is not the same. The endotoxins contained in these vaccines are incomparable to those of Shiga bacilli. These vaccines cannot, by their own power, pass through the mucus and create a pathway to the receptive cells. Also, when animals swallow typhus or cholera preventive vaccines, they pass through the intestinal tract without acting on the receptive cells, i.e., without exerting their immunizing capacity. To exert this effect, we must seek assistance for the vaccines, we must create a path for the vaccines. Now, experiments show that there is no better method than stimulating the intestinal wall, as dysentery preventive vaccine does.

Since then, the use of ox bile has been employed throughout, prior to swallowing the relevant vaccine.

Indeed, experiments show that if the intestinal tract is sensitized with bile and then vaccine is administered to rabbits, they immediately become able to resist the certain lethal dose of the relevant virus such as typhus or cholera. The same vaccine administered orally alone without adding bile gives no immunity to the animals.

This experiment forms the basis for an extremely important problem in oral preventive methods. It has also been repeated from various perspectives. Without going into details, the means of pre-sensitization has been confirmed not only for cholera and typhus vaccination but has also been extended to other diseases of humans and animals.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Oral immunization has already been implemented on a large scale in humans. Many people have already