8　　　　Table of Contents
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
　　discovery. Prophylactic vaccination against typhoid peritonitis in guinea pigs does not include prophylactic vaccination against intestinal typhoid. Statistics for and against subcutaneous prophylactic vaccination. Jenner's method, lessons drawn from clinical and experimental evidence. Affinity of killed bacteria for intestinal wall; explanation of action method of subcutaneously injected vaccines.
　Oral prophylactic vaccination of laboratory animals against dysentery. Initial conception of these experiments.
　　Confirmation by research of Alivisatos and Jovanovic. Nature of dysentery prophylactic immunity. Non-participation of antibodies. Experiments on humans by Charles Nicolle and Conseil. Oral prophylactic vaccination during epidemics in refugee camps in Versailles and Greece; oral dysentery vaccine therapy. Observations by Alivisatos in Niš, by Glonkhof in Leningrad.
　Difficulty of prophylactic vaccination of animals against oral typhoid or cholera infection. Use of sensitization method with bovine bile. Prophylactic vaccination of humans performed without swallowing bile. Namely, bile-vaccination against cholera performed at Pondichéry Rajbari in India. Bile-vaccination against typhoid performed at Łódź Saint-Paola.
　Mechanism of immunity by oral and subcutaneous routes. Need to expand phagocytic theory of immunity, autonomy of receptor cells regarding infection and immunity. Literature.
Chapter XIII　Significance of Sensitizing Substances in Infection and Immunity・・・211
　State of inclusion in natural immunity existing between bacteria and living cells. Changes in immunity by physical, chemical and biological sensitizing substances. Inequality of susceptibility to oral infection in anthropoid apes and laboratory animals. Necessity of sensitization of the latter to render them susceptible. Action method of bile. Importance of intestinal barrier governing susceptibility.
　Administration of cholera virus in animals sensitized and non-sensitized with bile: experiments by Masaki, Horowitz-Wlassowa, Klukhine and Wygodchykoff.
　Sensitizing action of bile against E. coli infection: experiments by Golovanoff, Gratia and Doyle. Sensitizing action of bile against purulent sepsis. Webster's experiments; against typhoid infection: experiments by Sedan and Hermann; against herpes virus:
　　　　Table of Contents　　　　　　　　　　　　　9
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
　　experiments by Remlinger and Bailly; against cholera virus in animals with ligated common bile duct: results by Olsen and Ray.
　Sensitizing action of bile in food hypersensitivity: experiments by Makaroff and Arloing; against tetanus toxin: experiments by Dietrich, Ramon and Grasset; against antitoxin: experiments by Grasset.
　Oral prophylactic vaccination of chimpanzees by Metchnikoff and Besredka. Experiments by J. Courmont and Rochaix, Lumière and Chevrotier, Loeffler, Kutschera and Meinicke, Wolf, Bruckner. Impossibility of oral prophylactic vaccination of laboratory animals against typhoid or cholera infection without bile administration. Oral prophylactic vaccination by bile administration; mechanism of anti-typhoid immunity. Significance of bile in oral cholera prophylactic vaccination; that in prophylactic vaccination against Bacterium gallinarum.
　Action of sensitizing substances in skin infection and skin immunity. Literature.
Chapter XIV　Dressing Methods and Immunity　・・・・・・・・・・・・227
　Contaminated dressing. Prehistoric times. Treatment of suppuration at the beginning of the Christian era and in medieval times. Ambroise Paré and his opinions on wound treatment. Era of ointments and fomentations until the middle of the 19th century.
　Antiseptic dressing. Lister's first report. Initial indifference. Revolution in surgical technique. Triumph of disinfection methods. Reservations among some surgeons. Disadvantages of carbolic acid.
　Aseptic dressing. Reign of the Pasteur era. Principle of asepsis. Surgical technique. Dangers of aseptic method.
　Specific dressing; its principle. Dressing method based on specific serum and antivirus. Practical application of antivirus therapy.
　Conclusions regarding the balance between development of dressing methods in surgery and immunological theory in internal medicine.
Chapter XV　Immune Antivirus　・・・・・・・・・・・・236