216　　　　　　Role of Mordants in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Similar observations were made by Gratia and Doyle in guinea pigs. These authors experimented with E. coli cultures and found that while extremely toxic when injected intraperitoneally, they were completely harmless when administered orally. When these authors made the animals ingest small amounts of bile followed by bacterial administration, they were able to cause true septicemia against E. coli in guinea pigs.

Sensitization with bile was implemented by Webster during research on septicemia caused by pyogenic bacteria. Bile was used by Sedan and Hermann during typhus infection in guinea pigs. After keeping animals hungry for 2-3 days, when typhus bacilli were injected into the buttocks, the animals showed lesions selectively localized in the intestinal tract. Prolonged fasting enhances the guinea pig's natural bile secretion and causes epithelial detachment similar to that occurring with bile ingestion in experimental rabbits. What should be added is that these authors were also able to cause intestinal lesions with typhus bacilli via the subconjunctival route.

Very recently, Remlinger and Bailly studied the efficacy of bile during research on the virulence of herpes virus via the digestive tract route. Ten rabbits ate the brains of rabbits infected with herpes; of these, 5 had previously swallowed bile, while the other 5 swallowed only the virus without bile. All of the first group died: of the 5 not sensitized with bile, only 1 died. In another experiment conducted on 12 rabbits treated under similar conditions, the results were the same.

　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

From a slightly different perspective, to contrast the sensitizing capability of bile, we must cite the experiments of Olsen and Rey conducted in Martin Hahn's laboratory. These experimenters first confirmed that cholera vibrios injected subcutaneously into guinea pigs were recognized in the intestinal tract instantaneously. It will be remembered that this matter is what we observed regarding Shigella bacilli, which once became the starting point of our concept of local intestinal immunity. After confirming that vibrios migrated into the intestinal tract, the authors performed ligation of the common bile duct; then they injected cholera vibrios subcutaneously into guinea pigs. After 4-6 days, when they sacrificed the guinea pigs, they could recognize neither the extremely characteristic intestinal congestion nor the presence of live vibrios in the intestine. However, when ox bile was given to guinea pigs that had been treated and then inoculated subcutaneously, this was sufficient to recognize cholera vibrios

　　　　　　　　　Role of Mordants in Infection and Immunity　　　　217
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
in the intestinal contents. Orally administered ox bile could therefore compensate for the cessation of natural bile secretion: we see that in one case as in others—for example, when bile is secreted normally or comes from a heterologous animal—the intestinal wall becomes sensitized to the point of becoming permeable to cholera vibrios.

　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The action of the mordant specific to ox bile can also be manifested against all kinds of non-formed substances such as toxins, antitoxins, or food products. By polishing the inner surface of the intestine, bile promotes the passage of these substances through the intestinal wall and facilitates their entry into the host. When these same substances—toxins, antitoxins, food products—are ingested without prior sensitization, they descend along the intestinal mucosa and leave the organism without leaving any trace of passage. Exactly the same applies to the pathogens previously discussed: sensitization with bile changes the conditions of intestinal permeability as well as uptake conditions. We cite as evidence the highly suggestive experiments of Makaroff, Dietrich, Ramon, and Grasset, who very skillfully completed experiments on typhus, cholera, and other pathogens.

Madame Makaroff started from the following idea: that the hypersensitivity frequently seen to foods could be due to these foods passing through the mucosal barrier extremely easily in certain individuals. This was merely a hypothesis based on the fact that while food anaphylaxis is impossible to create in mature animals, it is easily realized in very young animals—namely, because in this case the intestinal mucosa can be easily breached.

Encouraged by this observation, Makaroff attempted to artificially create hypersensitivity in mature animals. Since ox bile was already known at the time to have sensitizing capability against typhus bacilli, this was used for this test: when mature guinea pigs were made to swallow bile followed by milk, they became suitable for sensitization like young guinea pigs: when milk was later used for test injections, the animals reacted and showed distinctive hypersensitive symptoms.