246　　　　　　　 Immunity and Antivirus　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
"The serum of people recently vaccinated or cured of smallpox... the serum of organisms immunized against rabies neutralizes smallpox or rabies virus in vitro... testing the preventive value of these sera easily demonstrates that the serum contains antibodies" (Bordet).

It is certain that smallpox or rabies virus can generate antibodies; that these antibodies participate in the mechanism of immunity is not so common.

Anti-smallpox serum never cures nor protects smallpox patients. Anti-smallpox serum injected separately cannot prevent smallpox eruptions; this serum does not neutralize the virus except when intimately mixed with smallpox virus. In people who have received lymph on scarified skin, virucidal antibodies are certainly found in the blood, but there is almost no equilibrium between these antibodies and the degree of immunity, just as no equilibrium exists in people vaccinated against cholera or typhoid and their respective viruses.

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　　　＊　　　　＊

In rabies, as in smallpox, antibodies appear to take no active element in immunity formation whatsoever.

Rabies virus-killing serum, exactly like virus-killing serum in vaccine, shows no activity except when mixed with rabies virus. Even when injected alone for preventive purposes, this serum cannot protect against the development of rabies symptoms. Regarding its therapeutic effect, it is similarly zero: anti-rabies antibodies cannot confer immunity when infection has already occurred.

Active immunity is obtained, according to what seems entirely true, by a mechanism in which antibodies have no involvement whatsoever. From the very beginning, everything suggests that immunity against rabies by Pasteur's method also follows the principle of local immunity. Recent studies conducted first by Georges in Russia, by Biglieri et Villagas in South America, and most recently by Remlinger et Bailly in France have confirmed that this situation can actually be observed. The latter authors succeeded in vaccinating guinea pigs percutaneously by rubbing dried or ether-treated rabies virus emulsion on shaved skin.

　　　　　　　 Immunity and Antivirus　　　　　　　　　247
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
When they subsequently tested by applying street virus with a brush to shaved skin, the majority of these skin-immunized guinea pigs survived, while controls died showing the characteristic symptoms of rabies.

Therefore, local intradermal immunity is sufficient to obtain anti-rabies immunity. It should be noted in passing that this immunity appears to be more solid than immunity obtained by the usual method, namely the subcutaneous route which is most preferably used for antibody formation.

　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　　　＊　　　　＊

Blacklock and Thompson described extremely curious facts about immunity concerning the larvae of the fly Cordylobia anthropophaga. These larvae invade the skin of humans and animals and stay there for about 10 days. While developing there, these larvae create lesions resembling furuncles; people who have suffered such infection subsequently become immune to new attacks.

Very recently, Blacklock and Gordon repeated these studies. Wanting to know the nature of the immunity thus obtained, they were led to very important confirmations. They placed Cordylobia larvae on guinea pig skin, then followed their development for 6 days. The experiments showed that larvae placed on the skin of guinea pigs that had previously harbored larvae had a much lower development rate than those placed on new guinea pigs. Specifically, in one experiment, of 50 larvae that took residence on the skin of new guinea pigs, 30 reached the end of their development, whereas of the 50 larvae placed on sites that had been previously tested, not a single one developed.

The authors were able to confirm that this immunity, limited to the initially affected skin sites, could in a certain number of cases extend beyond these sites.

At the beginning of their studies, Blacklock and Gordon believed they had created systemic immunity; they subsequently had to change their opinion and conclude it was local immunity.

The serum of animals that had become non-susceptible contains no antibodies. This serum exerts no bactericidal action against the larvae; the serum does not confer passive immunity to new animals.