2　　　　Bactericidal Power of Leukocytes
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
changes in structure. This interpretation seems to have arisen from the fact that heated serum treated with dilute alkaline solutions recovers its bactericidal power.
　Buchner did not overlook the important point of this experiment; therefore he immediately began research.
The question at issue was to see whether serum that had lost its bactericidal power could recover it by simply adding chemical substances without interference from living organisms. However, control experiments could not confirm the research of Emmerich and Tsuboi; therefore Buchner could only accept his original opinion.
　Moreover, before Buchner, many researchers had recognized the destruction of bacteria in contact with blood and other body fluids. Therefore, Fodor proved that when anthrax bacilli are injected into the systemic circulation of rabbits, the anthrax bacilli disappear from the blood. He concluded that this was due to the destructive action of plasma. Subsequently, through experiments conducted on blood in test tubes, he believed he had obtained definitive proof.
　Following this, the action of defibrinated blood against anthrax bacilli was studied by Nuttal. He extended the observations made by Fodor to aqueous solutions and other body fluids. He recognized that bactericidal power disappears upon heating at 55°.
　Based on these facts and other facts observed by Behring and Flügge, Buchner established his humoral immunity theory. According to this, bactericidal power is a vital phenomenon related to the presence of "alexin" (aggressive substance), which characteristically appears uniformly in serum from which cellular elements of blood have been removed.
　Knowledge about the nature of alexin was extremely limited at that time. Furthermore, regarding its thermolability, alexin was not impaired by low temperatures, and the presence of salts was necessary for it to exert its action. Within Buchner's knowledge, the fact that this element called alexin exerted the same action both in vivo and in vitro was almost all that could be known about the extreme importance of immunity.
　　　　　　*　　*　　*
　The humoral immunity theory found an enthusiastic disciple in Denys of Louvain.
This scholar published numerous research reports that very zealously defended Buchner's opinions

　　　　　Bactericidal Power of Leukocytes　　　　　　　　　　　　　3
ーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーーー
and particularly promoted them.
　Denys' disciple, Bastin, confirmed that when bacteria or their products are injected into blood, the bactericidal power of serum is markedly weakened, so he concluded that even toxins are easily neutralized by serum alexin. Research by Denys and Kaidin published the following year concluded the same thing. Body fluids such as blood serum and lymph, according to these authors, form true disinfectant solutions. "From this viewpoint, our work completely confirms what Nuttal, Buchner, Emmerich and many others have observed," these authors asserted. In the same report we recognize the following declaration of faith: "We are in favor of the powerful action of body fluids in the defense of living organisms."
　Numerous publications followed that attributed the true significance of immunity to the bactericidal capacity of blood, without touching on leukocytes at all.
　This was the pre-leukocyte era of immunity theory. However, phagocytosis entered ten years after its existence.
　　　　　　*　　*　　*
As all developments in immunity theory show, phagocytic theory owes extremely beautiful pages to its opponents. When opponents always believed they could prove the collapse of that theory, they brought forth further evidence supporting the cellular theory. It was reserved for Denys himself to establish a new guideline during research on the bactericidal capacity of blood. It was he who proved that this capacity appears particularly in leukocytes and appears very little in serum. Denys' experiments were clear and simple. By the ingenious technique of filtration, he was able to separate leukocytes from blood residue. Next, he compared the bactericidal power of whole blood with that of blood from which leukocytes had been removed. He recognized without difficulty that when blood loses leukocytes, it loses most of its bactericidal efficacy. Therefore, the main source of this bactericidal power exists in leukocytes. Next, Denys conducted control tests: namely, by adding pus cells to inactivated blood, he succeeded in reviving it, that is, in again conferring bactericidal capacity to blood.