12　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
It is not uncommon to see active serum that almost lacks anti-hemolytic ability.
　If we were to cite other evidence that these two substances secreted by tetanus bacilli are not identical, we would recognize this in their attitude toward red blood cells: namely, red blood cells are added to tetanus culture filtrate containing a mixture of the two substances and left at low temperature for some time. After a certain period of time, this solution would be found to contain only one substance, tetanospasmine; the other substance, tetanolysin, is completely adsorbed to the red blood cells.
　Regarding the structure of tetanolysin, when partial saturation is performed with antitoxin, it should be noted that Madsen was able to establish certain similarities between this lysin and diphtheria toxin. Like this diphtheria toxin, tetanolysin is decomposed into a series of substances, each exhibiting its own specific action.
＊　　＊　　＊
　The facts observed by Ehrlich and Madsen regarding the problem of tetanus bacilli hemolysin became the starting point for consistent research on hemolytic bacteria. Chronologically speaking, after establishing research on tetanolysin, it was Kraus and Clairmont who extended these observations to studies of many other bacteria. This was followed by the work of Bulloch and Hunter, Weingeroff and Breymann on pyocyanolysin; then the interesting research by Neisser and Wechsberg on staphylolysin; a brief report by E. and P. Levy on typholysin; the work of Besredka on streptolysin; and soon after, research on colilysin by Kayser was published.
　All these substances do not have the same value nor do they exhibit the same relationships. While there are bacteria that easily diffuse their diastase into surrounding liquid, there are—and this is an extremely frequently observed case—bacteria that secrete such extremely small amounts that hemolysin can clearly be demonstrated only when blood is in intimate contact with the bacterial body, i.e., unfiltered culture. These hemolysins cannot be separated from the bacterial body; precise research is impossible. Cholera bacilli culture is an example of this, but certain types of it, according to Kraus and Clairmont, exert powerful hemolytic ability against certain types of blood cells. The same applies to various staphylococci, colon bacilli, and streptococci. Lubenau observed hemolysis when red blood cells were placed in cultures of typhoid bacilli, streptococci, diph-

　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins　　　　　　　　　　　　13
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
theria bacilli, Diplococcus catarrhalis, etc.
　True research on this problem cannot begin until pure hemolysins separated from bacteria can be handled. This is just like how research on bacterial toxins cannot begin until toxins alone can cause the same pathological changes that whole cultures cause.
　We shall begin with staphylolysin. This research is important because it was conducted with great care, and its preparation method served for that of typholysin, colilysin, and partly pyocyanolysin. We intend to conclude this chapter with research on streptolysin, which, by its nature, occupies a partial position that should be recognized as bacterial hemolysin.
＊　　＊　　＊
　If one drop of defibrinated rabbit blood is added to a 3-4 day bouillon culture of staphylococci, the presence of staphylolysin can easily be detected. After placing in an incubator for 2 hours and then in an ice chamber for 18 hours, complete dissolution of the blood is observed. The same phenomenon is seen when rabbit blood is added to the culture filtrate of staphylococci. The method for preparing staphylolysin adopted by Neisser and Wechsberg is as follows: bouillon culture is placed in an incubator for 9 to 13 days. This is filtered, and a small amount of carbolic acid glycerin is added to the filtrate for preservation purposes. It is important to note that the bouillon should be made sufficiently alkaline.
　Examining cultures of various ages, the authors recognized that staphylolysin appears 4 days after inoculation. It increased until the end of 2 weeks. At this time, hemolysin formation stopped. The greatest amount is formed between 10 to 14 days.
　Not all staphylococci produce hemolysin, and those that do produce it do not all act with the same strength. Regarding this relationship, Neisser and Wechsberg made the following interesting observation: pyogenic Staphylococcus aureus and pyogenic Staphylococcus albus always form the same hemolysin. In contrast, non-pyogenic white or yellow staphylococci cannot dissolve blood. Hemolytic power is related to the pathogenicity of staphylococci toward humans.