18　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
constant. There is a tendency to establish a correlation between the development of hemolytic power and the development of alkalinity. It seems certain that an extremely close relationship exists between these two elements; it is certainly true that alkalinity is not the entire phenomenon. Because if this culture is placed at 23°C instead of placing it in a 37°C incubator, alkalinity reaches its maximum around the 5th day; however, hemolytic power appears much later: even on the 12th day, it is still inferior to that possessed by a 4-day culture placed in an incubator for 4 days.
　On the other hand, the alkalinity of colilysin is important; this is interpreted from the fact that as soon as colilysin is neutralized with oxalic acid, its hemolytic power is markedly reduced.
　Heating E. coli hemolysin at 120°C for 30 minutes does not weaken its hemolytic power. In certain special cases, Kayser observed that colilysin accidentally became weaker; however, as a general rule, colilysin retained its ability for several months.
　The hemolytic capacity of colilysin can be paralyzed by certain normal sera, particularly those of horses and humans; these are congenital anticolilysins.
　Artificial anticolilysin can be produced in animals whose serum normally lacks it. When subcutaneously injecting 4-day bouillon cultures into rabbits or dogs, serum can be obtained that has anticolilysin capacity about 4 times stronger than that of normal anticolilysins.
＊　　＊　　＊
　Streptococcal hemolysin, namely streptocolilysin, occupies a part of bacterial hemolysins and has various degrees. First, streptococci are the only bacteria that cause hemolysis even in living organisms. This point is essentially different from other bacteria.
　Next, while numerous bacteria acquire hemolytic properties when they become old after being left on artificial culture media for several days or weeks, streptococci are, conversely, essentially hemolytic bacteria, so to speak. Unlike all other bacteria, this bacterium shows hemolytic action only when its activity is vigorous; this property gradually declines as it becomes old and is cultured on artificial media. Finally, streptocolilysin

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins　　　　　　　　　　　　19
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
is distinguished from all its congeners by its production method in vitro and by several of its physicochemical and biological properties.
　When attempting to obtain hemolytic substances from streptococci, the first idea that comes to consideration was, of course, to use cultures in bouillon, particularly ascitic bouillon, which is a selective medium, because hemolysis occurs under excellent conditions when blood is added to unfiltered whole cultures. However, strangely, it was found that these cultures, which hemolyze extremely well, lose all hemolytic power when filtered once through a Chamberland filter.
　One of the necessary conditions to obtain a strong filtrate is to use serum alone or serum with added bouillon as the culture medium. Furthermore, what is important is to inoculate into a medium containing already hemolyzed blood taken from rabbits that died from streptococcal infection.
　Here we describe our method.
　We begin by subcutaneously injecting a few drops of 24-hour culture of highly virulent streptococci cultured in ascitic bouillon into rabbits. The next day, as soon as the rabbit dies, after confirming that the blood has dissolved, we take 2-3 drops of blood from the heart with a pipette and inoculate it into test tubes containing rabbit serum alone or a mixture of rabbit serum with sheep or goat serum. Similarly, an equal mixture of horse serum and bouillon may be used. The test tube is placed in an incubator for 24 hours; then the culture is diluted with an equal amount of physiological saline solution and filtered through a Chamberland filter.
　The liquid aspirated after filtration is streptocolilysin. It easily dissolves rabbit, human, guinea pig, and sheep blood cells, and somewhat less so horse and cattle blood cells.
　Strangely, the behavior of blood cells differs according to the nature of the serum used to produce streptocolilysin. To cite only two examples: streptocolilysin made with male goat serum dissolves guinea pig, rabbit, and human blood cells well, but dissolves neither male goat blood cells nor sheep blood cells.
　Streptocolilysin made with human serum dissolves guinea pig, rabbit, and human blood cells as mentioned above, but also dissolves those of male goats and sheep.