20　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Needless to say, the streptococci are identical in both cases. This fact proves that streptococci have great sensitivity even to extremely slight changes in the culture medium, and this sensitivity is also demonstrated by the formation of numerous various streptocolilysins according to the serum used.
　From the standpoint of resistance to elevated temperatures, streptocolilysin occupies an intermediate position between thermolabile hemolysins (tetanolysin, staphylolysin) and thermostable hemolysins (pyocyanolysin, typholysin, colilysin).
　Staphylolysin weakens already at 48°C and is completely destroyed by heating at 56°C for 20 minutes, but streptocolilysin withstands 55-56°C for 30 minutes and is hardly destroyed at all. Only a slight delay in the manifestation of hemolysis is observed, but this delay is not marked. Even at 65°C (30 minutes), streptocolilysin does not weaken significantly. It becomes inactive only when heated at 70°C for 2 hours. Similar results are obtained when left at 55°C for 10 hours.
　Room temperature (15°C-18°C) also exerts harmful effects if prolonged. By the 15th day it is already markedly weakened, and after 20 days even traces of streptocolilysin can no longer be detected.
　The action on blood becomes much stronger at incubator temperature than at room temperature. Cold exerts an extremely marked inhibitory effect. The presence of salts severely delays hemolysis.
　Dialysis has no effect: streptocolilysin does not pass through the dialysis membrane.
　Streptocolilysin has no toxicity; laboratory animals tolerate large amounts (10-20cc) and show no recognizable reaction.
　Numerous immunization trials conducted with the aim of obtaining antistreptocolilysin serum have not been crowned with success. The extremely slight antihemolytic effect recently observed by Breton in rabbits injected with streptocolilysin is probably of the same type that we have also already recognized; this relates, by all probability, to the natural antihemolytic power inherent in certain normal sera.
　　　　　　　　＊　　　　＊　　　　＊
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Hemolysins　　　　　　　　　　　　21
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　We have seen that the majority of bacterial hemolysins are more or less harmful. One could have believed that toxicity is a necessary element of these hemolysins. We believe this conclusion is erroneous and that the true nature of hemolysins is, on the contrary, non-toxic. In old cultures, we always obtain a mixture of genuine hemolysin and true toxins, which cause animals to become emaciated and frequently kill them.
　In tetanolysin and in pyocyanolysin, this separation was easily achieved. Regarding staphylolysin, separation has not yet been accomplished, but it is almost certain that it should be the same, and I will state the reason. According to these researchers, goats are particularly sensitive to staphylolysin. Since goat red blood cells are resistant to staphylolysin, it is impossible to connect toxicity to staphylo-hemolysin. In tetanolysin, for the same reason that tetanospasmin exists, in staphylolysin there should also be a staphylotoxin that does not act on red blood cells.
　Regarding streptolysin, we know it is completely non-toxic. We lack knowledge about the toxicity of colilysin and typholysin.
　In summary, the four best-studied bacterial hemolysins all lack inherent toxicity.
　To better understand the action of these substances in infected living organisms, it would be advantageous not to lose sight of the opinion that the choice of red blood cells as indicators is given merely for the latter's convenience. Perhaps these hemolysins have greater affinity for other cells of the organism than for red blood cells. In other words, we do not know whether these bacterial hemolysins should rather be called nephrolysins or neuro-lysins, or deserve other names. Who knows whether these bacterial products, which we have described as having hemolysin properties, work in combination with bacteria to perform certain actions.
　This is, of course, a hypothesis. The chapter on bacterial hemolysins has not yet been resolved and requires new research.