26　　　　　　　　Is There One or Multiple Types of Streptococci?
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
pointed out such cases; however, the majority of bacteriologists supported these facts as attributable to the imperfection of the serum rather than to differences in streptococci.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　To answer these opponents, Marmorek wrote an important report in 1902, in which he fully supported his monistic opinion based on new arguments.
　In 1895, he declared that no importance should be attributed to the external properties of streptococci such as granule size, chain length, or the turbidity of broth cultures. According to him, what is most important are the biochemical properties. However, the biochemical properties, according to him, create a kinship among streptococci of human origin. As biochemical properties of streptococci, he argued on one hand for the hemolytic phenomenon, and on the other hand for the inability of streptococci to grow in streptococcal filtrates.
　Marmorek studied more than 40 strains of streptococci of human origin from the viewpoint of hemolysis; according to this report, all strains gave positive results. Only streptococci isolated from scarlet fever patients did not hemolyze very well, but hemolytic activity, even if slight, was demonstrated in all cases.
　Regarding the second property—growth inhibition in filtrates—according to him, this is equally common to all streptococci. If streptococci are inoculated into filtrates of the same strain or different strains, the broth will not become turbid, but all other bacteria, such as staphylococci or pneumococci, when inoculated into streptococcal filtrates, give marked cultures.
　The majority of streptococci tested by Marmorek conformed to this biochemical hypothesis: he concluded that therefore they are monistic and belong to the same species. Streptococci seen in scarlet fever deviate slightly from this rule; it is certain that this bacterium can give extremely slight cultures under the above conditions. Looking at streptococci from eczema, they are clearly distinguished from all others: namely, they grow almost as well in streptococcal filtrates as heterologous bacteria.
　Marmorek saw a third piece of evidence favorable to the monistic theory of streptococci in the specific action of his serum against all streptococci, including scarlet fever strep-

　　　　　　　Is There One or Multiple Types of Streptococci?　　　　　　　　　　　27
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
tococci. In this report as well, similarly, streptococci from eczema were the only ones that stood out as exceptional, and the serum had no effect on them.
　Summarizing the above facts, Marmorek did not hesitate to place all streptococci, except those from eczema, in the same species; because, to reiterate, all of them dissolve rabbit red blood cells, all show inability to grow in streptococcal filtrates, and all conform to the same anti-streptococcal serum.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　The fact that streptococci cannot grow in their filtrates is one that has raised no opposition to this day. However, regarding the other two properties, there are disagreements and they are not regarded as identical. Marmorek's ideas are accepted only with concessions; for example, regarding hemolysin, it does not appear to be as universal as Marmorek believes.
　Schlesinger frequently identified both saprophytic and pathogenic streptococci that did not hemolyze at all. We ourselves have also frequently observed, during research on anti-streptococcal serum, that not only do they not dissolve hematies in animal bodies, but even when kept in contact with red blood cells for 24 hours in test tubes, they do not cause hemoglobin to diffuse. Therefore, this property of dissolving or not dissolving rabbit blood, important as Marmorek wishes to maintain it, already provides severe arguments against the monistic theory of streptococci.
　We do not intend to derive any conclusions from this, because for us the property that streptococci have to dissolve red blood cells was a phenomenon of little importance, one not worthy of inclusion in the problems we wish to discuss here.
　Therefore, do we not know that almost all bacteria are endowed with hemolytic power to some degree? In Marmorek's example, even if we wish to cite this property of streptococci, in our opinion, it should properly be attributed not to the whole culture but to the culture filtrate, namely the substance described under the name Streptocolysine. The filtered Strep-