30　　　　　　　　Is There One or Multiple Types of Streptococci?
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
and immunized another horse with streptococci. At the end of immunization, he tested these two types of serum against a new strain of streptococci from scarlet fever patients, and found that this strain was better agglutinated by the septicemia-immunized horse serum than by the scarlet fever-immunized horse serum.
　Furthermore, the agglutinating properties of streptococci by immune serum are markedly variable. Similarly, Neufeld was able to confirm very frequently that a certain serum agglutinated other different strains of streptococci better than the strain used to produce it. When a certain substance such as tricresol exists in the serum, it is sufficient to destroy its agglutinating power. The agglutinating power is affected even when the reaction of the medium changes slightly. What is strange is that the same streptococcus can have various agglutination titers according to the degree of its virulence. Neufeld was able to investigate and confirm this with two strains of streptococci from the same source (F) but with different virulence. The so-called anti-streptococcal serum from Vienna showed an extremely high agglutination titer (1:20,000) against the low-virulence variant; when brought into contact with the high-virulence variant, no agglutination reaction occurred even at 100-fold dilution. The author saw that when he increased the virulence of cultures that had been attenuated through several passages in mice, the highly virulent streptococci lost their agglutinating ability.
　Let us add that streptococci often grow in clusters and sometimes form such large aggregates that it is necessary to transform them into uniform suspensions before performing agglutination reactions. This preliminary investigation naturally differs among each experimenter, making the results not very comparable.
　Because of these difficulties, it should be said that it is dangerous to base conclusions about whether streptococci are monotypic or polytypic on the single phenomenon of agglutination reaction.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　As we have already noted at the beginning of this chapter, if we were to study this problem particularly, it is because it relates mainly to extremely important practical problems concerning the methods of producing anti-streptococcal serum. However, it seems simpler to limit the immediate problem and see whether monovalent serum acts against all streptococci; because, to summarize, that is the point we conclude from all we have stated above in these

　　　　　　　Is There One or Multiple Types of Streptococci?　　　　　　　　　　　31
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
arguments.
　Indeed, this problem has been posed in this form more than once; however, it has never been answered in the same form.
　After Marmorek (1895) reported that serum prepared by injecting rabbits with only one strain of extremely virulent streptococci protected against all streptococcal infections, Méry (1896) first, and J. Courmont (1898) following, published observations that did not agree with this confirmation. The streptococci used by Méry were isolated from children who had scarlet fever. When injected into animals, these streptococci caused fatal infections in serum-treated animals just as in controls. Since this fact was also repeated in many animals, Méry concluded: "The monotypic nature of streptococci recognized in human diseases appears to have no decisive significance."
　Two years later [1898], Courmont observed similar phenomena with other streptococci. He tested 7 strains, one of which was Marmorek's; only this last one was affected by Marmorek's serum. This result made him think: "Streptococci represent an insufficiently classified bacterial genus consisting of a group of indistinguishable variants; serum that is immune against one strain has no immunity against other types."
　These criticisms did not shake Marmorek's belief, and in his 1902 paper, he newly affirmed that serum prepared with highly virulent streptococci was active against all streptococci.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Research favoring the monotypic theory of streptococci found resolute supporters in two other famous bacteriologists, Aronson and Neufeld.
　Aronson clearly denied the polytypic theory of streptococci. According to him, there is a "very great" kinship relationship among all streptococci. To support his statement, he stated that his serum prepared with only one strain protected against all streptococci regardless of their origin.
　Similarly, Neufeld succeeded in immunizing rabbits by an extremely rapid method