42　　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
In rabbits, it is necessary to use even larger amounts. That is, after injecting a fixed amount of streptococci, 100 times the lethal dose (1/40,000 cc), subcutaneously into rabbits, if 1.5 cc to 2 cc of serum is injected intravenously or intraperitoneally 2 hours later, protection can be reliably achieved.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　In humans, determining the value of anti-streptococcal serum accurately is even more extremely difficult, if not impossible. Since the beginning of anti-streptococcal serum therapy, thousands of observations have been published, but these observations are completely incomparable to the point that one must say there is not even a single good statistic like those obtained with diphtheria patients.
　Streptococcal infection is not like diphtheria. Streptococci are diverse and varied, presenting extremely various clinical types depending on the organs they invade.
　Furthermore, streptococci are rarely pure in the bacteriological sense of the term; very often, mixed infections are encountered. It is not sufficient to prove the presence of streptococci during the course of infection with a microscope, attribute it to one type of streptococcus, and therefore conclude that anti-streptococcal serum needs to be used. In actual clinical practice, we see this method applied to diseases where the significance of streptococci is entirely secondary. Are we not using anti-streptococcal serum for articular rheumatism, smallpox, tuberculosis, and—setting aside scarlet fever which is still problematic? Are we not trying it for all types of puerperal fever septicemia without first determining whether the disease is actually streptococcal in nature?
　For all these reasons, it is extremely difficult to obtain reliable statistics that can induce confidence. For this reason, in addition to supporters who approve anti-streptococcal serum therapy, there are detractors who do not approve it very much.
　However, there is a fact whose importance cannot be ignored: the use of anti-streptococcal serum is increasing year by year. To confirm this, one need only refer to the requests from various quarters sent to the Pasteur Institute. What is extremely regrettable is that thousands of liters of serum go out each year without being able to know precisely the effects they produce, leaving not

　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy　　　　　　　　　　　43
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
the slightest trace behind.
　We can state the opinion that Professor Pinard, who supervised the materials, reported to the International Medical Congress in Budapest regarding the treatment of puerperal fever. The professor said: "Correctly, anti-streptococcal serum does not constitute a reliably effective means; this serum has never cured and will never cure all infected women. However, I do not believe that at present I have in my hands a weapon that can fight more advantageously when a woman is suffering from streptococcal infection. I believe that in anti-streptococcal serum we have rational treatment for puerperal fever infection, because this weapon appears to increase the body's resistance more than any other when streptococci are the pathogenic element."
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Following Moser's presentation in Vienna, we were well informed about the action of the so-called anti-scarlet fever serum, which was quite problematic.
　That is, it has long been known that streptococci are found very frequently in scarlet fever patients. Their presence was always considered as contaminants, and some, though rarely, viewed them as merely accompanying bacteria.
　In 1902, Moser gave a lecture at the Carlsbad conference that became a great sensation and greatly shook this view.
　This author expressed the opinion that the streptococci found in children with scarlet fever are specific, and furthermore, these present unique properties in various patients.
　Believing this opinion, Moser used streptococci isolated from the blood of children who died from scarlet fever to create serum.
　He obtained serum corresponding to anti-scarlet fever.
　The initial clinical trials conducted by Bokay and Escherich in Austria were effective, so soon many publications appeared regarding the specificity of scarlet fever streptococci as well as the therapeutic value of the serum.
　Let us begin with the clinical side.