44　　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Following the initial presentation, Escherich reported a considerable number of cases to the Madrid conference. According to those results, since the use of Moser's serum, the mortality rate from scarlet fever decreased from 16.41% to 6.70%. He declared that when patients are treated with large amounts of serum (100-200 cc) in the early stage, body temperature drops almost immediately, and the general condition becomes remarkably better compared to children not treated with serum.
　Bujwid and Gertler treated children with severe scarlet fever using serum they prepared themselves according to Moser's method. Among 46 patients, 14 died; of these 14 deaths, two children survived only one hour after arriving at the hospital. Comparing the mortality rate obtained after serum use with the total mortality rate from previous years, the authors concluded that the mortality rate was reduced by about three times that year.
　Pospischill, who treated only 26 cases with serum, stated that in determining the therapeutic value of serum, he particularly considered the disease occurrence and the small number of overall statistical results.
　He observed that when 100-200 cc of serum was injected into patients at once, there was a marked decrease in body temperature. He saw that pulse and respiration decreased in number; cyanosis disappeared; in a certain number of patients, the serum eliminated the odor of expired breath and pain symptoms.
　In January 1904, about one year after the first report, Bokay treated 12 new patients with somewhat severe scarlet fever.
　The minimum amount of serum injected in a single dose was 100 cc, and the maximum was 200 cc. In all patients, the serum markedly improved the general condition, appearing already 24 hours after injection. Children who had lost consciousness and were suffering from delirium showed normal appearance the day after injection.
Body temperature dropped 0.9 to 3.4 degrees. At the same time, pulse became better and decreased in rate.
Even the rash was influenced by the serum and improved markedly. Bokay also observed the excellent effects of serum in various locations that should show scarlet fever, such as the throat, kidneys, and eyeballs. Due to the existence of these facts, he became a strong supporter of scarlet fever treatment with serum; he supported the opinion of Moser and Escherich that serum acts through its detoxifying properties.

　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy　　　　　　　　　　　45
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　In September 1905, the same clinician reported the medical histories of 17 cases treated with Moser's serum. Again, he concluded that it was due to the specific action of the serum.
　In publications appearing at the end of 1905, Schick reported the results of observations made on 60 patients at the Vienna clinic. He considered Moser's serum very good and declared his intention to draft a plan to spread its use to related countries.
　Powerful results were also pointed out by other clinicians, particularly in Russia and Poland, where scarlet fever often takes on an extremely severe nature. We can only mention here the work of Palmirski and Zebrowski of Warsaw, Menchikoff of Kazan, and two Moscow physicians Eghise and Langowoï who reported on about 400 patients.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　However, quite a number of clinicians remain cautious, and other clinicians still completely reject any therapeutic value in anti-streptococcal serum.
　Moltchanoff, who observed 133 severe scarlet fever patients treated with serum in Moscow, proved the following: 1° The temperature decrease seen in the first two days after injection did not continue (in 4 patients out of 26 who recovered, temperature remained elevated); 2° General condition recovery did not parallel the temperature decrease; 3° Local action in pharyngeal lesions was not remarkable; 4° The serum does not prevent complications and, in general, does not affect the course of the disease. In patients treated with serum, according to this author, neither the febrile period nor the duration of the disease was shortened at all compared to untreated patients.
　Other researchers such as Quest, Troïtsky, Iasni, and Mitzkewitch have expressed similar views.
　Bilik's work, though involving only 10 cases, is valuable because each patient's medical history was studied with sufficient care. This clinician concluded that anti-streptococcal serum was deprived of all specific action.
　Bilik investigated in detail the statistics of Eghise and Langowoï mentioned earlier, and found that the results obtained by these clinicians were, in practice, not as encouraging as they believed.