46　　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
reached the conclusion that they were not encouraging.
　Indeed, if Eghise and Langowoï's patients are classified into four groups (I, II, III, IV) according to the severity of disease, no one would hesitate to recognize that the mortality rate had risen considerably. Therefore, if from the total number (384) we subtract 22 patients who died within the first 24 hours, and further the 95 patients from Group II with good prognosis, we have 257 patients of whom 54 died, giving a mortality rate of 21%. The mortality rate was even much higher in Group IV patients with severe prognosis (50%).
　In autopsies of 17 children (out of 26 deaths in Group IV), septicemia was found, and the same was true in 14 children from Group III (out of 28).
　Bilik stated regarding this that the frequency of septicemia in children treated with serum was also noted by Heubner. In cases of septicemia that should lead to death, even frequent serum injections did not immediately lower body temperature.
　When there were complications such as edema, adenophlegmon, and nephritis, septicemia was no less frequent in those treated with serum than in untreated patients.
　Therefore, the good effects of anti-scarlet fever serum appear to be exaggerated.
　Elsewhere, in Germany and Austria, there was a great return to initial enthusiasm; that is, pediatricians dealing with this treatment, such as Baginsky of Berlin, Czerny of Breslau, Ganghofner of Prague, and others have now discontinued the use of anti-streptococcal serum.
　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　Of course, from a biological standpoint, such specificity of serum is not proven at all.
　Regarding the fact that streptococci are often found in the throat or even in the blood of scarlet fever patients, it has not yet been concluded that they are necessarily the pathogenic bacteria of the disease.
　The presence of streptococci in patients' blood is still not frequent, as people say.
　Hektoen examined 100 patients in this regard. He took 1/2

　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy　　　　　　　　　　　47
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
to 1cc of blood from each patient and immediately inoculated it into 100 to 150cc of glycerin-added bouillon. However, streptococci were found in only 12 patients. In any case, to show what the frequency is according to the severity of disease:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mild　Somewhat severe　Severe　Fatal　Total
　　　Number of patients………45　　　　40　　　　　11　　　4　　100
　　　Of which streptococci……5　　　　　5　　　　　2　　　0　　12
At approximately the same time, Weaver examined the throats of 95 scarlet fever patients. He demonstrated streptococci in almost all patients, especially in the early stages of the disease. The same author studied 24 strains of streptococci isolated from the throats of scarlet fever patients with extreme precision. This research led to the conclusion that these streptococci were no different from streptococci from other sources.
　Agglutination reactions provide no defense favorable to specificity. Moreover, in other work, Weaver asked whether the serum of patients with scarlet fever specifically agglutinates streptococci isolated from scarlet fever.
　According to the same author's very correct research, the agglutination reactions of these streptococci were not specific at all. Weaver studied that sera from people with numerous types of diseases (scarlet fever, pneumonia, erysipelas, measles, endocarditis, typhoid fever, etc.) were no more specific against streptococci isolated from patients with scarlet fever, puerperal fever, ulcerative endocarditis, and peritonitis. This is also Dopter's conclusion.
　Approximately similar results were also recorded in Jogichès' work. The same author saw that scarlet fever patient serum agglutinates streptococci (at 1:500), and this reaction appears markedly especially during the course of 5 or 6 weeks. He also saw that scarlet fever patient serum agglutinates scarlet fever streptococci to the same degree as those isolated from other diseases.
　Therefore, agglutination reactions have no specificity in scarlet fever.
　One can also ask whether scarlet fever patient serum contains specific binding substances, namely complement-binding substances, against scarlet fever streptococci.
　Besredka and Dopter conducted numerous experiments with this idea. They studied the types of diseases