48　　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
at various stages of diseases and then tested the serum against various streptococcal strains isolated from confirmed scarlet fever cases.
　These experiments clearly gave negative results. Without concluding from a classificatory standpoint that streptococci play no role in scarlet fever, the authors concluded that there was absolutely no specificity. According to the authors, streptococci only play the role of accompanying bacteria in scarlet fever; the true pathogen of scarlet fever remains to be discovered.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　How should we definitively conclude all these clinical and experimental arguments? That streptococci seen in scarlet fever are not specific pathogens seems undoubtedly the case today; however, it is certain that their frequency in scarlet fever is extremely high. Today we do not try to determine specific therapeutic action for anti-scarlet fever serum; it is probably not untrue that it is effective against accompanying streptococci.
　This explains to some degree the very different opinions of clinicians regarding the value of this serum: those who claim specific action are of course deceived, while those who claim this serum is effective against accompanying streptococci are sufficiently recognized in many cases.
　Moser's serum seems to have no more specificity than Menzer's serum lacks specificity in tuberculosis or in articular rheumatism.
　Menzer started from the principle that streptococci often present in the early stages of tuberculosis contribute to the expansion of the primary lesion, and treated tuberculosis patients with anti-streptococcal serum.
　He treated 22 tuberculosis patients with serum, of which 11 were in the first stage and 3 were in the second stage. Of the 11 patients, 8 recovered under the influence of anti-streptococcal serum; of the 3 second-stage patients, 1 recovered; third-stage patients only showed weight gain, he recorded. Menzer similarly treated rheumatic patients with anti-streptococcal serum; according to him, this treatment was superior to all other treatments, and complications on the endocardial side were equally appropriate.
　The fact that streptococci are seen in tuberculosis and rheumatism, and that patients with these diseases improve with anti-streptococcal serum, would not lead anyone to conclude the specificity of these streptococci;

　　　　　　　Anti-Streptococcal Serum Therapy　　　　　　　　　　　49
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
nor would one affirm that streptococci found in smallpox are specific elements.
　Even though we have long argued about anti-scarlet fever streptococcal serum, this is because the observations of clinicians involved have generally made a contribution to the study of anti-streptococcal serum therapy.
　The epidemic nature of scarlet fever is more suitable for serum therapy research than all other diseases caused by streptococci. If anti-streptococcal serum can be useful, it would certainly be especially in systemic streptococcal infections, where the prognosis is generally extremely grave. Unfortunately, due to the sporadic nature of these infections, it is difficult and sometimes impossible to obtain a large number of observation cases under comparative conditions.
　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　In concluding this chapter, it remains to say a few words about anti-scarlet fever vaccines.
　Based on the similarity existing between strangles in horses and scarlet fever, Gabritchewsky had the idea of preparing a vaccine against this latter disease.
　This vaccine is a bouillon culture of streptococci isolated from scarlet fever patients. The culture is heated to 60° and 0.5% carbolic acid is added.
　To obtain a large number of bacterial bodies in a small volume, Gabritchewsky centrifuged the culture: he decanted the supernatant portion and left only the amount necessary so that 1cc of vaccine contained 0.005g of dried bacteria.
　He began with injections of 0.5cc of this vaccine solution (in children from 2 to 10 years old), then repeated the injection twice, increasing the vaccine amount by 1.5 to 2 times each time.
　The injections very often accompanied fairly mild local and systemic reactions. In some cases, he demonstrated reactions resembling scarlet fever rash and even causing angina. Therefore, Gabritchewsky considered this proof of the specificity of his vaccine.
　According to him, whether streptococci are pathogenic elements of scarlet fever or have only secondary significance in this disease, the method of prophylactic vaccination with heated culture is 'in children