54　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
For this reason they call it the first toxin (Gamaléia's nucleoalbumin). If this toxin is extracted somewhat vigorously with chemical agents, or if bacteria are maintained at boiling point or 80°-90° for a long time, according to them, the first toxin always transforms into the second toxin (Gamaléia's nuclein). This second toxin is still toxic, but is 10 to 20 times weaker than the first toxin. The second toxin does not have the specificity like the first toxin and is highly resistant to high temperatures or the action of digestive enzymes.

The distinction between the first and second toxins could not be recognized according to Bürgers' experiments. This author conducted comparative studies on the toxicity of variously heated cultures before they became either first or second toxins according to Pfeiffer and Wassermann. According to this, he recognized that the toxic effects in both cases were clearly identical.

Even if we can consider this dualistic theory of toxins, it is certain that vibrios possess inherent toxicity. This can be resolved from the toxicity of these same dead bacteria when, on one hand, young culture filtrates are injected, and on the other hand, when bacterial bodies are manipulated. The difference between toxin-producing bacteria such as dysentery bacilli and endotoxin bacteria such as cholera vibrios is therefore not said to be remarkable.

When these bacteria of both types cultured in bouillon and then centrifuged are examined separately for supernatant and sediment, they show the following: The liquid portion of diphtheria bacillus culture is remarkably toxic, but the sediment formed by the bacterial bodies has almost no toxicity. What is demonstrated in cholera bacillus culture is the opposite. The supernatant portion is almost harmless, but the sediment, which is identical to the dead bacterial bodies, is endowed with great toxicity.

The sediment of vibrios forms crude bacterial endotoxins. We say crude because this sediment contains not only bacterial endotoxins: in addition to bacterial forms, we recognize various enzymatic toxic substances and other things like bacterial endotoxins.

＊　　＊　　＊

How can specific toxins be extracted from the interior of vibrios? All purification attempts—though numerous—have ended only in mediocre results.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　　　55
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
It should be noted that among all endotoxic bacteria, vibrios are probably those for which extraction operations are not very easy: vibrio endotoxins are closely bound to cellular protoplasm and are released only when cells disintegrate or dissolve, and even then in an extremely incomplete form.

Taking a hint from Buchner's research on zymase extraction, Hahn attempted to extract cholera bacterial endotoxins by placing vibrios under tremendous pressure. He succeeded in obtaining a soluble toxic substance called plasmin.

Macfadyen and Rowland used a combination of grinding and extremely low temperatures such as those produced using liquid air (-190°).

Carriere and Tormarkin conducted cooperative action of autolysis of vibrios in distilled water and prolonged shaking with appropriate apparatus.

Bürgers simply suspended vibrios in physiological saline and heated them to 55°-60°, conducting research to extract bacterial endotoxins. Later, for the same purpose, Krawkow applied methods used to produce nucleoproteids.

To extract cholera bacterial endotoxins, we applied methods to vibrios as described later and succeeded well with other bacteria too; the extracts thus obtained have little toxicity.

In summary, attempts to purify cholera bacterial endotoxins were numerous, but the results were not very good. In our opinion, among all preparations obtained by various authors, those that came closest to the purest bacterial endotoxins were crude bacterial endotoxins, that is, dead bacteria that received no other treatment.

Wanting to study soluble bacterial endotoxins in the vibrio genus is a mistake in the selection of research subjects. This research can be conducted much more effectively with bacteria such as plague bacilli, dysentery bacilli, or other bacteria.

However, we must cite the interesting recent research of L. Horowitz. The author proved that the most toxic filterable cultures are those arising from glucose-supplemented (1%) bouillon. In this bouillon, as his experiments show, vibrios die very rapidly and by the third day the culture becomes completely sterile.