58　　　　　　　　　　　　　Typhus Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
toxins, particularly the physical and biological properties of bacterial endotoxins from typhus bacteria, plague bacteria, and dysentery bacteria can be examined much better.

Following these studies, various scholars applied the same method to the extraction of other bacterial endotoxins. For example, Bordet and Gengou obtained bacterial endotoxins from coccoid bacilli of pertussis; P.N. Bernard obtained those from Malta fever bacteria, Slatineano obtained those from coccoid bacilli of influenza, and Cruveilhier obtained those from gonococci.

After sequentially describing the major bacterial endotoxins, let us say a few words about the somewhat toxic extracts made from Löffler's bacillus, filamentous bacteria, Prodigiosus, and Sarcina lutea.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Typhus Bacterial Endotoxins
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Endotoxine Typhique

All typhus bacteria used as the starting point of our experiments were isolated from patients' blood at the height of typhoid disease. These bacteria never underwent animal passage. The virulence of these bacteria against guinea pigs did not change at all: injecting 1/7 of a 24-hour agar culture intraperitoneally killed a 350-gram guinea pig. When heated to 60° and then dried in vacuum, guinea pigs die with a dose of 10-15 mg.

To release typhus bacterial endotoxins, we first made a mixture of dried bacteria (15 centigrams), saline solution (2cc), and normal horse serum (2cc). The typhus bacteria are soon agglutinated by the serum. After two hours of contact, this was centrifuged.

Before centrifugation, the toxic part of the mixture was that of the dried bacteria added initially, and the liquid part was not toxic. After centrifugation, the toxicity of each of the two layers became opposite. That is, the bacterial bodies became almost non-toxic after contact with serum and physiological saline: guinea pigs that died with 10-15 mg of untreated bacteria could tolerate up to 10 centigrams of treated bacteria without any harm. On the other hand, the liquid part of the mixture, which initially consisted of serum and physiological saline and was completely non-toxic at that time, became toxic, and a 300-gram guinea pig died with an intraperitoneal injection of 1.5cc.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Typhus Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　59
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

That is, the following occurred: typhus bacteria released part of their contents; thanks to this release, two new substances were created: one part is non-toxic typhus bacteria, and the other part is soluble typhus bacterial endotoxins.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

We previously described the principle of Macfadyen and Rowland's extraction method. This involves freezing bacteria and grinding them at low temperature using an extremely powerful pestle. Bacteria that have become solid lumps by pouring liquid air are ground in liquid air for two hours. At the end of the operation, a semi-fluid paste consisting of bacterial debris is obtained in the mortar.

Even if the culture used at the starting point is alive and has strong toxins, the final ground product is sterile. Since the temperature of liquid air at -190° cannot sterilize, British scholars (the above authors) conclude that this is the result of bacterial grinding and fragmentation.

The cell juice obtained by the above method and then removing bacterial residue by centrifugation shows soluble typhus bacterial endotoxins.

According to Macfadyen and Rowland, this bacterial endotoxin is extremely active; the stronger the virulence of the bacteria used initially, the stronger its toxicity. This bacterial endotoxin can kill guinea pigs in 3-4 hours with doses of 1cc-0.5cc by intraperitoneal injection. The authors always describe that this method is extremely laborious and does not always yield very active preparations; often, for reasons not precisely understood, the cell juice may have little toxicity.

Macfadyen and Rowland's method is certainly very ingenious; it cannot be done in all laboratories.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

The bacterial endotoxin extraction method we described in 1906 does not require special equipment; it is superior to the method we previously used to provide more important production efficiency.

Let us describe this technique here.

This method is now used for plague, dysentery, pertussis, Malta fever, influenza, and other