60　　　　　　　　　　　　　Typhus Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
bacteria, and is useful in producing bacterial endotoxins.

Agar cultures that have passed 16-48 hours are diluted in physiological saline at a 0.75% ratio, heated at 60° for 1 hour, and then dried in vacuum.

A fixed amount (1 gram) of dried bacteria is mixed with dried salt (0.30-0.45g), then ground in an agate mortar to form a fine powder. This operation takes about 1 hour.

Without releasing the pestle, 1-2 ml of distilled water is added drop by drop into the mortar. This rapidly dissolves the salt: this creates a bacterial paste infiltrated with concentrated salt solution. Most of the bacteria undergo a type of agglutination. When this suspension is transferred to a test tube and water is added to reach physiological saline concentration, it was confirmed that instead of creating a uniform emulsion, the bacteria tend to aggregate at the bottom of the test tube.

After shaking the mixture several times, the bacteria are left until the next day.

After standing for 10-12 hours, a liquid layer containing no solid suspended matter forms above the bacterial precipitate. This liquid is transparent and milky white in appearance, containing liquid bacterial endotoxins.

When stored in a refrigerator or at room temperature, the typhus bacterial endotoxin obtained by this method often produces cloud-like flocculent matter in suspension that can be mistaken for bacteria. When examined under a microscope, it takes stain poorly and is nothing other than organic debris that should be called serous precipitate. When heated to 100°, typhus bacterial endotoxin becomes completely transparent; the same occurs when heated to 60° for 1-2 hours.

The plague bacterial endotoxin, which will be discussed later, becomes turbid at 65°, but typhus bacterial endotoxin becomes increasingly transparent the higher the temperature, reaching maximum transparency after being placed in a 120° autoclave for 30 minutes.

When bacterial endotoxin is placed in a 65° double boiler, it does not reduce its toxicity but rather seems to confer toxicity. This must clearly be attributed to the problematic dusty substance that redissolves at high temperature.

Typhus bacterial endotoxin is heat-resistant; we can heat it to 100° for more than 1 hour, or to 120° for 30 minutes, without removing any of its toxicity.

This endotoxin is active in horses, rabbits, guinea pigs, rats, and mice, as our experiments show.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Dysentery Bacterial Endotoxins　　　　　　　　　61
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
It is extremely active with intraperitoneal or intravenous injection, and less active with subcutaneous injection.

Starting from 1g of dried bacteria, using 0.30g of NaCl and 30cc of H₂O, a liquid is obtained whose toxicity varies from 1/8 to 1/4 cc for a 250g guinea pig depending on the preparation; injecting 1cc of this liquid intraperitoneally can kill a guinea pig in 3 hours.

An 1,800g rabbit dies with doses of 1-1.5cc when injected intraperitoneally or intravenously.

To kill a 50g rat, 1/8cc had to be injected intraperitoneally, which is almost the same amount needed to kill a 250g guinea pig.

While mice are generally extremely sensitive to bacterial endotoxins, they tolerate typhus bacterial endotoxin relatively well, with a lethal dose of about 0.05cc.

A particular characteristic of typhus bacterial endotoxin that shows its specificity is that it becomes inactive when in contact with serum, namely anti-bacterial endotoxin; we will discuss this again.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Dysentery Bacterial Endotoxins
　　　　　　　　　　　Endotoxine Dysentérique

The manufacturing method is identical to that of typhus bacterial endotoxin. The proportions we adopted are: 0.4g of Shiga bacilli; 0.15g of NaCl; 20cc of H₂O.

In appearance, dysentery bacterial endotoxin resembles that of typhus bacteria: like the latter, the former appears egg-white colored when in thin layers and clearly turbid when in thick layers; even with prolonged centrifugation, it does not become transparent. The turbidity is, of course, due to the aggregation of small granules composed of bacterial fragments.

In terms of heat resistance, dysentery bacterial endotoxin occupies an intermediate position between typhus bacterial endotoxin and plague bacterial endotoxin: heating at 75-77° for 30 minutes cannot render it harmless; however, at temperatures of 78.5-80°, it can be completely inactivated.