76　　　　　　　　　Chapter One　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　The first sensitized "vaccines" were prepared with "plague" bacilli, "cholera" vibrios, and "typhus" bacilli. Here we shall describe the "technique" we adopted.
　The 48-hour agar culture in Roux's "flask" is scraped off with a spatula, then a small amount of physiological saline is added. In the case of "plague" bacilli, they are killed at 60° (for 1 hour) to render them harmless. The bacterial bodies suspended in water are placed in a cylindrical container containing unheated, highly agglutinating anti-"plague" serum.
　Soon two layers are observed: the upper layer consists of bacteria, the lower layer of serum. After several more hours, the bacteria aggregate and become flocculent, gradually growing larger, and then settle to the bottom of the container. The supernatant fluid, which shows a slight opalescent color, is decanted. The bacterial precipitate is washed several times with physiological saline to separate even the last traces of serum.
　The white coagulum thus obtained is a semi-fluid "paste"-like mass. When physiological saline is added to this, it becomes a fine and extremely "homogeneous" suspension. This coagulum forms the "plague vaccine" (1).
　"Typhus" and "cholera" prophylactic "vaccines" are made similarly, with only the following difference: the bacterial bodies are treated with their respective sera before heating. This method is advantageous from the point of view of antibody binding. The sensitized bacteria are then repeatedly washed. After all traces of serum are completely removed, they are used as is or heated to 56° for 30 minutes.
　We have already noted how necessary it is to remove all traces of serum in which the bacteria were immersed from the sensitized bacteria. This is for the purpose of eliminating the harmful effect of serum on the duration of immunity. However, one must not be overly cautious and leave the bacteria immersed in water for too long, because in this case the sensitized bacteria transfer part of their active substances to the surrounding water. The washing of sensitized virus should therefore be continued rapidly, and the entire operation should be completed on the same day.
　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　The "plague" prophylactic sensitized "vaccine" has the advantage that its toxic effects practically completely disappear compared to ordinary "plague" prophylactic "vaccines," namely Haffkine's vaccine. Thus,
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) This "plague vaccine" is included in the recent publication of the French Pharmacopoeia (1908, Codex medicamentarius gallicus, p. 792), and exists under the name "Vaccin Antipesteux Sensibilisé."

　　　　　　　　　Chapter One　　　　　　　　　　　　77
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Haffkine's vaccine kills "mice" with 1/10 to 1/15 the amount of 24-hour agar culture. The sensitized "vaccine" cannot determine any recognizable symptoms in "mice" even when injecting the equivalent of 2 entire cultures, that is, more than 30 times the amount.
　Similarly in humans, the "plague" prophylactic sensitized "vaccine" does not cause any severe symptoms (self-observation).
　The local symptoms that constitute major obstacles with ordinary "vaccines" are completely absent in animals inoculated with sensitized "vaccines." To confirm this, in rabbits, one can inject simply heated bacteria—"cholera" vibrios, "typhus" bacilli, or "plague" bacilli—on one side of the body, and sensitized bacteria of the same type and amount on the other side. On the side injected with ordinary "vaccine," one sees inflammatory reactions with induration and "abscess," but those inoculated with sensitized bacteria show no local reaction at all.
　Sensitized "vaccines" are harmless because the endotoxins of the bacteria are neutralized by the specific substances of the serum. Due to this lack of toxicity, no general symptoms are observed with these vaccines. On the other hand, the presence of sensitizing substances aids phagocytosis. Also, tissues rapidly see the disappearance of foreign matter, the same type of sensitized bacteria. This is the reason why severe local symptoms can never be observed at sites where these vaccines are inoculated.
　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊
　What remains to be examined are: 1° When does immunity appear after sensitized "vaccine" injection, 2° For what period can this immunity continue?
　Regarding the timing of immunity development, experiments show it varies with the nature of the virus, but generally vaccine immunity occurs soon after injection.
　In the case of "plague," "mice" become resistant to lethal doses of virus injected intradermally within 48 hours after introduction of the sensitized "vaccine."
　"Typhus" and "cholera" prophylactic sensitized "vaccines" confer immunity to guinea pigs even more rapidly. When a certain amount of agar culture is injected subcutaneously, these vaccines protect guinea pigs against lethal doses of virus inoculated intraperitoneally by about the next day. When guinea pigs are prophylactically vaccinated with simply heated ordinary cultures and tested the next day, the guinea pigs show prophylactic vaccination