84　　　　　　　　　　　Chapter One　　　　　　　　　　　　
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
quantity must be noted. Thus easily continuing for several years, and if humans acquire this with weak or no reaction, they obtain increasingly valuable immunity.

As in the case of sensitized viruses, contact between "diphtheria" toxin and its antitoxin must be quite prolonged. According to T. Smith, this contact needs to be maintained for 48 hours before implementing the use of prophylactic vaccination.

In addition to the persistent immunity conferred by this prophylactic vaccination, according to Smith, this substance is completely harmless. Using this sensitized toxin is far more advantageous than using toxin alone. The latter can also confer immunity, but in this case the immunity is not solid and is obtained at the cost of local symptoms.

If we could know about the speed of immune formation, this "diphtheria" prophylactic "vaccine" would be completely ideal. Smith's report does not touch on this problem; perhaps in this report the "diphtheria" prophylactic "vaccine" differs little from other vaccines, that is, it probably confers immunity rapidly.

To summarize, regardless of what the nature of the virus may be, whether it be "plague," dysentery, "cholera" or "typhus" bacteria, rabies poison or "diphtheria" toxin, dead or live bacteria, sensitization confers new properties on these, namely making vaccines exhibit characteristics that are reliable, rapid, harmless, and have persistent action.

　　　　　　　　　　　―――――――――――
　　　　　　　　　　　　References Cited

A. Besredka, C. R. Académie des Sciences, juin, 1902, p. 1330; Annales Inst. Pasteur, décembre 1902.
Paladino-Blandini, Annali d'Igiene sperimental, pp. 295-411, 1905.
A. Marie, C. R. Soc. Biologie, 29 novembre, 1902; 16 décembre, 1905; Bulletin de l'Institut Pasteur, t. VI, 30 août et 15 sept. 1908.
Dopter, Annales de l'Inst. Pasteur, t. XXIII, p. 677.
Th. Smith, Journ. of experim. medic., t. XI, 402; 1909.

　　　　　　　　　　　　VI
　　　　　　　Prophylactic Vaccination with Sensitized Viruses
　　　　　Vaccination par Virus Sensibilisés

  　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two
　　　　　　　Deuxième Partie (1)　

We also find the properties we described earlier in sensitized "vaccines" for pneumococci, streptococci, "diphtheria" bacteria, sheep pox virus, and tuberculosis bacteria.

Let us begin with tuberculosis bacteria.

All physicians and veterinarians have given thought to v. Behring's much-discussed experiments on tuberculosis prophylactic vaccination in cattle. In various countries, it was confirmed that cattle were actually conferred with extremely remarkable resistance to tuberculosis, that is, in controls, tuberculosis bacterial inoculation was accompanied by rapid, severe, and often fatal lesion formation, while in prophylactically vaccinated animals, lesions were not formed for quite a long time. Simply, if one is not satisfied with mere macroscopic examination and observes organs strictly, especially in lymph glands, living tuberculosis bacteria of high virulence are recognized. In other words, bacteria introduced into the living body during test injection are not completely destroyed. This lack of complete destruction forms a great danger in v. Behring's method; this is the reason why the problem of tuberculosis prophylactic vaccination in cattle is still far from being considered solved.

An important step toward solving this problem was realized by Calmette and Guerin. They showed that when tuberculosis bacteria are cultured on potatoes in the presence of glycerin-added bovine bile, the characteristics of tuberculosis bacteria change markedly. Such bacteria have a dose of 25mgr

――――――――――――――――――――――
(1) Bulletin de l'Institut Pasteur, t. X, 30 juin 1912.