88　　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
and no focal reaction occurred." The authors noted that the first injection generally produces mild edema, but soon a state of tolerance is established, and subsequent injections, even in increased amounts, cause no discomfort to the patient.

Therefore, concentrated tuberculosis toxin after sensitization becomes extremely harmless in guinea pigs, cattle, and humans alike.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

It is well known that laboratory animals can easily acquire active immunity against pneumococci. When sensitized pneumococci are used, as resolved by the research of E. Levy and Aoki, prophylactic vaccination is performed under particularly favorable conditions.

Regarding the speed of immunity development, the authors proved the following: in rabbits prophylactically vaccinated with dead pneumococci (with 0.5% carbolic acid added), immunity is established after 6 days, but in rabbits prophylactically vaccinated with sensitized pneumococci, it is generally completed after 3 days. Immunity can be established even more rapidly: in experiments, the authors used rabbits prophylactically vaccinated with sensitized virus for lethal dose determination tests after 24 hours, 10 hours, and 6 hours. All these rabbits resisted the test inoculation.

The negative phase, which is already rare when using killed pneumococci, is never observed with sensitized pneumococci.

Furthermore, what appears extremely contradictory is that sensitized pneumococci may exhibit certain therapeutic effects: when 1/100,000 of highly virulent pneumococci is injected into one part of the body and an appropriate amount of sensitized pneumococci into another part, animals could be kept alive for a certain period or survive completely. The experimental results depend on the vaccine dose: 1-2cc amounts were insufficient, 4cc protected 3 out of 4 animals, and 6-8cc could reliably vaccinate all animals.

Similar experiments with non-sensitized pneumococci showed far less favorable results: 4cc of vaccine protected 1 out of 5 rabbits; 6cc protected 2 out of 3, and only with 8cc did all rabbits survive.

In summary, sensitized pneumococci have the following advantages over ordinary pneumococci:

　　　　　　　　　　Chapter Two　　　　　　　　　　　　　　89
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――

When injected prophylactically, this "vaccine" confers immunity more rapidly and more firmly; this injection is never accompanied by a negative phase; furthermore, in certain cases, this "vaccine" exhibits undoubted therapeutic effects.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Streptococci show even more similarities with pneumococci; it is not surprising that when sensitized, they behave similarly to the latter.

Marxer confirmed that rabbits inoculated with sensitized streptococci acquire immunity extremely rapidly; by 24 hours they can already resist several times the lethal dose.

This experimenter, one of the inventors of "galactose"-added "vaccine," declared that obtaining similar results with streptococci placed simply under the action of "galactose" is extremely rare.

Stimulated by these experiments, Marxer attempted to use sensitized streptococci therapeutically. As could be expected, this therapeutic treatment attempted 24 hours after virus inoculation was not brilliant. However, when all other conditions are equal, sensitized streptococci are superior to non-sensitized ones in the sense of keeping treated animals alive 4-6 days longer than controls.

Let us describe the tests of prophylactic and therapeutic treatment with sensitized streptococci planned by Levy and Hamm. The impossibility of conducting accurate controlled experiments in humans lacks the rigor of laboratory experiments. Despite this limitation, we must acknowledge that the impressions arising from these therapeutic tests strengthen the observations made in animals.

Levy and Hamm used sensitized streptococci to prophylactically vaccinate pregnant women. Injections were given about 8-10 days before delivery. This caused mild pain at the injection site but was not accompanied by fever. Of the 14 women treated in this way, one died from an accidental disaster; all others delivered in extremely good condition.

In therapeutic applications, sensitized streptococci were used in cases of already developed puerperal fever, as well as in various streptococcal conditions such as purulent inflammation of accessory organs or perimetritis.