VII
　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination(1)
　　　　　　Typhoid Vaccinations
　　　　　　　Experimental foundations

　There is no disease for which the weapon of vaccination is more widely practiced than typhoid. While there is only one type of vaccine each for smallpox or rabies, typhoid, though it is the same disease in all countries, has the privilege of having at least 20 types of vaccines, if not more than 20. Each country has almost its own unique type of vaccine. For example, Germany has the Pfeiffer-Kolle vaccine, England has that of Wright-Leishman, America and Japan each have their own, and France has the advantage of having multiple vaccines.

　Each researcher advocates his own vaccine and believes it to be superior to others. Those who are not familiar with the experimental basis of these numerous vaccines cannot know which direction to take, and furthermore, from the beginning, they cannot understand the issue of "priority" that becomes the subject of historical controversy.

　In this chapter, we have decided to remove critical elements from the discussion and adopt accurate experimental controls. Regarding statistics that are not without value, we have decided to reproduce them from the survey published by M. Netter in the Bulletin de l'Institut Pasteur in 1906.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

　If we seek to explore the origin of the concept of typhoid vaccination, it is necessary to reexamine research conducted around 1886-1890. The discovery of typhoid bacilli by Eberth-Gaffky-Koch became the starting point for numerous important achievements in Germany, particularly for the purpose of infecting laboratory animals with typhoid. This work was carried out by E. Fraenkel et Simmonds, Sirotinine, and Beumer et Peiper.

　When studying the biological characteristics that induce typhoid infection in guinea pigs, rabbits, and mice, they accidentally confirmed that surviving animals often became more resistant during reinfection. This type of immunity was noted by Fraenkel et Simmonds. This fact was similarly pointed out by Sirotinine, but he did not believe it should be given importance. This fact was finally acknowledged by Beumer et Peiper, who recognized its value.

　Let me describe the path by which these researchers reached this point. Research on experimental typhoid infection requires a very large number of animals, so these researchers one day faced a shortage of guinea pigs. Since they could no longer obtain new animals, they decided to use animals that had already been used. However, they recognized that animals that had survived lethal infection differed completely from fresh animals and could well tolerate secondary infection with typhoid bacilli.

　New experiments conducted with the same idea regarding mice left no room for doubt in the authors' expectations regarding the existence of immunity acquired under these conditions. The authors extended their thinking further and inevitably came to ask the following question: "Whether sterilized cultures containing typhhotoxin or other ptomaines confer similar immunity." They added that if this hypothesis were realized, it would not be strange to try "typhoid killed bacteria" in humans.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

　It was 1886. At this time, typhoid preventive vaccines using non-living bacteria were first reliably tested.

　However, it must be added that although it was new for its time, it was by no means epoch-making as people believe. We can infer from the intentions in reports published among the Pasteur school in Germany, particularly France, around 1886