102　　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
The injection of typhoid bacilli appears to have been all that was devised at the time for preventing typhoid in humans.

At about the same time, Wright, always with careful intention for application, proceeded from theory to practice. Courageously, he undertook the campaign of typhoid vaccination from 1896 to 1904.

We will not touch upon the practical results of these vaccinations. Nor will we describe the methods of vaccine preparation or the clinical findings that follow vaccination. What we particularly wish to emphasize here is the historical phases through which the problem of vaccination has passed and the various historical phases through which the experimental research that motivated the selection of vaccines has passed.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

In addition to vaccine preparations made from killed typhoid bacilli, various types of vaccines were devised with the purpose of enhancing preventive effects or reducing side effects from injection. Comparative studies conducted with this kind of thinking were performed by Paladino-Blandini and subsequently by Vincent, around the same time as ourselves.

To describe in detail all vaccine preparations known today would be tedious and dry. With two or three exceptions, these are all based on entire cultures of killed typhoid bacilli. Paladino-Blandini's extremely detailed monograph reveals most of their preparation methods and potencies. This author engaged in the difficult work of manufacturing all known vaccines and conducted experimental control tests with them. For each vaccine preparation, he studied local and systemic reactions and then investigated the effects of vaccination, duration of immunity, etc.

From these comparative studies, he found that except for Werner's toxin, Rodet-Lagriffoul-Wahly and Brieger and Mayer's extracts, all vaccine preparations could easily confer immunity against typhoid to guinea pigs with certain doses. Taking into consideration the local and systemic symptoms determined by various vaccines, and particularly considering their potency and the duration of acquired immunity, the author created a kind of hierarchy and placed sensitized vaccines at its highest position.

　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination　　　　　　　　　103
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Somewhat different results were obtained by Vincent in his research on better vaccines for use in humans. As in Paladino-Blandini's practice, the experimental animals were guinea pigs. Vaccine inoculation was performed with 3 to 4 subcutaneous injections at 10-day intervals. Fifteen days after the last injection, Vincent injected 1cc of 48-hour typhoid bacilli bouillon culture intraperitoneally and injected 2-4cc of 10% saline solution or 1/10-1/8cc of aniline oil subcutaneously. The purpose of this last subcutaneous injection was to promote the spread of typhoid bacilli throughout the host's body.

The vaccines Vincent tried were as follows: live typhoid bacilli of 24 hours to 10 days; bacteria heated to 53-55°, sensitized killed bacteria; extracts of bacteria autolyzed in physiological saline; live or killed bacteria administered to the digestive system.

Having completed these research items, Vincent reached the following conclusions: "What confers the most solid immunity to guinea pigs is live bacteria from 24-hour or longer (10-day) cultures. Those obtained by immersing live bacteria, centrifuging them, and then sterilizing with ether or chloroform also have extremely great vaccine effect. As antigens, the use of 24-hour cultures sterilized by heating at 55° for 1 hour confers equally good protective power. Sensitized vaccines provide satisfactory immunity but are not very persistent. Other vaccines have even less potency."

In a report published 15 days later, particularly regarding the same subject aimed at selecting vaccines for application to the human body, it is noteworthy that Vincent simply arranged three types of vaccines in a row: live bacteria, bacteria heated to 53-55°, and autolysates.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Which of these three should be selected? Vincent did not hesitate to declare that the first one, live bacteria, was the most potent of all. However, since he considered this vaccine dangerous, he chose from the other two the one whose biological properties were closest to live bacteria. According to Vincent's opinion, the only vaccine that provides complete guarantee of safety and effectiveness for humans is the autolysate of live bacteria.

This autolysate was already recommended by Conradi, Brieger and Bassenge