104　　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
but it should be completely proper to name it Vincent's vaccine. This is because through this author's research it became widely known and was published as the most excellent among vaccines for human use.

To state simply to avoid all confusion, the vaccine that Vincent implemented with his own hands and obtained good results with in Avignon, Morocco and other regions was not the vaccine in question. That is, it was not an autolysate of typhoid bacilli, but a vaccine made from typhoid bacilli sterilized with ether.

From an experimental standpoint, what value do typhoid bacilli sterilized with ether have? To what class of typhoid vaccines should this be assigned?

L. Nègre's experiments brought fairly accurate reports. The author conducted comparative immunization of rabbits with three types of vaccines: 1° sensitized live typhoid bacilli; 2° typhoid bacilli killed by heating at 56° for 1 hour, 3° typhoid bacilli sterilized with ether. All animals received the same number and same amount of vaccine, then blood was collected under identical conditions.

From these studies he obtained the following results. Animals injected with sensitized live bacilli had weak agglutination power but high bactericidal power. The animals were extremely rich in antibodies. Animals immunized with heated bacilli had high agglutination power but weak bactericidal power, and were rich in antibodies. Finally, rabbits immunized with bacteria sterilized with ether had high agglutination titers but weak bactericidal power and few antibodies.

In other words, in terms of being rich in effective antibodies, bacteria sterilized with ether were shown to be inferior to bacteria killed by heating, and both of these were shown to be inferior to sensitized live bacteria.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　７　　＊

Even before Vincent, bacteriologists were already driven by the idea of finding chemical methods that would completely kill bacteria while changing their antigenic action as little as possible. Starting from this idea, Levy, Blumenthal and Marxer applied the mildest possible substances to bacteria as a method of causing minimal changes to the physical properties of bacteria. These authors used glycerin, urea, or galactose as such substances. From these experiments, typhoid bacilli treated with 25% urea solution for 24 hours, when injected subcutaneously at a rate of 1-2 mgr dry weight, achieved results that could reliably protect against 5-10

　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination　　　　　　　　　105
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
times the lethal dose of virulent bacilli inoculated intraperitoneally.

Other attempts to achieve maximum preventive effects with minimal side effects must be mentioned: on one hand, that of J. Courmont and Rochaix who used the gastrointestinal route, and on the other hand, that of Loeffler, Friedberger and Moreschi, and Ch. Nicolle who chose the intravenous route for vaccination.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

According to J. Courmont and Rochaix, the gastrointestinal route is the most harmless and has reliable advantages. Their preventive administration trials were conducted on goats, guinea pigs, rabbits as well as humans. The vaccine used was from 8-day cultures heated to 53°.

Vaccine administration was either given orally during fasting or enterically by enema. The authors rather chose the second method. For rabbits the amount was 100cc for each lavage, and for goats 280-350cc. The authors performed 3 lavages with intervals of several days.

Already after one lavage, according to them, the appearance of agglutinating, bactericidal and bacteriolytic capabilities was seen in the serum. After 10-15 days the animals were immunized and could withstand intravenous injection of 1cc of highly virulent typhoid bacilli culture that could kill control animals in 28 hours.

Interestingly, animals immunized rectally by J. Courmont and Rochaix could not only withstand lethal typhoid infection, but could also withstand intoxication by extracellular and intracellular toxins of typhoid bacilli. Thus, rabbits that received 100cc of polyvalent vaccine by lavage at 5-6 day intervals could survive even 40cc amounts of culture heated to 53°. However, control animals already died within several hours from 10-15cc amounts of this same culture.

The serum of rabbits vaccinated in this way acquires antitoxic capability according to Courmont and Rochaix. A portion of 1cc of this serum (1/3-1/20cc) is sufficient to neutralize three times the lethal dose of toxin (entire bouillon culture heated to 53°). However, a mixture of normal serum (1/3cc) with just the lethal dose inevitably brings death.