112　　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
while the control infected under the same conditions at the same time contracted typical typhoid.

This fact leads us to conclude that typhoid vaccination is possible.

Of course, vaccines composed of highly virulent live typhoid bacteria cannot be said to present no inconvenience. As we mentioned previously, our chimpanzee showed severe local reactions following subcutaneous injection of live bacteria, followed by a state of debilitation. Since humans have even greater susceptibility to Eberth's bacilli than chimpanzees, we fear that the same inoculation method would cause very severe symptoms.

To avoid this complication, Metchnikoff and our colleagues used sensitized vaccine. After we performed two injections with an 8-day interval, we observed the development of even stronger typhoid preventive immunity in chimpanzees. After such preventive inoculation, when large quantities of typhoid bacteria were swallowed in the form of culture or toxic fecal material, controls or those treated with other vaccines contracted typhoid.

Since the effectiveness of sensitized live bacterial vaccine could be confirmed in five chimpanzees through many notable experiments, we believed it was acceptable to conduct trials in humans.

　　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Today, no one disputes that live bacterial vaccines are superior to vaccines composed of killed bacteria or bacterial extracts. The long implementation of vaccination in humans and animals has amply proven this. We need not recall the history of smallpox vaccination, rabies, or anthrax. However, in the case of typhoid, there is no hesitation in considering it extremely dangerous. Even recently, have not very influential scholars cast extremely harsh criticism against this vaccine? Have people not also said that those inoculated with our vaccine become chronic carriers, that is, an inexhaustible source of typhoid epidemics? People have gone so far as to brand it a murderous vaccine. Such qualitative adjectives have been used.

Such evaluations did not discourage those who wished to try our method. We have, however, succeeded in inoculating up to 10,000 men and women together with injections and our co-researchers.

　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination　　　　　　　　　113
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
Up to today, we can swear in good conscience that not one person has died, and moreover, to our knowledge, there has not been a single typhoid carrier.

After vaccinating ourselves and those around us, we examined feces and urine repeatedly for more than six months. We examined and had examined the feces, urine, and blood of the families of our vaccinees. We have never found even the slightest trace of typhoid bacteria.

What we can add from our own experience is that none of the vaccinees stopped working on the day of vaccination, the next day, or thereafter.

We have previously observed local reactions in vaccinees, such as redness and pain when touched, though we do not understand why. In rare cases, as an exception, body temperature may rise to 39°. However, what can be confirmed is that with the same dosage, sensitized live bacterial vaccine shows much milder reactions both locally and systemically than vaccines made with killed bacteria.

One criticism of our vaccine is as follows: if unfortunately someone in the incubation period of typhoid should be inoculated, the typhoid bacteria contained in the vaccine would add to the bacteria already circulating in the body, inevitably making typhoid symptoms significantly more severe.

This criticism has not been proven by facts. Clinical observations by Ardin-Delteil, Nègre et Raynaud in Algeria, by Boinet in Marseilles, by Netter in Paris, and by others show that sensitized live typhoid bacteria, when injected during the course of typhoid, rather show benefit to the disease; that is, shortening the disease duration, significantly reducing the number of relapses, and greatly lowering mortality. Therefore, a vaccine that acts beneficially during the course of disease cannot possibly be harmful during the incubation period.

Based on the synthesis of our experiments in chimpanzees and observations in humans, we can affirm that sensitized live typhoid bacteria are completely harmless when injected subcutaneously and are endowed with indisputable preventive vaccination properties in humans.