114　　　　　　　　　　　Experimental Basis of Typhoid Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　　　　　　　　　　　References Cited
Pasteur, Annales de l'Institut Pasteur, t, I, p, 10,
Roux et Chamberlnd, Annales de l'Institut Pasteur, t, I, p,561,
Chantemesse et Widal, Annales de l'Institut Pasteur, t, II, p, 54,
Pfeiffer et Kolle, Zeitschr, f, Hygiene, 1896, p, 202,
Paladino-Blandini, Annali d' Igiene sperimentale, 1305, p, 295
Vincent, C, R, Académie des Sciences, février 1910, pp,355 et 482,
Nègre, C,R,Société de Biologie, t, LXXIV, 31 mai 1913
Levy, Blumenthal, Marxer, Centralbl, f, Bacteriol,, t, XLII, 1906, p, 265,
Courmont et Rochaix, C, R, Acadèmie des Sciences, t, CLII,

　　　　　　　　　　　　VIII
　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination
　　　　　　　Vaccinations Anticholériques(1)

Extending our thoughts to cholera prophylactic vaccines offers much to be learned. The cautious attitude of bacteriologists, even if not opposed for the sake of their dignity, is not without instruction.

This vaccine, now considered most effective, was long regarded as the most questionable of preventive methods. Famous scholars, including those with worldwide authority, completely abandoned it. The efficacy of the vaccine was not proven by laboratory methods. They considered it ineffective and of little value. However, those who encountered epidemics and witnessed the effects of preventive vaccination did not share such opinions. They could not prevent themselves from feeling it to be effective. However, arguments from the clinical field could not compete with the precise facts of the laboratory. Thus, the question of cholera vaccination oscillated between two opposing currents for a long time, about thirty years.

Today, we have experience with many great epidemics even after our time. The preventive significance of cholera prophylactic vaccine is beyond dispute. Even if we now affirm its value, it is not because experimental proof of its efficacy has finally been found. The vaccine's triumph over a long period of doubt and uncertainty is thanks to epidemiologists. That cholera prophylactic vaccine must also be implemented by laboratory personnel is thanks to statisticians—even if there is criticism, which most often has good reason.
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) Bulletin de l'Institut Pasteur, t, XX, 15-30 janvier 1922,