118　　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
this was due to the stimulus of R. Pfeiffer. The bactericidal capacity of body fluids particularly attracted scholars' attention.

Pfeiffer and many bacteriologists with him declared that the key to immunity must be sought in bacteriolytic action. In contrast, Metchnikoff and his disciples established that it is phagocytic action that determines the fate of animals in terms of infectious capacity.

A struggle in which cholera bacilli bore almost all the burden entered between the leaders of both factions. The outcome of this duel between the humoral theory and the cellular theory still remains spiritually present; we avoid stopping here.

Let us only note that initially, experiments seemed to favor Pfeiffer.

Indeed, in vaccinated individuals, is there not a close relationship between the richness of bactericidal substances in the serum and the degree of immunity acquired?

Metchnikoff's research is sufficient to show that this relationship is not absolute; conversely, this relationship cannot be said to be constant and invariable in infections other than those caused by curved bacteria. However, this idea was abandoned. Even if finding the measure of individual resistance in bacteriolytic action resolved everything, it was difficult to remain with that idea alone. Therefore, there was no need to conclude that a better vaccine is one that provides a high degree of bactericidal capacity.

Subsequently, Kolle and other researchers recommended the use of heated bacteria, but this was uniformly based on in vitro experiments: in animals injected with dead bacteria, does their serum have the same bactericidal properties as in animals injected with live bacteria?

The most advantageous is Vibriolyse (vibrio-dissolving action). This Vibriolyse should determine the selection of vaccines. Of course, facts that could not be seen with this method were sometimes advocated. That this problem seemed to be definitively settled regarding cholera was quite true. This became the opinion of the majority of bacteriologists, especially German-speaking scholars.

However, they did not include Metchnikoff.

　　　　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

That animals obtain bactericidal serum after receiving subcutaneous injection of dead vibrios is

　　　　　　　　　　Cholera Vaccination　　　　　　　　　119
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
not entirely accurate. Does this prove that animals are vaccinated against intestinal cholera infection from this fact?

That guinea pigs inoculated subcutaneously with vibrios then resist when inoculated intraperitoneally with lethal pathogens is not considered entirely normal; vaccination against peritonitis caused by vibrios is certainly one of the easiest means to realize. However, can it be said that animals thus treated are vaccinated against true cholera, namely enteritis caused by vibrios?

Metchnikoff recognized that when animals receive very small subcutaneous injections, if the test infection is carried out orally rather than through the peritoneal route, the situation changes completely. Even if strongly protected against peritonitis, even if large amounts of bactericidal substances are produced, treated animals rarely avoid cholera infection and die from it.

Metchnikoff's test cases with young rabbits explain this seemingly contradictory phenomenon and cannot be explained better.

Even while young rabbits are being nursed by their mothers, newborn rabbits are susceptible to oral cholera infection. They die on average on the sixth day. Vibrios introduced orally pass through the stomach and settle in the small intestine and cecum. During the course of the disease, characteristic rice-water diarrhea is observed; this consists of a colorless, odorless, serous liquid containing clots of mucus colored bright yellow. The animal's body temperature drops below 30°.

Anatomical pathological findings are as characteristic as clinical symptoms. The main site of anatomical lesions is the small intestine, where extremely large numbers of vibrios exist. Vibrios are also found in the gallbladder and rarely in the stomach.

Given this great similarity between cholera in young rabbits and human cholera, should we not allow conclusions about one from the other? That is, young rabbits are not suitable for vaccination against oral infection with heated bacteria. If we force a conclusion, this should be the same in humans.

Metchnikoff states on this point: 'Intestinal cholera in rabbits is intoxication by toxins produced within the digestive tract. That is, as shown in many works,