146　　　　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
hypothesis could be verified.

Staphylococci were proven to be extremely toxic to guinea pigs. When injected subcutaneously, these bacteria killed the animals in 2-3 days with 1-2cc of bouillon culture; when they survived, this was accompanied by formation of distinctive skin lesions. Within 48 hours after injection, we observed edema gradually infiltrating and spreading over the entire abdominal surface. The skin was initially red, the center turned black, and then began to exude. After 2 to 3 days, we saw it fall into gangrenous tissue. This gangrene peeled off, exposing large suppurative scabs. When larger amounts were injected, guinea pigs died within a few days from systemic staphylococcal infection.

　　　　　　　＊　　７　　＊

Can guinea pigs be vaccinated against skin lesions? Can guinea pigs be protected against lethal staphylococcal infection? Without going into details, let me acknowledge that experiments answer both these questions in the affirmative. Experiments show that to confer immunity, whether percutaneously or systemically, the best inoculation method is to use the skin route.

When dead staphylococci are injected intradermally, animals can avoid local infection; this produces the greatest effect especially when vaccine is applied to shaved or simply depilated skin surfaces.

When guinea pigs with depilated abdominal surfaces were taken and bandages soaked with staphylococcal preventive vaccine were applied around their torsos, we found that resistance to subcutaneous inoculation of staphylococci increased markedly. In those with bandages applied, guinea pigs had extremely small local skin lesions, but their control animals developed very large suppurative scabs on the abdomen. Or again - an equally surprising fact - guinea pigs treated with staphylococcal preventive vaccine bandages or guinea pigs inoculated with vaccine in subcutaneous layers often survived, but untreated control guinea pigs died from systemic infection.

In this case immunity forms at an extraordinary speed: 24 hours suffices.

When using the subcutaneous route, sometimes similar effects are obtained, which are caused by part of the vaccine penetrating into this skin in the vicinity of the skin.

In contrast, when vaccine is injected intraperitoneally, no trace of immunity is recognized:

　　　　　　　Role of Skin in Infection and Immunity　　　　　　　　　147
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
the treated animals show scabs of the same size as control scabs during the actual test injection.

In other words, against staphylococcal infection, animals cannot be effectively immunized except by vaccinating receptor cells.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

This conclusion is recognized as certain from observations when performed with staphylococcal culture filtrates instead of ordinary vaccines. We used bouillon cultures of 8 to 10 days. The liquid obtained by filtration through filter tubes was endowed with preventive effects far removed from what we expected. When inoculated subcutaneously in guinea pigs, activity is extremely low, when inoculated intradermally it is somewhat active, this liquid markedly protects animals when applied as compresses to depilated skin. Immunity appears 24 hours after compress application.

This staphylococcal filtrate, which we call antivirus, is a poor culture medium for newly inoculated staphylococci. Its vaccination capability is specific; for example, this filtrate does not prevent against streptococcal inoculation. The filtrate retains all its capability even after being placed at 120°C for 20 minutes.

From the mode of action of the filtrate and the speed of animal protection by it, it hardly needs to be added that antibodies are not involved at all: that is, this is due to the existence of local immunity of the skin.

We performed exactly the same experiments as described here using toxic streptococcal strains in guinea pigs. To avoid duplication, I will record only the following points, but the results observed with this bacterium were identical in general points to those described for staphylococci. In the case of streptococci, the effect of vaccination is specific and rapid, appearing after a single compress bandage with culture filtrate. In this case there is no doubt that skin receptor cells were vaccinated. This vaccination is attributable to skin immunity, and this immunity is sufficient in many cases to simultaneously protect animals against the consequences of both local and systemic streptococcal infection.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊