X
　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
　　　　　　Immunisation Par la Voie Cutanée(1)

The percutaneous vaccination method has been used for preventive purposes over a wide range, particularly in cases of anthrax infection.

The first trials were conducted by Mazzucchi in Italy on sheep. By gradually vaccinating with increasingly virulent bacteria through the intradermal route, this experimenter was able to confer extremely solid immunity to the sheep. When subsequently tested with large amounts of virus, the sheep were able to withstand it, showing no reactions other than a slight elevation in body temperature.

Similar experiments were conducted by Velu in Morocco. The experiment was performed on 11 goats. These animals received skin inoculation only once. Not all received the same amount of vaccine; the amount was varied from 1/5 to 20 times the dose, with one unit being expressed as the usual amount used for subcutaneous injection.

Fourteen days after a single skin inoculation, all sheep received experimental bacterial injection: he inoculated the sheep with an amount of virus equivalent to 5,000 times the lethal dose for rabbits. Only the sheep that had received 1/5 of the vaccine dose intradermally died, while all others survived.

Solid immunity could thus be induced in sheep with just a single intradermal injection of vaccine.

　　　　　　　＊　　＊　　＊

Attempts at intradermal vaccination were subsequently made in horses. The first experiments belonged to Brocq-Rousseu

――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　(1) Presse médicale, 12 juillet 1924, 27 octobre 1926; Annales de l'Institut Pasteur, juin 1927, 

　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　155
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
and Urbain. At the beginning of their experiment, the authors exercised careful attention because horses are extremely susceptible. Avoiding detailed description, I simply wish to state that the three horses that received intradermal inoculation acquired solid immunity, yet none of them showed traces of antibodies in their blood.

The intradermal inoculation reaction, according to observations by Brocq-Rousseu and Urbain, was benign, comparable only to the degree of accidental severe symptoms usually observed in horses. During an anthrax epidemic, Saint-Cyr, a veterinarian in Villars, recently vaccinated numerous animals in Ain prefecture, including 40 horses. In the case of horses, every precaution was taken to avoid reactions known for their susceptibility. Four to five days after subcutaneous injection of the second vaccine, seven horses showed extremely severe symptoms, of which three died from anthrax.

Upon completing the vaccination enterprise, the author recorded: "Based on his results, he would greatly hesitate to perform horse vaccination in the future."

Following the beneficial trials by Brocq-Rousseu and Urbain in question, large-scale intradermal inoculation methods were recently implemented in Asian mines and Morocco.

In the Levant armies, anthrax had been quite rampant for the past five years. The animals of this army, consisting mostly of horses and donkeys, were fed with fodder, barley, and teben collected locally. Herds wandering through the bled (grasslands) became infected in camps in anthrax zones. Thus, since the arrival of French military horses in Syria, severe losses had been lamented.

Pasteur vaccinations administered to infected units numbered enormously. Serum-added vaccine injections and even preventive injections with serum alone were performed. Due to these failures obtained by conventional vaccination methods, the chief military veterinarian Nicolas adopted intradermal inoculation methods in part. He first tried it on a certain number of horses; then, having confirmed the harmlessness of this method, he effectively extended it to the entire army, namely to about 9,000 animals.

Here I will describe what the results were of this first work of anthrax intradermal preventive injection on January 1, 1925.

Of 8,912 horses and donkeys that received intradermal inoculation at the beginning of 1924, four died,