160　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
I recognized that I was completely relieved. My nose became soft; its redness sufficiently faded, and 24 hours later, the furuncle was cured.

　Observation VII (Self-observation by Dr R... of Marseille)　Affected by irritating and painful staphylococcal infection in the external auditory canal. I was able to repeatedly make this infection subside twice and simultaneously eliminate the stabbing pain before suppuration. Everything became normal within two days. Gentlemen, please consider my satisfaction.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Carbuncle
　　　　　　　　　　Anthrax

Wet compress bandages with antivirus often abort carbuncles when applied early. The infected site becomes pale; edematous pain decreases; fever subsides and the patient feels relief.

At the peak of disease onset, a small incision suffices. Antivirus is instilled into the abscess cavity or a wick soaked with antivirus is inserted there. Thus avoiding scars from incision, and in cases of facial carbuncles, avoiding the danger of systemic infection.

　Observation I　MC... 39 years old, admitted to Saint-Germain Hospital on December 11. Two lesions exist: carbuncle of left calf with cup-shaped crater 3cm in size, carbuncle on posterior surface of right thigh of same size. Patient fatigued from insomnia due to pain. Appetite decreased but no fever.

　Staphylococci and streptococci found in each cup-shaped crater. On first day applied wet compress bandage with anti-staphylococcal filtrate; next day used mixed filtrate.

　December 14, severe infiltrated areas surrounding each carbuncle decreased. Vesicles covering them became empty; no new vesicles formed. Cup-shaped craters were cleaned and showed tendency to fill. Patient slept well and recovered appetite. From this time local symptoms rapidly improved.

　Observation II　60-year-old woman with diabetes; initially developed large carbuncle between both scapulae on back. Opened with thermocautery and treated with ordinary wet compress bandages.

　20 days later recognized development of 2 new carbuncles on lumbar back; opened these with thermocautery and this time treated with antivirus wet compress bandages.

　To see the difference in the first carbuncle, comparing scars of those deliberately treated with simple bandages versus scars of the other two treated with specific bandages, the following was proven: the two carbuncles that developed 15 days after the first one healed at least 15 days

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　161
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
earlier than the first one.

　Observation III　We received Dr M...'s report 2 months ago. I was "called to a female patient with a carbuncle that had persisted for about 15 days. I removed the entire neck-back lesion area the size of a palm extending from one temple to the other with thermocautery. This was filled with bloody pus and gangrenous debris; I actually feared leaving a scar of the same size. I applied bandaging with bouillon-vaccine; after 48 hours, I applied another bandage and recognized slight improvement; the patient's suffering was reduced.

　Since I lived quite far away, I entrusted the patient's daughter with three other bandaging sessions. On the 10th day after the first application, when I visited, I was completely astonished by the results. That is, before my eyes I saw only a wound covered with lively red color without any purulent traces.

　Currently, the wound has completely healed.

　Observation IV　Mrs. M, 68 years old, diabetes 16-22gr. August 3, 1926, I saw the patient: huge carbuncle occupying entire neck-back. Surgery (chloroethyl inhalation): excised entire lesion, completely removed all parts showing green or gangrenous appearance. Vertical ascending incisions rose from each side of the wound surface toward the vertex, peeling away a hair-bearing skin flap about 4cm wide and 12cm long. The edges of the peeled skin flap were fixed to the hair-bearing skin of the cranial vertex with Florence sutures. Body temperature fluctuated between 38° and 39°.

　August 9, gangrenous infiltration occurred on the right side of the neck. Second surgery: excised all soft tissues of upper spine and carotid region up to the acromial process.

　Once the soft tissue covering was removed, the muscles directly below were seen to be infiltrated with gangrene. I removed the lower half of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and a large section of the trapezius muscle. The major neck vessels were visible at the bottom of the wound surface, enclosed in a common sheath.

　While awaiting bacteriological examination results, applied bandages with commercial anti-staphylococcal filtrate. Examination results revealed staphylococci and streptococci. From this time, used mixed commercial filtrate 2-3 times daily for 3-4 weeks.

　September 1, cut the sutures connecting the hair-bearing skin flap and attached it to the wound surface that had become red, congested, and sufficiently granulated. Then applied gauze bandages coated with fat. Around September 14, the patient left the hospital. Her superficial wound surface still measured a maximum of 15cm in length and 8cm in width. Condition extremely good.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Whitlow
　　　　　　　　　　　Panaris

Miss M... had deep whitlow on middle finger of right hand. After receiving minor incision as a result of superficial whitlow, patient carelessly treated herself at home and contaminated the wound. Finger showed edema, redness and pain