172　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
staphylococcal antivirus bandaging was tried.
　As soon as the next day, the horse ate normally and moved its affected limb. The abscesses healed in a few days. Movement impairment completely disappeared. Treatment continued for 8 days.

　　　　　　　　Alveolar Periostitis in a Cow
　　　　Périostite Alvéolaire Chez une Vache

　Large fluctuant swelling, pain in the mandibular region, to which bandages with staphylococcal and streptococcal antivirus were applied.
　By the next day, tenderness disappeared and appetite recovered. After three bandages, the swelling was absorbed without leaving a fistula.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Puerperal Fever
　　　　　　　　　Infection Puerpérale

　There are remarkably numerous methods for preventing puerperal fever. These methods consist of either cleansing the uterus by curettage with hand or instruments, or using antiseptics or "shock," or treatment by vaccination or serum therapy. It must be acknowledged that none of these methods give truly satisfactory results.
　Treatment by intrauterine-vaginal insertion of gauze soaked with streptococcal filtrate is currently implemented both preventively and therapeutically: preventively in cases of intrauterine manipulation, when delivery is prolonged and difficult, when there is fear of late serious infection; therapeutically when symptoms of infection are already present. Special applications also have indications in cases of periuterine lesions, miscarriage, and cesarean section. Finally, filtrate injected directly intravenously can often be useful in cases of general infection.

　Observation I　T, gravida 3 para 3. On January 24, 1926, natural delivery by midwife in the city. Delivery proceeded fairly rapidly and normally. Natural birth was declared to be completely accomplished. The next day, the patient felt chills. The day after that, January 26, temperature reached 40°. Anxiety. Repeated chills and rigors.
　On the 27th, afternoon, 3rd day after delivery, the patient was transported to the Saint-Antoine maternity hospital.
　Examination on admission: typical state of puerperal fever; temperature 40.2°; pulse 128 Anxiety. Semi-delirium.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Percutaneous Immunization Method　　　　　　　　　　　　173
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
　Frequent chills and rigors. Scarlatiniform rash extends to abdomen and chest. Abdominal wall is soft, uterus reaches the height of the umbilicus, no pain whatsoever.
　Under anesthesia, manual re-examination of the uterus was performed; uterus was empty, inner wall was separated. Immediately thereafter, intrauterine filling with filtrate was performed.
　Simultaneously blood culture was performed, showing positive results in 12 hours: hemolytic streptococcus; in a portion of collected lochia, similarly pure streptococcal culture was seen.
　4th day; morning, temperature 38.5°; pulse 116. General condition improves; chills and rigors do not recur. Scarlatiniform rash does not increase. Evening, temperature 39°, pulse 124 Second "tampon" performed. In lochia, streptococci are extremely numerous and E. coli also present.
　5th day; morning, temperature 37.8°; pulse 116 Recovery extremely marked. Patient is at rest. Evening, temperature 38.8°; pulse 124. Third "tampon." In lochia: streptococci not very numerous; E. coli; white and yellow staphylococci seen. Blood culture negative. 6th day; morning, temperature 38.4°; pulse 110. Extremely good condition. Scarlatiniform rash almost disappeared. Fourth "tampon." In lochia; streptococci rare, E. coli, staphylococci present.
　7th day; temperature 38°; pulse 100 All septic symptoms gone; next day temperature returned to normal; pulse became 80.
　The patient was discharged cured; 11 days after admission, 14 days after delivery.

　Observation II　Primipara, 27 years old. Nurse. March 12 natural delivery. Birth was naturally and completely accomplished.
　First 2 days afebrile. Evening of 3rd day, temperature 40.1°; pulse 160 Convulsions. Temporary delirium. Chills. Blood culture positive in 12 hours; hemolytic streptococcus. In lochia: pure streptococcal culture. First vaginal tamponade with filtrate performed.
　4th day; morning, temperature 38.5°; pulse 110; evening, temperature 39°; pulse 120. General symptoms improving. Second tamponade with filtrate. In lochia: streptococcus.
　5th day; morning, temperature 37.5°; pulse 100; evening, temperature 38.2°; pulse 100, third "tampon." Blood culture negative.
　6th day; temperature 36.8°; pulse 80. Return to normal. Out of bed on 18th day; discharged much improved.

　Observation III　P, gravida 2 para 2, 35 years old. Uterine fibroid. May 3: forceps delivery at O.P. due to fetal arrest.
　May 6, morning, temperature 37.3°; pulse 84; evening, temperature 37.5°; pulse 87. Midnight: chills and rigors, anxiety.
　May 7, morning, temperature 40°; pulse 140. Facial spasms; renewed chills and rigors. Uterus reaches center of umbilicus; odorless lochia discharge present. Evening. Temperature 41°. Pulse small; rapid, 154.

[Note in the middle of this page, "脈搏" was typeset as "脈膊," but "脈搏" is used consistently. The same applies to subsequent pages.]