[Page contains two diagrams]
[Upper caption:] The old theory of geocentrism (heaven moves, earth is at the center)
[Lower caption:] The new theory of heliocentrism (earth moves, sun is at the center)

[Right page text:]
Tracing its origins, in the eighth folio of the "Natural Philosophy" (Hakubutsu Shinpen) written by the Englishman Benjamin Hobson (合信), under the entry for the twentieth year of the Jiajing era of the Ming dynasty (corresponding to the tenth year of Tenbun in our Imperial country), it states: "In the Western lands, there were two astronomers, one named Galileo (嘉利阿), who first determined the number of days it takes for the earth to revolve around the sun." From this, it can be seen that this is a new theory of merely 324 years as of today (the first year of Keiō).

[Left page text:]
Furthermore, according to a passage in volume two, part one, folio five of the "Liuhe Congtan" (六合叢談) written by the Englishman Alexander Wylie (偉烈亜刀) in the seventh year of Xianfeng (the third year of Ansei in our Imperial country): "Galileo (伽離略) was a native of Pisa (皮散) in Italy (以太利). He was born in the forty-third year of the Jiajing era of the Ming dynasty (corresponding to the seventh year of Eiroku in our Imperial country), and what he measured and determined is well known to all. (Omitted) He died in the fifteenth year of Chongzhen (corresponding to the nineteenth year of Kan'ei in our Imperial country; he was seventy-nine years old. From then until the first year of Keiō is 222 years)."

According to this account, it has been 301 years since Galileo was born to this present year. That he vigorously advocated the heliocentric theory was around the time he was seventy years old (around the tenth year of Kan'ei in our Imperial country), so it is certain that this theory is of approximately 230 years' standing. This being so, the theories brought to China by Johann Adam Schall von Bell (湯若望) and others during the Wanli era were, without exception, all theories of the immobility of the earth.
(There are passages in these works suggesting that before this Galileo, there were those who argued for the heliocentric theory and that it has a long history; however, when I compare the two books, these amount to nothing more than baseless speculation not worth taking seriously.)

Now, the astronomy of China is represented by the "Gai Tian" (canopy heaven) theory as described in the "Zhoubi Suanjing" (周髀算経). This book…