[Diagram on right page]
A diagram showing how, based on the theory of attractive force (gravitational pull), the Moon's orbit becomes elliptical and the Moon appears to vary in size.
(Note: There is no large attractive force on the side opposite to the Earth)

[Right page main text]
There is no reason why the orbit of the Moon around the Earth should be a perfect circle. By necessity, the Moon's orbital path must be biased toward the direction where the Sun is located, and it must take the form of an ellipse. Furthermore, when the Moon is close to the Earth, the Moon should appear large; and when the distance between the Moon and the Earth is great, the Moon should appear as small as a star. Around the time of the full moon, the Moon should appear several times larger than usual. Yet, when we actually observe the Moon,

[Diagram on left page]
A diagram showing Venus orbiting the Sun and thereby producing phases (waxing and waning).

[Left page main text]
— while there are slight differences between the illuminated and dark portions (the phases), within the space of a single month, no difference in size so conspicuous as to be clearly visible to the human eye can be observed. From this reasoning, what the Western theories call the attractive force (gravitational pull) of the Sun, Moon, Earth, and so forth, is nothing but a strange and outlandish theory — a falsehood and absurdity meant only to deceive people — as clear as holding up a bright mirror to see one's own reflection.

If I argue thus, the Westerners will surely say: "Since the universe is vast and wide, there may exist principles within it that are beyond ordinary expectation. Even if there is variation in the distance between the Moon and the Earth, it is possible that no difference in the Moon's apparent size would be visible. One cannot make sweeping generalizations."

To this, I shall immediately reply: In the *Hakubutsu Shinpen* (Page 17), in the discussion of Venus, it states: "Venus is 238 trillion *ri* from the Sun, and the diameter of the planet's body is two..."