[Column title] Record of Life and Conduct, Volume 1, No. 2

(Continued from the previous page) ...gazing upon it. Each and every one of the acts and deeds [recorded here] may truly be said to abound in the traces of a manifestation [of a buddha or bodhisattva in human form], and things of this kind ought indeed to be considered deeply precious. Although they have been widely recorded in biographies and have become a source of delight for people of various houses and traditions, those who lack the karmic affinity to receive them will find reading and reviewing them to be tedious more often than not, while those of meager capacity who cannot easily shed their dullness will, by reason of their slow nature, easily fall into confusion. For this reason, this work draws upon the shallow endeavors of later learners in order to make manifest the profound virtue of those who cultivated [the Way] before. It is our earnest wish that the wise persons who come to read this work will not mock it with ridicule, and that ordinary beings who cherish their vows will leave no trace of doubt or peril, but instead look up with reverence upon the lofty aspiration of [the Daishi's] remaining in meditative repose [nyūjō ryūshin], and duly render what is owed in return for his vows and self-sacrifice.

Now then, the patriarch of the Shingon school in our land of Japan, the posthumously conferred Daisōjō [Archbishop], the Kōbō Daishi by imperial posthumous name — he was a person of Byōbu-no-ura in Tado District, Sanuki Province. His honorable father was of the Saeki no Atai clan, whose origins flowed from the imperial lineage and whose line extended to distant regions. A man named Toyoshima — grandson of Prince Inase-irihiko no Mikoto, son of Emperor Keikō, and son of Prince Aratsuwake no Mikoto — was the first to be granted the surname Saeki during the reign of Emperor Kōtoku. His ancestors, having followed Yamato Takeru no Mikoto in pacifying the eastern barbarians, a meritorious service that covered the world, were granted land in Sanuki Province. They established their household in this place, and their lineage continued in succession, their descendants all persons of distinction. His revered mother was a person of the Ato clan. She dreamed that a sage came flying from the land of India [Tenjiku] and entered her bosom, and upon seeing this dream she conceived. In the fifth year of Emperor Kōnin's reign, when the twelve [zodiacal] signs of the year were fulfilled and complete, with ten fingers and palms pressed together [in reverent anjali], on the day of Kanoto-tori [the fifty-eighth day of the sexagenary cycle]...

[Column title] Record of Life and Conduct, Volume 1, No. 3