【Title】
Abbreviated Illustrated Map of the Front View from the Northern Entrance of Mount Fuji Shrine at the Foot of the Eight Seas

【Main Text】
Mount Fuji, the foremost mountain of the three countries, is an unparalleled sacred mountain in all nations and the fundamental realm of various divine immortals. Therefore, it is called Fuji Sengen Daijin (Great Deity of Mount Fuji).
　Three Principal Deities:
　Amatsuhiko-hiko-ho-ninigi-no-mikoto
　Ōya-Matsumi-no-mikoto
　Konohana-sakuya-hime-no-mikoto
　Additionally enshrined at Komitake Shrine:
　　　　Iwanaga-hime-no-mikoto
　　　　Susanoo-no-mikoto

According to divine records, the Imperial Grandson descended from heaven and married Sakuya-hime-no-mikoto, daughter of Ōyamatsumi-no-mikoto, and bore three children. Using rice from Sanada fields, heavenly sweet sake was brewed, and through milk, safe childbirth was protected. Also residing in the eight-fathom palace, she governs textiles. This represents the lifelong protection of women. However, until the fifth human emperor, this mountain was shrouded in clouds and mist, and people of the world could not worship it. In the ninety-second year of Emperor Kōan's reign (the sixth emperor), in the summer of kanoe-saru, the clouds and mist finally cleared, and nobles and commoners from all nations came to worship. In the fifty-second year of Emperor Keikō (the twelfth emperor), when Prince Yamato-takeru was on his eastern expedition, he reached the northern entrance of Mount Fuji. By imperial command, saying "This mountain appears on its southern face, but so that people of the world may worship from this broad side," he temporarily erected a great torii gate and hung an imperial plaque reading "Foremost Mountain of the Three Countries." The above is an abbreviated account.

【Left Frame】
The great torii of this shrine is five jō eight shaku five sun tall, with a span of one jō five sun across, made from a single tree. The imperial plaque measures nine shaku vertically and six shaku horizontally, made of camphor wood, inscribed by a Second-Rank Prince with "Foremost Mountain of the Three Countries." The lustration stone measures one jō five sun by two ken two shaku, four shaku seven sun vertically, serving as the pillar stone for the purification pavilion. The stone bridge uses two stones of one jō two shaku by one jō six shaku as a floating bridge. There are approximately one hundred fifty pairs of stone lanterns along the main path. The above is abbreviated.

【Lower Left Frame】
Fuji Mountain Bell Plain
　　Emerging from one peak