【Right Page】

The [other] inferences can be known by analogy to this. However, when establishing "existence-nature is non-substantial," if one uses the cause "because of having non-substantial," there should be three faults. First, the words "non-substantial" include conjunction's non-substantiality. But the non-non existence on substance does not have this. Therefore there is the fault of both not established. Second, the same example's similarity-difference does not have conjunction's non-substantiality. Therefore there is the fault of proof not established. Third, the cause also does not pervade. Namely, the words "non-substantial" include quality-action's non-substantiality. However, in the one inference of "non-substantial," the subject existence-nature is only the non-non existence on substance. Since the non-non existence on substance does not have quality-action's non-substantiality, it does not pervade the subject. It only seems to have substance-sentence's non-substantiality《meaning》. Awaiting the example's proof not established, placing the cause words; seeing the above cause conjunction-sentence's non-substantiality, placing the word "also." As the text shows, this should all be understood. Regarding the cause "having one substance," there is no fault of non-pervasion. Therefore taking this and abandoning that. Question: If so, what among the thirty-three faults is that non-pervasion? Answer: It should be both not established. Namely, quality-action's non-substantiality does not pervade the subject. Therefore generally speaking of this, it is the both not established of taking and differentiating the three inferences' causes. This should be contemplated. The meaning of this doctrine says: the前後二過 are both the both not established of cause broad, thesis narrow.

Above copied and written from the Monastic Director's excerpts. The Monastic Director spoke saying: Therefore the great monastic supervisor《Gakushin》transmitted the profound meaning of logic to Ryōsen, recording and placing it. Due to circumstances it was not revealed. After the great monastic supervisor's passing, the monastic supervisor《Genkaku》and Ekyō together opened the seal and saw it. Its purport does not exceed this.

The Monastic Director says: Tanshū says: The doctrine of the second volume's private record should be used. Question: If so, how should Shimizu's challenge be addressed? Answer: The cause "having one substance" is limited to the substance-sentence and does not correspond to quality-action. Therefore it accords with the thesis-predicate and has no difference of non-pervasion. Regarding the cause "having non-substantial," although it includes quality-action's non-substantiality, when serving as cause for the non-substantial thesis, the meaning does not correlate. Since it does not regard the meaning of quality-action's non-substantiality, it seems the subject existence-nature does not have quality-action's non-substantiality.《This doctrine is still difficult. For now providing an explanatory interpretation.》

○ Subject existence-nature, cause having one substance《etc.》
The Monastic Director of Saion-ji transmitted saying: The commentary's upper volume says: "If it only pervades the subject, whether having separate substance or not having separate substance, both can establish the thesis. Because meanings correlate, it must be a thesis-dharma. For example, when Sarvāstivāda establishes against the Vehicle adherents: 'Life-faculty is substantial because of having karma, like the five faculties etc.' How could it be that because life-faculty and karma have separate substances, it would not be a correct cause? Therefore having separate substance or not having separate substance, if meanings correlate and connect, it must be thesis-dharma. All can be called the thesis's dharma-nature. Not non-substantial, not substantial"《etc.》. Now analogizing to this life-faculty substantial-existence thesis's "because of having karma" cause's correlating meaning, regarding the subject existence-nature's cause "having one substance," one asks whether there should be both not established. The meaning is: in the existence-nature non-substantial thesis, the cause "having one substance" is already a separate substance. It is not making the subject's meaning into a cause. How is this not both not established? - this is the challenging question.

The Monastic Director says: This doctrine should be used. One should not seek differently.

○ Already each of quality-action all has《etc.》

【Left Page】

No pointing matters

Namely, because child-atoms etc. all have substance. Quality-action have no discrimination. One word is not needed.

Inquiring: Regarding the cause "having one substance," should the words "one substance" include child and grandchild atoms or not? Both ways are difficult to consider. Why? If including child and grandchild, in Vaiśeṣika's establishment, among the four types, taking great existence and similarity-difference and naming them "having one substance" depends on having each of the nine substances. Examining the establishment and abandonment of the four categories: taking the four sentences of substance-quality-action-conjunction and naming them "non-substantial"; having each substance-sentence, great existence and similarity-difference are named "having one substance." Among substance-sentences, regarding the four great elements, the produced child-atoms are called "having two substances," grandchild atoms are named "having many substances." However, regarding great existence and similarity-difference, since they have all substances, having each of the nine substances is named "having one substance," having child-grandchild is named "having two substances," having grandchild atoms is named "having many substances." Therefore the commentary text says: "Great existence and similarity-difference can have all substances, also can be named having one substance, having two substances, having many substances"《etc.》. However, now the cause "having one substance" takes the second "having one substance" among the four types. How could the words "having one substance" extend to child-grandchild etc.? If permitting this, it quite contradicts the commentary's purport, since they are mentioned separately. Adding to this, the text says: "Also wanting to show that each of the nine substances all has, therefore saying 'having one substance'"《etc.》. Thus we know it is limited to original atoms, not extending to child-grandchild. If limited to the original nine types, this also cannot be so. In the one inference "existence-nature is non-substantial," the words "non-substantial" reject all substances. Child-grandchild are already substantial. Why discriminate and leave them out? The cause "because of having one substance" does not include child-grandchild. If so, the cause "having one substance" has the fault of non-pervasion.

Why? The thesis-predicate's words "non-substantial" discriminate all substance-sentences, not abandoning child-grandchild. Since the cause is already limited to original atoms, how could the words "non-substantial" pervade "having two" and "having many"? Then how should this be determined?

Above copied and written from the Monastic Director's excerpts.

Question: What is your own doctrine? Answer: The cause "having one substance" is limited to original atoms and does not pervade child-grandchild.

○ The commentary says: "Mind and mental factors are capable-of-cognizing nature. Having cognition means境界 having capable-cognition therefore《etc.》because of that cause, even without cognition it does not arise"《etc.》.

Inquiring: Regarding this doctrine of taking existence-nature and naming it capable-cognizing nature, is it that existence-nature itself has capable-cognition and is named capable-cognizing nature? Or is it that the nature of causing substances etc. to have cognition is named capable-cognizing nature? Both have faults. If taking having capable-cognition itself as having-cognition, it somewhat contradicts the commentary's preceding and following texts. Namely, the above text, explaining the meaning of indicating cognition, says: "When substance-quality-action three are conjoined《etc.》great existence can have substance-quality-action therefore"《etc.》. The general meaning says: When the three sentences of substance etc. are conjoined with great existence-nature, the three sentences together arise the indicating cognition that indicates and cognizes substance etc. as existence. The three sentences thus becoming causes for mind etc., the cause of arising indicating cognition is precisely the great existence sentence. The great existence sentence can have substance etc., causing their substance to be non-non therefore《meaning》. Thus we know the words "having cognition" are not great existence itself having cognition, but causing substance etc. to have cognition. Because of the causal nature of causing to have cognition, it is named capable-cognizing nature. If this text does not explain existence-nature's capable-cognizing nature, what is it for? Moreover, the present text already places the word "of," separately explaining having-cognition and nature. Based on this, the former masters' intention abundantly...