At Gojō Tenjin Shrine in Kyoto, on New Year's Eve, people gather in crowds
to pray for protection from epidemics. There are sellers of white atractylodes (byakujutsu) in front of the shrine, and everyone
seeks to obtain it. Does taking blue atractylodes (sōjutsu) at year's end have the
meaning of warding off epidemics?

Hinoe-Inu year, August 15th - drawn from life

"Yamato Honzō" (Japanese Materia Medica)
Listed in the medicines section

"Honzō Wakai" (Japanese Commentary on Materia Medica) states:
White atractylodes《alternative names》Mountain thistle (kei), Embracing thistle, Yang embrace, Embracing horse, Mountain ginger (kyō), Mountain lotus, Kitsutorika, Japanese name: Heikaira (okera)
Blue atractylodes《alternative names》Red atractylodes, Mountain spirit, Immortal atractylodes, Mountain thistle, Japanese name: Akaheikyora (aka-okera)

Shizhen says that in ancient prescriptions, the two atractylodes (white and blue) were used interchangeably. Later people made
the distinction between blue and white. Kou Zongshi says that blue atractylodes has a taste that is
pungent and intense, while white atractylodes is slightly bitter-pungent but not intense. In medical
prescriptions they are used separately, and their efficacies differ. Why would they be the same? Old roots are
called white atractylodes, and young roots are named blue atractylodes. Like qianghuo and shuohuo,
within the same genus of plants, there are differences between young and old roots. Similarly,
it is clear that our country's two atractylodes correspond to China's two atractylodes - one family, two species.
They are similar between Japan and China, differing only in flower color.
In our country too, do we not distinguish the two atractylodes but call them together
"okera"?
I, Genshu (Mōri Baien), respectfully consider that regarding the two species distinguished in Japan and China,
the flower depicted in the upper illustration is blue atractylodes.
The illustration of white atractylodes will be explained in the section below.