"Jiuhuang Bencao" (Famine Relief Materia Medica) states:
Hūzhī zǐ (Hagi/Bush clover) - Also commonly known as "Suijun-cha." Other names and alternative names are detailed in Autumn Section, Volume 1.

One of the Seven Autumn Grasses

Hinoe-Inu year, Nanryo (8th month), 17th day
Re-copied

Yamato Honzō - Listed under [Flowering Grasses]

"Jukko" (Longevity Considerations) states:
There are three varieties of Hūzhī zǐ. "Hagi" refers to ki-hagi (woody bush clover). It is also recorded in "Taigen-shō" as "kare-hagi" (withered hagi). Its tree does not wither in winter, and in spring, branches and leaves sprout from the wood itself. This is "Kara-hagi" (Chinese bush clover) that was introduced from China. The variety that grows from perennial roots in spring and withers in winter is "kusa-hagi" (herbaceous bush clover). There is yet another variety with thread-like supplementary branches hanging down and deeply colored flowers. These two varieties grow on mountains everywhere and are native Japanese species. Miyaginono-midare-hagi and similar varieties are separate species.

"Wakan Sansai Zue" (Illustrated Sino-Japanese Encyclopedia), in the Marsh Grasses section, states:
Juémíng zǐ (Ketsumei-shi/Senna seed) - Mǎtí juéming (Horse-hoof cassia)
Japanese name: Ebisugusa (Senna obtusifolia)
Also commonly called "Baterē-gusa"
Perhaps a corruption of "Mǎtí-sō" (Horse-hoof grass)

"Tashiki-hen" (Encyclopaedia of Many Identifications), Fragrant Grasses section, states:
Juéming
Japanese name: Itachi (weasel plant)
             Sasage

Yamato Honzō - Listed under [Miscellaneous Grasses]

○ Juéming zǐ - That is, this Mǎtí juéming (Horse-hoof cassia)

Grass Juéming - That is, Qīngxiāng zǐ (Celosia argentea seed)

Stone Juéming - That is, the shell of the abalone (駒の臭/koma no kusai)

The author states:
"Bencao Gangmu" (Compendium of Materia Medica) states that "there are two varieties of Mǎtí juéming zǐ and Jiāngmáng juéming." The description of the horse-hoof variety corresponds well. Japanese and Chinese usages are the same. ○ Jiāngmáng juéming resembles the horse-hoof variety and also resembles the leaves of the Japanese pagoda tree (Sophora japonica). At night, its leaves also do not fold together. Its flowers are the same as those of Mǎtí juéming, producing pods like a little finger. Wàngjiāngnán is this juéming. However, the "Sansai Zue" lists two varieties under juéming - recording them as if they were a single plant is an error. Or perhaps not. Wàngjiāngnán (Habu-sō/Senna sophera) is a separate species. To be copied in a later section.

Diagram of leaves folding at night
(Illustration of leaf closure)

The leaves are of this shape, and the flower buds remain closed without opening
(at the height of its season)

Wàngjiāngnán (Itachi-sasage / Senna sophera) - Its flower is called "Chá huā ér" (Tea flower).
Also called "Huái dòu" (Pagoda-tree bean).
Or simply referred to as "Juéming."