The Kuramae street and Kayacho 2-chome shook violently, and at Asakusa Mitsuke, stone walls were blown out. 
Also along Bakurocho street, Yokoyama-cho, Daimon street, Odenmacho, Shio-cho, and Kodenmacho areas, 
most buildings on both front and back streets collapsed. In Honjo across from Ryogoku, a fire started from Ishihara 
and burned through Tachikawa street, Aioi-cho, Hayashi-cho, and Midori-cho areas. Also fires broke out extending to Koume street 
and the Hikifune area. In Fukagawa, from the torii gate of Hachiman shrine to Aikawa-cho and Hamaguri-cho, 
everything burned in a wide area. In the Shitaya area, various places from Sakamoto to Kuruma-zaka collapsed, and from Sanmai-bashi to 
Hirokoji and the Ito-Matsuzaka area burned. From there, the front street of Ikenohata Nakamachi collapsed, but 
the main street largely remained. The Ishikawa residence on Onari-michi burned down. From Nezu 2-chome and Kayacho street, 
first to second blocks burned. On Muen-zaka hill, the mansion of Lord Matsudaira Bingo-no-kami burned. In Sen-
dagaya and Dango-zaka area, three houses collapsed from shaking. The upper part of Yanaka Zenkoji-zaka partly remained.
Both sections of Nezu 2-chome totally collapsed, with only two or three buildings remaining in the middle. Also around Maruyama, Hakusan, and Kei-
sei-ga-kubo areas collapsed greatly, and fires from Hongo burned up to Yushima Kiridoshi.
At this location, the Kashu lord's firefighting unit established a firebreak. Yushima Tenjin shrine was slightly 
damaged, and from the gate area to Sangumi-cho, everything collapsed without exception, and the storehouses on both sides also all collapsed.
On the back streets, including [unclear] yokocho, Shinmachi, Daikon-batake, and Yokone-zaka areas, pumice 
chambers cracked and the ground split about one shaku (30cm). At Tsuma-koi slope, the storehouse of Inari main shrine 
collapsed slightly, but the main shrine was unharmed. Not a single house in the neighborhood collapsed, and from there down the slope, the front row houses 
of the Tatebe and Naito lord residences collapsed. At Toeisan (Kan'eiji), most of the temple grounds collapsed, but the main 
hall was unharmed. Along Shohei-bashi street, Kanda Dobo-cho, Odaidokoro-cho, Hatago-cho, and Kanazawa-cho 
all collapsed completely. The Sujikai gate was slightly damaged, and in Uchi-Kanda and Soto-Kanda...