【Right Page】
thus their lives are long. People today eat rich foods, indulge in wine and sensual pleasures, exhaust their spirit and weaken their essence, therefore they suffer from many diseases and their lives are short. Their children are also born from deep lustful fire, so extremely weak ones are numerous, and even when they develop smallpox, few have a smooth and favorable course. Also, in ancient times this calamity was rare, so there were no excellent treatment methods for it. But now because this difficult disease exists, Heaven has sent down renowned physicians, who have revealed the source of smallpox that was not spoken of in ancient times, and since various famous doctors have discussed and established treatment methods, many people who encounter this difficult disease have been able to avoid adverse outcomes. This is truly something to be grateful for.

However, the miraculous prescriptions and wonderful methods that have been passed down and heard from ancient times have been handled by crude physicians and laypeople of the time, becoming like mud piled upon mud, with right and wrong unclear and matters becoming complicated. Generally, all diseases have dietary prohibitions and suitable foods, and especially the prohibitions and

【Left Page】  
suitable treatments for smallpox are most essential - if even one thing is done incorrectly, favorable cases can quickly turn adverse. This is especially true for childhood smallpox. As written before, if one is careful about prohibitions and provides proper nursing care, even unfavorable cases can turn favorable and be cured. Also, even with miraculous medicines and wonderful prescriptions, they should not be used carelessly. One should entrust treatment to physicians and receive their therapy, and the patient's family should not interfere lightly. Physicians too should examine the symptoms thoroughly and not act rashly.

Now, to correct the errors commonly made in society and provide detailed, easy-to-understand explanations of: methods of nursing during smallpox, seasonal differences in room use, distinguishing between prohibited and suitable foods, methods of prohibition and nursing care, the origins of worshipping the smallpox deity, methods of wine baths after smallpox, etc., is as follows:

　　　Ten Precepts
First, regardless of whether smallpox is sparse or dense, light or severe, it is essential to avoid wind-cold, foul air, and impurity. If