【Right Page】
It may be used when menstruation does not stop. Also, theriac comes in both Dutch-made and Japanese-made varieties. Their effects are similar, but foreign products are considered superior. Its medicinal nature is cold and cooling with detoxifying properties, so for cases where fever is intense at the beginning, toxicity is strong, and smallpox eruptions are difficult to emerge, it may be used in small amounts. It is also very effective when used for heat-toxicity attacking upward to the throat causing swelling and pain. However, for those with deficiency symptoms causing throat pain, it should not necessarily be used. It should only be dissolved in cold water and applied externally to the throat. If mistakenly used on those with deficiency-cold symptoms, it will kill people. One must be cautious.

First, regarding smallpox, one must greatly avoid the impurity of women's menstruation and the impurity of women in childbirth. If the mother, wet nurse, or attendants have menstrual impurity, there is medicine to avoid such impurity. If this is placed in that woman's bosom, that impurity will not affect the patient. Also, in smallpox texts it states that nuns, shrine maidens,

【Left Page】
Shinto priests, and mountain ascetics should not enter the sickbed of smallpox patients. I consider that this is because these people constantly come into contact with mourning clothes without changing their garments, and also come into contact with the fragrance of incense sticks, powdered incense, and aloeswood, and their odor is disliked. However, in various countries and regions, some believe in Buddhist priests and prayer practitioners and pray to them. Even if one believes and prays, they should not enter the sickbed but should remain in a separate room. Also, for patients who are accustomed to the fragrance of incense sticks and powdered incense, there is no harm. For those who are not accustomed, one should be very cautious.

First, depending on local customs, in households suffering from smallpox, there are practices of burning atractylodes, aloeswood, powdered incense, mugwort leaves, holly, cycad, and dried sardines as fumigants. All of these scents are not good for smallpox. Aloeswood causes qi to descend, atractylodes dries the erupted sores, and mugwort causes blood to become astringent.