【Right Page】
Indeed, especially when moving from place to place, one is likely to catch drafts and be exposed to wind and cold. Therefore, one should observe the weather conditions and have the child sleep near a kotatsu. Since smallpox eruptions are external, even slight exposure makes one susceptible to cold qi. Therefore, even when urinating and defecating, in summer it should be done in the sitting room, and in winter near the kotatsu using a chamber pot. One should be very careful about wind and cold.

First, smallpox differs from other diseases in that even the slightest error can cause what is progressing well to reverse, as easily as turning over one's palm. Therefore, one should carefully select and entrust a doctor. Incompetent doctors only pay attention to the eruption of sores, not knowing the cold-heat and deficiency-excess patterns of symptoms, and carelessly use dispersing and detoxifying medicines, causing considerable harm. The smallpox texts say that for deficient and weak smallpox cases, if parents carefully observe taboos and doctors do not err in

【Left Page】
using medicines, even bad cases can turn good and life can be preserved. One should prohibit and be cautious about carelessly using dispersing and detoxifying medicines.

First, when smallpox eruptions are dense (numerous), from the fifth or sixth day onward, slight fever, slight thirst, eye closure, and nasal congestion are considered good signs. For those whose noses are congested and cannot drink milk, white rice porridge should be well-cooked, and a little roasted salt should be added to the sticky upper broth and given. If thirst becomes strong, it should be given even more. Also, it is considered bad to necessarily open and clear blocked noses. One should be cautious. Also, by the sixth or seventh day, there will be slight fever and thirst. At that time, five shaku of glutinous rice and five shaku of regular rice should be loosely cooked into porridge, and roasted salt and refined white sugar should be added in small amounts to the sticky upper broth, and this should be given alternately with medicine. Even if thirst is strong, one must never give muskmelon, watermelon, pears, jujubes, citrus fruits, grapes, agar jelly, cold noodles, cold water, and