【Right Page】
should be done.

　　Discussion on Using Willow Insects
Many folk doctors in Osaka and Kyoto use willow insects for smallpox, but when I consider this, ancient
people have never heard of using willow insects for smallpox. Medical texts do not mention their efficacy either. The Essential
Secrets of Smallpox states that "mulberry insects can raise kidney and lung toxins that have sunk and hidden." Also,救偏瑣言 states that "for extremely
severe and dangerous symptoms where toxic qi sinks and hides, eight or nine out of ten cases benefit from mulberry insects brewed strong
and mixed with medicine, showing divine efficacy." When I have often used mulberry insects to test
this, their effects are clearly evident. All insects that are born on trees and eat wood are called wood borers,
and since all these insects look very similar, perhaps mulberry insects and willow insects have been
confused? Perhaps people misread 柳虫《willow insects》 and 桑虫《mulberry insects》 in texts

【Left Page】
and use them mistakenly? This should be investigated thoroughly later. Willow insects have round mouths, while mulberry
insects have pointed mouths, so one should properly distinguish them by this. Mulberry insects are very effective for smallpox
toxins that sink and hide without emerging and are difficult to suppurate, but for deficiency
patterns they should be decocted with wine. There are oral traditions about the decoction method.

　　On Guangdong Ginseng
Guangdong ginseng treats all blood disorders and is most effective for diseases such as blood loss, yang collapse, prenatal and postpartum conditions, uterine bleeding, and metrorrhagia.
One theory states it has effects equal to qilin blood, cattail pollen, rhinoceros horn, and others.
While all of these have the function of coagulating blood, they lack the function of supplementing qi. Indeed,
smallpox often develops from qi deficiency and blood excess, so Guangdong ginseng should not be forcibly used.
If used excessively, the blood becomes increasingly excessive while qi becomes increasingly deficient, so even the blood