【Right Page】
method.

1. If you hang shimenawa (sacred rope) at the entrance to the room and hang paper streamers made of red paper, it will serve as a reminder to family members and visitors from outside, and will naturally become a method to avoid defilement. Of course, those who are defiled should not enter the room. Also, the room should be kept dark so that sunlight does not shine in strongly, and lamps should be kept burning day and night. Since this is fundamentally a yin disease, quietness is preferred. During winter and spring, in cold weather, hang curtains of pure cotton or cotton wadding to protect against wind and cold, and prepare kotatsu (foot warmers) and braziers appropriately for the room. The bed should have two or three layers of futon, and for twelve days, cleaning must never be done. Cleaning should be strictly forbidden.

1. A red-dyed noren curtain should be hung at the entrance to the room to protect against wind. In the next room,

【Left Page】
wind furnaces, braziers, medical tools, dining utensils, and even hot water and sencha tea should all be prepared. Inside the room, keigai (schizonepeta) should be burned day and night to avoid defilement. This will naturally help the smallpox patient avoid the suffering of itching. When parents and attendants go to relieve themselves and return, they should burn and fumigate keigai in the next room to purify the unclean air before entering the patient's room. The same applies even to doctors.

1. Master Bunjin says: In spring and winter, hang curtains of pure cotton to protect against cold, and in summer and autumn, hang mosquito nets to protect against mosquitoes and flies. Also, take about one gō of coriander seeds, moisten them with sake, divide into four portions, put them in bags, and hang them at the four corners of the mosquito net to ward off defilement. In summer, one must make efforts to avoid flies. If flies come and lay eggs on the smallpox pustules, after two or three days, itching will develop, or the patient will suffer from pain. This is called maggot smallpox. However, maggot smallpox...