【Right Page】
If one does not understand the general good and bad signs, there will be things that are overlooked. Therefore, recording the general symptoms during smallpox as an appendix is as follows:

1. Danxi says: Generally, before smallpox breaks out, first there is fever with various symptoms. Some have mild fever, others severe. There may be vomiting, there may be diarrhea, some have convulsions. Some open their eyes wide and arch backward, others are drowsy and sleep. Some cry and wail without stopping. Some have great fever that subsides and then returns. Some speak deliriously and become agitated. Some have abdominal and lower back pain. Some cannot pass stool, have difficulty urinating, or pass something like oil or blood. Because there are countless variations of symptoms, even experienced physicians find it difficult to definitively diagnose smallpox, as it resembles food poisoning, cold, or convulsive disorders, and is easily confused with smallpox symptoms. This is why the ancients called these "doubtful symptoms."

【Left Page】
1. Some develop smallpox fever from the beginning, others first develop fever from other illnesses and then develop smallpox. Some have fever for one day then develop smallpox, and it is considered good when spots appear in about three days. Others develop smallpox after several days. In any case, when smallpox epidemic is spreading, one should quickly request a physician and seek medicine. The physician should also carefully examine the symptoms in detail before using medicine. When it has been two days since the fever began, illuminate the head and face with a red paper candle for examination. If there are red spots between the skin and flesh that look like mosquito bite marks in several places, remember this observation. Then the next day, illuminate with a lamp for examination again. If the spots seen yesterday appear to have become raised, and separately there are new spots like those seen yesterday, one should generally recognize this as smallpox. Of course, one should compare and consider these symptoms together.