【Right Page】
1. The three days from "shussei" (emergence completion) is called "kicho" (rising swelling) (commonly called "yama-ake" or mountain opening). Generally, from the beginning to the fourth day, when the fever throughout the body subsides and vitality is good, even if appetite doesn't improve, if the patient sleeps well as usual, the voice doesn't become hoarse, and if it's a child, it's good to bring favorite toys for play. However, due to a fussy temperament, while there may be a desire to play and frolic, sometimes throwing things away, being willful, lying down and getting up repeatedly occurs because the mind is not refreshed after the fever. At this time, it's good when diarrhea stops and urination occurs abundantly and frequently. Also, at this time, sneezing occurs frequently. The more it occurs, the better. Those who don't understand the principles of smallpox mistake it for external wind-cold and err in treatment. This should be understood.

1. On the fifth or sixth day, when the smallpox lesions swell vigorously and become plump, glowing peach-pink in color, the face also becomes swollen, and gradually the eyelids swell making it difficult to open the eyes - this is good. Also, when touching the smallpox lesions with the hand,

【Left Page】
if the skin is thick, no fluid leaks, it feels like stroking pearls with the hand, and moreover has lustrous moisture - this is most auspicious. At this time, sleeping well, eating well, having a clear voice, hard stools, and normal urination is considered best. This is the sign of the fifth and sixth days. If by the seventh day, in cases with dense lesions, bowel movement occurs even once at this time, it is extremely bad. Especially with adult smallpox cases, if there is even slight bowel movement at this time, what was favorable immediately turns adverse. It should be known that for both adults and children, those who have bowel movements during this period are in grave danger. If not treated promptly, it will inevitably turn malignant.

1. During the suppuration period, having slight fever and slight thirst is normal for smallpox. Incompetent doctors often mistake this for excess heat syndrome and kill people through incorrect treatment. This should be avoided in the future. Attendants should appropriately give medicine and the clear broth from rice porridge alternately according to the thirst.