【Right Page】
should be given. One must never worry about thirst and fever.

1. On the seventh, eighth, and ninth days, those with robust qi and blood will have all smallpox lesions filled with pus, the face fully swollen, eyes sealed shut, and nose blocked, but those who maintain good vitality, eat and drink well, and prefer to sleep quietly are in an excellent condition.

However, when pus accumulates, the nasal passages become blocked, so infants and such cannot drink milk properly. In this situation, when an infant takes the breast, sucks once, takes a breath, then takes the breast again and sucks once - this is the normal course of smallpox. Common households, thinking single-mindedly that the inability to drink milk fully is due to blocked nasal passages, tend to try to open the nasal passages. This should absolutely not be done. In all cases of smallpox with pus accumulation, having the eyelids sealed and nasal passages blocked is considered good. For those with dense lesions, having them remain unopened from the initial outbreak until the twelfth or thirteenth day is considered best. However, infants whose noses are blocked and cannot drink milk

【Left Page】
naturally lose strength in their abdomen and become hungry, so one should cook five shaku of glutinous rice and five shaku of regular rice into white rice porridge, add a little roasted salt to the thick upper broth, and give this. Also, for children who can eat whole grains, the thicker parts of the porridge should be given. At this time, as there is thirst, according to that thirst, porridge and medicine should be given alternately for drinking and eating.

1. Around the seventh, eighth, and ninth days, those who have comfortable bowel and urinary movements have what is called "internal deficiency and internal cold syndrome," which is serious. At this time, if food and drink are difficult to take and one cannot sleep peacefully, this is very bad. All such symptoms are seen in those whose smallpox "mountain opening" doesn't occur properly even during the initial rising swelling period. One should quickly obtain good medicine to supplement the interior, add large ginseng to the main prescription, or use it as a separate decoction. Also, common households or those who believe in Buddhist priests, Taoist priests, and shamans focus exclusively on prayers.