【Right Page】
some become black as if covered in soot from smoke, and others become unable to move their bodies, like wooden dolls. Only those who sleep well, eat well, and have a refreshed spirit will necessarily develop swelling-toxicity between the crown of the head after the twelfth day, or various toxins will develop in large numbers on the hands, feet, and other areas with thick flesh, and these people will survive.

1. Having the smell of pus between the eighth and thirteenth days is considered good. This is when the toxic qi from within comes out through the skin and flesh, causing the smallpox to smell. If the bad smell is severe, filling the entire room, sticking to people, or assaulting the nose, this should be recognized as an adverse symptom. Also, when pustules appear on the sixth or seventh day but do not yet contain sufficient pus while having a severe odor, this is necessarily a dangerous symptom. This is different from the smell of internal toxin coming out - it is bad because the smell comes from the rotting of skin and flesh.

【Left Page】
1. When by the twelfth or thirteenth day the smallpox pustules fester, the skin peels, and pus-fluid flows out without drying, this is called "festering smallpox." For this smallpox, it is good to finely powder red adzuki beans and sprinkle them on. Sprinkling buckwheat flour is also good. Although there are many other medicines, they should not be used carelessly. In folk remedies, there is a practice of powdering pottery shards and sprinkling them on. Since pottery is originally earth, when it festers and peels with pus-fluid flowing and does not dry for a long time, there is a principle that it returns to its original moisture. Therefore, it should not be used.

1. There is something called "secondary eruption smallpox" 《commonly called "reverse smallpox"}}. After scabbing, it suppurates again. This symptom occurs when one eats poisonous substances early, or is exposed to wind and cold, or is affected by foul air, suddenly develops body heat, and the smallpox suppurates again. Pus-fluid leaks out and soaks into the lining of clothes, and when the body moves, it separates along with the scabs of the eruptions, causing pus and blood to flow