【Right Page】
On the third day, again prepare rice washing water and good sake as before, soak a red-dyed hand towel in hot water, wring it well so there is no excess water, and steam about two surfaces from the crown of the head, forehead, both ears, nape, neck, chest, to the fingertips of both hands. Immediately have the patient lie down as before and take a slight sweat - this is the method to neutralize residual toxins. For the third bath, again leave one day interval, and on the third day, prepare rice washing water and good sake as before, soak the red-dyed hand towel in hot water, wring it so there is no excess water, and steam about two surfaces covering the head and face, entire body, both hands, abdomen, back, waist, buttocks, thighs, shins, both knees, to the soles of the feet. Have them lie down as before and induce slight sweating, also as before. If residual toxins are not yet completely eliminated, sake decoction should be performed every three days as described above. Also, depending on the symptoms of smallpox, after the eighteenth day, it is good to apply sake to the child's entire body and have them enter a bath. Generally, after smallpox,

【Left Page】
although gradual complete recovery occurs, when residual toxins are severe, one should not fear day-by-day changes. Some may be affected by wind and cold and develop convulsions, or due to food stagnation may develop destructive symptoms that become difficult to treat. In all cases, one should know that it is essential to carefully observe taboos and maintain protection for seventy-five days from the day of the first bath.

　　Common Folk Method of Sake Decoction
Rice washing water 《1 shō 5 gō》, sake 《small amount》, barley 《10 grains》, red beans 《10 grains》, mouse droppings 《10 grains》, head of an old nail 《1 piece》, black beans, bamboo grass 《10 leaves》
Put all the above into hot water, soak a red-dyed hand towel in it without wringing, and moisten the eruptions. Besides this, there are various customs in different regions, but rice washing water and sake are common to all. Also, in some places, a small amount of sake is added to rice washing water and sprinkled using bamboo grass leaves. Hence it is called "bamboo grass decoction." However,