【Right Page】
　　　　　A little tea should be added and given.
- Kudzu powder　　It has no toxicity. During smallpox, various things should be mixed with salted miso and cooked
　　　　　to eat throughout. There is no harm. Also, kudzu mochi should be well-prepared and mixed with sugar
　　　　　to give during and after smallpox. However, bracken-root mochi should not be given to children and patients.
　　　　　This should not be eaten during and after smallpox. It causes harm.
- Black soybeans　　There are many varieties of this bean. It should not be used carelessly during smallpox. However, boiled beans
　　　　　should be given in small amounts throughout smallpox. Roasted beans and bean powder should be
　　　　　forbidden during smallpox and for one hundred days after. This is because they later cause residual toxicity to disperse. Also, depending on the region,
　　　　　the eighth day after smallpox has already emerged is considered the "mountain opening" day,
　　　　　and waiting for this day, white soybeans are well-roasted and offered to the household shrine, and also
【Left Page】
　　　　　two or three grains are given to the smallpox child. This is made into a celebration of "mountain opening."
　　　　　After that, it is forbidden to give them for one hundred days.
- Poppy seeds　　They have no toxicity. They have the efficacy of expelling evil heat, stopping diarrhea, and moistening thirst.
　　　　　They may be used throughout smallpox without harm. Also, although sesame is used in medicine according to symptoms during smallpox, it should be forbidden for one hundred days after smallpox.
- Sweet bean paste　　Also called "kan" and also called "yose." Its preparation methods and varieties are many. Made from adzuki beans,
　　　　　small red beans, white beans, garden peas, dried chestnuts, sweet potatoes and the like, mixed with candy, honey, and sugar
　　　　　in preparation. Also, steamed sweets and manjū that are sold
　　　　　are mostly of this type. Their preparation should be selected when giving to patients and children.
　　　　　However, sweet paste (yose) has the power to move qi downward. Sugar loosens the interior.