【Right Page】
- Sword bean (nata-mame)　Non-toxic. It warms the interior and moves qi downward. Also, young pods
　　　　　should be cooked and eaten together. It may be given without harm after twelve days following smallpox.
- Kidney bean (ingen-mame/fuji-mame)　Non-toxic. Young pods should be mixed with salted miso and cooked for eating. It harmonizes the stomach
　　　　　and promotes appetite. It should not be used in large quantities as it causes chest congestion. During smallpox,
　　　　　from beginning to end, both children and wet nurses should eat it little by little. There is no harm.
- White melon (shiro-uri/asa-uri)　Should not be used raw. It is cooked and eaten mixed with salted miso. It may be used during and after smallpox
　　　　　without harm.
- Sweet tuber (katakuri - dogtooth violet starch)　That which comes from Ōshū province is considered the finest quality. It treats spleen-stomach deficiency with diarrhea.
　　　　　Therefore, for those whose stomach qi is weak and cannot take food, katakuri starch
　　　　　should be mixed thinly with boiling water and a little sugar added
【Left Page】
　　　　　for administration. If a patient has poor appetite, it should be used. Also,
　　　　　for those who cannot tolerate grain foods but can eat moderately, well-
　　　　　viscous white rice porridge should be given.
- Coltsfoot (fuki - butterbur)　Butterbur leaves and stems are non-toxic. This plant is a fine product among vegetables.
　　　　　It may be used for patients and children without harm. It should be given throughout the entire course of smallpox.
　　　　　It should be well-boiled, the skin removed, mixed with salted miso, and cooked again thoroughly
　　　　　before giving. There is also something called coltsfoot flower, which is the butterbur flower.
　　　　　Its nature is the same and harmless.
- Spikenard (udo)　Non-toxic. It should be used throughout the entire course of smallpox. Using it raw is forbidden;
　　　　　it is good when mixed with salted miso and cooked. Alternatively, steaming and eating it is also good.