Ashigaru (foot soldier) of Akiyama Kiemon's unit
Assistant to Yamaji Yazaemon of the Astronomy Department
Special duty officer for calendar making and surveying
Stipend of 70 hyō and 5-person allowance　　　Saegusa Toichirō
Additional role allowance of 3-person allowance　　Age 44 in the year of the Ox

Regarding the above-mentioned Toichirō: He was taken into service in the 10th month of Bunsei 13 (1830), year of the Tiger. On the 16th day of the 9th month of Tenpō 8 (1837), year of the Rooster, when there was a sudden fire at the residence of Lady Shōei-in and she had to evacuate, he quickly rushed to the scene and worked exceptionally hard in clearing the way ahead of her. As a reward for this service, on the 10th day of the 12th month of the same year, he was granted two pieces of silver through an official document. On the 16th day of the 6th month of Tenpō 10 (1839), year of the Boar, he was appointed as assistant to Yamaji Yazaemon for special duties in calendar making and surveying. While serving in this capacity, he was granted an allowance for 3 people through an official document. Up to this current year of the Ox, he has served faithfully for 12 years, including 3 years in the special duty role.

The above is the situation. Overall, his supervision is good, he serves faithfully and practically, shows initiative in his work, and I believe he would be useful for official duties. I have heard that there is currently a vacancy in the fire watch duty at the Western Palace. If it is possible, I humbly request that he be appointed to this vacant position. Although I have not been in my current position for very long, the previous incumbent Minobe Hachizō had repeatedly made this request, and this has been communicated to me, so I am presenting this matter. Moreover, Yamaji Yazaemon has also made this request. I have already reported this matter to Lord Matsudaira Genba-no-kami, who is on duty, so I humbly make this request. The above.

5th month　　　　　　　　　　　Akiyama Kiemon