The Terrifying and Admirable Keystone

Kashima: "Well, well, this is troublesome indeed. O keeper of the storehouse, thinking that such things might happen, I pressed down with the keystone, and according to the rules of the five-seven rain regulations, I do not allow arbitrary movement. Yet recently, for the first time, when the fellow gods departed for Izumo, somehow this one escaped from somewhere underground and emerged to shake up the human world like this, committing such violent acts - how outrageous! This time I absolutely will not forgive such behavior. Now, now, you serious gods, after deep reflection, firmly set the weights in place. And this time, we must station an earthquake guard beside the stone. As the common people wish, once I return, I will not allow even trembling, let alone poverty-shaking, so they can sleep peacefully at home without camping outdoors. Ah, if there is a falling needle, there is a god to help - is this just talk?"

"Oh, how grateful! Thanks to Lord Kashima subduing the troublemaker, our testicles have finally descended. However, our current situation will remain elevated for some time, and there's nothing we can do about it. If you would be so kind as to use live catfish for burial soil or fodder, that would be wonderful. Yes, yes, yes, this is a matter for construction workers."

Flatterer: "By the way, I too, like this fellow, am at a loss with various signboards and child-bearing bouncing balls, earth-carrying deities. Carrying soil to make two hundred is more grateful than usual cold bows. Oh my, the catfish's cage-borrowing moderation is always your specialty. O terrifying and admirable keystone!"

Courtesan: "Oh my, when the catfish gentleman came and rampaged like on the night of the second, business and everything fell apart. I thought to take him to bed and calm him down, but then Kajiro from our group started mediating and got worked up and rampaged too. I thought this would surely mean moving to hell or somewhere, and was amazed. I tried to escape by lowering the drawbridge from the back, but I was so flustered that I fell into the tooth-blackening ditch. When I finally got out and was going to my regular customer's place, people I met on the way said 'that prostitute is stained with muddy water.' But truly, thanks to the stylish Nakajima-san, you have subdued the catfish face. I pray that such things won't happen again in the future. This is business. I bow in worship."

Old Woman: "Oh dear, when we were in the countryside, with bamboo pillars and thatch roof, no matter how angry the catfish lord became, we didn't think anything of it. But fifty years later, my old man and I came to Edo due to a land contract in the wheat field, so we experienced such a liver-turning ordeal this time. But thanks to Lord Kashima, my body shook this time too, so there's definitely divine protection of life. I'll probably live another ten centuries. Safe, Namu Amida Butsu."

Daughter: "I've been making vows to Lord Keystone recently, wishing that theaters and variety halls would be built quickly. Yesterday, someone's aunt said 'You too will shake the earth when you get married,' and she was absolutely right!"

Samurai: "I, who am called 'numerous as thousands above,' do not consider even a million great enemies as anything significant, but alas, I was defeated by this earthquake. As the military texts say, 'dwelling on earth, forget nothing, carelessness is the great enemy' - this is exactly that situation. However, with Lord Kashima's assistance, the catfish faction was finally captured alive, the subordinate small catfish fell into the hands of eel restaurants, and if they meet the bitter fate of the great road cape, it will be most satisfying. The four seas peaceful, an unshakable world, the thousand autumns of perpetual joy, the end and stopping of earthquakes."

Merchant: "Now we've finally compensated for our losses. Let's celebrate with a cheer. So, let's do it!"

Everyone: "Sha sha sha, shan shan shan..."