(Marginal note: Discovered by Americans. ○The climate, products, geology, etc. of Okinawa will be discussed in later sections.) ○Kudaka Island is located in the eastern sea of Sannan, with a circumference of about three ri, and belongs to Chinen magiri. It has many villages and one bay to the southeast, but there are many rocky reefs. It produces rice, millet, kelp (arame), lobster, multicolored fish, bonito, and conch shells. There is much sea pine (coral). ○Tsuken Island is located northeast of the above, southeast of Katsuren Cape in Chuzan, with a circumference of about three ri, and produces sea pine. ○The four small islands of Hama Island (also written as Hama), Henza, Miyagusuku, and Ike Island (also written as Ikei) are located northeast of Katsuren Cape and belong to Katsuren magiri.

All the above islands have similar products and languages, are all on the eastern coast of Okinawa, and belong to Okinawa.

Kerama Islands are located in the western sea of Naha, with more than ten subsidiary islands. The islanders have dark skin, swim well, and many are employed as sailors. The products are cattle, horses, cloth, millet, cowrie shells, and conch shells, with sea pine being of the finest quality. There are many deer in the mountains. The main island (which the Chinese call Eastern Horse Tooth Mountain) has a circumference of three ri, with one magiri called Tokashiki. Among the subsidiary islands, Mae-Kerama Island is to the east, and Zamami Island (which the Chinese call Western Horse Tooth Mountain) has a circumference of two ri with Zamami magiri. Aka Island has a circumference of one and a half ri, both located to the northwest. The rest are all small islands, many without human habitation. ○Kume Island (also written as Kume) is located west of the above. Ships traveling between Okinawa and Qing China invariably use this mountain as a navigational landmark. With a circumference of six ri and twelve chō, it has two magiri called Nakazato and Kanegusuku. Signal fires are placed there, raising beacon fires for passing ships. Mount Kanegusuku is 120 jō high, and Kanegusuku Harbor on the south coast can accommodate four to five large Japanese ships. Machiya Inlet on the east coast is shallow. The islanders are beautiful, and their language is the same as Okinawan. They have the five grains, cotton, pongee cloth (tsumugi), paper, candles, grass mats (tatami covers), chickens, pigs, cattle, horses, conch shells, squid, etc.

All the above islands are located west of Okinawa, and their languages are also similar.

Ie Island (also written as Ie) is adjacent to the west of Imakijin in Sanhoku. With a circumference of four ri and seven chō, [text continues with] stone...