[The volcanic belt] originates from the Shan islands, passes through Kamchatka, the Kurils, Hokkaido, Japan, and Kyushu, crosses Ryukyu, passes the Luzon islands and Malay islands, and finally enters the Bay of Bengal in India. This is the direct path of the Eastern volcanic belt. ○ Because Okinawa Island is long and narrow, seawater flows in from all four sides in a ring, and well water is deep and often salty and bitter. However, in the rocky caves of mountains throughout the area, there are sweet springs that invariably bubble forth. Otherwise, rivers and marshes are few.

Products
They are largely similar to those of the mainland, with only minor differences. Here I list some of the local specialties. Minerals are very scarce. However, Bird Island has much sulfur, and Okinawa produces small amounts of sulfur, coal, and iron. There are inkstones, whetstones, and limestone. Oyster stone (arato) is found at Keihei-ya. Oshima has copper ore. ○ Among grains 《should be referenced with the section on cultivation》, rice is abundant. Old rice from Yaeyama and Miyako is also plentiful. It serves as food for nobles. In Satsuma, it is called "Ryukyu rice" and is considered inferior. Millet, sorghum, and wheat are all present. Barley is scarce. Legumes are also all present. Peanuts are legumes with pods like coarse gauze, bearing fruit underground. They are found on all islands. ○ Among herbaceous plants, sweet potatoes are most abundant—what the world calls Satsuma potatoes or Ryukyu potatoes. They do not select poor soil and are planted extensively on all islands, serving as the daily staple food of the natives. Sugar cane is red in color with short joints. It exists year-round. The small varieties are made into sugar. Tobacco is also abundant. Vegetables and melons are all present. Daikon radishes reach three shaku in length and two shaku in circumference. Eggplants form trees, with heights over one jō and circumferences over one shaku. They bear fruit year-round and are picked using ladders. They are as large as watermelons but do not taste good. Today's mainland watermelons were first transplanted from Ryukyu varieties in the fourth year of Kan'ei. Winter melons are eaten with vinegar and soy sauce.