All inhabited [islands] have bamboo. There are kuchiku (ma-dake), tiger bamboo (tora-fu-dake), and black bamboo (kuro-chiku). Square bamboo (shikaku-dake) is called Ryukyu bamboo and is used for walking sticks. Mōsō bamboo has a circumference of over one shaku. The current varieties in mainland Japan are those transplanted from this country in Anei 8 (1779). Kannon bamboo grows in clusters close to the ground, with thin, short, purple-colored culms. Shuro bamboo does not exceed one shaku in height and is used for fan ribs. Bamboo serves the people most usefully and is frequently used for fences around houses. ○ Regarding birds, although it is rare for the people to hunt with nets or guns, there are few wild birds in the mountains and forests. This should be considered strange. There are sparrows, crows, pigeons, herons, quail, gulls, and geese. Swallows come in July but do not nest in houses. Hawks arrive blown by northeast winds in September. There are many types of chickens. Geese and ducks are few. Additionally, there are rare birds that are blown in from outer islands. ○ There are few mammals. Cattle are small and black. Horses are small, healthy, and hairy—they are a famous product that breeds prolifically and are exported as tribute and trade goods. Since they eat only grass year-round, even poor people keep them for plowing and transportation. There are goats and pigs. Wild boars are numerous in the mountains and forests. Deer are abundant on Kudaka, Kerama, and other islands. Some dogs are large and injure people. There are few monkeys. Rats are most harmful. All cats are kept as pets and do not catch rats, it is said. ○ Fish are extremely numerous, including sharks, carp, crucian carp, eels, octopuses, and others. Whales appear and disappear among nearby islands but are not caught. Flying fish fly over one jō above the water like white birds. Five-colored fish of various types are named according to their colors. Bonito is made from the back meat of the fish, about one shaku in length. The product from Kudaka is of good quality. It is boiled, roasted, soaked in meat broth, and eaten thinly sliced. Sea horses have horse heads and fish bodies. Sea snakes are two to three shaku long, black and fierce, like stiff rotten rope. There are many other miscellaneous fish. ○ Shellfish are numerous, including turtles, soft-shelled turtles, crabs, conch shells, clams, abalone, shrimp, and others. Large spiny lobsters are one to two shaku long, dragon-shaped