[continuing from previous page describing spiny lobsters]. Hawksbill turtles have shells like those of turtles and soft-shelled turtles, with long tails and pointed shapes, and heads tinged with pale red. They are used to make long hairpins. Large green conch shells are like basins and are used as cups and ladles, and also for decorating vessels with mother-of-pearl inlay. Large giant clams serve as bathtubs, while smaller ones are used as pots or jars. In manufacturing vessels, they are like ivory. There are sea urchins, sea pines, sea cypress, and stone moss. Coral and pine-patterned [coral] are found in Yaeyama. Pearls are produced within spiral shells—they are round and colorless. ○ Among insects, geckos are most numerous. Their voices are like sparrows. Lizards are also numerous, with golden coloring on their backs. There are highly venomous snakes—if a person is touched by their poison, they die immediately. They are most numerous on Kume Island. Centipedes reach over one shaku in length but are harmless. Mosquitoes and flies are extremely numerous, and all insects do not hibernate throughout the year.

　　Country Names
In ancient times, our imperial court called the southern sea islands of Tane (Tanegashima), Yaku (Yakushima), Amami (Amami Ōshima), Toka (possibly Toku Island or Takara Island), Shigaki (Ishigaki), Kumi (Kume), Erabu (Okinoerabu), and Kikai (Kikai) collectively the "Southern Islands." Today's Ryukyu is entirely within this region. In the medieval period, together with Shirashi Island, Koshiki Island, Kuro Island, Iōjima, and others—twelve islands in total—they were collectively called Kikaigashima, and there were also designations of "Five Islands" and "Seven Islands." Generally, in medieval national histories, it was written as Kikaigashima. Whether Tametomo conquered Onigashima or Yoritomo attacked Kikaigashima, these are all general terms for the Southern Islands. The Kikaigashima to which Shunkan and others were exiled was Iōjima near Satsuma. This can be understood from this [context]. The use of the character "demon/oni" in the name was probably due to the barbarous customs of the Southern Islands in ancient times, when they were known to the world as countries that ate people, and thus received this name.