[They] bore two daughters. The eldest son became the founding king of the country and was called the Tenson-shi (Heavenly Grandson clan), the second son became the beginning of the Aji (local lords), and the third son became the beginning of the common people. The eldest daughter was called Kimikimi and became a heavenly deity, and the second daughter was called Norinori and became a sea deity. Thereafter, the Tenson-shi ruled as kings of this country for generations, and to this day, the people of the country call the ancient times the "Amamiko era." In the sixteenth year of Empress Suiko's reign, the Sui emperor Yang Guang sent his retainer Zhu Kuan to pacify Liuqiu, but they did not submit, so he took their cloth armor and returned. At that time, an envoy from our court who was in Sui saw it and said, "This is what the people of Yaku country use." In the eighteenth year, Sui attacked again and killed their king. In the twenty-fourth year, people from Yakushima first came to court. In the sixth year of Emperor Tenmu, people from Tanegashima first came to court. In the tenth year, Umakahi no Muraji and others presented a map of Tane country. The following year, Amami people first came to court. In the second year of Emperor Monmu, Fumi no Imiki Hakase and others led troops to pacify the southern islands. In the third year, Tokara people first came to court. In the second year of Taihō, Tane people rebelled together with the Hayato of Satsuma, cutting off the southern route. Troops were dispatched to suppress and pacify them, households were registered, officials were appointed, Yaku was merged with Tane, a district was established under the jurisdiction of Dazaifu, making it one of the three islands. In the sixth year of Wadō under Emperor Genmei, Shigaki, Kumi and others first came to court. At this point, all the southern islands were completely annexed. From the time of Empress Suiko to the Nara court, the southern islands continuously paid tribute, and there were frequent differences in the ranks and stipends bestowed upon them. In the seventh year of Tenpyō, Dazaifu had markers erected in the southern islands, recording place names, distances in ri, harbors, water sources, and other locations. In the fifth year of Tenpyō-shōhō under Empress Kōken, the envoys to Tang, Fujiwara no Kiyokawa and Kibi no Makibi, drifted to Okonaha Island. Six-