greatly ravaged Fujian. In Daiei 5, the Ming emperor entrusted Shō Shin to send a letter to the Ashikaga clan, requesting them to capture the bandits. Shō Shin's son Shō Sei succeeded him. He was heroic and resolute. When Ōshima rebelled, he attacked and pacified it. In Kyōroku 3, Shō Sei forwarded Shogun Yoshiharu's letter to the Ming emperor, conveyed its content, apologized for the violent conduct of the envoys, requested new kangō seals, and asked to resume diplomatic relations. The Ming emperor again entrusted him to convey a message to Yoshiharu, seeking the chief culprits. Shō Sei's son Shō Gen succeeded. In Kōji 2, our border people who invaded Ming's Zhejiang were defeated and entered Ryukyu territory. Shō Gen attacked and annihilated them. Also, when Ōshima rebelled and reached Naha, the king personally pacified and calmed them. His son Shō Ei succeeded. In Tenshō 11, an envoy visited the capital. Shō Shin's grandson by a concubine, Shō Nei, succeeded. In the 17th year, spring, Toyotomi Hideyoshi ordered Shimazu Yoshihisa to persuade Shō Nei to follow the official calendar and offer his territory. Shō Nei did not comply. That summer, he sent a reply to Hideyoshi. Its gist was: "We have heard that the sixty-odd provinces of Japan bow down to your dust, submit under your curtain, and moreover extend to Korea and the southern barbarians, displaying your mighty influence. Though our remote island is a shallow and small country, difficult to perform proper ceremony, since Lord Shimazu Yoshihisa sent the monk Saiin of Daiji Temple bearing your command, we send up the monk Tōan of Tenryū Temple, recording Ming lacquerware and local products of our country on separate paper, in order to perform proper ceremony." Hideyoshi's reply stated in summary: "I have read your precious letter and savored it repeatedly. Indeed, among the sixty-odd provinces of our country, not leaving even an inch of land, all have returned to my grasp. Recently, I also wish to extend governance to foreign lands, and here I have first obtained your country's envoys and rare objects from distant lands, bringing me great joy. From now on, though your land is separated by a thousand ri, if we deeply maintain friendly relations, even foreign countries can create the sentiment of the four seas as one family. From this time, I will send some gifts of our country's products." He also instructed Tōan to persuade Shō Nei well. That winter, an envoy again visited the capital. Hideyoshi then entrusted him with his intention to establish relations with Ming