When separated substances attract and combine, this is called attractive action, and when combined substances increasingly cohere so as not to separate, this is called cohesive action. Therefore, in the text, it is sometimes translated as "cohesive force" and sometimes as "contractive force," but they are all the same. What is called "tensile force" (ausdehnende Kraft) is the force by which matter tends to expand and disperse, and it is directly opposed to cohesive force. Indeed, the firmness and flexibility of all things depend on the strength and weakness of these two forces - cohesive and tensile. Namely, solid bodies are those in which cohesive force predominates, gaseous substances are those in which tensile force predominates, and fluids are positioned between them. What is called "gravitational force" (Schwere Kraft) is the force by which all things fall and drop to the earth. This is also nothing other than the attractive force between the earth and all things.

Chemismus (chemical action) (hereafter abbreviated as "chemistry") includes actions such as when different types of substances mutually embrace and unite to produce a new unified body, or when a completely unified body separates to become different types of individual substances again. What causes such phenomena is called "chemical force" (chemische Kraft). For example, when water particles combine with water particles to form water, or salt particles combine with salt particles to form salt, these are cases of like substances attracting each other, which is the so-called attractive action. However, when we now take salt and put it into water, it dissolves to become brine, and in this brine there is not a single point of pure water nor a single point of pure salt. This is a case where the different substances of salt and water intimately interact and fuse to form the entire brine solution, which is precisely the action of chemical force. Therefore, this is also called "affinity force" (Verwandtschafts Kraft). Indeed, when different substances have mutual affinity