【Right page】
Lacquer tree　urushi　Urushizawa (quoted from Honzō Wamyō and Zatsuyō-yaku)　Maronwotsu (Dongui Bogam)
Lac (foreign name)　Lacca (same as above)

Many grow wild in the mountains and are also cultivated. They become tall trees. The large leaves grow 7-9 per stem in opposite pairs, and small yellowish-white flowers bloom in clusters. The seeds are round and flat. Wax is extracted from these fruits, called "urushi-rō" (lacquer wax). When cuts are made in the bark of this tree, white resinous sap flows out, which is collected in vessels, dried in the sun, stored, and used for coating objects. Japanese products are considered superior, while Chinese products are considered inferior. Those from Ōshū, Ushū, and Yashū regions are white in color and strong in nature. Commonly called "seshime-urushi," they are used for joining and are also called "tsugi-urushi" (joining lacquer). Those from Nisshū are used for fine work. Those from Yoshino in Yamato Province and various mountains in Kumano, Kishū are weak in strength, called "tsuya-urushi," and used for top coating. For colored lacquer, Yoshino products are considered the best. Dried lacquer used medicinally is stored in buckets at lacquer shops, where it naturally hardens around the edges, forming honeycomb-like shapes that are black in color and

【Left page】
light in weight - these are superior quality. At pharmaceutical shops, this is called "basket-pattern dried lacquer." In the collected commentaries, Hongjing's theory should be considered good. Additionally, there is something called "rock dried lacquer" at medicine shops, but this is black stone found on seashores and is not dried lacquer. It should not be used. When burned, it gives off sulfur gas - this is coal from the mineral category. Imported dried lacquer is said to contain tung oil mixed in and should not be used. According to Yamato Honzō, dried lacquer should be finely crushed and roasted until cooked; otherwise it will damage the intestines and stomach. Some people become poisoned by lacquer toxins and die. Treatment should be prompt. Crab and Sichuan pepper are said to be most effective in counteracting the poison.

One variety　hanishi (Wamyō-shō)　haji　haze　hase-urushi　yama-urushi

There are several varieties differing in leaf size and fruit size. The leaves resemble those of the lacquer tree but are narrower and pointed. They turn beautiful colors in autumn, called "hase-momiji" (haze autumn leaves). They are widely cultivated throughout the provinces to extract wax from the fruits. In summer, they produce spikes at branch tips, opening small yellowish-white flowers, later forming fruits. The fruits are round and flat, hanging downward, and turn yellowish-brown when ripe.