【Right page】
[Hōsōka (Treasure-aspect flower)]
A flower similar to roses, with large blooms. There are large white and large red varieties, and two types of thousand-petal (double-flowered) forms.
The flowers and leaves are larger than those of chōshunka (ever-spring flower), blooming in March-April. Commonly called "long rose." Also known as kyūroku, alternatively called kyūkyoku, or another name shikou (thorn-red). It grows at the roots of large trees in mountains. It also grows hanging down from valley rocks, or drooping from riverbanks and mountain fields. There are also varieties with smaller leaves than chōshunka.

[Sotohama transparent lily]
The flower resembles ordinary transparent lilies, with color similar to daylilies but without star patterns. The center has a dragonfly-head shape with six streaks. The stamen tips have purple rice-grain-like structures. The leaves are more slender than ordinary lilies. Flowers bloom in March-April, growing about three feet tall.

[Tametomo lily]
The flower is white with fawn-spot patterns, purple-black, with a dragonfly-head-shaped center. The brown-colored stamens are similar, and leaves resemble fawn-spot lilies. There is some yellow in the petals with a bit of green there. Overall similar to fawn-spot lilies but thicker and more robust than devil lilies. Flowers bloom in mid-April or until May-June. About four to five feet tall, with thick stems of blackish-blue color. Flowers are seven to eight inches across.

[Grass spirea]
The flowers are the same as tree spirea, light red in color, with white central stamens

【Left page】
white, and white spirea is also the same. Leaves resemble those of small viburnum, with serrated edges and soft texture. Similar to bamboo-grass wisteria and hakama, with thin stems. It is herbaceous. One of three varieties. Flowers bloom from March-April through June-July. Chinese name is senshūkiku (thread-embroidery chrysanthemum).

[Poppy - eizoku - eishizoku]
Four petals, with colors including large red, large white, and purple. Single, double, and thousand-petal (multiple) varieties exist. Leaves resemble bitter herbs, growing three to four feet tall. Leaves are deeply incised. Flowers bloom in April. Also called reikaka (beautiful summer flower). The receptacle has two leaves that fall when the flower opens.

[Reishunka (beautiful spring flower) - kaōzoku (flower warbler poppy)]
Commonly called bijinsō (beauty grass). Shape resembles poppy but smaller, with the same four petals. Colors include white, large red, and purple. Single varieties exist, as well as double and thousand-leaf (multiple) forms. Flowers bloom in spring, in March. Leaves resemble poppy leaves but are shorter, and the flower buds, leaves, and stems all have hair. The receptacle is the same, falling as the flower opens.

Warbler poppy should be sown in August for good growth. Sow sparsely and cultivate vigorously. Harvest the seeds to make good compost. There are also five-colored thousand-leaf (multicolored, multiple-flowered) varieties. These are most worthy of admiration.