Hot Spring Bath Houses (Public Baths)

○Dokko-no-yu　　○Chiko-no-yu　　○Kawara-yu
○Hako-no-yu　　 ○Shin-yu　　　　○Taki-no-yu
○Ishi-no-yu　　　○Tera-no-yu　　　○Sugi-no-yu

In addition to these, there are private baths (uchi-yu) in the houses that operate as inns.

Shrines and Temples, Historical Sites, Brief Biographies of Historical Figures

○Shōrozan Shuzenji Temple (facing southeast) - Originally a great monastery with temple lands of thirty koku under the shogun's vermillion seal, with eight pagoda administrators, but now only a few remain. It was of the Shingon (esoteric) sect from its founding by the Great Master, but eventually became Rinzai Zen, and later Sōtō Zen. It is a rare ancient temple for such a remote village in the east.

○Katsura Valley (the general name for this area)
○Katsura River (the main river of this place, originating from Mount Daruma. The two streams of Kōbō-iri and Ōshiba-iri merge to become the Kano River)
○Kokei Bridge (located in front of Shuzenji Temple, also called Rankwan Bridge)
○Tomb of Kaba-no-kwanja Minamoto-no-Noriyori (located in a grove on a small hill, called Onzōshi-haka. Now a small shrine is erected and dedicated to Hachiman. Reference available in the biographical diagram above)
○Tomb of Tōkurō Morinaga (located at a place called Shirai-no-mori-no-dan)
○Tomb of Kano Dōitsu - During the Eishō era, Dōitsu fought against Hōjō Sōun at Kakinoki, was defeated and fled to this area where he committed suicide with five retainers. He was buried here. Later people erected six Jizō statues for his spiritual repose, but since a hall was built in recent times, few people know that this is his tomb.

○Oku-no-in (Inner Sanctuary, located more than fifty chō upstream) - Called Shōgakuin. There are rock caves, Aun Falls, Karikome Valley, and Karikome Rocks. According to local legend, this area was once the dwelling place of demons and had no human habitation. When the Great Master came and used secret incantations to drive all the demon tribe into the caves of this valley,