Annotation: referring to beautiful scenery ○ Toad Pool and Toad Rock (annotation: approximately one jō in height) Natori-no-te - These two rocks stand facing each other on both banks of the waterfall basin of the Katsura River. The water flows very rapidly, and the scenery where it strikes is like scattered snow - a magnificent sight. ○ Dolphin Rock (annotation: named after its shape) ○ Tree Root Rock (annotation: it is a fossil) ○ Hankyō-ji Temple, Main deity: Yakushi (annotation: made by the Great Master) ○ Roaring Rock ○ Tennō Shrine ○ Plum Valley (annotation: ancient shrine of a wooden shrine) ○ Satta Hall (annotation: it is an old stone lantern) ○ Yokose Slope - There is a Night-crying Pine. The old one withered and the present one was replanted. The view from this place is good. ○ Hachiman Shrine - According to the Izu Chronicle, it was originally a shrine located at Iizuka. Since it is called Hachiman as a mausoleum of Lord Yoriie of the restoration period, the old divine name was lost. To the left and right of this shrine are three or four stone piles. Later people consider these to be stone shrines.

These are graves of Lord Yoriie's retainers who died in martyrdom. Originally there were five to seven foundations at Iizuka, but now only these remain. ○ Kongō-rikishi (annotation: locals call them Niō) When Shuzen-ji Temple was prosperous, the great gate stood over the Kano River, but as the temple's domain decreased, the mountain gate fell into ruin. Now that place is called the Great Gate. Inside the belly of these two kings are small statues of two kings. The Great Master himself selected wood from a decayed life-sized Kongō-rikishi statue made of camphor wood, and Tōtōmi Hokkyō Unkaku and others made five-inch Niō statues, which became the hidden Buddha statues inside the current new statues. The record of this origin is on the back of the small statues, but the characters have faded and are difficult to read. ○ Moon-viewing Hill (annotation: located at Yokose) ○ Mountain God Shrine ○ Waiting Wife Rock (annotation: according to local folklore, it is said that the wife of the young lord wept and turned to stone) ○ Castle Mountain (annotation: originally called Makuzu Mountain) This mountain is sandwiched between the two waters of the Kano River and Katsura River, with one side facing Arashi Mountain.