(Continued from previous page)

○Tō-no-Mine (also called Tendai-san; a place where a pagoda once stood) ○Go-an-dō (located below Tō-no-Mine) This place is said to be the site of Lord Yoriie's hermitage. It is also said to be the place where Hōjō Tokimasa was confined. There are many ancient burial mounds in this area, which are the graves of Lord Yoriie's retainers. In the Azuma Kagami, it is recorded: "In the sixth month of Genkyū 1, it was discovered that the retainers of the Sakingozenкaku (Yoriie) were hiding in a remote place plotting rebellion, and Sagami Province's Kanekubo Tarō and others were dispatched to promptly execute them."

The Kamakura Dainiсhi-ki states: "On the twentieth day of the seventh month of Genkyū 2, Tokimasa entered the Buddhist priesthood at the age of sixty-eight, took the Buddhist name Meisei, was confined to Shuzenji, and died at the age of seventy-eight on the sixth day of the first month of Kenpō 3." The Shikken Shidai records: "Tokimasa was confined to Shuzenji on account of affairs related to Lord Sanetomo. This was due to the scheming of Maki-no-kata (Lady Maki)." Note that while the Azuma Kagami states that Tokimasa died in Hōjō District, no such district exists among the four districts of Izu Province.

○Shigetsu-den (locals call it the "Kyōdō," or Sutra Hall) This place is a repository of the complete Buddhist canon (Issaikyōzō), donated by the Nun Shogun, Lady Masako. There were fine editions of Song dynasty printed texts, but in recent years, by order from above, they were sent to Zōjō-ji Temple in Shiba, and only a few volumes remain today. In the colophon of the twenty-two volumes of the Hōkō Hannya Haramitsu-kyō (Pañcaviṃśatisāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra), there is an inscription in the handwriting of the Nun (Masako) herself, reading: "Placed here for the benefit of the soul of Seii Taishōgun, Sakingonoyu, Minamoto no Yoriie."

○The Honorable Tomb of Lord Yoriie (located above the Sutra Hall) Lord Yoriie was the eldest son of Lord Yoritomo. In the first year of Shōji he became head of the family, and ultimately was appointed Seii Taishōgun (Shogun), but was killed in the bathhouse in the seventh month of Genkyū 1 by the scheming of Tokimasa. The old tomb is a small stone pagoda. In front of it stands a memorial stone for the repose of his soul, with "Seii Taishōgun, Sagen Yoriie, Venerable Spirit" inscribed on its face, "Genkyū Gannen (First Year of Genkyū)" on the left side, and "Kinoto-ne, Seventh Month, Eighteenth Day" on the right side. In recent times, both local residents and visitors taking the baths would lift the capstone of the stone pagoda with their own hands... (continues on next page)