【Right Page】
《Commentary: Tsubo is the meaning of "jar/pot" (tsubo), and would mean "tsuboki." In the Tale of Genji, Kiritsubo chapter, it says "gazing upon the tsubo-senzai garden in its most beautiful season." The Kakai-shō notes that in Engi 1 (901), grass was planted and trees added to the tsubo-senzai garden. Tsubo probably refers to the inner garden enclosed within residential buildings. This shrine was probably also called this way because it was a shrine residence that existed in the garden of an ancient provincial governor》

Bunbai-gawara: Refers to the cultivated fields separated by the Shiroko River to the south of the same location. 《Now called Shimokawara, Nakakawara, etc. The Taiheiki, Kamakura Ōsōshi, and Nanchō Kiden write it as "Bunbai," and some write it as "Bunbai" (different characters), but the evidence for this is unknown》 This is the place where Nitta Yoshisada fought against Kamakura forces in the summer of Shōkyō 2 (1333), and there are graves of those who died in battle at that time. 《Local people call them "head mound" and "body mound," and they still exist among the fields in this area》

In the spring of Kōtoku 4 (1455), Kamakura Shigeuji also fought here against Uesugi Fusaaki and Mochitomo, and the Uesugi forces were greatly defeated. Also in the summer of Kyōroku 3 (1530), Hōjō Ujiyasu camped at Kozawa Plain in Mukaioka, while Uesugi Tomooki positioned his forces with the Tama River in front. Both armies fought at Fuchū station. 《The above battles are detailed in the Taiheiki, Kamakura Ōsōshi, Hōjō Godaiki, etc.》 This area saw many other bloody battles, and local people still occasionally dig up weapons when working the fields. 《Naitō Shigetaka of Ono-no-miya in this area found an arrowhead here and keeps it in his collection》
《The size is as shown in the diagram. The cherry blossom design is openwork》【Diagram of arrowhead】

【Left Page】
Three Thousand People Mound: 《Located about 15-16 chō south of Rokushō Shrine beside the road. There is a mound about 3 shaku high and over 9 shaku square, with an ancient monument of blue stone slab on top, about 2 shaku 7-8 sun wide, protruding 2 shaku 8-9 sun above the soil. Only one large Sanskrit character is visible, with the rest buried in the soil so its extent is unknown. Years ago, by order of the prefectural governor, this stone monument was excavated and found to have inscribed characters indicating the burial of bones of three thousand people. This is passed down in the oral tradition of the village headman of this area. Upon consideration, this is probably the grave of those who died in battle at Bunbai-gawara during the Shōkyō, Kōtoku, Kyōroku and other campaigns》

Shiroko River: Flows south of Fuchū. The water is diverted from the Tama River at Aoyagi Village, over two ri to the west, to serve as irrigation water for the cultivated fields in this area. Someone says that in ancient times this area was called Ogawa-gō. Today's Shiroko River is probably a changed name from the ancient Ogawa. Whether this is true or not is unknown.

《Commentary: In documents sent by the government to Rokushō Shrine during the Keichō period, it is noted that "Rokushō Shrine is by the riverside," which is probably because at that time the Tama River flow was divided into several streams that also flowed around the shrine area. However, after Keichō, pipes were made and rivers were filled in to create cultivated land, so the rivers gradually decreased and became the current topography. Upon further consideration, local people now call the cultivated fields of Ono-no-miya "Mukaida" (opposite fields), and call the area to the south "Nakakawara" (middle riverside), all of which should be evidence of being separated by rivers》

Jin Highway: The cultivated land between Ono-no-miya and Bunbai, named as the road from Fuchū Honmachi to Sekido. In the past, this was a highway from provinces like Ōu to Kamakura or Ōiso, and served as a passage when military forces were sent from Kamakura to northern and eastern provinces.