【Right Page】
Thus, now only the temple's vermillion seal documents are preserved and transmitted.

The "Nihon Nendai Haigō-shō" states:
　On the 25th day of the 9th month of Eishō 1 (1504), Yamanouchi Akisada and Ōgigayatsu Uesugi Tomoyoshi fought a battle at Tatekawara. Tomoyoshi's army was defeated and many soldiers including Ōta Shimotsuke-no-kami died.

《Note: According to the "Nanchō Kiden," on the 21st day of the 1st month of Kōshō 1 (1455), Kamakura Nariuji, Fusaaki, Sadamasa, and Uesugi Naganao Kagenaka fought a battle at Tatekawara in Musashi Province》

《Note: According to the "Odawara-ki," on the 27th day of the 9th month of Eishō 1 (1504), Suruga Imagawa Ujiteru and Odawara's Matsuda Saemon Yorishige joined as reinforcements. Combining these forces with Ōgigayatsu Gorō Yoriyoshi as commanding general, they established military camps at Tatekawara in Musashi Province. Yamanouchi Kanrei Uesugi Minbu-taifu Kajun Nyūdō and the current lord Norifusa gathered warriors from the eight eastern provinces and pressed forward in battle. When night fell, Echigo forces arrived as reinforcements for Yamanouchi, so Tomoyoshi was attacked by fresh troops and retreated to Kawagoe Castle, where he could rest from the thirst like that relieved by sour plums》

Six-sided Pagoda 《Note: Located within the egg-shaped pagoda, about six shaku tall, each panel about 1.5 sun wide, the six stone faces are fitted together by boring cap stones and base stones for each piece》

《Note: The two front panels have carved images of the two guardian kings Kongō and Misshaku, while the four rear and side panels have carved images of the Four Heavenly Kings. The upper portions are all carved with treasure patterns, and their appearance is not the work of ordinary stonemasons but extremely skillful craftsmanship. On one panel of Zōchōten, year dates are carved as follows》

　6th year of Enbun, year of the Metal Ox, 7th month, 6th day　　Benefactor Shōryō erected
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Dōen carved

《Note: Upon examination, the name Shōryō appears in the previously mentioned inscription under the portrait of founding master Daijō Zen Master, so the temple benefactor Shōryō of the six-sided pagoda is likely the same person. The 6th year of Enbun was the year of the era change to Kōan. Only ten years passed until Ōan 3. Therefore this is increasingly likely to be the same person》

【Left Page】
Ancient Six-sided Monument in Fusai-ji Temple Grounds 《Note: Height 5 shaku 2 sun, width about 1 shaku 4 sun》

Naraen Kengo (Diamond-Hard)

Misshaku Kongō (Vajrapani)

Zōchōten'ō (Virūdhaka, Heavenly King of Growth)