【Right Page】
(Upon examination, although there are no records in old histories about this shrine being called Ichinomiya, since the place name is already called Ichinomiya and the shrine is also called Ichinomiya, this was likely because the ancestral deity of the nation's founding was enshrined here first, which is why it came to be called Ichinomiya. There can be no doubt that this is an ancient shrine. Therefore, considering this, in the Azuma Kagami, in the entry for the 20th day of the 4th month of Jishō 5, regarding adding the territories of Oyamada Saburō Shigenari and Heita Hirosada to one's own territory, place names including Yoshitomi, Ichinomiya, and Renkōji within Tama District are listed. In a sutra container from Kenkyu 4 owned by Shōrenji Temple in Mokusa Village, it is inscribed "Ichinomiya Bettō Shōrenji." If this is so, then in the Kenkyu era, Shōrenji Temple may have been the bettō (administrative temple) of this shrine. Also, on a temple bell from Bun'ei 18 existing at Kongōji Temple in Takahata Village, it reads "Ichinomiya rice field worker, pot maker Minamoto no Tsuneari," and the place name Ichinomiya appears frequently.)

Ippon-enoki (Single Zelkova Tree) Located about half a chō south of Ichinomiya, separated in the middle of cultivated fields. A shimenawa rope is wrapped around the base of the tree. Local people say it is the old site of the first torii of Mokusa Hachiman Shrine (from this place to Mokusa Hachiman Shrine is about ten chō).

Yokomizo Hachirō's Tomb Located in a field to the right of the road, more than one chō southwest of the old Oyamada barrier site. Old trees such as pine and zelkova flourish on top of the mound. In the Taiheiki, in the entry about Nitta Sachūshō Yoshisada advancing to Bunbai Kawara in Bushū on the 16th day of the 5th month of Shōkei 2, it states that Shirō Sakon Tayū Nyūdō (younger brother of Sagami Nyūdō, called Eshō) had a large force, but was defeated by Miura's momentary strategy, and the retreating forces scattered toward Kamakura in defeat. The number of those killed was countless. The general Sakon Nyūdō also seemed about to be killed near Sekido, but Yokomizo Hachirō stood his ground and shot down twenty

【Outside Frame】Volume 3, Page 217

【Left Page】
three mounted enemies in an instant, and master and retainer, three mounted warriors, died in battle. Aho Nyūdō Dōkan and his three sons, along with more than a hundred following soldiers, died on the same pillow. In addition, more than three hundred hereditary retainers and soldiers of lasting favor turned back and died in battle, so General Shirō Sakon Nyūdō escaped unharmed to Yamanouchi (The tomb of Aho Nyūdō and his sons should also be nearby, but it is not known today. There is an ancient tomb within the compound of the Aizawa family at the entrance to Sekido, with an old kaya tree growing thick on top, but it cannot be known whose tomb this marker represents. According to the Aizawa family's explanation, it might be Aho Nyūdō's tomb, but this cannot be determined for certain today).

Old Site of Oyamada Barrier The place now called Sekido is precisely this (One person says that the area around Kumano Shrine in this location, the land of the notice boards on the left and right, is the old site of that barrier. Upon examination, there is a place called Tenshudai in this location, and from this summit, looking out, one can look down upon the flow of the Tama River below, and also see as far as Kōzuke and Shimotsuke provinces in one view). Along the south bank of the Tama River, this has been the highway from Fuchū to the imperial capital and Kamakura since ancient times. Both the Tōō and Hokuetsu routes invariably pass through this location (Oyamada is the name of a manor, and this area was also within the same manor in the past. Now it remains only as a village name, and about two ri south of this place there is what is called Oyamada Village).

From Fuboku-shō:
"Leaving our meeting to the rice-planting water, how cold the rice-planting at Oyamada barrier" (possibly by Tameyo, author unknown)

From Roppyaku-ban Uta-awase:
"Our meeting is held back by rice-planting water, will it not let us pass through Oyamada barrier" - Kenshō

The Azuma Kagami states: Jishō 5, 4th month, 20th day, Oyamada Saburō