【Right Page】
Shigenari slightly went against the imperial will, and hearing of this rumor, he fearfully secluded himself. As a result, within the territories of Yoshitomi and Ichinomiya Renkōji temple in Tama District of Musashi Province that were added to his domain, when the eastern provinces' retainers had their original territories confirmed last year, he likewise received an imperial decree. Since he submitted a petition stating it was Heita Hirotsune's territory, upon investigation there was no discrepancy, and it was assigned to Hirotsune.

The same document states: Kenryaku 3rd year, 10th month, 18th day: Sōkan Takahisa was sent to conduct an actual inspection of the new barriers in Musashi Province, with Zusho-no-jō Kiyosada as administrator.

《Annotation: Considering that the new barriers of Musashi Province recorded in the Azuma Kagami do not note their specific locations, perhaps this Oyamada barrier was also one of them. In the territorial registry of the Later Hōjō clan of Odawara, Oyamada Yasaburō held lands in Oyamada Manor including Naruse (Takagasaka), Mori-Machida, Shinkōji, Tsuruma, Ōtani, Hiromata, Ogawa, Kiso, Yamazaki (Naokaya), Kurokawa, Kanamori, Kanai, Ōkura, and other places. The same document also mentions Matsuda Sama-no-suke and Fuse Zenza holding Onochi within Oyamada Manor, as well as Awaihara, four villages, Ochiai, etc., showing the vast extent of Oyamada Manor. Considering the map of Musashi Province, this Sekido is the throat of Oyamada Manor. Hence it may have been called Oyamada barrier. The village headman Aizawa family of Sekido preserves old documents. One is a certificate with Morhide's seal granting wholesale privileges to merchants of Sekido post-town in Tenbun 24th year. Another is Okaya's certificate stating that Ariyama Gen'emon applied to convert grassland near the new settlement establishment area at Shōkaizuka in Nakagawara within Sekido village into farmland, and it was designated as grassland for seven years. The third is Iwamoto's certificate regarding market days in Sekido village and exemptions from taxes on unrefined sake, salt, and other goods. The fourth is a certificate ordering Ariyama Gen'emon to collect barrier fees of five kan-mon》

Regarding the barrier at that place, it should be maintained as before. Since any improper conduct has been reported from the side, such would be a serious offense. Thus as stated.

【Outside frame】Three-219

【Left Page】
《Annotation: Year of the Rat》9th month, 23rd day　　　　Norihide《Annotation: Flower seal》
To Ariyama Gen'emon

This place is the old site where a barrier was established during the Kamakura period. From around the Kenkyū era, when the Right General of Kamakura went hunting at Asama, Mihara, and Irumano, or when dispatching troops to Michinoku, Kōzuke, Shinano, Echigo, and other provinces, commanders of the Sekido entrance were invariably appointed, as recorded in various documents. In the Taiheiki, under the battle records of Shōkyō 2nd year, when it was heard that Yoshisada had won several battles, warriors from the eight eastern provinces submitted like clouds and mist, staying one day at Sekido where military roll calls were conducted, recording over 607,000 mounted warriors - this also refers to this place.

Enmyōji Temple　Located three to four chō south of Shutokuji Temple, on the right side of the road. Called Jizō-in, it belongs to the Ji sect and is affiliated with Shōjōkōji Temple in Fujisawa, Sagami Province. The principal image, Jizō Bodhisattva, is a standing statue about 1.5 shaku tall. The sculptor is unknown. The founding priest was called Fukoku Shōnin. At the gate entrance