【Right Page】
　The local people call it Shinbei Pine. This area belongs to Yanokuchi.

Tōunzan Myōkaku-ji Temple - Located south across from Yanokuchi Village Highway. It is more than 15 chō south of the ferry crossing. It is a Zen temple of the Rinzai sect belonging to Kenchō-ji Temple in Kamakura. The principal image, Shakyamuni Buddha, is a Chinese statue, a seated figure about 8 sun tall. This temple was originally built by Lord Ashikaga Yoshiharu, but later became abandoned. During the Keichō period (1596-1615), Katō Tarōzaemon restored it as a family temple. The restoration founder was the monk Yōun (who restored it in the 4th year of Eiroku, 1561). The temple houses a sacred Kannon statue made of aloeswood that Nagasaka Chiyari Kurō is said to have kept inside his armor for battlefield protection. It is a standing figure about 3 sun tall, said to be carved by Kōbō Daishi. Now a 1-shaku Shō Kannon has been carved to secretly enshrine the original inside its body.

Former Residence Site of Ozawa Kotarō - This refers to the area around the temple grounds. There is still land said to be the old site of a horse training ground. Also in front of the temple is a small hill called Kurachike, said to be the remains of a storehouse where military provisions were kept. 《In the following section on Ozawa's castle ruins, there is mention of a certain Ozawa, referring to this tradition. The Kotarō mentioned here was probably also a member of that clan》

Sōgenzan Ikō-ji Temple - Located about 1 chō across the road from Myōkaku-ji Temple at the same location, about 2 chō to the left

【Outside frame】Three-222

【Left Page】
　after entering. It belongs to the Shingon-shū Shingi sect under Kōshō-ji Temple in Sakahama. The principal image is a seated statue of Dainichi Nyorai about 3 shaku tall. This temple serves as the bettō (administrator) of Anasawa Tenjin Shrine. 《During the Tenmei period (1781-1789), it suffered a fire that completely destroyed the main hall and monks' quarters, and old records were lost》

　The Azuma Kagami states: 4th year of Jishō (1180), 15th day of 11th month
　　Since Ikō-ji Temple in Musashi Province serves as the prayer temple for generations of the Minamoto family, the head priest and
　　monks who have inherited the temple buildings and lands are exempted as before 《abbreviated》

　The same book states: 2nd year of Genryaku (1185), 13th day of 4th month  
　　The head priest Chōei of Ikō-ji Temple in Musashi Province prayed earnestly day and night, and when the Taira clan was finally destroyed, there was grateful recognition, but Oyama Tarō Aritaka seized the temple
　　lands, so he presented the imperial document received last September and made a complaint 《abbreviated》

　The same book states: 1st year of Bunji (1185), 5th day of 9th month
　　Since temple monks presented a petition that Oyama Tarō Aritaka was interfering with Ikō-ji Temple lands,
　　the interference should be stopped and the lands used for temple purposes as customary. If there are grounds, he should appear at the administrative
　　office to present details, as commanded to Koremune Takanao, Tachibana Hōgan-dai I
　　hiro, Fujiwara Hōgan-dai Kunimichi and others to administer 《abbreviated》

　The same book states: 2nd year of Jōgen (1208), 15th day of 7th month
　　The head priest monk Enkai of Ikō-ji Temple in Musashi Province complained that Komae Nyūdō Sōsai
　　led over 50 villains last month on the 26th to invade the temple lands and commit
　　outrages by cutting rice 《abbreviated》

　　《Upon consideration, Ikōzan Hōmyō-ji Temple, the bettō of Kishimojin in Zōshigaya, Edo, is said by that temple to be the Ikō-ji Temple mentioned in the Azuma Kagami, but this is probably an error. The Azuma Kagami also mentions that Komae Nyūdō Sōsai led over 50 villains to cut the temple's rice fields and commit outrages. Komae Nyūdō was the lord of Komae-gō in Tama District. Now in Sasu Village of the same district is what is said to be the site of his old mansion》