【Right Page】
　According to the remaining edition of the Musashi Province Fudoki (Gazetteer), in Musashi Province, Tama District,
　　Anazawa Tenjin　Keida 36 bundles 3 keta fields　This is the deity Sukunahiko-no-kami enshrined in the 4th year of Emperor Kōan, 3rd month of Mizunoe-tatsu
　At the foot of this shrine, a valley stream flows and joins the Tama River. Across this stream on the mountainside is one
　rock cave. Hence the name Anazawa (hole-marsh). The old rock cave is said to have collapsed, so now there is a newly dug
　cave. The cave entrance is one, but inside it is divided into two parts. (Various stone statues of gods and Buddhas are erected inside)
Ozawa Castle Ruins　Located along the mountain range of Yanokuchi Tenjin, running parallel to the west of Mt. Sengen. According to the Azuma Kagami, in the 2nd year of Genkyū, 6th month,
　23rd day, the priest Inage was executed by Ōkawado Saburō. His son Ozawa Jirō Shigemasa was
　killed by Usami Yoichi. Also in the same record, on the 3rd day of the 11th month of the same year, Ozawa Sakon-no-shōgen Nobushige accompanied the daughter of Ayanokōji Sanmi Morosue
　from Kyoto and arrived. Through Yukimitsu, he reported the matter to the Nun Regent (abbreviated below). Also
　on the 4th day of the same month, at nightfall, Princess Ayanokōji visited the residence of the Nun Regent. This was regarding the matter of becoming an adopted child.
　It states that she was ordered to govern Ozawa-gō in Musashi Province (the hereditary territory of the priest Inage). In the Kamakura Ōsōshi,
　in the 9th year of Bunmei, Nagao Shirō Saemon-no-jō Kageharu was angered at not receiving the position of family administrator of the Yamanouchi Uesugi and plotted rebellion, attempting to destroy Akisada by rallying like-minded allies in Bushū and Sōshū

【Outside frame】Three-226

【Left Page】
　to attack the Uesugi family. In this account, Kaneko Kamon-no-suke fortified himself in a castle called Ozawa, so Ōta Saemon-nyūdō sent forces from Ōgigayatsu under his command, and on
　the 18th day of the 3rd month, they attacked and captured Misorogi Castle. On the same day, they attacked the fortress at Iso, and after
　defending for one day, when night fell, Echigo Gorōshirō could not hold out and surrendered the castle. From there
　they pressed toward Ozawa Castle and attacked, but the castle was in a difficult position and hard to capture (abbreviated). Kageharu's allies at Hōsō
　Temple and Yoshisato Kunai Saemon-no-jō and others came out from Yokoyama as reinforcements for Ozawa Castle
　and took position at Fuchū in this province (abbreviated). On the 18th day of the 4th month of the same year, they also captured Ozawa Castle where Kaneko Kamon-no-suke had been holed up.
Mukainoka　The area now called Mukainoka extends with the Tama River to the north, beginning from Sekido in the west
　and ending at Suenaga in the east. The length of this ridge is approximately six ri or more.
　　(Some say that the ridge now called Mukainoka may not be the original Mukainoka. Considering the remaining edition of the Musashi Province Fudoki,
　it states that the northern boundary of Tama District is limited by Mukainoka, which suggests this is not the same place.
　However, Sayama in the same district extends 5 ri north-south and east-west,
　forming a 20 ri ridge running east-west from Mt. Obiki to Mt. Hachikoku. It is surrounded on all sides by Musashino plain, and from any direction one faces the hills,
　hence the name Mukainoka. Therefore, the place now called Mukainoka might better be called Tsuzuki-ga-oka.
　Whether this is correct or not is unknown, but I temporarily mention it here.)