【Right Page】
　According to the remaining edition of the Musashi Province Fudoki,
　　Tama District is bounded by Kusakubo Hill to the east, Kanagawa River to the west, Hanada Bay to the south, and Mukainoka Hill to the north (etc.)
　Shin-Chokusen-shū
　　　Since it is the grass of Mukainoka in Musashino, even when I search for its roots, I think of it with pathos　　Komachi
　Zoku-Kokin-shū
　　　Morning after morning, would one see it elsewhere? The ten-sun mirror, white snow piling on Mukainoka　　Tomo-ie
　Gyokuyō-shū
　　　When I look through the breaks in autumn mist, the morning sun shows that Mukainoka has taken on color　　Go-Ichijō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nyūdō
　Same
　　　The evening sun on Mukainoka's light autumn leaves, what a lonely autumn color to come again　　Teika
　Fuboku-shū
　　　Among the originally thick chrysanthemum branches of Mukainoka, mingled blue flowers and undergrowth　　Tameie
　Gyokashū
　　　When did Mukainoka's small pine grove become such that moonlight filters through?　　Emperor Go-Toba
　Karin Meisho-kō
　　　The cuckoo of Mukainoka where the evening sun shines, crying repeatedly at the edge of clouds　　Ryūgen
Tsuzuki-no-oka (written as Tsuzuki or Tsudzuki) From Mt. Kobotoke peak to Oyamada village belongs to Tama District. Called Hirayama or
　Yokoyama, already sung in ancient poems as "Tama-no-yokoyama," all lie in this area. Also, the area from what is called Kanrin's
　Annai-yama to Kanagawa belongs to Tsuzuki District. With no high or low points running north-south,
　the Bandō road extends for about a hundred ri. Because it continues, it has the name Tsuzuki-no-oka (Continuing Hill).

【Outside frame】Three-227

【Left Page】
Aonuma Myōjin　Located in Naganuma Village at the same place, beside the Hachiōji highway. The enshrined deities are Ōta-no-mikoto and Sarutahiko
　Ōkami, two gods. The origin of their enshrinement is unknown. The Fukushima family serves as shrine priests. The festival is
　held on August 15th. (In the Taiheiki, in the 7th year of Shōhei, 2nd intercalary month, under the section on the Battle of Kotesashi-hara, among the people who rushed to the general's camp, the name Naganuma Hangan appears. Possibly someone from this area?)
　　(I believe this shrine may be the Aoi Shrine listed in the Engishiki. Local people have passed down that in ancient times this area had a large marsh, hence the name Naganuma. Indeed, even now when digging the ground in this area, the soil is entirely marsh earth. The Wamyō-ruijū-shō lists a place name "Inogo" in Hiki District of Musashi Province, reading it as "Numanoshiri." If so, there seems to be basis for considering this shrine the Aoi Shrine of the Engishiki. I merely await the consideration of future scholars.)
Senkokuzan Shufuku Zen Temple　Located in Suge Village, thirteen chō to the southeast from Yanokuchi ferry crossing, along the eastern mountain ridge of Yanokuchi. (This area belonged to Tama District, later to Tachibana District. This vicinity is also called Ozawa-gō.) Said to be a Buddhist temple founded by Prince Shōtoku in the 6th year of Empress Suiko, year of Tsuchinoe-uma. Originally it was of the Tendai sect. From the time of Zen Master Taian of Kenchō-ji, it became a Zen temple. Now it belongs to the Sōtō sect under Eiheiji in Echizen Province.
　Main Hall's principal image: Eleven-faced Kannon (Traditionally said to be carved by the bird sculptor. Some say it is of the same wood and carving as the image at Hase Temple in Yamato Province. Called Daikaidō, it is one of the temple's ten scenic spots.)
　Bell (Located on the right. A certain Ida Rokurō Emon-no-jō donated a half-bell during the time of the temple's head priest, monk Sōen, in the 7th year of Ōei, year of Kanoe-tatsu. Due to cracking, it was recast in the 2nd year of Kanbun, as noted in writings by the temple's head priest, monk Yūhō.)
　Amida Hall (Located on the left. Called Zen'ō-den. The principal image is a seated statue 4 shaku 5-6 sun tall, maker unknown. Images of Jizō, Tamon and others are enshrined on left and right.) Guardian Shrine (Located to the left of the gate. Enshrines four deities: Hachiman, Inari, Daikoku, and Benzaiten. Called Ōgo-byō, it is one of the temple's ten scenic spots.) Shigetsu Bridge (A wooden bridge spanning the stream outside the temple gate. This is also one of the ten scenic spots.)