【Right Page】
Sonka Valley (餐霞谷) 《This refers to the valley behind the temple kitchen of the same location. It is an old site related to Taoism. Therefore, this place is now called Senkok (Immortal Valley). This is also one of the ten scenic spots of this temple》Saiyaku Hill (採薬阜) 《Where Xu Fu of Qin came to Japan and gathered medicinal herbs》Kakumu Pine (攫霧松) 《It was located to the left of the barrier at the same location, but now it has withered. The local people call it Dosojin Pine. Having one root and five branches, it appeared to grasp the mist, hence the name. This is one of the temple's ten scenic spots》

Hōjō (Abbot's Quarters) 《Called Hansei-shitsu (Late Achievement Room). One of the ten scenic spots》

Daihannya-kyō (Great Wisdom Sutra) Six Hundred Volumes 《Stored in Sanskrit boxes. The paper is yellow and thin. These are the brushwork of famous monks and high priests of ancient times. Among them are four volumes said to be the handwriting of Minamoto no Yoshitsune and Benkei, with their names annotated. It is handed down that during the Bunji era, Minamoto no Yoshitsune and Benkei briefly rested at this place, following the spiritual traces of their ancestors, praying for divine response for restoration before the honored Kannon of this temple, and especially entering the great assembly hall to copy the missing portions of the sutras from the Bunji era. In the Eitoku Mizunoe-Inu year, Kamakura Sahyōe-no-kami Ujimitsu, admiring the virtue of the master, repaired the insect damage of these sutras again during his visit, as recorded in the temple origins》

The Senkok-zan Shufuku Temple was originally established in the sixth year of Empress Suiko's reign (598 CE), year of Tsuchinoe-Uma, when Prince Shōtoku built seven meditation areas (練若) at the place where Nyū Ami-ni-kō, the deceased mother of Princess Takahashi, passed away, to aid her posthumous blessing. The mountain is called Senkok because a hermit named Dōkyō dwelled in seclusion on this mountain, practicing ascetic training and self-cultivation for many years. Hence it is also called Dōkyō Valley. There have been many mysterious and strange occurrences from ancient times to now, said to be the work of this immortal. The temple is called Shufuku because when the brambles were cleared and the land leveled, an image of Ākāśagarbha Bodhisattva was discovered. Therefore, the sacred name "Fukuichiman" was adopted to pray for the temple's lasting prosperity, establishing the current name. Later, an attendant of Kenchō-ji transcribed one scroll of the Ākāśagarbha Sutra and requested the calligraphy of Zen Master Sekishitsu Kū to be carved and donated. The temple's statue of Eleven-Faced Avalokiteśvara was hand-carved by a manifestation who came at evening time. Since then, spiritual responses have multiplied. Some say it is carved from the same wood as the statue at Hase Temple in Yamato Province. During the Kōhei era, when Hachiman Tarō Yoshiie was about to set out to suppress rebels in Ōshū, he stayed here en route and earnestly prayed to this image for success in battle, later indeed receiving divine response. In ancient times, Ozawa Kotarō

【Outside frame】Three-229

【Left Page】
Shigemasa would walk before the image every morning, diligently maintaining morning incense and evening lamps, cultivating good karma for this life and the next. The Daihannya-kyō in Sanskrit boxes represents the brushwork of renowned monks and high priests. During the Bunji era, Minamoto no Yoshitsune and Benkei briefly rested at this place, following ancestral spiritual traces, praying for divine response for restoration, and specifically copying the missing portions of the sutras, which still exist today. However, the temple suffered war damage and had been in ruins for many years. Then the former abbot, Kenchō Daian Zenji Daihō Kei-oshō, established his staff at this place, working together against the desolation, first reviving the Zen tradition, with monks and laypeople gathering like clouds. In Eitoku Mizunoe-Inu year, Kamakura Sahyōe-no-kami Ujimitsu (titled Eian-ji-dono Hekizan Zen-kō), admiring the master's virtue, visited and again repaired the insect damage to these sutras, constructing three halls. He enshrined the Eleven-Faced Great Compassion image in the Great Assembly Hall, the Amida Tathāgata image in the Zen'ō Hall, and respectfully invited Benzaiten, Daikokuten, Hachiman Daibosatsu, and Inari Daimyōjin to the protection shrine. Through this, he looked up to the consolidation of the imperial realm and prayed unceasingly for the prosperity of Buddhism.

Ōei 14th year, Hinoto-I, 6th month, 18th day
Respectfully recorded by Monk Sōen

It is handed down that in the sixth year of Empress Suiko (598 CE), year of Tsuchinoe-Uma, Prince Shōtoku established seven meditation areas at the place where Nyū Ami-ni-kō, the deceased mother of Princess Takahashi, passed away, to aid posthumous blessings—this is the old site. The mountain is called Senkok because the hermit Dōkyō dwelled in seclusion on this mountain, practicing ascetic training and self-cultivation for many years accumulated. Hence it is also called Dōkyō Valley 《There have been many mysterious and strange occurrences from ancient times to now, said to be the work of this immortal》. The temple is called Shufuku because when the brambles were cleared and the land leveled, an image of Ākāśagarbha Bodhisattva was discovered. Therefore, the sacred name "Fukuichiman" was adopted