【Right Page】
This was erected as a marker to celebrate the temple's grandeur《Note: Later, Yo-shisha of Kenchoji Temple copied only one scroll of the Akasagarbha Sutra | Zen Master Sekishitsu Zenkyo's handwritten calligraphy was printed and donated to the temple》
During the Kohei era (1058-1065), when Hachiman Taro Yoshiie departed for the conquest of Oshu, he lodged here on his way. At that time, he prayed to the temple's principal image for success. Later, he indeed obtained miraculous assistance. Long ago, Kosawa Kotaro Shigemasa would walk around in front of the Buddhist statue every morning, cultivating good karma for this world and the next. However, the temple buildings were destroyed in war and remained in ruins for many years. Then Zen Master Taian Taihokei from Kamakura's Kenchoji Temple came to this place with his staff, began to restore the desolation, and revived the Zen tradition. Therefore, both monks and laypeople gathered like clouds《Note: Some say it was the 84th abbot of Kenchoji Temple / Hokei》
《Note: This monk was that person. Calling him Taihokei is an error》However, in the 2nd year of Eitoku, Mizunoe-Inu (1382), when [someone] came to pay respects out of admiration for the virtue of Kamakura Sahyoe-no-kami Ujimitsu, three halls were constructed《Note: The three refer to the so-called | Taie-do and Zenno》
《Note: -den and Ogo | -myo, these are they》

Tenyoku-ho (Wing-Spreading Peak) - This refers to the mountain continuing to the left of Jufukuji Temple. It's commonly called Shinmei-yama. Because its shape resembles a bird spreading its wings, it's called by this name. According to tradition, the Shinmei Shrine here originally flew from Kozukue and became enshrined here《Note: This is one of Jufukuji Temple's ten | scenic spots》

Asama-yama - Part of the same mountain range, it's named this because there's a small Asama shrine at the summit. Local people call it Castle Asama-yama

【Outside frame】 Three-231

【Left Page】
/ This is also one of Jufukuji Temple's ten / scenic spots, called Kosho-gai (Light-Illuminating Cliff). Cutting through thorns and parting small bamboo grass, climbing several dozen steps to reach the summit and looking out from the cliff, the view extends boundlessly and the beauty of the mountains and waters cannot be fully captured by the brush《Note: A little | below where the Asama shrine is located is a place called the ruins of Kosawa Castle}}
《Note: There is such a place. Details about Kosawa | Castle are given below}}

Togyoku-sen (Jade-Spitting Spring) - Located on farmers' land at the western mountain base, separated by a valley behind Jufukuji Temple. It's named this because the water source spouts white sand. It was formerly called Kosawa's White Pure Water. This is also one of Jufukuji Temple's ten scenic spots.

Taikoku-zan Hosen-ji Temple - Also called Kichijo-in. Located about ten cho south of Jufukuji Temple, separated within Suge Village on the right side of the Fuchu Road《Note: It belongs to Inage domain | and is part of Kosawa-go》It belongs to the Tendai sect and is affiliated with Jindaiji Temple in Jindaiji Village. Amida Nyorai is the principal image.

Yakushi-do Hall《Note: Located about one and a half cho west behind the temple. Every year on August 12th / there are lion dances and archery dancing performances | The festival days are September 8th and 12th, and these days are also very lively}}
The statue of the principal image Yakushi Nyorai is said to have been carved by the Great Master Jikaku. According to tradition, it was a sacred image protected by Tokiwa Gozen, the consort of Sama-no-kami Yoshitomo. In the 3rd year of Bunji, Hinoto-Hitsuji, 8th month (1187), a document from Mt. Hiei