【Right Page】
　　　　He was called Matsudaira Genjiirō Yasukuni and resided in Komoro Castle in the same province. Later he was appointed to the position of Shuri-dayū.
　　　　Nobutsura's second son Fukuchiyo-maru (thirteen years old), in the 14th year of Tenshō, year of the Fire Dog (1586), in April, came of age in the presence of
　　　　Gongen-sama, who personally performed the hair-cutting ceremony and granted him an honorary name, title, sword,
　　　　hair ornaments, etc. (each still transmitted today). He was called Matsudaira Shinrokurō Yasuzane (later renamed Yasuhiro). In the 18th year (1590),
　　　　when over a thousand rōnin staged an uprising in Aegiki Valley in Shinshū, Yasukuni and Yasuhiro suppressed it and
　　　　killed their leader Banno Gyōbu along with over 380 followers (Taikō's commendation letter from this time is still transmitted).
　　　　In the same year, during the subjugation of the Hōjō family, Nishimaki Castle in Jōshū was defended by Hōjō retainers Datame Suō and
　　　　Ōtani Tachizaemon-no-jō, but Yasukuni and Yasuhiro captured it with a single force and
　　　　killed Datame and Ōtani (the commendation letter is still transmitted). They also captured Ishikura Castle, but unfortunately Yasukuni
　　　　was killed in action. As a result, his legacy was granted to Yasuhiro (the certificate document still exists). When the eight Kantō provinces came under direct control,
　　　　he was ordered to relocate to Fujioka in Kōzuke Province and was granted both Midorino district in the same province and Hanzawa district in Musashi Province.
　　　　After this he was ennobled and appointed to Uemon-dayū. In the 5th year of Keichō, year of the Metal Rat (1600),
　　　　he was in self-confinement for certain reasons when, during Lord Hideyasu's confrontation with Uesugi Kagekatsu, he was
　　　　summoned to the military camp in Utsunomiya, Shimotsuke Province. At this time he was called Katō Shirōbei and immediately
　　　　was ordered to defend Nikkō. When entering Echizen Province, he was granted land in Kinomoto, Ōno District, and

【Left Page】
　　　　resided there. At this time, he was granted long-barreled rifles (two guns) with the understanding that he would
　　　　maintain the route to and from Fukui (still in possession today). When Lord Hideyasu passed away, he shaved his head and took the name Sōgetsu.
　　　　During Lord Tadanao's campaign to Osaka, there was a command that Ōno District had become a place of uprising, so
　　　　he served as the castle steward of Ōno.

　In the 2nd year of Jōō, year of the Water Dragon (1653), during Lord Mitsumichi's era
　He was granted succession of the family headship
　　　Ashida Zusho Yoshitaka (Birth province: Echizen　Original name: Katō Daigaku Naizen)

　In the 2nd year of Tenna, year of the Water Dog (1682), during Lord Tsunamasa's era, he was granted succession of the family headship
　　Adopted son
　Current Ashida Uemon Kensatsu (Birth province: Musashi　Actually the third son of Ishikawa Ichimasa Minamoto Fusauji　Appointed to chief retainer position during Lord Yoshikuni's era)