【Right Page】
　　　　village as an escort. When Lord Hideyasu was born and during his childhood, he was
　　　　raised in Sakuzaemon's household. Later, when he went to Kyoto as an adopted son of Lord Hideyoshi,
　　　　Sakuzaemon was also ordered to accompany him.
　　　　Shigetsugu's son, Hida-no-kami Narishige, was also summoned by Gongen-sama at age twelve,
　　　　and accompanied Lord Hideyasu when he went to Kyoto. After Lord Hideyoshi's death,
　　　　Shigetsugu was recalled to the Hatamoto (direct retainers of the shogun). At that time, when Lord Hideyasu was residing
　　　　at Yūki Castle, he came to pay his respects, and due to gracious consideration,
　　　　Lord Hideyasu spoke of his father Sakuzaemon, saying "As a reward for his guidance during my childhood,
　　　　I bestow this small wakizashi by Rai Kunimitsu that I received from Gongen-sama." This
　　　　small wakizashi was explained to Minbu Shigeyoshi when he was summoned to serve the house,
　　　　and it was passed from Narishige to Shigeyoshi, and has been handed down to this day. Narishige
　　　　was granted a fief of 40,000 koku in Keichō 18 during Lord Tadanao's reign, was appointed
　　　　lord of Maruoka Castle and served as chief retainer. During the Osaka campaigns, he served as Lord Tadanao's vanguard at
　　　　Tennōji, breaking through the stockades of the outer fortifications and attacking the base of the walls. From gunfire from within the castle,
　　　　sixteen mounted retainers were wounded, along with 160 men, and flag poles and horse insignia were also shot and broken.
【Left Page】
　　　　Hida-no-kami was also shot by muskets on the left side of his helmet and the edge of his body armor. In the following
　　　　year's summer campaign, he charged first at Tennōji, took 273 heads, broke through the side
　　　　of the main gate and was first to storm in, receiving an arrow to his left cheek. At that time,
　　　　five retainers were killed in action and seven were wounded. Twenty-eight enemy heads were taken.
　　　　He stormed up to the gates of the main castle and set fires in various places. There were many other
　　　　distinguished services in various places during his prime years, but these are the main ones. After Lord Tadanao's exile,
　　　　Narishige was recalled to the Hatamoto.

　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, Kanbun 5th year, Year of the Wood Snake
　Summoned to service, thereafter served as chief retainer
　　　Honda Sakudayū Michishige (Birth province: Echizen, Original name: Sahei)

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, Hōei 4th year, Year of the Fire Boar
　Granted family headship
　　Current Honda Minbu Shigetake (Birth province: Echizen)