【Right Page】
　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, in the 2nd year of Jōō (1653, year of mizunoto-mi)
　Granted succession to family headship
　　　Sasaji Gyōbu Naotsugu (Birth province: Echizen)

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, in the 3rd year of Enpō (1675, year of kinoto-u)
　Granted inheritance
　　　Sasaji Daigaku Yoshitsugu (Birth province: Echizen)

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, in the 16th year of Genroku (1703, year of mizunoto-hitsuji)
　Granted inheritance
　　Current generation: Sasaji Shōzen Masakata (Birth province: Echizen)

【Left Page】
　　　　　　△　Sugita

　Summoned to service during Lord Tadamasa's time as heir apparent
　　● Sugita Gorōbei Mimasa (Home province and birth province both Yamato, family name Fujiwara, original names Gonnosuke and Iki)
　　　　Mimasa's grandfather, Sugita Gonnosuke, served as chief retainer to Kaishige Kai-no-kami,
　　　　lord of Kaishige Castle in Yamato Province, but because his remonstrations were not accepted, he resigned his position and retired to
　　　　Awadono village in the same province, where he lived in seclusion and changed his name to Sukigara. The site of his residence remains to this day. Mimasa's father,
　　　　Sugita Shindayū, became a captain of one hundred cavalry as a masterless samurai during the Korean campaigns and crossed to Korea, but died
　　　　of illness in camp. When Mimasa was young, he served as a page in the household of Kanamori Hōin. At that time,
　　　　Hōin invited Lord Hideyoshi to his residence, and Lord Gongen (Tokugawa Ieyasu) also attended a go gathering.
　　　　When Mimasa served tea, Lord Hideyoshi observed him and said, "This child is no ordinary person.
　　　　Hōin, raise him well," and it is said that Lord Gongen made similar remarks.
　　　　When he came to Echizen as a masterless samurai, Koma Konoike served as intermediary based on connections from the same province
　　　　and he was summoned to service. He served in both Osaka campaigns, and in the 2nd year of Genna (1616,
　　　　year of hinoe-tatsu), in the 7th month, was granted new domain at Shimotsuma in Hitachi Province (with official documents). He served as chief retainer in Echizen.