【Right Page】
　　　　His original name appears to have been Naiki. Bungo-no-kami's great-grandfather was called Naiki Naiki-no-suke.
　　　　Bungo-no-kami also initially seems to have been called Naiki Bungo-no-kami for a while. This is seen in the vermillion seal documents.

　During Lord Tadamasa's reign, Kan'ei 2, Year of the Metal Ox (1625)
　Summoned to service
　　　Okabe Zōshu-no-suke Yasunao (birth province: Kazusa, childhood name: Tōan, Umanosuké)
　　　　Awaji-no-kami (personal name unknown), the eldest son of the former Bungo-no-kami, served as Lord Hideyasu's page, and at the time of his lord's death
　　　　prepared to commit ritual suicide, but when a prohibition was issued from Edo,
　　　　he stopped this action. Perhaps due to these sentiments, he died in battle during the Winter Siege of Osaka. The second son, Bungo, was sickly
　　　　and unable to perform official duties, so he was assigned a minor stipend and spent his entire life
　　　　in retirement. A certain Yozaemon was granted the inheritance of this retired person,
　　　　and served until Lord Tsunamasa's reign, receiving leave along with others in Jōkyō 3, Year of the Fire Tiger (1686). Zōshu-
　　　　no-suke Yasunao was only two years old when his father Bungo-no-kami died in battle, and was in Owari province
　　　　staying with his brother-in-law's family, but later in his youth was taken in by Okabe

【Left Page】
　　　　Sanjirō (the great-grandfather of the current Sanjirō), who was among the shogun's direct retainers, and raised. When Lord Tadamasa heard of this,
　　　　Yasunao was summoned as a page at age thirteen, in Kan'ei 2, Year of the Metal Ox (1625).

　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, Manji 1, Year of the Earth Dog (1658)
　Granted succession
　　　Okabe Shinkurō Sadanori (birth province: Echizen, Buddhist name: Ichiunn)

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, Genroku 10, Year of the Fire Ox (1697)
　Granted family headship
　　Adopted son
　 Current generation Okabe Sazen Okihira (birth province: Musashi, original name: Matajirō, Ukyō)
　　　　Okihira's real father was a man called Atsumi Heinai who served
　　　　Lord Mitsunaga, the Middle Captain of Echigo. When Lord Mitsunaga was exiled, he became a masterless samurai along with others, so Okihira
　　　　came to this domain because Atsumi Shinuemon Tomonobu, who was in service to the house, had family connections of the same surname, and thus to this province