【Right Page】
　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, in Shōhō 3 (1646, year of the Fire Dog), he was granted family headship
　　Adopted son
　　　Tominaga Shinzaemon Nagamori (birth province: Owari, real father: Kuno Shichirōemon, retainer of the Owari domain)

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, in Jōkyō 4 (1687, year of the Fire Rabbit),
　he was granted family headship
　　　Tominaga Shinzaemon Nagasuke (birth province: Echizen, Buddhist name: Yūshin)

　During Lord Yoshikuni's reign, in Kyōhō 5 (1720, year of the Metal Rat),
　he was granted family headship
　　Current Tominaga Shichirōemon Yasunaga (birth province: Echizen)

【Left Page】
　　　　　　　△　Sakakibara

　Summoned by His Excellency Gongen-sama in Enshū Province
　Attendant to Lord Hideyasu
　　● Sakakibara Rokuemon (personal name unknown, home province: Owari, birth province unknown, surname unknown)
　　　　He was the second son of a man called Sakakibara Shinbē (personal name unknown). His ancestors were retainers of the Oda house. Shin-
　　　　bē served Lord Oda Nobuo and held territory at a place called Hanta in Owari Province. Rokuemon
　　　　had reasons to leave Owari Province and resided in Chiryū in Mikawa Province. Later, in Enshū Province,
　　　　he was summoned by His Excellency Gongen-sama and became an attendant to Lord Hideyasu. When Lord Hideyasu went up to Osaka as the
　　　　Taikō's adopted son, he served as an escort and went along. His son Rokuzō (later
　　　　changed his name to Shinbē or Jūzaemon) was also summoned, and father and son both served. During the Battle of Sekigahara,
　　　　they attended Lord Chōshō-in (then called Chiryū-sama), Lord Seiryō-in (then called Okayama-sama), and Lord Tadamasa (then called Toramatsu-sama),
　　　　serving these three lords at the hostage residence within Osaka Castle.
　　　　When Lord Hideyasu sent a man called Toda Rokubē as a secret messenger
　　　　with a confidential letter from his camp at Oyama, Rokuemon wrote the reply letter and handed it to Rokubē. After
　　　　that, Toramatsu-sama developed a fever, which might have been smallpox. If so, Hide[yasu...]