【Right Page】
　　　　Since Lord Yoripublic had not yet suffered from smallpox and there were concerns, [the message] that [he] wished to visit Lord Hideyasu's residence was conveyed from Lord Chōshō-in to Masuda Uemonno-jō through Roku-
　　　　emon as messenger. The matter was arranged and [Lord Yoripublic] left the castle. This was also reported to the camp at Oyama by express messenger.

　Summoned by Lord Hideyasu in Osaka
　　　Sakakibara Jūzaemon Shigenari (birth province unknown, original name: Rokuzō, Shinbē)
　　　　In Keichō 2 (1597, year of the Fire Rooster), at Lord Tadamasa's birth and shrine visit, he served as escort carrying the protective sword.
　　　　In Keichō 19 (1614, year of the Wood Tiger), he served as messenger from Edo to Fukui to inquire about Lord Chōshō-in's mood.
　　　　While staying in Fukui, a message came from Edo through Menuke Shōsuke by official letter that Lord Tadamasa would march to Osaka, so [he] should go to Fushimi and serve as escort to Osaka. He immediately served as escort in the Winter Campaign, was appointed spear magistrate, and served in the field camp. The following year on May 7th, during Lord Tadamasa's first assault at Tennōji front, [he] pressed forward to Sakura Gate, calling out with flag magistrate Kamikawa Saemon,

【Left Page】
　　　　announcing loudly "Spear magistrate Sakakibara Shinbē." He exchanged words with Kamiya Kyūemon, the flag magistrate of Lord Mizuno Hyūga-no-kami who made the second assault, then handed over [command] to the second assault and withdrew. At that time, [he] took three heads (including one with helmet, with silk mother-of-pearl attached) and presented them to Lord Tadamasa, receiving words of praise and being awarded a spear made by Echizen-jū Kaneueki as immediate reward.

　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, Jōō 3 (1654, year of the Wood Horse)
　Granted succession rights
　　　Sakakibara Jūzaemon Narinobu (birth province: Echizen, original name: Sukezaemon, Buddhist name: Tetsushin)

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, Jōkyō 3 (1686, year of the Fire Tiger), granted succession rights
　　Adopted son, actually the child of Menuke Kosaburō Nobuhiro
　　　Sakakibara Sukezaemon Takahiro (birth province: Echizen, Buddhist name: Gushin)

　During Lord Yoshikuni's reign, Shōtoku 3 (1713, year of the Water Snake), granted succession rights
　　　Sakakibara Jūzaemon Shigemasa (birth province: Echizen, original name: Jinnosuke)