One, Heijirō, son of Yoichi, residing in a tenement of Chōuemon in Reiganjima Shiomachi: born in the Year of the Rabbit, age 6.
　　Guardian/claimant of the above: Yoichi, same location.

One, Kichiroku, (same household as above): born in the Year of the Rabbit, age 4.
　　Guardian/claimant of the above: Yoichi, same location.

One, Chūbei, residing in a tenement of Kyūbei in Shiba Kita Shinmonzenchō: born in the Year of the Rabbit, age 55.
　　Guardian/claimant of the above: Kyūbei, same location.

One, Kumajirō, son of Yasūbei, residing in a tenement of Shinbei in Tokiwamachi: born in the Year of the Rabbit, age 11.
　　Guardian/claimant of the above: Yasūbei, same location.

　　Subtotal of persons listed above: 15 persons.
　　Grand total of persons: 154 persons, of whom 139 were corpses and 15 died after being claimed.

The persons listed above are those who underwent official inspection (kenshi) by the town magistrate's office. Until the hour of the eighth watch (approximately 2 a.m.) on the nineteenth day, bodies had been handed over to claimants without inspection, using only numbered placards. As night fell, there were rumors that thieves, using false names, were claiming bodies in order to steal their clothing and belongings. Therefore, it became necessary to verify names through official inspection. As a result, the reported numbers of casualties varied widely and were inconsistent; the following is recorded as heard from various sources:

On the evening of the nineteenth day, numbered placards were attached to corpses at the approach to Eitaibashi Bridge; when the numbers were observed, they reached as high as number 194.

According to another account:
　　Survivors: 340 persons　　Persons rescued: 745 persons
　　Drowned: 440 persons　　Rescue boats: 144 vessels

According to yet another account,
　A document said to have been copied at the Negishi household — this is likely the most reliable account:

Deaths by drowning at Eitaibashi Bridge:
　　732 persons
　　　Of whom: samurai 86 persons, townspeople 424 persons,
　　　　　　　women 105 persons, children (male and female) 76 persons
Persons in critical condition (half-dead): 205 persons
Corpses for whom no claimant came forward: 11 persons