(Continued from previous page) ...had returned. It was only then that she realized the one who had just come home was entirely the ghost of her husband. (From the records of Kyōkaen)

　　○ The Black Hair of Green [Luster]

As the bridge was about to collapse, a woman of about thirty years of age was falling headlong from above. By some quirk of fate, her hair came loose and caught in a split in the crossbeam timber (nuki) midway up one of the bridge piles. She had not yet fallen into the water below, nor could she climb back up above; she hung suspended in mid-air, held only by her hair. Meanwhile, those who had already fallen first and were drowning in the water desperately grasped and clung to her feet, one after another. Pitifully, the woman ultimately had all her hair torn from her head, leaving it behind on the bridge pile, as her body plunged into the water and was lost forever as nameless debris on the river bottom. (From the records of a certain Matsumoto)

　　○ A Pair of Sandals Saves a Mother and Child from Disaster

The wife of a man called Tateguya Hanchichi (a carpenter and fixture-maker), who lived in Nishi-Nakachō, Asakusa—known at the time by the nickname "Tate-han," and counted among the chivalrous street men (otokodaté)—had gone out carrying her eight-year-old son on her back to watch the festival. Just as she was about to cross Eitaibashi Bridge, one of the pair of fashionable keba-nawa (fluffy-cord) sandals that her son on her back was wearing slipped off his foot. The child began to cry and would not let her proceed forward, arching his back stubbornly. Finding this more than she could manage, she pushed her way back through the crowd and stepped into the dango tea house at the foot of the bridge (famous at the time as the seller of "Eitai Dango") for a cup of tea. At precisely that moment, the bridge collapsed and countless people fell in. The sight was described as closely resembling the scene when the rice porters of Fukagawa, during a measuring trial, tilt a winnowing basket diagonally and scatter millet—tumbling from both sides of the matting (though a measuring trial normally goes in one direction only).

　The above account was told to this editor, Kōsui, at the main shop Manjidō of the Asai family, by the very child who at the time had been riding on his mother's shoulders—namely, Iwaji, the son of Tateguya Hanchichi.

【Upper Section — Classical Chinese Passage with Reading Marks】
There was a woman who fell headlong from the bridge; her hair caught on a bridge support and held her there. Her feet did not reach the water, yet those who were drowning just inches away scrambled and fought to climb up her legs. In the end, her hair gave way and she fell. The horror of it was almost unbearable to witness. (The above is the original text.)