【Right page】
Using the grain stored in warehouses, I have dispatched my agents to make arrangements and visit the villages to help them get by. For the villages closest to the administrative office (jinya), I have had temporary shelters erected in the precincts of Uchikawa Temple in Nakano Village to provide relief to those in extreme destitution. Moreover, as I have gradually investigated the deaths and injuries of livestock and people in the villages, I found that 578 men and women died, and 1,460 people were injured. Among these, many became disabled and unable to engage in farming. Two cattle and fifty horses died.
Additionally, over 200 men and women who had made pilgrimage to Zenkoji Temple and were staying there on the night of March 24th died in fires caused by the earthquake—a disaster that claimed many lives. The population of the villages at the time of this disaster decreased by 2.7 percent, and of the total assessed land value of 58,300

【Left page】
koku and more in my administrative jurisdiction, the undamaged villages account for less than 30 percent of the assessed value, while the remaining 70 percent and more consists of disaster-affected villages—all truly lamentable situations. Immediately, if the irrigation channels in the villages are not repaired, drinking water will be insufficient, and not only will rice seedbeds be affected, but even planting in undamaged rice fields will be hindered. However, the area is vast and the damage severe—far beyond what the villages can handle with their own resources. Unlike disasters such as fires, this is a great calamity that has covered everything from houses to rice fields and mountain forests. Particularly in Minochi and Takai counties, the earthquake damage was extremely severe, and if left unattended, many villages would become completely ruined. This affects human lives and will result in the loss of future tax collection and national benefit—a matter of utmost gravity. Without receiving relief assistance, there is absolutely nothing that can be done...