[He duly served as castle guard — continued from previous page.]

One entry: In the seventh month of the same 7th year [Year of the Ram, 1787], the unit commander (kashira) Saigō Genzō died of illness, and he was consequently reassigned to the unit of Bukawa Gojūrō as the successor unit assignment.

One entry: In the third month of the same 8th year [Year of the Monkey, 1788], he was appointed as an tozama-shi (outer-rank samurai) attached to the wakadoshiyori (junior elders).

One entry: In the twelfth month of the same year, he was additionally appointed to the concurrent post of supervisor (shimari-kata) of the Ankō-ryū school of swordsmanship.

One entry: In the eleventh month of the 1st year of Kansei [Year of the Rooster, 1789], in accordance with his petition, he was relieved of his concurrent post as supervisor of swordsmanship.

One entry: In the sixth month of the same year, as the wakadoshiyori unit was disbanded, he was ordered to return to his original unit and was placed in the unit of Hinata Saburōemon.

One entry: In the seventh month of the 3rd year of Kansei [Year of the Boar, 1791], it was reported that certain improper matters had occurred, and as he was said to be suffering from illness, he was placed in the custody of his clansmen and relatives. They were firmly ordered to restrict his going out, to ensure that there was absolutely no sign of him attempting to flee, to add medical treatment to their oversight, and after observing his condition, to report back in due course — this was conveyed to the unit commander Hinata Saburōemon, to be communicated to all of the said relatives.

One entry: In the sixth month of the same 5th year [Year of the Ox, 1793], it was reported in detail by his relatives that his illness had gradually improved and he appeared to be in his normal state of health. As Yūsuke had been placed in the custody of his clansmen and relatives, they were to consult together, establish a rotation, and [watch over him day and night — text continues on next page].