[Continued from previous page] — that they had been attending to him in turns. As his condition was reported to be improving, it was no longer necessary to maintain constant attendance; however, as before, his going out was to remain restricted, and all relatives were to remain mutually vigilant and attentive — this was conveyed by the unit commander Hinata Saburōemon. Thereafter, as he had fully recovered to his normal state of health, he was granted permission to go out and was told to take care of his health.

One entry: In the third month of the same 9th year [Year of the Snake, 1797], as there had previously been reports of improper conduct and illness, he had been placed in the custody of his clansmen and relatives. Subsequently, as his illness was reported to have improved, he had been granted permission even to go out. Given that this was the case, he ought to have conducted himself with proper restraint; however, as it was reported that yet again there had been improper conduct, he was once more placed in the custody of his clansmen and relatives. Based on the previous petition, they were firmly ordered to restrict his going out, to ensure there was no sign of him attempting to flee, and this was to be communicated to the clansmen and relatives, and also firmly conveyed to Yūsuke himself — this instruction was given to the unit commander Hinata Saburōemon.

One entry: In the fourth month of the same year, seven years prior there had been reports of improper conduct and illness, on account of which he had been placed in the custody of his clansmen and relatives and his going out had been restricted. Thereafter, as his illness was reported to have improved, he had been released from said custody and also granted permission to go out. Given all of that, he was certainly obliged to conduct himself with proper restraint; yet on this occasion he had proceeded to commit further improper acts and even gone so far as to submit a complaint via the meyasu-bako (suggestion box). This was altogether an unacceptable matter, and while there were grounds for formal punishment — [text continues on next page]