[Continuing from the previous page regarding the adoption of Yūshirō:] He was instructed that he was free to proceed as he wished, including receiving the man's wife and male child together.

Item: On the seventh day of the same month, he died of illness at the age of twenty-four. Posthumous Buddhist name: Kanrin-in Yūmō Zenki Koji. Place of burial: same as above.

Yūjirō Mitsuyoshi《Marginal note: Born on the twenty-sixth day of the seventh month of Kansei 3 (1791, Year of the Boar) / Died of illness on the third day of the fifth month of Bunka 5 (1808, Year of the Dragon), at the age of eighteen. Posthumous Buddhist name: Chiryō-in Kengi Koji. Place of burial: same as above.》
Mother: same as above.

Sakuzaemon Mitsunari《Marginal note: First name Yūshirō / Born on the twelfth day of the eleventh month of Meiwa 8 (1771, Year of the Rabbit)》
Biological father: Second son of Kise Kirōemon Yasuchika
　　Wife: Daughter of Nagasaki Saichirōemon Naoshige《Marginal note: Born on the eighteenth day of the fourth month of An'ei 5 (1776, Year of the Monkey)》

Item: In the twelfth month of Bunka 6 (1809, Year of the Snake), one person's portion was deducted from his late father's stipend allowance, leaving him with four persons' stipend (yonin-fuchi), and he was summoned into service as an outside-rank retainer (kumigai no shi).

Item: In the seventh month of the same seventh year (1810, Year of the Horse), he was assigned to the Criminal Records Office (keisho-shirabe-kata), and was instructed to consult with the relevant officials and conduct investigations and inquiries.

Item: In the twelfth month of the same year, because he came in early in the morning and remained until late in the evening even on rest days of the Criminal Records Office, he was granted three bu in gold as compensation for his expenses.
　　Note: In the same eighth year (1811, Year of the Sheep), for the same reason, he was granted one ryō in gold; and in the same ninth year (1812, Year of the Monkey), for the same reason, he was granted three bu in gold.