1. In the twelfth year [of Hōreki], Year of the Horse (1762), fifth month: From the stipend inherited from his late father (go-gisaku), three koku were reduced, and he was granted seven koku and a stipend for two persons (ninin-fuchi). He was appointed to the position of Aizu Katte o-tsū (Aizu domestic affairs liaison) without additional duties (muyaku).
　　Note: Due to his mother's illness, and upon his petition, he remained stationed in Edo.

2. In the same month: In terms of precedence (seki), he was appointed above Ochiai Hyōdayū, who held the miscellaneous equipment post (zatsudōgu-yaku).

3. In the thirteenth year [of Hōreki], Year of the Sheep (1763), first month: He was appointed to a temporary position (tōza karitaku) at the Edo Accounting Office (go-kanjō yakusho).

【Written in red ink】4. In the same year, ninth month: He was appointed to a temporary position at the Edo Kurairi Office (go-kurairi yakusho, office managing revenue from directly administered lands).

5. In the same month: He was appointed as a permanent Edo-based official (jōzume) in charge of rice transport (kaimai) at the Kurairi Office, and was granted an increase of one koku in stipend.

6. In the same year, twelfth month: In terms of precedence, he was appointed above Iso Shibyōe and below Nagai Seiemon.

7. In the fourteenth year [of Hōreki], Year of the Monkey (1764), fourth month: He was granted one person's worth of Edo stipend (Edo-fuchi).

8. In the second year of Meiwa, Year of the Rooster (1765), tenth month: When the rice transport (kaimai) from the Echigo domain's administered lands (go-azukari-sho) suffered a shipwreck off the coast of Sagara in Tōtōmi Province, he traveled there to conduct an investigation and returned in the same month.
　　Note: After this incident, he was dispatched on numerous occasions in connection with rice transport duties.

9. In the fourth year [of Meiwa], Year of the Boar (1767), eleventh month: Regarding gold and silver currency matters at the Fukushima administered lands (go-azukari-sho)... (continues on the next page)