(Continued from the previous page) He was additionally appointed to concurrently serve as a payments and receipts official (ukebari yakunin), an accounting officer (kanjō no mono), and a scribe (monokaki), and was assigned to domestic affairs (katte-kata).
　　Note: Due to pending official business, he descended [from Edo to Aizu] in the third month of the following Year of the Rat (1768).

1. In the fifth year [of Meiwa], Year of the Rat (1768), tenth month: For the purpose of accounting duties (go-kanjō go-yō) related to the retrieval/resumption of the Mutsu and Echigo administered lands (go-azukari-sho), he traveled up to Edo, and returned in the first month of the following Year of the Ox (1769).
　　Note: After this, in connection with said official duties, he traveled up to Edo seven times in total, and on some occasions also traveled to Osaka.

2. In the seventh year [of Meiwa], Year of the Tiger (1770), ninth month: Following Takahashi Banemon's absence due to illness, he was appointed to a temporary position (kariyaku) concurrently serving as Accounting Officer (go-kanjō yaku) and Inspector (ginmi yaku).

3. In the eighth year [of Meiwa], Year of the Rabbit (1771), second month: Because he had devoted himself on ordinary days to managing the procurement of funds (chōtatsukin) and other financial arrangements during a period of financial difficulty (go-naishō-kata go-sashitsukae) for the domain, he was awarded two bundles of cotton (wata futataba) as a reward.

4. In the same year, third month: He was officially appointed to concurrently serve as Kurairi Accounting Official (go-kurairi go-kanjō yakunin) and Inspector (ginmi yaku).

5. In the ninth year [of Meiwa], Year of the Dragon (1772), third month: Having managed the procurement of funds required by the chief administrative office (motojikata go-nyūyō chōtatsukin), which also contributed to relieving the domain's financial difficulties (go-naishō-kata go-sashitsukae), he was granted two bundles of cotton (wata futataba).