1. In the same year [An'ei 2nd year (1773)], twelfth month: Because he had devoted himself diligently to his duties, he was granted the privilege of independent audience (dokurē) with the lord, even though it was considered a matter of considerable weight.
　　Note: His precedence in seating was granted in the same manner as that of his senior colleagues.

2. In An'ei 5th year, Year of the Monkey (1776), tenth month: Because he had traveled to [Nanyama/Minami-yama] the previous fifth month for the purpose of revising the assessed tax rates (men no kirikae) for the Nanyama domain's administered lands (go-kurairi), and had performed his duties diligently, he was awarded 300 hiki in gold as a reward.

3. In the same 8th year, Year of the Boar (1779), twelfth month: Because he had devoted himself diligently to his duties, he was granted a stipend supplement (go-yakuryō) of three koku.

4. In Tenmei 2nd year, Year of the Tiger (1782), twelfth month: He was appointed to a temporary acting position (tōza kariyaku) as Head of Kurairi Accounting (go-kurairi go-kanjō-gashira).

5. In the same 3rd year, Year of the Rabbit (1783), first month: His seating precedence was assigned above Ueda Yasube and below Saitō Gunzō.

6. In the same 7th year, Year of the Sheep (1787), first month: Because he had traveled up to Edo in connection with the matter of reduced tax assessments and installment payments (men-sagaribu) in Nanyama the previous year, successfully completed the matter, and performed his duties diligently, he was awarded one ryō in gold as a reward.

7. In Kansei 1st year, Year of the Rooster (1789), intercalary sixth month: He was appointed as a supplementary official (hokkin) to the Head of Kurairi Accounting (go-kurairi go-kanjō-gashira).

8. In the same 4th year, Year of the Rat (1792), twelfth month: On account of a particularly significant reform being implemented this time regarding the reduction and revision of all expenses for the administered lands, beginning with various miscellaneous costs (go-azukari-sho shonyūyō)... (continues on next page)