Walking along the embankment for about half a ri, I arrived at a place where there was a grove of pine trees on the embankment. Here, a Fuji Asama shrine is enshrined on slightly elevated ground. There is one large ginkgo tree, and other trees also appear aged. Passing through there and walking about half a chō further, I reached Iizuka Village [said to be four ri from Edo].

Entering through the tile-roofed gate [front entrance] of Yūgao Kannon, the hall faces south with a thatched roof. It is about six ken in width. There is a votive painting offered by Tomizawa-chō Yokomise in Genroku 16 (1703). Perhaps because no one visits at all, the lattice screens are lowered and the place appears desolate. On the east side of the hall there is a priest's quarters, where the resident monk alone was taking an afternoon nap without making a sound. Four or five desks can be seen. He probably teaches writing and such to the village children. After finishing my prayers, I left that place and walked back a little along the embankment I had come from.

I stopped at a private house and asked about the road to Handa Inari. The master of the house, who had been resting with his head on his elbow, sat up straight and said, "Today is the 15th day and there is no one going out to the rice field ridges, so there is no one to ask directions from. From here you follow the ridge paths between rice fields, and since there is no main road, it is very confusing." He offered to guide me and walked ahead. We continued along the embankment for a while, then descended to the ridge paths between rice fields. After guiding me in winding paths for about one chō, he said, "From here on, follow the places where the grass on the ridges has been trampled down as your guide. You should come out beside the Inari shrine." I thanked him profusely and we parted.

This man who guided me said, "Today I also caught fish of two or three shaku in the river with a net."

[Marginal note]
From spring to autumn of Genroku 15 (1702), not only from Edo but also from rural areas of neighboring provinces, people came to worship continuously day and night. It was said to be due to the miraculous efficacy of Kannon's divine visions, and the village headman reported countless instances of miracles. Because the main road was crowded, people came here following side paths along the ridges like ants, as Senryō recorded in Edo Sunago. The votive painting plaque that is still in the main hall today was offered during that period and was probably still part of the popular trend.