It faces west, and there is also a hall to the side. Perhaps Nichiren is enshrined there. The main body of Taishaku-ten is not visible because the doors of the zushi (miniature shrine) are closed. In front, there is a separate statue based on what the devotees of this sect revere as Nichiren's authentic calligraphy - a hanging scroll with various Buddha names written above and below a figure that could be called Shōki (a demon-quelling deity). The world says this depicts "the form that Nichiren drew himself when he transformed into Taishaku-ten in the guise of subduing demons." Stone markers from Tenmei 3 can also be seen, so perhaps devotees of this sect began making pilgrimages around that time. Hearing children reading in the temple quarters, they were reciting the Great Learning. Perhaps the head priest teaches the local children reading, writing, and such. This is quite unusual for monks of that sect in these times. There are no particularly noteworthy sights within the temple grounds or nearby areas.

Exiting through the west gate and traveling west along the rope-marked road for five to seven chō, I reached the main road. Walking intermittently and crossing a bridge over flowing irrigation water, then continuing west, I arrived at the lower lodging station of Shinjuku. At the southern corner of the middle lodging station stands Sannō Shrine. As mentioned before, today is the festival day, and many local people have gathered with kagura performances. They have placed sake barrels at the shrine grounds, and people are gathering around, eating and drinking, appearing to think of today as the ultimate enjoyment - a familiar and charming scene. From there, I passed the ferry crossing in front of the upper lodging station, went out to the pull-boats, boarded a return boat for a short while at Yotsugi, crossed the irrigation water bridge on the south side of the road (at the four-way intersection mentioned before), and took the north-south road heading toward Ichikawa.