【Right Page】
"In ritual, it is better to be frugal than extravagant." While it is good for all things in ritual to be properly arranged, when everything is too perfect, it becomes extravagance. When choosing between extravagance and frugality, it is better to choose frugality even if imperfect, as the teaching states. Frugality means simplicity. Rikyū showed tea practitioners the four characters wa-kei-sei-jaku (harmony-respect-purity-tranquility). Wa means good harmony between both parties, kei means to show respect, sei means clean and refreshing, and jaku means quiet.

Tea gatherings should be frugal and simple, and it is not good to be extravagant with too many items. In my opinion, for sweets: manjū for the hearth season, yōkan for the portable brazier season, and only one type of confection overall. For the opening of the tea jar ceremony, the mukōzuke (side dish) should be boiled chicken eggs 《with Japanese pepper》, the soup should be daikon radish cut in rounds with mustard, the simmered dish should be duck with chestnuts 《with yuzu peel》, the clear soup should be oysters 《with ginger》, the sake accompaniment should be fermented soybeans with bonito flakes, and the pickles should be

【Left Page】
melon pickled in sake lees. The above. In winter, warm dishes are preferable. For early January banquets: mukōzuke of salted small sea bream, grilled fish, soup of mizuna greens 《with mustard》, grated daikon with bonito flakes as a salad with small sea bream, simmered dish of salted duck with thick-cooked burdock root 《with tree buds》, clear soup of clams 《with pepper》, sake accompaniment of kelp with herring roe, pickles of eggplant in sake lees. The above. For New Year, frugality is especially preferred. For February banquets: mukōzuke of sea bass salad with parched sake, soup of bamboo shoots 《with mustard》, simmered dish of sea bass cut in cylinders with water shield 《with tree buds》, clear soup of matsutake mushrooms with wasabi, sake accompaniment of pickled plums and flatfish, pickles of daikon. The above. Good for spring celebration banquets or poetry gatherings. For March banquets: mukōzuke of sea bream sashimi salad with three-cup vinegar, soup of lettuce 《with mustard》, simmered dish of sliced sea bream with kudzu starch coating 《with wasabi》, clear soup of sea bream head simmered in salt water 《with tree buds》, sake accompaniment of yuzu citrus, sea bream roe with bracken fern, pickles of daikon. The above. Good for cherry blossom viewing banquets and such. June