[Right page]
stagnation remedy. It is good for food stagnation throughout the four seasons. However, without carefully selecting and using the proper medicinal ingredients, it is ineffective. Patent medicines are not the authentic formula, and moreover, since the drugs are of inferior quality, they are ineffective. The authentic formula consists of: loquat leaf 7 parts, fresh agastache leaf 5 parts, cinnamon twig 5 parts, Chinese costus root 2 parts, Chinese evodia 2 parts, zedoary 3 parts, licorice 1 part. Put these seven ingredients in a bag and steep well in hot water before taking. After steeping three times, add one gō of water and decoct down to five shaku, then take. This is a wonderful formula for food stagnation. Also,
dysentery has distinctions between deficient-type and excess-type dysentery. Excess-type dysentery has severe heat with abdominal pain and thirst, frequent trips to the toilet, extremely foul-smelling hot stools that are colored like miso syrup, and sometimes contain blood. These symptoms are easy to treat. With little heat and little thirst but abdominal pain with tenesmus, frequent toilet visits, and stools containing pus and blood like fish brain

[Left page]
matter are passed. There is no hot smell. These symptoms are difficult to treat. One should quickly entrust care to a good physician. If treatment methods are mistaken, it becomes incurable. In dysentery, one distinguishes between deficient and excess types by observing the color of the stools. Also, what is called "closed-mouth dysentery" refers to a condition where one cannot eat as if the mouth were closed. There is no separate disease called closed-mouth dysentery. If proper treatment is given early and entrusted to a good physician, it will not become closed-mouth dysentery. Also, during summer and autumn, there is a condition in children called "summer heat stroke." Because it occurs in summer, people commonly call it heat stroke, but this is not heat stroke but rather "cold stroke." The most severe cases of this condition can develop in the morning and result in death by evening, or death after two or three days. Body heat burns like fire, hands and feet convulse, there is upward staring and irritable thirst, and yellow watery stools are passed multiple times.