[Right page]
If one entrusts [treatment] to [a good doctor] and practices health maintenance and treatment, all cases will surely be cured. Syphilis (baidoku) is called "plum rain" (baiuu) and "mold rain" (haiuu). This is because "plum" (bai) and "mold" (bai) have the same sound. "Bai" means rainy season, being damp and humid, with the meaning of mold growing on all things. Syphilis in the human body is also infected by the damp qi of heaven and earth, gradually developing over months and years into either scabies or leg ulcers. When one is infected with syphilis from prostitutes and the poison manifests in the penis, it is called chancre. When the poison manifests in the area between both thighs at the groin, it is called "convenience poison." This is commonly called "horizontal root." When the poison manifests resembling yangmei fruit, it is called yangmei sores. These are all named according to the form of their manifestation, and they are all syphilis. Since syphilis gradually infects and manifests after years, trying to cure it quickly is unreasonable. Attempting to cure it rapidly

[Left page]
using harsh medicines causes it to become chronic. If one performs appropriate treatment gradually, it will not become difficult to cure. Smilax glabra should be the main treatment. Calomel also has appropriate places and times for use. If one uses it carelessly where it should not be used, many people eventually become incurable and disabled. This is truly frightening. "Kan" is the character "kan" (interval) with the sickness radical added. "Kan" means to separate, where the heart-blood separates from the normal principles of daily life and loses its regular measure. The symptoms of kan disorders are varied in a thousand ways, differing for each person, and cannot be enumerated and recorded. This originally stems from having kan from childhood, and after growing up, either indulging in sexual activities or being affected by events that damage the heart-qi. In the most severe cases, the heart-blood becomes disordered and madness manifests. Those