[Right page]
Therefore, we performed the obi-iwai ceremony and separated the couple's bedchamber. We encouraged normal daily activities and had her read books, saying that reading during pregnancy would produce a good child. She maintained proper behavior and of course abstained from sexual relations. Until late June she was healthy, with normal eating and daily activities, but from around June 27th, urination became frequent and bowel movements became hard and difficult. Her abdomen had left costal spasms and her spirit was melancholy. On July 2nd, it was an unbearably hot remaining summer day, and from morning she went to the toilet five times but could not relieve herself. At dusk, while sitting in the toilet, I suddenly heard a cry, so I rushed there to find her with her head and face against the wall, face down, eyes rolled back, mouth clenched shut, and unconscious. I quickly embraced and carried her to beside the washbasin, urgently took water from the basin in my mouth and

[Left page]
sprayed it on her face, whereupon her eyes settled and she made a sound, so I carried her as she was back to the living room. Both the acupuncturist and the physician came, but again her eyes rolled back and her mouth clenched shut, becoming unconscious. They performed acupuncture treatment and blew medicine through her nose, and gradually her mouth opened and her eyes settled. She would recover for a while then have another attack, settle for a while then have another attack. From the evening of the 2nd until the morning of the 3rd, she had attacks eleven times. Fellow physicians and relatives gathered to consult, and the consensus was that this could not be cured unless she gave birth. The decision was made to urgently summon an obstetrician for consultation, and using life-saving surgical techniques, they forcibly extracted the baby. She gave birth around the hour of the Snake, but after a while she had another attack, and from morning until the first watch of that night, she had seven more attacks and was already