[Right page]

She reached a critical state, and I heard my colleagues all sitting in a circle in one room, secretly discussing: "There are no parents-in-law in this house. The master is a libertine who oversleeps during the day, which is why she develops eclampsia like this" - they were slandering me. However, from the evening of the 2nd until noon of the 3rd, the prescriptions were frequently changed, and there was nothing she did not take - bear bile, cinnabar, coptis, ginseng, bupleurum, antelope horn, etc. In the afternoon of the 3rd, following one old physician's plan, using yokukan-san as the main medicine, by around the hour of the Ox at night she had frequently taken six or seven doses. From around the first watch, the symptoms of rolled-back eyes and clenched mouth settled, and by the hour of the Tiger, her spirit was as if awakening from a dream - for the first time she was fully conscious, went to the toilet, passed a large amount of loose stool, and her spirits became increasingly pleasant. She had never given birth before.

[Left page]

She escaped the danger of near-death and after more than a hundred days returned to normal health. When I consider why I developed eclampsia like this, it was because of my reading obsession - I had her read books during pregnancy, and we abstained from marital relations, greatly losing the proper balance of health maintenance. The precept that married couples should abstain during pregnancy has never appeared in ancient or modern books. I thought that following popular custom by abstaining in the bedchamber and being cautious in my own conduct would cause no harm, but for a man in his prime, it was impossible not to be stirred by sexual desire for six or seven months. I secretly crept to the housemaid's bed at night, or went to the quarters of courtesans and prostitutes. Pregnant women generally fear that their husbands' affection will cool due to the ugliness of their swollen bellies.

[Margin note at top of second line]
Explanation of eclampsia