【Right folio】
In Ōmachi, the Zen temple Reishō-ji had its main hall completely destroyed and subsequently caught fire. In Furусaka, one house collapsed and was followed by fire that spread to five neighboring houses. In Terasawa, one main hall was completely destroyed. In Ishibatake, one main hall was completely destroyed. In Shōhei, one building collapsed — and this later resulted in the main hall being completely destroyed as well. In the Ōhinata mountain area, there were instances of complete main-hall collapse. In Kamisashino, a considerable number of houses collapsed, and the ground shook, spewing up mud. Furthermore, in Shōka and Horinouchi, there were a few house collapses. Throughout the villages of this vicinity, there were also scattered instances of house collapse. In Miyamoto, a large number of houses collapsed. In Ōdaira, there were also house collapses. In the Northern Mountains (Kitayama), there were a few house collapses. In Hiraide, the lodging-temple (shukubō) had its main hall destroyed. In Minekataashinden, the area of Sodeyama experienced ground movement and a small number of house collapses. Furthermore, in Chimi, Sauа, and Ōshio, there were a few house collapses. In Shikajō, houses collapsed, and particularly in Horinouchi, a large number of houses were destroyed. Beyond these, there were likely further damages

【Left folio】
in other areas as well. As described above, in the great earthquake, houses collapsed and among those affected, many people died sudden or violent deaths. Out of an overwhelmingly deep sense of grief, and with a feeling of dread, one can only conclude that there is nothing left to do but pray for the repose of their souls. Accordingly, the number of those who died is omitted here. Furthermore, the Sai River (Saigawa) remained blocked, with the days accumulating, and a diagram showing the state of complete inundation from the 12th to the 13th day of the 4th month, until the Hour of the Ninth Bell at midday (around noon), is recorded to the left. The villages that were inundated spread across both riverbanks. Within the domain of Matsushiro: from Hanakura Village and Jindeyi Village, thirteen houses; Imaizumi, three houses; in Hiramizuchi, all houses were submerged (and boats were present); Nishinokubo, three houses; Yoshiwara-bun, Hashinone, Nisawa, one building (kurumaya); Sumaki Village, one Jizō-dō (wayside hall) — this hall fell into the Sai River due to the earthquake. In Kami-Mizuchi (district)...