Those living along the (Sai River) need not even be mentioned — even the people of the Ariake village believed the area might revert to the ancient lake it once was, and great numbers of people made pilgrimages to the Kannon of Hotokesaki. The lord of Matsumoto Castle issued instructions to the chief headmen (ōshōya) of each district group, and it is said that a proxy pilgrimage (daisan) was dispatched to the Great Shrine of Kashima in Hitachi Province. This was after the waters had receded.

Furthermore, (the lord of Matsumoto) conducted an inspection of Sanseiji (Temple), and declared that there was no need for concern. Likewise, the common people reasoned as follows: Iwakura Mountain is fundamentally a soil mountain, and although large rocks had indeed broken away from within it, it was a deeply earthen mountain, and it was on account of the great earthquake that the rocks had fallen away. Sanseiji, however, stands on solid rock cliffs on both banks, and therefore there could be no chance of rock falls for ten thousand years to come —

**Left folio:**

— and so they found some measure of reassurance. Nevertheless, the vast, sea-like waters from below continued to rise day by day and swell ever higher, and people were filled with worry and anxiety: they could not sleep at night, and by day could not keep their hands to their work. Moreover, the people of the villages below the Hanakura embankment — all the way through Kawanakajima and into Echigo Province — fearing that the waters might surge toward them at any moment, all climbed up into the mountains, and everyone spent their days and nights in makeshift shelters outdoors.

Then, on the thirteenth day of the Fourth Month, at the Hour of the Seventh Bell (around 4 p.m.), the embankment that had been used to plug the breach at Hanakura gave way. The sound of its breaking reverberated across heaven and earth, and all at once the waters surged and swept away. By the end of the Hour of Twilight (around 6 p.m.), the river gradually returned to its normal level.

And so, the villages within the Matsushiro domain that were inundated by the floodwaters are recorded on the left (following page) as follows.