○ (Continuing from previous page) When did I see you that I should feel such longing?

From Kokinshū, Winter section, composed as a winter poem　　　Minamoto no Muneyuki Ason
The mountain village / in winter gains in / loneliness - when I think / both human visitors / and grasses have withered

○Mountain villages are always lonely, but winter is truly especially lonely. They say that the absence of people is like "human eyes withering." Now both the occasional human presence that was sometimes seen and the grasses that wither have withered.
Regarding "when I think they have withered," it has the same meaning as simply "when they wither," and the commentary notes this is meaningless.

From Kokinshū, Autumn section, composed about white chrysanthemums　　　Ōshikōchi no Mitsune
Guessing by instinct / I would try to pick them - / white chrysanthemums / so confused by early frost / that flowers and frost look alike

○Those white chrysanthemum flowers that look so confusing with early frost fallen on them that you can't tell flowers from frost - you could probably pick them by guessing, but it's not easy to distinguish them.

From Kokinshū, Love section, topic unknown　　　Mibu no Tadamine
Ever since that parting / when the lingering moon / seemed so indifferent / nothing is as painful / as the break of dawn

○Previously, when I parted from a woman at dawn and saw the lingering moon, it stirred deep emotion. Ah, that moon sits there so calmly and leisurely, seeming not to know that night is ending, while I must return when night breaks. How painful to part when there's so much more to share. Since that time, nothing in this world seems as painful as dawn.

From Kokinshū, Winter section, composed upon seeing snow fall while on assignment in Yamato Province　　　Sakanoue no Korenori
At daybreak it seems / like the lingering moon / the white snow that has / fallen in Yoshino village

○When the night gradually brightens like this, it looks just like a morning when the lingering moon remains