【Title within Black Frame】
List of Fire Outbreak Locations in the Great Edo Earthquake

【Content within Black Frame】
Upon hearing that nearly all of Edo was struck by a great earthquake, how immense must be the grief and sorrow of relatives and family members throughout the provinces. The foremost priority is to inform them of one's safety as quickly as possible to provide reassurance.

The time was the night of October 2nd, Ansei 2 (1855), starting from the fourth hour of night (around 10 PM), when the shaking began. Houses and storehouses collapsed, and there were numerous deaths and injuries. Furthermore, fires broke out simultaneously in twenty-five locations, creating a great conflagration.

First, along the Nikko Highway: Koga-juku, Satte-juku, Kurihashi-juku, Soka-juku, Kasukabe-juku, Osawa-juku, Koshigaya-juku, Takenotsuka, Umeda Village, Senju-juku (5th through 1st districts), Kamon-juku, Kozukahara, and other areas were completely burned due to fires following the earthquake.

Asakusa-cho, Shin-Torigoe-cho (3rd through 1st districts), Hitokuchi area including Shin-cho, Sannowa-cho (1st and 2nd districts), Sakamoto-cho (3rd through 1st districts) suffered major collapses near Daion-ji temple. Fires broke out in Shin-Yoshiwara Edo-cho 1st district, burning Hashiba-cho, Kyo-cho (1st and 2nd districts), Kado-cho, Edo-cho 2nd district, and Fushimi-cho. Deaths numbered 3,700, with countless injuries.

Ta-cho (2nd and 1st districts), Takemon, Kita-Bado-cho, Minami-Bado-cho, and Saruwaka-cho (3rd through 1st districts) burned. Yakusha-shindo survived. Shoten-cho, Kawara-cho, Yamano-shuku-cho, and Hanakawado-cho were half-preserved.

The area in front of Daishin gate burned. Kanzeon temple and Nio gate remained safe. The fire stopped midway through Namiki-cho, Komagata-dori, Suwa-cho, Kurofune-cho, and Hachiman-cho.

Tori-hatago-cho, Morishita-cho, Kata-cho Hitokuchi, and temples and townhouses from Tahara-cho 3rd district to in front of Kotoku-ji temple suffered major damage.

In Shitaya, the Fujido, Tachibana, and other daimyo residences were all damaged. Fire broke out from the middle of Ueno-cho, Choja-cho (3rd and 6th districts), Uonotana, and Shichiken-shin-cho, spreading to Izumi-bashi-dori. From there, Naka-cho and back streets collapsed, while main streets generally survived. Hirokoji and Iguchi-gawa burned.

Similarly, Kaya-cho burned through the 2nd and 1st districts. Both districts of Nezu suffered major damage with 400 deaths, countless injuries, and only two houses surviving. The residence of Lord Matsudaira Bingo-no-kami on Muen-zaka burned.

Many buildings collapsed around Sendagi and Dango-zaka. Some areas near Yanaka and above Zenkoji-zaka survived.

From there, Hongo-dori was damaged and Kiridoshi burned. The Kaga domain mobilized all personnel for firefighting. Yushima Tenjin suffered slight damage, with all townhouses and storehouses with earthen walls on both sides of the approach damaged. Two houses collapsed in the middle of the same Sangumi-cho. Additionally, Hata-shin-cho, Kamado, in front of Reiun-ji temple, and practice walls collapsed. The Inari shrine in Tsuma-koi-cho remained safe, but the town area collapsed.

Both sides of Asakusa Kaya-cho were damaged. Stone walls of the guard post were displaced. Bakuro-cho, Yokoyama-cho, Otenmma-cho, and Ko-denma-cho suffered particularly minor damage.

The residence of Lord Matsudaira Oki-no-kami opposite Azuma-bashi collapsed and burned. From around Honjo Ishihara to in front of the boat storehouse collapsed, with slight damage to Omote-cho, and burning through Mitsume, Midori-cho (1st, 2nd, and 4th districts), Yotsume-dori to Kiba.

One area included Hakozaki-cho, Minami-shimbori, Shin-kawa, Kita-shimbori, Reigan-jima, burning to Okawa-bashi.

In Fukagawa: Aikawa-cho, Tomikichi-cho, Moro-cho, Hamaguri-cho, Kitagawa-cho, Kaketo-cho, Kumai-cho, Nakajima-cho, Kuroe-cho, Naka-cho, and in front of Eitai-ji temple all burned completely. 127 deaths. Back streets, new streets, Migi-kiba, Kurofune Inari, and the lower residence of Lord Matsudaira Awa-no-kami survived.

Irifune-cho suffered slight damage. From Sakai-cho through Kawagishi-dori to Ishiki-cho suffered major damage. Tera-cho and Hirano-cho were also damaged. Kiba suffered major damage. Yamato-cho and surrounding areas burned completely with 40 deaths. Imagawa-bashi area.

South of Nihonbashi-dori: Tenma-cho 2nd district slightly, 3rd district, Tatami-cho, Gorobei-cho, Kaji-cho (1st and 2nd districts), Suzuki-cho, Inaba-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Gusoku-cho, Yanagi-cho, and Daikon-gashi burned.

Another area included inside Kanda-bashi, Lord Sakai Utano-kami's residence, Morikawa, and Daimyo-koji.