【Right page】
"Can you?" Furin said, "They are many and we are few. We cannot fight." I said, "We have guns. That is sufficient to oppose their numbers. If I fight, will you follow me?" Furin said, "If you die, I too shall die." So I had Furin drink a cup of rum to strengthen his spirit. Next, I had him take two hunting rifles loaded with large shot. I myself carried four guns, each loaded with five bullets. I also tucked two small guns with ammunition into a leather belt and wore a large sword without a scabbard at my waist. I had Furin wear an axe. Having finished our preparations, I looked through a telescope from atop the hill and saw that from three boats, twenty villains had landed with two or three bound captives. The place was different from the beach they usually came to. The place where they were setting up their feast was near the dense forest by the side of a small harbor. I could not bear to witness their inhumane acts, and the blood of anger boiled like waves throughout my body. I immediately descended from the hill and said to Furin,
【Left page】
"We shall kill them all and avenge the dead. Follow me quickly." At this time, whether from the effect of the rum, he greatly mustered his courage and said, "Very well, I shall follow you and kill them." Descending from the hill, just as we were about to face the enemy, I had Furin tuck one small gun into his leather belt and shoulder three rifles. I wore one small gun and took three rifles in hand as we advanced. Separately, I put rum in a glass bottle and stored it in a bag. I also had Furin carry a large bag of gunpowder and bullets on his back. I commanded him saying, "Watch what I do and do likewise. When firing the guns, I shall give you separate orders." Now we proceeded around the small harbor for about one ri and finally reached the dense forest. My courage increased even more, and I thought that since they had neither guns nor armor, and moreover we would catch them off guard, victory in battle was certain. Entering the forest, I kept watch in all directions, and finally emerging from the dense forest, we faced the enemy