【Right page】
We approached to within just a small grove on the beach promontory separating us from them. I commanded Furin to climb a tree and observe. Furin peered from atop the tree, returned, and reported: "They are gathered around a fire, roasting and eating human flesh. Separately, someone with hands and feet bound lies on the ground. This person will likely be eaten next. That person has white skin and black hair." Hearing this, I became even more enraged. Furin said, "This is not a person from our country, but another castaway living within our land." Hearing this, I could bear it even less. I immediately climbed the tree and peered through the telescope to see that it was a white person, a European. Descending from the tree, I advanced to where fortunately there was a tree about one hundred-odd jō from the enemy. Hiding behind this tree, we advanced for over one chō, then proceeded further until we were ten jō from the enemy. There was another tree, and fortunately beside it was a small hill, so sometimes hiding behind the hill and sometimes behind trees, we finally reached about eight jō away. Aiming at the enemy,

【Left page】
I kept my eyes fixed without blinking for even an instant. At that time I observed nineteen people gathered around the fire, with two others preparing to dismember and roast the bound captive, untying the bonds. I immediately commanded Furin, saying, "Do not be afraid, just do as I do." I placed two guns, large and small, on the ground. Furin did likewise. I took one gun and aimed it toward the enemy's feast. Furin also did the same. I said, "Is your gun ready?" He answered, "Yes." I said, "Pull the trigger." Immediately, Furin and I pulled our triggers together. One explosive sound nearly split our ears. By Furin's hand, two died and three were wounded by gunshot. By my hand, I killed one and wounded two. The enemy suddenly fell into confusion and panic. Since they could not see from which direction the bullets came, they did not know which way to flee. ◯ Furin simply watched what I was doing. When I took up the second gun, Furin did likewise. Firing simultaneously as before, they died