【Right page】
He did this for a little while, and also very carefully massaged the marks left by the bonds on his hands and feet. I too had him rub the wounds with rum. ◯ Because of these matters, we did not pursue the enemy's boat, which seemed regrettable, but it was actually very fortunate. An hour later, a hurricane arose from the northwest, and those villains' boat must certainly have encountered this storm at sea and capsized. Even if it did not capsize, they would only have drifted far away to other lands. ◯ Furin stayed close to the bound person in the boat, never leaving him, and from time to time called to Furin saying, "You should feed him the steamed bread I gave you earlier." He answered, "I have already eaten it all. However, there is another kind of food. I will give this to him." I praised his good preparation and had him drink a cup of rum. Furin was very respectful in offering it to the bound person without drinking it himself. I also gave him a bunch of dried grapes. At that time, Furin got out of the boat

【Left page】
and ran away. His speed was such that even flying birds could not match it, and though I called to him, he did not look back. Within an hour or two, greatly fatigued and with sweat streaming down his face, he returned carrying in his hands one water jar and two baskets of large steamed bread. He offered the steamed bread to me and provided water to the bound person. He drank the water and said it was more delicious than my rum. Though I was very thirsty, he did not give any to me. When I asked Furin, "Is there still water remaining?" he said, "Yes," so I said, "Then give it to that Spaniard resting over there. He must also be thirsty." I also had him give one lump of the steamed bread that Furin had just offered me, along with water and separately a bunch of dried grapes. He was greatly pleased and grateful, but his body trembled with fatigue, and the marks from his bonds were greatly swollen and appeared painful. I commanded Furin to pour rum and massage him. Though Furin supported him, he frequently cast his eyes toward the bound person in the boat, his mind seeming to be in the boat. ◯ The boat