【Right page】
There was wheat flour and rice. I found it curious and when I tasted it, it was delicious. Furin said, "This is minced meat made in my home country." Furin also served as an interpreter, translating the words of the two guests. ◯ When the feast ended, I had them collect the weapons that had been left on the road yesterday. I also commanded them to bury the enemy corpses. ◯ Afterwards, I had Furin ask his father: "Will the enemy return to their country and then attack again to seek revenge?" The father answered, "They probably sank in a fierce storm, or drifted to another place and were eaten." When I also asked the Spaniard, he answered, "Even if the enemy were to return to their country, they do not yet know about guns. Moreover, having seen the master's strange appearance, they would think he is no ordinary person. Even if the enemy tried to rally their companions, all who heard the story would say, 'On that island there is a divine being who creates thunder and lightning and appears from the clouds.' They would also fear the power to kill people from afar without bow and arrow in hand.

【Left page】
If this story spreads throughout a nation, they would surely also say, 'Therefore, having sinned against the divine being, even the boat that escaped alive nearly capsized in a fierce storm. It is all the work of that divine being.' They will not come again." ◯ Nevertheless, I still guarded the entire island, deployed three people, and made plans in advance. Since I have guns, I alone am sufficient to face a group of thirty or forty people. ◯ My former longing for sea voyages began to sprout again. This was due to Furin and his father saying, "If the master were to come to our country, we would greatly reward him with salary and repay even one ten-thousandth of his great kindness." ◯ The Spaniard spoke to me through Furin. In Furin's home country there are sixteen of my companions. Among them are also Portuguese. They all remain healthy in that country, but they are not well provided with food and various implements. Therefore I explained in detail the circumstances of the shipwreck and drifting. ◯ As I had previously surmised, "Is-