【Right page】
"panya" was a ship that traded products such as leather goods and silver vessels from neighboring countries to "Europe," but all the crew members drowned, and seventeen people, having received heaven's mercy (barely surviving), were washed ashore on that beach. However, they only fear being buried in the bellies of these local people. ◯ He also said: "We have guns but no gunpowder. We had a little at first, but we used it all up shooting at animals for food." ◯ I asked, "Do you wish to return to your home country?" He answered, "We often wish to return, but lacking the tools to build a ship and also lacking wealth, we have often planned this but finally gave up. The resentment of disappointment—only a single tear remains." ◯ I said, "I would like to go to that country to rescue you all, build a large ship, and send you to your home country, but those local people do not know my benevolent heart and would instead hate me as one who meddles unnecessarily and would eat me. In that case, I would rather bring those sixteen people

【Left page】
here to this island instead, and if we join forces to build a large ship, using the iron implements from the wrecked ship I once drifted on and from other wrecked ships I have found, we could surely succeed. Moreover, if we forge that iron, it would be sufficient to make various tools. However, bringing sixteen people to this island would not be permitted by the local people. If I were to give my gun in exchange for those people, they might permit it, but guns are like my claws and fangs—I must not let them leave my side even for a moment." ◯ He said, "Those local people would not kill the master. Rather, they would respect and care for you. However, I no longer wish to return home and would like to serve you for life in order to repay your great kindness." Then he swore, saying, "If there should be any reason why you find my presence by your side disagreeable, I will take my own life and honor you with my last drop of blood." ◯ He also said, "My companions are pressed by hunger, and setting aside returning to our home country for now, those countrymen