【Right page】
The situation was exactly like when I first came to this island and looked around in all directions. Then, as if heaven were punishing the villains, violent waves suddenly surged up from one direction, carrying their small boat far onto the shore, with only the water flowing back to the sea. In the boat were two men who appeared to have collapsed from drinking spirits. One of them suddenly sobered up and called urgently to his companions on shore, and together they tried to push the boat back into the seawater, but the mud at the water's edge was deep and the boat's bottom stuck fast and would not move. One man said to another, "Let her alone, Jack, can't ye," calling out in a very loud voice. Though this language was difficult for Robinson's ears to understand precisely, [the meaning was] leave it alone - it cannot be moved by human strength, we must wait for the tide to rise. Hearing this, I calculated that the tide would not come for five hours. Therefore they would necessarily remain until nightfall. So

【Left page】
I drew even closer to listen to their conversation. Soon I plotted to make a night attack, taking two hunting rifles and having Furin carry three guns. Both of us wore leather coats and leather caps pulled down low, with naked blades and axes at our waists. We also fastened two small guns to leather belts. Having finished our preparations, we waited impatiently for nightfall. Around the time when the sun's rays were about to decline toward the hour of the Monkey (3 PM), the blazing heat seemed to scorch our bodies, so all the enemies entered the dense forest to rest. I thought they would surely sleep beneath the trees. The three prisoners sat motionless under a large tree, unable to sleep due to unbearable suffering. They were about a quarter mile from me, greatly separated from the enemy. Intending to rescue the prisoners, I went with Furin following, hiding ourselves using trees as shields, and finally reached the prisoners' side without being seen by the enemy. At that moment, one of the prisoners immediately spotted us and feared our strange appearance