【Right Page】
"We must not delay. They will surely send another boat from the main ship to meet the first boat that has not returned. At that time, with greater numbers and more weapons, they will be difficult to oppose." The captain said, "You are quite right." I said, "Shall we take everything from the previous boat and make it unusable again?" The captain said, "Good idea." So we took all the various items from the boat - a bottle of rum, gunpowder bags, sugar, canvas, spirits, etc. - completely stripping it, and bored a large hole in the bottom of the boat. That hole cannot be easily filled. Although there are many enemies on their ship, they are short of boats, so landing will be inconvenient for them. I think that even if the enemy does land, when they discover that the boat has a hole and is unusable, they will surely leave it on this island and return. Then we can fill that hole and cross to the cannibal country visible on the ocean, bring back the Spanish people staying in that country, and together combine our strength to

【Left Page】
build a large ship. Therefore, we exerted all our strength to pull the boat far from the water, so far that even at high tide the water would not reach it. At that time, the main ship fired cannons, raised signal flags, and exhausted every method, using coded signals to call the boat, but there was no response at all from the shore. When I looked at the main ship through the telescope, it appeared they were preparing to send another boat to meet them. Those ten sailors all carried weapons. Since the main ship was one and a half ri from the shore, we could observe all their movements and activities inside, even seeing their faces. The boat coming from the main ship was carried eastward by the tidal current, somewhat east of where the first boat was. So they rowed to approach the shore and reach the location of the first boat, and all the soldiers inside were visible. The captain also looked through the telescope and said, "Among them, three have gentle natures and show compassion. Originally