【Right Page】
could not hear any response, so they appeared to have lost hope greatly. ○ The enemy had lost their companions and were in a state of distress. Also, hearing them questioning each other: "Our companions have probably all been killed. Moreover, various goods have been stolen. This is terrible," they said, returning to their boat and rowing out to sea. The captain, seeing this, was greatly troubled and said, "My stratagem will fail uselessly. If they return to the main ship, they will not come again." I said, "The enemy will surely come again." Soon, while the boat had not yet gone far, it suddenly turned back toward the shore again. They again had three men guard the boat, formed a group once more, and repeatedly searched the land, calling for their companions. ○ Everyone said, "This time the enemy all intends to enter deadly ground and fight. Their fighting spirit is formidable. Moreover, if those from the main ship follow up, we will find it hard to escape." I said, "Observe my plan," and simply watched the enemy's movements.

【Left Page】
Those three guarding the boat rowed the vessel out to sea, cast anchor, and waited for the remaining seven. ○ The seven enemies formed a group, climbed the mountain behind the fort, and searched for their companions. I could see the enemy clearly, but the enemy could not see me at all. ○ I intended to wait until the enemy came within suitable gun range of our fort before firing. ○ The enemy went from the mountaintop along the forests and valleys in the northeast of the island. The ground became increasingly low, and they simply continued calling loudly for their companions. Gradually they moved farther away, until finally their calls could no longer be heard. I thought that the enemy would surely not scatter but remain as one group. They were certainly tired, so they would rest under the trees. However, they would not sleep out of fear. ○ The captain said, "When they call their companions, they will surely fire their guns. If we watch for that gunshot sound and time our attack from the side when they have exhausted their ammunition, they will surely surrender." I said, "Good. This plan secretly [uses] that gunshot sound