【Right Page】
They called many times, but no one responded. So they stood with hands folded, entered the boat, waited for the guard to come, and also wandered about on the beach. The time was already twilight. ◯
Since the sky had already darkened, we issued orders that we should advance. Fusuzu was my trusted lieutenant, and the helmsman and sailors were warriors. The three who had surrendered became the vanguard, and the one we had captured in the small boat became our spy. Having completed our preparations, I commanded the captain and Fusuzu, saying, "Crawl forward secretly and advance without being seen by the enemy." The captain and Fusuzu had already advanced close to the bandits, approached following the voices of the three bandits talking to each other, and seeing the opportunity to shoot, Fusuzu and he simultaneously pulled their triggers. They aimed at the bandit leader without fail, striking down both the leader and the bandit's subordinate. When the gunshot rang out once, the enemy fell into great confusion. When we emerged from the smoke, the enemy, due to the darkness, thought we were a large army and fled to the mountains. We pursued them, advancing with our guns.

【Left Page】
At that time, I suddenly came up with a stratagem. To make peace with them and seize their main ship, I had the one who had been guarding the boat speak. When he called out loudly "Thomas Smith" 《personal name》, "Smith" answered in response. The guard said, "If you do not throw down your weapons and surrender quickly, you will all be stained with the blood of swords." "Smith" answered, "To whom should we surrender?" The guard said, "The general is here leading dozens of troops to strike you down. Your leader has already been killed, and 'William Fray' has fallen dead or wounded. Surrender quickly." "Smith" said, "If we surrender, will we be spared from death?" Robinson had the guard say, "If you surrender, we will not kill you." At this, the enemy all threw down their weapons, struck their heads to the ground, and apologized for their crimes. ◯ The captain summoned the surrendered men and gave them a stern warning: "If you try to escape, I will cut you down immediately. If you obey my words, even when you return to your homeland, I will save you from execution and help you. In your homeland,