【Right Page】
When the opportunity arises, I will give much gold. ◯From this hometown I went to "Eylark." This was where my parents had lived, but my parents had already died. Searching, I found two sisters and two nephews. Since they thought I had already died, even upon our reunion they did not believe it at all, and their affection was also thin. Finally, I visited and made offerings at my parents' grave. ◯I wanted to support my two sisters and end my days with them, but petty matters are not to my liking. I also wanted to establish a household, but had no means to borrow the expenses. I suffered greatly in making a living, almost as if I had returned again to the deserted island. ◯At that time, the captain who had previously been on the same ship invited me to stay as his guest and gave me two hundred pounds of gold. Though I received the gold, it was insufficient as capital for a livelihood, and I did not wish to be a dependent in another's house. So I thought of "Portugal" and a place called "Lisbon," and

【Left Page】
whether the close friend and disciple of that ship merchant who had previously bought my fishing boat when I escaped in it, and who had brought me into the sugar plantations of "Brazil" for trading voyages, might still be alive. So I left the country again for "Portugal." I had also heard from afar that my sugar shop in "Brazil" still existed. ◯Taking Purin (a servant) with me, I arrived in "Lisbon." Indeed, I was able to find that close friend of the ship merchant. He had already grown very old and no longer sailed the seas. His son was vigorous and had well continued his father's business, being a great merchant who traded back and forth with "Brazil" and other places. The old man had forgotten me upon seeing me. When I told him my name and recounted the events of that time, he finally remembered and was greatly pleased, considering it a miraculous thing. Together we spoke of old times, greatly enjoying ourselves and exhausting our joy. ◯I first asked my old friend: "Does my sugar shop in 'Brazil' still exist?"