【Right Page】
ling" to give. ◯During a stay of two to three months, my heart turned over a thousand thoughts. Perhaps I should live in the country of "Brazil" and oversee the sugar plantation shop, or perhaps follow this greatly benevolent old friend and end my days with him, or perhaps return to my home country and support the two women. I consulted ancient books about this matter and finally decided on a triumphant return to my homeland, preparing for the journey. ◯So I sent letters in all directions, and repaid every debt of gratitude, no matter how small. A close friend from "Augustine" offered to give me six hundred and seventy "moidores," but I firmly declined and did not accept them. ◯I sent letters to the manager and the trading house servants, praising their integrity and diligence in shop affairs, and also gave various precious vessels as gifts from myself. Especially to the trading servant, I gave three bolts of fine Italian silk to his wife and daughters, two bolts of finely woven woolen cloth from my home country to his sons, five bolts of black "bay" cloth, and three bolts of "Brabant"-made textile called "cant." ◯The travel

【Left Page】
preparations and ship equipment were already complete and I was about to return home. I loaded the various tools onto the ship and was about to set sail, but fearing encountering sea winds again, I unloaded the various tools from the ship and loaded them back on. I hesitated like this six or seven times. At that time I heard that "Algerian" pirates had recently been frequently committing violence on the seas. Therefore I decided to go by land route. The route would go from "Corunna" to the "Bay of Biscay," then emerge onto the route through "Le Havre," "Paris," "Calais," and "Dover" to return home. ◯The old friend also separately provided one ship passenger from my home country and one son of a "Lisbon" merchant to serve as guides. I also took two countrymen, two "Portuguese" passengers, two servants of these various passengers, my personal attendant and one helmsman as servants, traveling with a group of eleven people in total. All the passengers were fellow travelers, but since I was the eldest, they all elected me as their leader.