【Right Page】
[intending to approach the bear]. I said, "You will be torn apart in one swipe. You must not go." He replied, "No, I will make you all laugh heartily," and dismounted from his horse, put on long footwear, and like a whirlwind approached the bear, saying, "My child, let us converse." The bear stopped. Fusuzu suddenly threw a large stone at the bear. The bear became angry and chased Fusuzu. Fusuzu fled, running toward me. When I aimed my gun to kill the bear and rescue him, he said, "Do not shoot." The bear finally leaped at Fusuzu, intending to tear him apart in one strike. Fusuzu quickly dodged and was up in the tree. His agile movement was like that of a monkey. The bear also climbed the tree in pursuit. Fusuzu was already hanging from the thin branches at the treetop. The bear also climbed up in pursuit, but its body was so massive that it could not bear the frail thin branches, and finally, fearing the branches would break, it dared not proceed. Fusuzu said, "I will show you gentlemen the bear's dancing performance," and shook the tree branches, whereupon the bear cried out and

【Left Page】
tried to climb down the tree. Fusuzu also said to the bear, "Why do you not come close to me? If you will not come, then I shall approach you," and shook the tree branches even more, causing the bear to sway as well. Its appearance was as if it understood human speech. I said to Fusuzu, "Should we shoot the bear too?" He replied, "No." Fusuzu's leaping and dancing was extremely light and agile. All the travelers laughed heartily. The bear, fearing it might fall due to the swaying of the tree branches, finally clung firmly, looking just like a growth or tumor on the tree trunk. ◯Initially, when Fusuzu dismounted from his horse to face the bear, he carried a gun loaded with lead shot. The tree he climbed was a large oak tree. Before attempting to climb the tree, he had thrown and left his gun at a spot four or five jō from the base of the tree. Fusuzu again said to the bear, "If you will not come to me, then I shall approach you," and advanced to the very limit of the thin branches in the treetop, causing the branch to bend like a bow