【Right Page】
I heard there were many fierce beasts and abandoned this idea. ○When evening came, I changed course and set sail along this country toward the southeast. In this area the sea climate was extremely cold and unbearable. The next day I saw a country about 150 ri offshore. It appeared and disappeared in clouds and mist, making it difficult to recognize clearly. I believe it corresponded to the south of "Salé" and beyond "Morocco." Just then the wind blew toward the southeast for five days - this was my heavenly fortune and I made great progress on my sea route. At this point the wind changed. I thought that even if my master's household from "Salé" pursued my escape, they would not come to these distant waters. Therefore I dropped anchor where a small river flowed into the sea. This was a place where I knew nothing about whether there were inhabitants, the extent of the land, place names, and so forth. ○Before evening fell I sought firewood and water and tried to hurriedly go ashore. At that time the sun had already set. Suddenly there was someone crying out with a terrifying voice. I could not discern what it was. My servant was greatly frightened

【Left Page】
and trembled without cease. When I was about to go ashore, my servant stopped me and said "You should go up tomorrow." I answered saying "If we meet people tomorrow it will be more frightening than wild beasts. However, since the sun has already set, I cannot accomplish going ashore to draw water." ○The servant boy Xury was not originally from my country, so he answered in broken English saying "Then you should load the gun with gunpowder and prepare." I followed this advice and prepared the gun, giving my servant a cup of spirits (shōchū) to strengthen his spirit. I also paid no mind to that monster, dropped anchor at this place and entered the sleeping quarters, though I did not sleep all night. After about an hour and a half I saw a huge creature. I could not discern what it was. This thing came from the shore into the sea, bathed and rolled about, crying out loudly with a voice that pierced the ears. Its voice and appearance were unlike anything I had ever heard before. Xury was greatly startled, lost all color in his face and hid in the bottom of the boat. I [observed] that creature