【Right Page】
We passed Dover and finally returned to our home country. Since this place is well known to many in the world, I will omit details here. This was on January 14, 1688. ○ Upon returning to my home country, I entrusted gold coins to two women of my acquaintance and had them manage my affairs. These women were honest and virtuous, which was fortunate for me. ○ Having various business matters, I again wanted to go to "Lisbon" and "Brazil," and also having important duties in my home country, I sent letters to each place inquiring after their welfare and informing them of my return to my homeland. ○ From the sugar mills of "Brazil" I received over 30,000 "Achten" (currency). Through other commercial ventures, this amount reached 320,000 "Achten." ○ To my old friend, while he lives, I give 100 "Monodres" (monetary unit) annually. Even after my old friend has died, I promised to give his children 50 "Moidres" annually.

【Left Page】
At this time, I greatly desired to go again to "Brazil" and the uninhabited island I had developed, but the two women strongly dissuaded me, so I remained in my home country for seven or eight years. During this time, I raised two nephews. One had already grown up and could read navigation books well. I therefore entrusted him to a navigator to learn the craft. Eventually I bought a large ship and gave it to him, making him a ship's passenger. The other was young and would not leave my side. ○ During this time, I married a woman. She bore me two sons and one daughter. In due course, that wife died. I entrusted my small children to others and, choosing a direction with fewer pirates, went trading in the regions of India. This was in the year 1694. ○ When I reached that uninhabited island and looked around, I saw that the "Spanish" and the surrendered soldiers were in harmony with each other, with no disputes whatsoever. Moreover, bringing 11 men and 5 women from neighboring countries, the population was gradually flourishing, and already two...