【Right Page】
I could not see it clearly, but from hearing the sound of it rolling about and violently churning the water, it was truly a huge and ferocious monster. Soon it approached my ship. Xury cried out saying "This must be a great lion. We should cut away the anchor cable and quickly row with oars to avoid this danger." I said "That method is not good. If when that monster approaches our ship, we attach an iron chain to the anchor cable and cast it into the sea, frightened by this violent sound, that monster will retreat and will not harm our ship." Before I had finished speaking, the monster had already approached to within four or five fathoms of the ship. I realized for the first time that it was a gigantic beast. I quickly took the gun from the sleeping quarters, aimed at it and fired. Fortunately it seemed to hit, and suddenly it dove and disappeared from sight. Thinking carefully about this, if I went ashore I would again be eaten by that beast. That beast was probably of the lion, tiger, or rhinoceros family. Even if I ran away,

【Left Page】
the fear would be considerable. However, since water on the ship was scarce, I would necessarily watch for the right time and place to go ashore and seek water. I said to Xury "I should not go ashore alone." Xury said "If you go ashore, I will follow too, and if wild beasts come, I will certainly share life and death with you and fight defensively." I said "Good. I will go ashore together with you, and if wild beasts come, we will join forces and shoot them dead." At this point I gave Xury a cup of spirits and a piece of dried meat to strengthen his spirit. Together with him I boarded a small boat, taking a water bucket and gun, went ashore and sought water. However, we did not go far, remaining where the main ship was visible. This was because I feared pirates might steal the ship. Xury went about one ri seeking water. I lost sight of him. Suspecting he might have been chased by wild beasts, I advanced a little to look for him, and found Xury carrying a water vessel and one