【Right Page】
[The lion] leaped and moved about, crying out loudly. This was because it was hit in one leg and wounded, so it tried to stand on three legs but fell again. I continued to aim with the second gun, and though the beast swayed greatly trying to avoid the shot, it was hit and finally fell down. I commanded Xury to go ashore, take the third gun, and fire it sideways toward the beast's ear, piercing through its head. Xury finally killed the beast and then asked for an axe. I said: "What will you do with an axe?" Xury said: "I want to split its head." I said: "That beast is large. You should cut off one leg." We then spent the whole day skinning it, dried the hide in the sun on the boat, and every day slept on that hide, using it in place of bedding. ○ Here we obtained water and sailed south again for twelve days. As we were becoming somewhat short of water, we wanted to land near the "Gambia" River or "Senegal" River to draw water. However, fearing we might again encounter pirate ships, we continued south for three more days and happened upon a beach.

【Left Page】
When we brought the ship closer to look, we saw that all the people were black-skinned and naked, holding short sticks in their hands. When I tried to speak to these people, not a single word was understood, and we could only communicate through hand gestures. When midday came, those natives also indicated through gestures that they would give us food. After a while, they gave us a small amount of grain and two pieces of dried meat. I did not know what kind these two items were. I also expressed my gratitude through hand gestures. At this time, I fortunately showed them one gun, and they showed great reverence. ○ At that moment, two large beasts happened to come running from the mountains toward the sea. Their leaping movements were very violent, appearing as if a male beast was chasing a female. All the women and children in that area ran away. I asked them through gestures whether those beasts came regularly or by chance. They answered that they usually came at night and rarely during the day. All the men held a stick in their hands and did not move. Those beasts ran straight into the sea, and in the water