【Right Page】
In the water, the two beasts floated, sank, and rolled about with each other. Then Xury and I both risked danger by boarding our boat, shouldering our guns and waiting. We watched for the beast to approach, aimed at its head from the side, and fired. In response to the gunshot, it writhed in agony and fell over. With that momentum it tried to return to shore, but due to its gunshot wound, it eventually swallowed water and died. Due to this rising and sinking, the ocean waves arose like a hurricane. After a while, the beast died and sank to the ocean floor. At this time, those natives again asked me to bring the beast to shore. Seeing that the seawater was stained with blood, I confirmed the location where this beast had sunk, entered the sea, tied the beast firmly with rope, and pulled it up. It was one beautiful, large "Roipārudo" (leopard). Those natives raised both hands to heaven, were greatly amazed, and praised my skill. The other beast, frightened by the gunshot, ran quickly back to the mountains. At this point the natives were greatly relieved, and also with various

【Margin note above ninth line】
"Roipārudo"
Here translated as hippopotamus

【Left Page】
hand gestures thanked me. Then, taking sharp small wooden scrapers, they skinned it more skillfully than I could with my butcher's knife. They also divided the meat and gave some to me. ○ When I asked for water, those natives spoke among themselves two or three times, and after a while two women came carrying water in large jars. Looking at those jars, they appeared to be simply sun-dried clay. I then commanded Xury to transfer the water to our ship using a bucket and pulley. Those women, like the men, wore not a thread of clothing on their bodies - they were naked, a pitiable sight. ○ Here we obtained firewood, water, and food, bade farewell to the natives, and continued south for eleven days. During this time, having ample firewood and water, we did not land. Finally we saw a vast country to the south. The distance from our ship was about four ri. After a while, Xury spotted a white sail coming toward us. Its appearance was exactly as if it were pursuing us. I said: "Even if that is pursuing us, the distance is great, so we need not fear