【Right Page】
Looking down below, the danger was so great that my thighs trembled with fear. The waves had become somewhat calm, and I could see a wrecked ship about one ri offshore. Since this was our ship, I wanted to retrieve the food stored within it, but I had no means to reach that vessel. Looking from the treetop, I also saw a small boat that had been washed ashore by the waves. I tried to go seek it, but the path was treacherous and there was a large bay that could not be crossed. Finally I gave up and returned. When the day reached noon, the sea surface was calm and the tide had receded seven or eight chō 《marginal note: this is the Japanese system of measurement》. The wrecked ship was right before my eyes. To escape starvation, I threw my naked body into the water and reached the wreck. Upon examination, it was sunk in mud and sand and would not move. The ship's bottom also contained a great deal of water. The stern was tilted and deeply submerged in water, but the bow protruded above the water surface. Climbing aboard and looking around, I found that various tools were either wet or not, and being greatly hungry

【Left Page】
I hurriedly sought food containers and found there were still many steamed breads. There was also a bottle of spirits, which I drank to invigorate my spirit. I gathered planks from the ship's gunwale, and using a saw to cut away the bow, I assembled a raft. I laid planks on top of it and first loaded the necessary implements. The first priority was steamed bread, rice grain, dairy products, dried mutton, grain for feeding birds, as well as containers holding glass bottles, baskets, medicine, water, and spirits. The second priority was clothing. Fearing the incoming tide, I took only the necessary implements. Third, wanting to load household implements, I searched throughout the ship and found a box that stored craftsman's tools. In that box there was a great amount of gold. I also obtained five or six guns large and small, gunpowder, lead shot, lead scraps, four saws both new and old, a large axe, a small axe, and a wooden mallet, which I loaded onto the raft. Having finished loading all the various implements, I tried to reach the shore, but there were no oars, rudder, or sail