【Right Page】
If I were to sleep on the ground, there would be the fear of wild beasts, and sleeping in the trees would also not be a suitable place. Finally, on the ground, I stacked up the various boxes and other items I had carried from my ship to form the shape of a small hut, and slept inside it. ◯Since food was scarce, I searched for something to eat, but there was no other food besides eating the various birds in the forest. Later I discovered one beast in the forest. Its form was like that of a rabbit. ◯Since clothing was scarce, I intended to go again to the wrecked ship to obtain rope, canvas, and other necessary items. ◯What I wore on my body were only the sleeves (merino wool), socks, and a coarse thin undergarment that I had previously obtained from the wrecked ship. However, since riding the raft again to reach the wrecked ship would also be dangerous, I decided to weave a separate sturdy raft to make the journey. First, I took the most essential craftsman's tools - nails as well as planes, saws, awls, chisels, whetstones, all the construction tools - and also two iron bars, two lead shot boxes, five large guns, one small gun, one box of gun-

【Left Page】
powder, one bag of lead scraps, one large block of lead, and various other clothing, canvas, bedding, etc., loaded them up and came ashore again. ◯On top of the boxes stacked on the shore, a wild cat came and perched. It showed no fear upon seeing me and appeared somewhat tame. So I threw it a small piece of steamed bread, which it devoured in one bite, and it seemed to beg for more as it was not satisfied. When I gave it another small piece, it immediately departed. ◯I built a small hut on the ground, covered it with canvas to ward off rain and dew. I stacked boxes around the perimeter as protection against wild beasts. I also used one or two boards as a door and set up a sleeping place inside. Beside it I placed two small guns and one large cannon, and lay down inside. The previous evening I could not sleep soundly, but this evening I slept peacefully. This was because I was tired from a full day of labor. The next day I again watched for the tide to recede, rode the raft to the wrecked ship, and retrieved rope and canvas. I made such transport trips six or seven times. In my wrecked ship there was already not a single item of food