【Right Page】
I construct it. However, the small hut has two rooms. ◯The bedding rotted due to seawater, so I sleep within sailcloth. ◯Fearing that various utensils and clothes would get wet in the rain, I stored them in that small hut and sealed the door tightly. After that, I dug into the mountainside behind the house to create a cave and connected it to the interior of the house. I piled all the earth and stones at the base of the stakes to form a small embankment two shaku high, reinforcing the stake foundations. This construction work also took several days. One day, black clouds spread like spilled ink, and after a while rain fell with drops like plums. Lightning illuminated the ground and swift thunder split my ears. Startled, I entered the house and said to myself, "If lightning fire should reach the gunpowder, I will surely be killed or injured. And without gunpowder, it would be like losing the claws and fangs that protect my body." Worrying about this, I was like half-dead. ◯Therefore, I divided the gunpowder from bags and boxes, not storing it all in one place. This was so that even if lightning fire reached it, it would not spread to other

【Left Page】
locations. After fifteen days, I divided 140 kin of gunpowder into 100 packages and finally stored them in rock caves, carefully protecting them from moisture. ◯Always carrying my musket to search for animals that could serve as food, I happened to see a mountain goat. Greatly pleased, I tried to shoot it, but it immediately fled with such speed that I could not approach it. Fortunately, I found its den. However, when I tried to shoot, it immediately scurried away like a mouse into holes. Also, the goats constantly leap and run on the rocks with speed like lightning. Thinking carefully, goats always look down and never look up. So from atop a rock, I shot at a female goat with a kid. I felt pity as the kid fell down bleating sadly, separated from its mother's milk. Finally taking this female goat back to my dwelling, the kid followed me longingly, so I kept it, but having no milk, it eventually died. The meat from these two animals I kept for a long time