【Right page】
with a dog on a leash. ○That river source was at the end of a large valley, which was the location for a new shelter. I intended to explore the valley further. At this time the weather was clear and the air refreshing, and I saw land on the western sea. I do not know whether it is an island or continent, but it extends broadly from west to southwest. I think its distance is about fifty ri. ○Observing that land, it must surely be American territory belonging to Spanish dominion. If so, this is what they call savage country. Though it is close to a path for me to return to human society, I would also suffer harm there, which would be worse than remaining on this deserted island. ○If that land is a Spanish coast, I would see the coming and going of sailing ships. In that case my life would be safe. If I see no ships, it must surely be land inhabited by savages. I have heard it said that the violence of such people knows no right or wrong and they eat humans. ○Beside this valley there is a beautiful

【Left page】
meadow and deep forest. Sometimes I see many parrots flocking together. I wanted to catch them and bring them back to my shelter to teach them human speech, but I had no means to capture them. Finally I saw a young bird perched on a branch, knocked it down with a stick, returned to my shelter and raised it. After two or three years it became very tame and could call my name well. ○In this place there are sometimes beasts resembling rabbits and beasts resembling foxes. Though I caught both, I do not eat their meat, only taking their hides. Though I do not eat the meat of these animals, there are three types sufficient for food: goats, doves, and turtles. Additionally there are dried grapes. These do more than merely prevent starvation. ○Daily I walk no more than two ri. This is because I wander about circling around. Every night I return greatly fatigued. Sometimes I do not return but lodge under trees, inserting small branches around me so that when wild beasts approach, I wake from sleep at the sound