【Right page】
I worried greatly that even if I reached the shore of that land, being alone I would merely become food for them. However, though I wanted to avoid this place and head toward a better land, what could I do without a ship? I also thought that a large ship might break when encountering wind. ○One day I saw a small boat drifting from the sea, overturned with its bottom facing up. It bobbed up and down with the waves and finally ran aground on shallow sand. I then entered the forest, cut wood to use as levers, and pushed and pulled it onto land, making preparations. Now, when lifting it from the sand, there were many pieces of wood stuck to the ship's bottom. Though I spent a month and barely removed them, the boat was damaged in many places and not fit for use. ○There are things made by cutting large trees and hollowing out the center. These are called "canoes." This translates as dugout boats. They are common in "America." I intend to make one of these. Even if I cannot escape the island by going far out into the ocean with a dugout boat,

【Left page】
it would be sufficient for fishing near the shore. Therefore I undertake this work. ○Though this is not something that can be built by one person's strength, my tools are superior to those used by "Americans" and "Negroes." ○Also, cutting down a large tree is not something that can be done by one person's strength. Even if I could make a dugout boat, I thought it would be difficult to transport it to the seawater, but my old habit for seafaring was so irresistible that I said to myself: if I build my dugout boat, I will naturally invent a way to roll it to the seashore. I began the work first. ○Entering the forest to search for wood, I found a large tree, a type of oak. This would have been suitable even for the task when the great master builder "Lebanon" built the famous giant palace for his king. Cutting from the root, it was six to seven feet in circumference and twenty-five to twenty-six feet in length. ○I spent twenty days cutting the trunk. Also, its width...