【Right page】
It took fifteen days to remove the spreading branches, and only then did it become complete timber. ○During that time, I exerted all my bodily strength in using the axe. After accumulating three more months of work, the dugout boat was completed. The method of construction was to first hollow out the interior to create the basic shape, using only a single chisel and fire for burning. ○It was finally completed and beautiful. Its width could accommodate twenty-six people. To roll it to the seashore, there are five hundred jō in between. Its weight is such that it can barely be moved. Also, between here and the seashore there are small hills and high ground, and if I were to dig these to make them level ground, that labor would also be extremely arduous. ○Upon consideration, there is no other method than to dig a canal to reach the sea. However, since the ground is high, it would require a deep canal of twenty-three or twenty-four jō to draw seawater. Nevertheless, since there is no other method, I began digging this canal. Calculating the work, it should be completed after twelve years. ○These matters

【Left page】
While engaged in these activities, when finishing the fourth year, I rejoiced in the length of my survival and thought earnestly that in the past, "Abraham" who lived in the land south of the river in "Africa" also wandered throughout the world and finally found his time. Moreover, his descendant called "Joseph" eventually became the prime minister of Egypt and many nations. I too wish to wait for my time. ○Also thinking that while I live on this island, daily necessities are provided, and there are beasts, livestock, and fruits that I can freely take for food. Especially because grapes are abundant, I dry them to eat and also brew wine. ○Sometimes I want to smoke tobacco, but I have already lost my pipe. Even though I once had much gold, I cannot buy even one. If I were in the world and could exchange a handful of gold for one pipe, I would greatly rejoice. ○When approaching lunch and smelling the aroma of bird and beast meat, steamed bread, and such, I think that having escaped drowning when the ship was wrecked, this