【Right page】
Having drifted to this desolate island, not only do I continue to live, but there is also no harm from evil men or fierce beasts, and thus I resolved my worries again. ○As I frequently recorded in my diary, the ink gradually diminished, so I mixed it with water to use it. However, its color gradually became lighter, and finally I could no longer distinguish the shape of the characters. Still, I wrote down important matters without omission. ○There are those in the world who establish auspicious and inauspicious days. I did not believe this at first. Now I realize there is some truth to it. The day I once departed my home country and reached "Hull," the day I was captured by "Salé" pirates, and the day I escaped by fishing boat from "El Mina" were all the same day. Also, the day I drifted to this island was my birthday. ○The incidents after the ink was already exhausted are also very numerous. I remembered them all and recorded them later. Also, making the mortar came after this time. This was because the wheat flour from the wrecked ship had already

【Left page】
been exhausted. ○My clothing became greatly torn, and even the large cotton undergarment finally wore out after a long time. Though I have thick clothing, I cannot bear the heat. In this land, even being naked is not cold. However, clothing and headwear are human attire, so I cannot abandon them. Moreover, without clothing, the blazing sun shines directly and I cannot bear the heat. ○I constantly wear a leather cap on my head. Otherwise, the burning light causes headaches. ○Since various garments had worn out, I wanted to make new ones, but there was no cloth. I had only animal hides that I had exposed to the sun and stored in large quantities, so I processed these. ○With the fur on the outside, I made trousers, undergarments, and pointed caps. These are suitable for blocking the blazing sun and rain. All were made through painstaking effort. ○Although this land is in the warm zone, sometimes it becomes as cold as severe winter. ○In the following five years, there were no strange events worth recording. I was only diligent in making a living. ○To bring the boat I had previously made to the seawater