【Right page】
I labored greatly to dig a channel, but finally gave up halfway. I decided to build a separate small boat. ○To build a small boat, I first cut down a suitable tree near the seawater and crafted it. The manufacturing method was the same as before. After the boat was completed, I dug a channel six feet deep and four feet wide for half a ri to reach the seawater. By my calculations, it should be completed in less than two years. ○While beginning this work, I thought that although I want to go out to the open sea and escape this island, I should first try to circumnavigate along this island. ○When the boat was completed, I placed two boxes inside to store various tools, protecting them from getting wet from rain, dew, and splashing waves. I also made a mast and sail. This was the sail from the wrecked ship. Separately, I carved small holes in the gunwales of the boat to hold gunpowder and firearms large and small. I also loaded one jar of water, one box of steamed bread, liquor, dried meat, and bedding, and placed an anchor. I also set up a large leather umbrella to protect against the heat. Thus

【Left page】
equipped, I floated it on the sea. This was on the ninth day of the eleventh month of the sixth year. ○Fearing the waves, I did not go far from the island, but first tried to go around from the eastern shore. However, many hidden reefs protruded from the sea for about two ri, and there were also sandbars. Therefore, avoiding these, I rowed a little outside the reefs, moored the good boat, landed on shore, took my gun, and climbed a small hill to look. The color of the sea was as clear and bright as a mirror. After a while, a sea wind arose swiftly from the southeast. Therefore I remained on the hill for two days. The next day the wind was calm and there were no waves. However, at a distance of one ri from the shore, there was a place of rapid tidal currents. The situation was such that great waves flanked the island, forming river-like currents flowing left and right. If I remained out of fear of the wind, I would never be able to return. ○I also considered that if I rode the rapid currents of waves and tides, I would surely be carried adrift into the ocean for a thousand ri