【Right page】
○Moreover, how could this small boat navigate the boundless great ocean? Finally avoiding the rapids and sandbars, I went out about two ri and headed north to circumnavigate the island. The rapids were sometimes calm. At noon, a light wind arose from the southeast. In a short time it became somewhat stronger, and the force of the waves swept away my oar, causing me to lose sight of the island. Also, having forgotten my compass (magnetic needle), I did not know the direction. The sky was overcast and I could not see the sun or moon. Finally, imagining the direction of the island, I rowed with all my strength. At that time, seeing that the seawater was clear, I rejoiced, taking it as a sign that the wind and waves would cease, and continued for about another ri. When I accidentally struck a hidden reef and the boat was about to break, fortunately the sea wind blew me toward the island's direction, and I reached two ri north of the island. Looking at that sea surface, it was flat with no rapids, like a spread mat. Here were rapids, there was a flat surface - how strange was this condition of the sea! ○Spreading sail, crossing the waves,

【Left page】
forcing my way to reach that calm half of the sea, avoiding hidden reefs while drifting in the wind, moving left and right, I finally reached shore after three hours. I bowed to heaven and gave thanks for escaping the wind and waves. It was just like a cornered sparrow escaping the talons of a bird of prey. ○At that time there was a place shaped like a small harbor surrounded by dense trees. I moored my boat here and slept peacefully. ○The next morning I thought that since this was a harbor close to the sea, it would be destroyed by the waves. So I labored to avoid the eastern shore reefs and searched for another harbor along the western shore for about one ri, and found another small harbor. Gradually advancing into it, it gradually narrowed and finally ended in a small stream. Since the heat was extreme, I left all the equipment on the boat and carried only my gun and bedding, returning to my new dwelling. This harbor was close to my new residence. ○Being extremely fatigued, I lay down immediately. At that time there was one strange occurrence. The reader will also be surprised. While in my bedroom, half-