【Right page】
spread out, and I sleep on top of them. ○The hedge trees of the sheep pen are also luxuriant and more solid and dense than stone walls. ○One time I said to myself: "Previously I was lacking in food and various implements, but seeing this abundance now, my life should last another forty years. Moreover, there are various delicious foods, more than enough to sustain me for a lifetime." ○The small harbor where I moored my boat is located halfway between the main dwelling and the new dwelling. From time to time I board the boat to float and fish. Even when I lie down in the boat and travel along the shore, I do not venture beyond a hundred paces. This is because I fear the tidal currents and wind-driven waves. ○From this point onward, great changes occur in my circumstances, so my record also greatly increases in strangeness. Readers should further refresh their jaded ears. ○One day when I went to board my boat, there were human footprints on the sand, scattered here and there. I was startled and frightened, standing motionless. I looked around but saw no one, nor did I hear any human voice. So I went to higher ground to look around, but saw nothing

【Left page】
at all. So I wandered around the beach searching for this, but it was only in this one place, with no trace of people having come elsewhere. Wondering if this was a mistake, I examined those tracks again, and they were definitely footprints. How could a person have come to this place? It was completely incomprehensible. While wondering about this strangeness, on the way home I necessarily looked back with every step. I also kept my eyes on the spaces between nearby trees, tree roots, hills and such as I walked. This state cannot be described in words. I ran home and hurriedly climbed the ladder to enter my dwelling. ○Entering the underground chamber from the entrance of that rocky cave was like a fox or raccoon dog being pursued by captors. Though that miracle was already in the distant past, I was still afraid and did not sleep all night. I thought it might be some kind of human form of a mountain deity. I also considered that it might be a demon. However, since it has no means to threaten me, does it threaten me with such roundabout schemes? Could this be a mountain deity?