【右丁】
一方で考え直すと、これらは皆妄想である。これは私にとって甚だ恐ろしいことである。世にいわゆる凶悪な人で人肉を食べる者であろう。あの人は激しい風のために漂流してここに着いて住んでいるのであろうと心の中で祈念する。彼らが私の家や舟を見つけることがないようにと。もし彼が舟を見て島に人がいることを知れば、必ず探すであろう。たとえ一時は来なくても、また最終的には来て食べるであろう。深い森に隠れようとしても、もし彼が私の地下室に蓄えてある穀物や山羊を奪い尽くしてしまえば、私もまた餓死するであろう。ただ命を天に任せて地下室に留まること久しい。穀物を節約して使えば、まだ三年分の蓄えがあるであろう。

原本漂荒紀事巻之上終

【左丁】
原本漂荒紀事巻之下

私が島に留まること多年、猛獣に遭遇せず、凶悪な人を見ない。ただ浜の砂の人の足跡に驚いたけれども、長い間を経てもその害を見ないので、心配も次第に静まる。また運命に身を任せて恐れることはないとはいえ、時々不満の心を抱く。○初めて人の足跡を見て大いに驚き、三日間地下室から出ない。肉と水が不足しそうになる。またあの浜の上の人の足跡は自分が履いた跡だと思い直し、鬼や怪物、山の神とするのを却って笑う。そこで勇気を奮い起こして出て、羊を解いて草を食べさせる。また密かに目を配り、新しい家に至って羊を確かめて留まること三日。ついにまた人の足跡を確かめようとしてその場所に到着して見ると、その足跡はかなり大きくて私の足

【右丁】
However, reconsidering, all of these are delusions. This is something I should greatly fear. It must be one of those so-called violent men who eat human flesh. I pray in my heart that this person has been cast adrift by fierce winds and has landed and settled here. May they not discover my dwelling and boat. If he sees the boat and knows there are people on the island, he will surely search. Even if he doesn't come immediately, he will eventually come and devour me. Even if I try to hide in the deep forest, if he plunders and exhausts the grain and goats I have stored in my underground chamber, I too will starve to death. I simply entrust my life to heaven and remain in the underground chamber for a long time. If I use the grain sparingly, I should still have enough stores for three years.

End of Original Drifting Record, Volume One

【Left丁】
Original Drifting Record, Volume Two

I have remained on the island for many years, encountering no fierce beasts and seeing no violent men. Though I was startled by the human footprints in the beach sand, having passed much time without seeing any harm from them, my anxiety gradually subsides. Though I resign myself to fate and have nothing to fear, I sometimes harbor feelings of discontent. ○When I first saw the human footprints I was greatly alarmed and did not emerge from the underground chamber for three days. I was about to run short of meat and water. Then I reconsidered that those human footprints on the beach were my own tracks, and instead laughed at myself for thinking them to be demons, monsters, or mountain deities. So I summoned my courage and went out, released the goats to let them graze. I also kept a watchful eye, went to the new dwelling to check on the goats, and remained there for three days. Finally, wanting to examine the human footprints again, I arrived at that place and looked, and those footprints were quite large and my foot