【Right page】
After walking for several hours, I suddenly realized something. The place where those violent men always come is close to the fields I cultivate. This would surely bring great disaster, and my heart was troubled by this thought. Returning to the cave to consider the matter, if they were to see my half-harvested rice, they would surely search extensively and devour me. Once they knew there were people on this island, they would certainly part the grass and search for me. Worry and sorrow arose again. ○Therefore, I immediately returned to the fortress and arranged all the large and small guns, swords, axes, clubs, and hammers around me. Without letting my guard down for even a moment, I waited and watched for the enemy for about an hour, but there was only silence without any sound. So I summoned my courage and climbed the rock with a ladder. The rock was steep and rugged, my body clung to the rock face like an ant, trembling as if about to fall, but I firmly braced myself against the rock with my right hand and held a telescope in my left hand to peer out. Suddenly I saw seven violent men sitting cross-legged around a fire. I also saw two captives bound and about to be turned into roasted meat.

【Left page】
Since those people did not move, I could not tell if they were alive or dead. There were also two small boats. ○I observed that those violent men come when the tide rises and leave when it ebbs; their comings and goings simply follow the rise and fall of the tide. Thereafter, to avoid being seen by the violent men, I calculated the time of low tide to go to the fields. After that, I never saw the violent men again. Once, when I observed them leaving at low tide, the ebb tide flowed westward. At that time, the violent men sailed away swiftly, as if fearing to miss their opportunity. Moreover, the heads of those rowing the boats bobbed up and down, appearing and disappearing at the gunwales. After they had gone far and were already hidden in the water spray, I took two guns on my shoulders, attached two small guns to my leather belt, girded on my great sword, and hurried to examine their traces. The remnant bones from that violent feast were scattered all over the ground. Three boats had also been tied up there. From this I knew they would come again to retrieve