【Right page】
and resting there. ○At this point, I prepared myself and went to the southern beach of the island, boarding my small boat to approach that ship. At this time the wind also arose and the waves were high, but when I drew somewhat near and looked at the ship, it was already damaged. I pondered various possibilities. ○Perhaps those on that ship saw the fire I had lit last night and tried to approach it, but lost their small boat and could not land. ○Or perhaps they were trying to land on the island but were wrecked on the hidden reefs located from the east to the northeast direction. ○They may have drowned while trying to come to this island in a small boat, or while trying to transfer to another ship. ○Or perhaps they had drifted long on the great ocean, running short of food, and headed toward this island.
I approached the ship to mourn the drowned and thought that if there were any still not dead, I would rescue them and bring them back to place them in my fortress as servants, but the waves were rising and this small
【Left page】
boat could not effect a rescue. Therefore I returned quickly. After two or three days, those drowned bodies washed ashore. One corpse was a young helmsman. His clothing was coarse, wearing blue garments, and in a small bag there was one tobacco pipe and two coins. This tobacco pipe was worth ten times its weight in gold to me. ○When the sea became calm and there was no fear of waves, I took the boat, intending to rescue anyone who might still be half-alive among them.
○Here I cleaned the boat and loaded it with the following items: steamed bread, dried grapes, and a compass - this being the most essential item. Next, rice grain, an umbrella, coverings, along with one jar of water, two boxes of bread, one jar of milk, and one jar of dairy products. Having finished loading all these items, I rowed slowly along the shore. Reaching the northeastern cape of the island, I stopped the boat with a pole and observed the conditions in the ocean. The ebb tide had come and there were swift currents in the sea. So I climbed the hill to observe the situation of the sea waves, and the ebb