【Right page】
The tide flows constantly toward the southern side of the island as it recedes, and the high tide flows in from the northern shore of the island. If so, my small boat would be very convenient for traveling back and forth following the ebb tide. Therefore, this night I lay down to rest in the boat. Early the next morning, following the ebb tide, I rowed with the oar and finally boarded the sunken ship to examine it - it was truly pitiful to see. That ship must have come from Spain. The vessel was trapped between two large rock formations. The cabin was destroyed, and the bow had struck the reef and was broken along with the bowsprit. One of the masts remained intact. When I reached the cabin, two corpses were found dead in each other's arms. The ship's crew had died in various places, and all equipment was soaked with seawater. ○I saw two or three large barrels. There were also many boxes. There were two baskets containing glass bottles. There was also a small barrel. I made great effort to transfer and load these items onto my boat. When I entered one room, there were many guns, but since I already have many guns,
【Left page】
I only took one gunpowder bag. It contained four or five pounds. I also loaded necessary implements such as brass items, scissors and the like, as well as kitchen utensils, copper cans, cocoa pots, etc., and returned to shore with the high tide. ○When I first brought my boat near the ship, there was a dog in the ship's cabin who barked at me upon seeing me. When I called to it, it immediately swam through the water to me. Its hunger and thirst were severe and it was in a half-dead state. Therefore, when I threw it a piece of steamed bread, it swallowed it in one gulp, just like a starving wolf devouring a thin rabbit. When I gave it water, it drank while choking. I took it aboard and brought it home to care for it.
○This night I was greatly exhausted and lay down in the boat. Planning to carry everything to my dwelling tomorrow, I first examined the various items. In the small barrel there was rum. ○In the two boxes there were various small implements. ○The glass bottles contained precious medicinal waters of various kinds, each bottle holding over one hundred monme. ○Two jars of "mantequilla," a type of food