【Right page】
There were provisions. All of these items were tightly sealed and had not been invaded by seawater. ○
There were also many garments, hats, handkerchiefs and the like that would fit the body. ○At the bottom of the box there was a pouch containing over a thousand gold coins. There were also six small guns bound together and wrapped in paper. There were also golden rings and golden chains. The weight of both items was one pound. In three glass bottles there was extremely fine gunpowder. The total quantity was two pounds. ○There were four pairs of merino wool items (stockings and undergarments). I also took sleeve covers from the corpses on the ship. ○The cargo was extremely abundant. I think the ship was sailing from Spain to various South American coastal countries, to places like Brazil and Mexico. ○This ship also had many precious stones, gemstones, rhinoceros horns, and ivory items. None of these were things I desired. ○I finished carrying all the implements to my dwelling, greatly enriching my household goods. My joy was considerable. ○To supplement my food,

【Left page】
I only rarely went hunting. For this hunting I dug a separate secret path. This was made by calculating where hostile people would not come, so when I travel by this path I do not heavily arm myself with weapons. ○After living somewhat peacefully for two years, the desire to build a ship and return to civilization arose again, but since I had previously made tobacco cultivation my business in Brazil and had sailed to this desolate island where I fell into hardship, I abandoned that idea. ○If I had not left my tobacco shop at that time and had traded with various countries, I could have earned even one hundred thousand "moidores" in a short time - this I greatly regretted. ○In the twenty-fourth year, in the third month, one night as I lay in bed not yet asleep, a hundred worries arose and a thousand considerations and ten thousand thoughts traveled back and forth in my mind. Ever since I saw human footprints in the sand many years ago, I have fortunately avoided hostile eyes and have not met with harm. However, that danger

【Margin note seven lines above】
Moidores
Name of gold coin