【Right page】
The fleeing man immediately jumped into the water and, like ducks and waterfowl floating and swimming, made twenty or thirty leaps and easily swam across to reach this shore, attempting to enter the dense forest in front of him. Of the three hostile pursuers, one stood at the head of the bay, while two entered the water together in pursuit, but they were far inferior to the swimming ability of the fleeing man. ○ The good fortune of gaining a servant had come to me. Thinking to help him, I took the gun from the bottom of the ladder, climbed the rock again, and finally ran quickly toward the beach, emerging between the pursuers and the fugitive. When I called to the fugitive and shouted to help him, the fugitive was frightened by my strange appearance and instead ran in another direction, actually getting closer to the pursuers. I followed in the direction of the fleeing man. As the pursuer was about to catch up, I fired my gun and brought down one of the hostile men. At the explosive sound, both pursuers and fugitive stood upright in fear and did not move. Then I approached the remaining hostile man and saw he carried a bow and arrows on his back.

【Left page】
As I approached, considering the range within which his arrows could reach, he drew one arrow from his quiver and had already pulled it back, but before he could fully draw it, my gun mechanism had already fired, hitting him accurately and bringing him down. However, his half-drawn arrow flew and grazed my leather hat as it passed. How dangerous that was! Both hostile men fell to my gun. I then called to the fugitive, but he trembled in fear at the explosive sound and flash of my gun. So I made gestures indicating I would not kill him and called to him. He immediately crawled forward more than ten steps, kowtowed before me, and seemed to give thanks for having his life saved. When I smiled and showed mercy, he also placed his head upon my feet, as if desiring to become my servant. At that moment, one of the fallen hostile men, whose gunshot wound must have been shallow, revived and tried to advance. Therefore I pointed and showed him to the escaped man. He answered once or twice, but it was all in a foreign tongue that I could not understand. I heard human speech that I had not heard for twenty-five years.