【Right page】
I showed him that I had no intention of killing him, and had him hold the sheep I had shot and killed with my gun. I also killed one large bird with the gun. It immediately fell to the ground and moved both wings violently. I had Friday retrieve it. Friday did not know about loading gunpowder into the gun. He simply thought vaguely that this instrument made no distinction between people, birds, and beasts - that it was a divine instrument that could instantly kill any living thing regardless of distance.
○ Again, when Friday was not watching, I loaded lead shot and gunpowder and waited for good prey, but none came. Finally I returned to the fort. He skinned the sheep and when I cooked a piece of meat and gave it to him, he was greatly pleased and found it delicious. However, he disliked using salt. When I put a small amount of salt in his mouth, he immediately felt nauseous and spat it out, and would not eat anything with salt again. ○ He said all my food was also very delicious. ○ The next day I had him eat meat skewered on an iron spit and roasted.

【Left page】
Although this was a common method in my homeland, he found it very strange. However, he showed in various ways that he found it delicious when eating, and finally indicated that he would not eat human flesh again. I also showed signs of joy. ○ The next day I had him remove the husks from grain. He was faster and better than me. Next I taught him how to make steamed bread. He learned this quickly too. ○ Since there was one more mouth to feed, I increased and cultivated more fields. Friday also took up the plow and followed along. Perhaps to repay his debt to me, he constantly worked to help me and never once was lazy. ○ Having spent many years on this desolate island, I was fortunate to gain this servant. This was Heaven's fate turning toward good fortune. ○ Friday finished memorizing the names of various implements. He handled the various tools according to my commands. He came to understand my language somewhat. ○ One day Friday said, "Though I have no desire to return to my homeland, would it be possible to return?" I answered, "It would be difficult." I asked, "Your country..."