This week's program... The theater's sound system is now complete. We await your anticipation...

"Kikugoro Lattice (Part 2)" - Shochiku Shimogamo Period Drama
Original Story: Shimozawa Kan
Screenplay: Kimura Fujio
Director: Fuyushima Taizo
Cinematography: Ito Takeo

...Cast...
Namekawa Matashiro: Hayashi Chojiro
Tachibana Ryutaro: Kobayashi Jushiro
Sister Miyuki: Inoue Hisae
Town girl Osayo: Iizuka Toshiko
Joshu Jinko: Mori Toshiji
Namekawa Matanoshin: Tsuboi Tetsu
Ogasawara Meizan: Shiga Yasuro
Mistress Oren: Chikuma Satoko

◇Synopsis◇ When Matashiro finally encounters Ryutaro, whom he had been searching for, Ryutaro again calls him the enemy of his sister Miyuki. Ryutaro believed that Matashiro, who had disappeared the night before the imperial tournament, had kidnapped and killed Miyuki. To Ryutaro, Matashiro appeared only as an enemy and avenger, and he attacked him as the enemy of his sister and the Tachibana family. While calming Ryutaro and escaping from the pursuing officers who pressed in from behind, they temporarily found refuge in a mountain charcoal burner's hut, but Matashiro's sincere words did not reach him, and Ryutaro departed with his mistress Oren without Matashiro's knowledge. Upon learning this, Matashiro pursued him.

Ryutaro, traveling aimlessly through snowy roads with Oren, happened upon the lonely dojo run by Matashiro's father, Matanoshin, and requested a match. Matanoshin was delighted when he learned the visitor was Ryutaro, but Ryutaro, crazed only by cruel revenge, forced a deadly duel simply because he was the enemy's father, and killed Matanoshin before leaving.

Matashiro, who had been following Ryutaro, happened to pass by afterward and learned the tragic news of his father's death from the old servant Koemon, and grieved - but soon after, there was a celebrated man in Edo who gained fame as "Kikugoro Lattice." It was indeed Matashiro, who had been on a heartless wandering journey.

Will Matashiro indeed strike down Ryutaro as his enemy?

"Woman on the Police Line" - Shochiku Kamata Super Special Contemporary Film
Original Story: James Maki
Screenplay: Ikeda Tadao
Director: Ozu Yasujiro
Cinematography: Mohara Hideo

...Cast...
George: Oka Joji
Tokiko: Tanaka Kinuyo
Hiroshi: Mitsui Hideo
Kazuko: Mizukubo Sumiko
Misako: Aihatsu Yumeko
Misawa: Kaga Koji
Senko: Takayama Yoshiro
Okazaki Minoru: Nanjo Yasuo

◇Synopsis◇ George loved Tokiko, and Tokiko thought of George. George was a former boxer, now a well-known yakuza. Tokiko worked as a typist at a company during the day, where the president's son showed her excessive favor, but at night she acted like a proper boss's woman dealing with yakuza. One night, George defeated yakuza who were causing trouble at a dance hall, and a middle school student named Hiroshi, impressed by George's manliness, asked to become his follower. Hiroshi had a sister Kazuko who worked as a shop girl, and she worried about Hiroshi's behavior, but he ignored her concerns and deceived his sister while becoming a yakuza. Unable to bear it any longer, Kazuko visited George and asked him to talk sense into Hiroshi. This became the trigger for George to be attracted to Kazuko's pure heart, but Tokiko became jealous. Meanwhile, there were the president's son's temptations toward Tokiko, and since the two had originally loved each other, things returned to normal between Tokiko and George. The two promised to wash their hands of such dangerous work, but then Hiroshi, who had stolen money from his sister's shop, came to George seeking help. George persuaded the reluctant Tokiko, robbed money from the president's son to save Kazuko and Hiroshi, gave it to the siblings, and finally prepared to flee. However, the police cordon had already been set, and with the promise to live honestly if released, the two finally surrendered to arrest.

...Melancholy and tearful, like pure camellias, the maiden of the red love island...

・Acclaimed "Island Daughter" - Throne of Cinema・
・Shochiku Kamata Super Special Contemporary Drama Victor Records Recording
・Queen of Ginza・Tsubouchi Yoshiko's Second Leading Role Film Since Joining

Original Story/Screenplay: Yanai Takao
Director: Nomura Yoshiteru
Cinematography: Nagai Shinichi

・・Co-starring・・・
Takeuchi Ryoichi
Egawa Ureo
Iwata Yukichi
Wakamizu Kinuko
Suzuki Utako
Takamatsu Eiko

...The star Tsubouchi Yoshiko, who starred in "Tears of a Migrant Bird," has completed another popular ballad film under the direction of Nomura Yoshiteru, the director of "Migrant Bird." A film adaptation of deeply melancholic melody ballads. An emotional piece completed with location shooting in the southern island of Oshima.

・・Grand Opening Soon・・

HIS MASTER'S VOICE [Logo]
TRADE MARK REGISTERED [Logo]

(1) Haah
Raised on the island
A sixteen-year-old girl's heart of love
Hiding from people's eyes
One night of fleeting affection with my lord

(2) Haah
The offshore waters are rough
The east wind that blew is a parting wind
My lord is a sailor
Now he won't return from the bottom of the waves

(3) Haah
Even the island's lights
Go out, and those plovers on the rocky shore
Don't cry for me
I'm a sad, abandoned boat

(4) Haah
My lord must be cold
Night after night with waves as his pillow
Snow falls scattered
The shore plovers cry through the night till dawn

"The Madam's Mighty Power"
Shochiku Kinema Kamata Nonsense Comedy
Original Story/Screenplay/Director: Saito Torajiro
Camera: Matsumoto Masajiro Jr.

...Cast...
Company employee Miki: Ogura Shigeru
Madam Tatsuko: Iida Choko
Son: Tokkan Kozo
Nouveau riche Kanayama: Sakamoto Takeshi

・All Sound Version・

"Unforgettable Flower"

・Representative piece of popular ballad films・

Lyrics: Nishioka Suiro
Composition: Eguchi Yashi

Unforgettable flower's fragrance
Your face from those days
Ah, like a hollow dream
Is this the fleeting fate of love? Ah

...

Unclearing thoughts in my chest
Your words from those days
Ah, like distant stars
Cold are love's lingering traces, ah

Kamata's Unique Ballad Film
Original Story/Screenplay: Ikeda Tadao
Director: Nomura Hiromasa
Starring: Kawasaki Hiroko
Accompaniment: Shochiku Orchestra

・・Opening Soon・・

The object of movie fans' anticipation
Authority of the movie news world
Latest Asahi-za News presentation
...To our theater's publicity department...