【Right Page】
【Heading, boxed section】Kusahan'ya
Hōran (Kuhanran)
【Outside the box】Rama is also called mirror grass. It is a vine. In June and July, it produces clusters of small, pale purple flowers. Similar to lilies but without stars, having five petals and a receptacle. The growth habit of the stems and the leaves are like those of Paederia scandens (hekuso-kazura). When this plant is broken and examined, milky sap comes out. Hekuso-kazura, however, has no milky sap. It blooms and bears fruit in late autumn. It resembles paper hemp pods. In early winter, they split naturally and white cotton emerges. The pods are like small boats. The large ones are about 2-3 sun in length, while the small ones are just over 1 sun. This is what is referred to in sacred texts as the Sukunahikona deity using rama pods as boats. This is exactly what should be used when painting Sukunahikona deity.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Gyokusanka (Jade Hairpin Flower)
　《Interlinear note: Flowers in April》
Gibōshi (Hosta)
《Interlinear note: Also called》
　Hakukakusen (White Crane Immortal)
【Outside the box】There are many varieties. Some have white speckles on the leaf edges, called fuchi-ugibōshi. Those with variegated leaves are called bunteu-gibōshi. There are kinran varieties. The leaves are no different from ordinary gibōshi, but the flowers are snow white, growing tall like hairpins and extremely beautiful. One variety has extremely narrow, long, glossy leaves, with flowers like kinran, in white or wisteria colors. Large gibōshi grows to about 4 shaku in height, while small gibōshi varies by location. It is a mountain plant.
【Dividing line】
Gyokusanka, also called hakugaku. It effectively dissolves fish bones. It should not be applied to teeth; if applied to teeth, they will

【Left Page】
crack and crumble. It comes in two colors, purple and yellow. Purple ones are common, yellow ones are good. Seeds are not abundant.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Kusabyaku【Outside the box】Similar to byaku willow. Flowers are yellow with five petals, like hibiscus. Pistils are short, similar to Vinca. Leaves resemble togiri grass, with opposing leaves, both sides wrapped by stem leaves. Height about 3-4 shaku, spreading horizontally. Flowers bloom in April and May.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Kirin grass
Kyoshiyō (Serrated leaves)
Keiten (Sedum)
【Outside the box】Leaves are like Sedum spectabile but smaller, with serrations on leaf edges. Flower color is yellow, blooming clustered in one place. Plant stems are thick. Flowers are also like Sedum spectabile, blooming in May. Leaves grow in three directions.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Okinakusa (Old Man's Grass)
Hakutōō (White-headed Old Man)
【Outside the box】The emerging leaves are white like snow, gradually turning blue as days pass. Also has tiger stripes, like shōgai whiskers, with flowers in May. Leaves grow in three directions.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Tsurifune (Jewelweed) grass《Interlinear note: Flowers in August-September》
【Outside the box】Leaves resemble wild chrysanthemum leaves with shallow cuts, thin leaves. Stems are jointed, with thin threads about 1 sun long hanging from the undersides of leaves, suspending flowers like fishing boats. Flower shape is like aconite turned sideways, colored true golden yellow, extremely unusual. There are also purple flowers and white ones.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Matsumushi grass【Outside the box】Leaves are like mugwort with thick stems, bearing round flowers of pale wisteria color. Also called ita-no-giku. Also known as Gyokukyūka (Jade Ball Flower). Flowers from July-August through September.