[Right page]
[Heading, boxed section] Shōensō (Small Garden Grass)
[Outside the box] It grows from perennial roots in spring. The leaves are shorter than those of asters and slightly broader horizontally.
When first sprouting, several stems emerge from the ground and grow upright to 5-6 shaku in height. The flowers are like asters and white. There is also
a plant called small aster, with extremely small white flowers. Both the plant structure and leaves are like
asters, being a small grass. It grows about 2 shaku tall and flowers in the 7th and 8th months.
[Dividing line]
[Heading, boxed section] Kikyō (Bellflower)
[Outside the box] There are many varieties of flowers: single lapis lazuli blue, double lapis lazuli blue, single white, double white, single red, double red.
Nankin sarasa has large blooms of white with lapis lazuli blue patterns. What is called nankin sarasa bloom
flowers more flatly than ordinary flowers. What is called fan bellflower has more robust petals than
sarasa bloom. There are also variegated varieties and yellow bellflowers. There are Sendai bellflowers and wheel bellflowers. They flower in the 6th and 7th months. The Japanese name is ant's fire-blower.
[Dividing line]
[Heading, boxed section] Shimotsuke (Spiraea)
Senshūgiku (Threadwork Chrysanthemum)
[Outside the box] The flower shape is like sakuragawa grass and is true red in color. The leaves resemble maple leaves and
the stem is thin. There are white flowers and pale colors. The white-flowered variety has thick leaves with shallow
indentations. There is a type called grass shimotsuke. Also called Nikkō shimotsuke. Both flowers and leaves are
the same as the red variety. It is a small grass with low growth. What is called
hōōsō (phoenix grass) also has the same flowers and leaves. The leaf indentations are rounder than shimotsuke leaves.
All three types are the same plant. They flower in the 5th and 6th months.
[Dividing line]
[Heading, boxed section] Fuyōka (Hibiscus Flower)
[Outside the box] The leaves resemble paulownia but have serrated edges and thin leaves. The leaves extend in both directions

[Left page]
[Heading, boxed section] Small print: One name is mokuren (magnolia) | There are two names for hibiscus
Small print: Those that grow in water are | called grass hibiscus
Small print: This is the lotus flower. Those that grow on land | are called tree hibiscus
Small print: (continued)
[Outside the box] They attach in pairs. The size is like cornelian cherry, and the flowers resemble mukuge but are larger.
There are single, double, and thousand-petaled varieties. Colors include large white, large red, and pale red.
The branch height can reach about one jō, while some are only about one shaku. When flowering at about one shaku height,
it has a herbaceous growth pattern; those about one jō tall become tree-like. Young branches emerge from old branches, same as peonies.
[Dividing line]
Hibiscus blooms within the 8th and 9th months. It has the name "frost-resister." One name is mokuren, another name is moku-
fukyo. In the Songs of Chu it says "plucking hibiscus at the treetops." There are three colors: deep red, pink, and white. There is also
"drunken hibiscus." Within one day the flower appearance changes three times, from white to pale red to peach red.
Maruko hibiscus - how many colors bloom from one branch emerging from soil? There are nine colors on one plant. Emperor Wen of Wei
had a hibiscus garden. In the Kuayi Zhi there are references to the Master of Hibiscus Hall and Hibiscus Castle.
[Dividing line]
[Heading, boxed section] Shitō (Mountain Wisteria)
[Outside the box] The flower shape resembles bean flowers. The color is purple with pale outer petals, while the inner petals
are deep purple. The leaves resemble sumac. There are about 11, 12, or 13 leaves
per stem. The flowers hang in clusters connected to the stem. The stem length is over 3 shaku. This is noda wisteria.
Mountain wisteria has shorter stems and slightly reddish flowers. White wisteria has large flowers and short stems.
The branch growth is vine-like, winding around trees. White wisteria flowers early, purple flowers late. They bloom in the 3rd month.