【Right page】
【Heading】Oleander (kyōchikutō)
Flowers bloom from before the summer doyō period in June, continuing to bloom until July and August. The flower shape resembles double peach blossoms, and on the outside there is a red receptacle like that of flowering crabapple. Below that is a blue base. The flower color is light crimson with white variegation, and there are white serrations in the center of the petals. In the center of the stamens are three strands resembling twisted cotton thread. The leaves are long and narrow like female bamboo, glossy and thick like those of Daphniphyllum. The leaves attach in three directions, and branches extend in three directions. The wood's node structure has joints at each leaf like bamboo. The flower's node structure resembles that of paulownia. The tree height varies in size. Large ones reach six to seven shaku in height, while small ones are four to five sun tall but still flower.

【Heading】Cherokee rose fruit (kin'ōshi) 《Flowers bloom in March-April》
Similar to clustered roses, with thorns. Opens white flowers in April and May. Size is two to three sun, color is pure white, stamens are long and also white in color.

【Left page】
The fragrance is yellow and abundant, a flower with extremely high fragrance. The flower shape is single like that of peony. The leaves are trifoliate, somewhat long with gloss. The flower receptacle, leaf stems, and wood all have thorns. The thorns on the receptacle and leaf stems are like caterpillars, while the wood's thorns are dense. This is used to make hedges. It is also called weeping rose by another name.

【Heading】Bellflower (tsuriganesō)
Resembles Codonopsis and flowers hang downward. Flower color is light purple, and leaves resemble tiger's tail. Leaves are glossy with nodes on the stem. Length is about three shaku. Has flowers in May and June. The original name is ladybell (shajin). Found between cliff walls.

【Heading】Jacob's ladder (hanashinobu)
Leaves resemble wild wisteria. The flower's growth pattern resembles yatsushirosō and extends upward. Flower shape is like bellflower, color is light purple, and white varieties also exist. Height is about two to three shaku. Flowers appear in mid-May.