【Right page】
【Heading, boxed section】Kumano chrysanthemum (kumanogiku)
Bigan
《Marginal note: Flowers in May》
【Outside box】The flower shape is also like a chrysanthemum flower, and the color is basically yellow.
The leaf shape resembles motherwort (yakumosō), being thick with large leaves. The stem has
purple spots. The root base is purple in color. It is also called hankai grass.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Pink (nadeshiko) 《Marginal note: Flowers in June》【Outside box】The flower is single, white with red streaking, deeply cut horizontally, which is
called komatume. Also, those with white ground, deep cuts, and medium-sized rings are called white
thread. White single and double flowers with red streaking are called komakata.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Self-heal
《Marginal note: Flowers in May》
【Outside box】The flower shape is like a quiver (utsubo). It rises and extends from the leaves,
and the blooming flowers come in three varieties: white, purple, and light-colored.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Hōchaku grass
《Marginal note: Also called white bellflower grass》
【Outside box】The leaves resemble yatsushiro grass with pointed leaf tips, and the stem has reddish coloring.
The flower shape is like a small bag. There are two types: red and white. Platycodon (sei)
and adenophora (nei) are the same name. The flowers are longer and larger than bellflower grass. Flowers bloom in May.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Cymbidium (keiran) 《Marginal note: Flowers in June-July》
Nine-jointed orchid (kyūsetsuran)
《Marginal note: Refers to having nine nodes》
【Outside box】The flower shape is like a bee, with an elegant turmeric color that shines glossily.
Three or four flower stems stand, with six or seven blooms each
on one stem. The fragrance is very strong. In an old poem: "In the shape of a mountain bee

【Left page】
flowers bloom out and their fragrance will invite people from far away to the lodging." There are varieties in the leaves with
tiger stripes and some with lines. Some have white edges. Also, what is called hōsa has the same flower shape
but leaves that are long in height with leaf tips spreading in all directions, shining glossily. It resembles
the shape of a phoenix's tail as depicted in paintings. There is also one called kanran. Similar to hōran with
glossy shine on the leaves. Small leaves with short height, and when winter comes, enduring the cold,
flowers bloom. The flowers are small and become blackish.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Yatsushiro grass (yatsushirosō)
《Marginal note: Flowers in June-July》
【Outside box】The flower shape is like bellflower, with bellflower color tinged with red. The flowers
bloom between the leaves in one place. The leaves resemble dancing grass.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Ten thousand flower grass (mankasō) 《Marginal note: Flowers in June-July, white variety exists, height over one shaku》【Outside box】The flower shape resembles paulownia flowers, being flat with long stamens extending
with six streaks. The color is light purple. The flower stems stand like paulownia flowers but smaller, blooming
gradually from bottom to top. The leaves resemble maki wood, being round with
white rings around the leaf edges. The grass growth resembles maki wood with leaves growing opposite each other.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Skullcap grass (ōgonsō)
《Marginal note: Flowers in mid-June》
【Outside box】The flower shape resembles self-heal but is longer, with a light bellflower color like
self-heal. The leaves emerge opposite each other, like bush clover, over one shaku long. It grows in mountain valleys.