【Right Page】
【Heading, Boxed Section】《Side note: Mizukōbone (Water Yellow Pond-lily)》
Takuhōsō (Swamp Artemisia)
《Side note: Flowers bloom in April》
【Outside the box】The leaves are thick and glossy, with pointed leaf tips and incisions at the base of the stem. The stem is thick and the leaves are magnificent. The flowers are also thick and glossy, resembling thickened silver plum grass flowers. They have a yellow-red color; though called red, they begin blooming yellow and turn red as the flowers pass their prime. There is a variety called hime-kōbone (princess yellow pond-lily) that grows low to the ground. It is extremely small, with flowers and leaves alike. There is also one called shin-kureami with red inside the flowers and yellow outside.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, Boxed Section】Kakitsubata (Japanese Iris)
Purple Swallow Flower
《Side note: Six petals, five petals｜絞り pattern, April｜May, four-season blooming》
【Outside the box】There are many varieties of flowers. Some bloom in four seasons, with mouse-gray, white, and purple colors. There are ground-purple varieties with white spots, called "eagle's tail." Those with white ground and fine purple patterns all over are called "dancing crane." The ground color resembles indigo bellflower, and some flowers are exceptionally large. There are white six-petaled varieties called "wet silk" and purple six-petaled ones. "Great Yatsuhashi" is also purple-colored with exceptionally large flowers. "Village clouds" has light mouse-gray ground with slight purple striping, also having six petals. One variety found around Suita in Settsu Province has coloring like the dancing crane, with fine patterns covering the entire petal - quite magnificent. There are others with vertical stripes and standing variations. There is no time to describe them all.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, Boxed Section】Shakuyaku (Peony) 《Side note: Mid-April｜Flowers bloom》【Outside the box】The varieties are countless. There are single, double, and thousand-petaled forms. Colors include large red,

【Left Page】
large white, light red, white, pale red, white-bottomed, and inner red. There are large purple, medium purple, light purple, white, and pale purple. There are red-bottomed ones. Among the fragrant varieties is large white. There are large yellow and large white-silver striped varieties. Large gold-silver striped ones. Medium purple with yellow edges is called "brocade standing." Those resembling peonies are called "peony standing." Those with short fragrance and small size are considered superior, while large ones are considered inferior. Those with seeds in the center like peonies, standing in threes and fives, sprouting from the ground in red color and growing to a height of two to three feet are considered good. Both leaves and branches lean against heavy wood and stand toward heaven. The leaves have three branches, with nine, seven, five, or three leaflets. Some have five leaflets at the tip with two leaves facing each other at the base.
【Dividing line】
Shakuyaku grows in the river valleys and hills of Chūgaku. Now it exists everywhere. Those from Wainan are superior. In spring it produces red buds forming clusters. On the stem there are three branches and five leaves, resembling peony but narrower and longer. Height is one to two feet. It opens flowers at the beginning of summer. There are several varieties in red, white, and purple. The seeds resemble peony but are smaller. Roots are harvested in autumn. Roots also come in two colors, red and white. Cui Bao's "Gujin Zhu" says: There are two types of shakuyaku - herbaceous shakuyaku and woody shakuyaku. The woody type has large flowers with deep colors. It is commonly called peony, but this is incorrect.
Alternative names include Kari, Byakujutsu, Yokaku, Rishoku, Kaisō, and Sen.