【Right Page】
【Heading, boxed section】Cockscomb Flower (Keitou)
【Outside the box】The seedlings sprout in March, and by summer they grow to a height of five to six shaku. The leaves are blue-green and soft. Even plants only about one sun tall will bloom. The flowers come in large and small sizes, with the large ones over one shaku. There are three colors, or five varieties. The red flowers are like felt (mōsen), and the yellow ones are like the dye color of turmeric. The flower shapes include round and elongated forms, called Chinese cockscomb. There are white and red blooms in separate sections, and various mottled colors in many hues. Small round ones open into five parts and form small seeds. The spear-type cockscomb grows in a ball-broom shape, all forming seeds. This comes in three colors and blooms from March to October. Wild cockscomb comes in white and light purple and is commonly found in fields.
【Dividing line】
Cockscomb has red and white two-color varieties, and those with five colors emerging prominently from a single branch are particularly beautiful.
Also, tree-red (bokukou) has the alternate name longevity star cockscomb, which is dwarf-leg cockscomb, and also has red and white two colors. Some say it is the jade tree rear garden flower. Its leaves are very rich and can be used for food.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Rose (Baikaiika) 《Marginal note: March-April｜flowers bloom》【Outside the box】This is a type of thorn bush, similar to roses. The leaves are blue-green, flowers are reddish-purple, single-petaled, large-flowered like peonies. The fruit is round, small and pointed, turmeric-colored like apples, later ripening to vermillion. It is superior to the flowers for viewing.
○Shizhen says the height is two to three shaku with many thorny branches. The leaves resemble roses with serrated edges

【Left Page】
like a saw. The flowers bloom in April, with large ones like bowls and small ones like cups, with a wonderful fragrance like orchid musk.
【Dividing line】
Roses are very fragrant and vigorous, and it is good to divide and plant seeds at appropriate times. When old, the dried flowers can be used to make rice cakes. There are also yellow-flowered varieties that are also good, but they simply lack fragrance.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】
Iris
Chinese name: Mud Calamus (Deishō)
【Outside the box】Flowers bloom through April, May, and June. Also called marsh iris. The leaves have stripes, called striped iris. The flowers come in many colors. There are five petals. Also reddish-purple with thick petals, upright-embracing bloom, large flowers. Called Satsuma upright bloom. Those with the same flower shape and color but slightly smaller flowers exist. Bellflower sarasa has a bellflower-colored base with thick white spots, upright-embracing bloom. Shield-shaped nori-ai has a white base with light bellflower color lightly applied. Itsukushima is a reddish-purple tie-dye pattern. Dyed silk has a white base with light purple rapeseed patterns within the petals, with thick petals. Net-hand has a white base with thin light-red stripes entering like a net. Thousand-layer white has more petals than usual. Besides these, there are white, red, wisteria, tie-dye, lapis lazuli colors and hundreds of varieties that cannot be completely described. This is the general overview.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Blue Orchid Grass【Outside the box】The flower shape is like a Rashomon gate, colored light lapis lazuli. The leaves closely resemble those of the purification bush. The leaves have variegation, and flowers appear in May.

【Notes ①-③ Different from frame 6 of "Ehon Noyamagusa [3]". ①summer (natsu)→stand (tatsu) ②maroku→maruku ③saru→zaru】