Ash fell and clung to the leaves of trees and plants. On the night of the fifth, ash fell heavily. When this was observed in the early morning of the sixth, it was even thicker than frost settling on a cold night. From around midnight of the sixth, ash and sand fell, burying the ground. On the seventh, there were tremors and rumblings, and heaven and earth were shrouded in haze. At the upper quarter of the Hour of the Sheep (around 1 p.m.), the sky suddenly became overcast and dark as a moonless night, so that households throughout the land lit their lamps to go about their affairs. After a while, by the middle of the Hour of the Monkey (around 4 p.m.), the light was no more than what one would see just before the eastern sky begins to whiten at dawn. As night deepened, the tremors grew ever more violent. From around the Hour of the Boar (around 10 p.m.), lightning thundered ferociously, the sound piercing through even as a needle thrust into the ear of a deaf man, and the flashes of lightning seared the eyes so brightly that one could have pointed one's finger by their light. The thunder ran along the ground and seemed as though it would split houses asunder; all the people felt as if their souls would fly from their bodies, parents and children could not distinguish one another's faces, and the proprieties between lord and subject were forgotten. The sound of the falling sand was more terrible than a rain heavy enough to wash away cart axles, and it seemed as if heaven and earth were on the very verge of destruction; neither spirit nor soul seemed to remain in one's body.

Reflecting on this, I recalled the words of a great monk: "Even the great mountain of Myōkō will in the end utterly crumble and fall to ruin; though the great ocean is fathomlessly deep, there shall come a time when it too dries up; and even the earth and the sun and moon, when their time arrives, shall all return to nothingness." Remembering these words, I felt all the more that my heart was turned upside down, and I cannot say that I did not feel utterly drained of all spirit and vigor. Reflecting for a while on the two aspects of "mind" (i) and "vital energy" (ki), I thought of them as the two wheels of a cart. The mind (i) is what perceives and discerns things seen and heard, and adjudicates all matters; the vital energy (ki) constantly resides below the navel (in the tanden) and, stirring and rising, regulates the body. If the ki is strong, one can freely govern the body; if the ki is exhausted, one dies. One ought to employ them in a manner neither too strong nor too weak — yet at a moment such as this, it was impossible even to maintain that proper balance. Truly, I came to understand, even in retrospect, that it was no wonder people had lost the way of the Five Human Relationships between lord and subject, and parent and child. As dawn had yet to break —