A messenger was sent to the Ōgosho-sama (the Retired Shogun), through the Rusuiyaku (keeper of the residence) Katō Chōemon (Masatoshi), to present the same offerings as mentioned above.

At the same location, in the Sotetsu-no-ma (the Cycad Room), the gifts and inventory list were delivered to the retainers of the Sōjaban (Master of Ceremonies) Nagai Iga-no-kami (Naonori).

The same person was dispatched as messenger to the Dainagon-sama (the Great Counselor), to present the same offerings as above. At the same location, the gifts and inventory list were delivered to the retainers of the Sōjaban Inoue Tōtōmi-no-kami (Masaatsu).

Item: On the same day, for the same reason as above, for the first time御内証 (the private/inner household) sent a written message, presenting one ornamental kagami-mochi (ceremonial New Year's rice cake) each to the Kubō-sama (the Shogun), the Ōgosho-sama (the Retired Shogun), and the Dainagon-sama (the Great Counselor).
(The inquiry for this had already been approved on the twenty-sixth day of the twelfth month of the previous year.)

From the Kubō-sama, three pieces of white silver were granted to the messenger, and one thousand hiki in gold were granted to the escort and carriers.

From the Ōgosho-sama and the Dainagon-sama, two pieces of white silver each were granted to the messenger, and five hundred hiki each in gold were granted to the escort and carriers.

As a gesture of gratitude for the gifts bestowed upon the messengers,
written letters of thanks were sent for the first time to the senior ladies-in-waiting (rōjochū) attending the Kubō-sama, the Ōgosho-sama, and the Dainagon-sama.

　　Note: Although gifts were bestowed upon the messengers in connection with the presentation of the kagami-mochi, and letters of thanks were sent in return, since this will henceforth become a regular established custom, it will not be recorded again.

Item: On the same day, for the same reason as above,
from the Kubō-sama, through a written message conveyed by the senior lady-in-waiting (rōjochū), one ornamental kagami-mochi, one box of dried sea bream, and a ceremonial sake barrel (continues below)...