[Continued from previous page] ...and it was conveyed that the matter would be announced in due course.

Item: To the Lord Dainagon (大納言様) as well, the same person (Katō Chōuemon Masatoshi) was dispatched as messenger, and a gift identical to the above (one box of thirty dried flounder) was presented. The Shōgun's personal attendant (御側衆) Toda Tosa-no-Kami Ujiak-dono conveyed that the matter would be announced in due course.

Item: On the 25th day of the 12th month, in celebration of the succession to the domain headship (御家督), a general amnesty (大赦) was proclaimed throughout the domain.

Item: On the same day, a circular letter was received from the Senior Inspector (大目付) Ishikawa Tosa-no-Kami Masamori-dono, stating that the population registers (人別改帳面) for the current Year of the Horse from all provinces were to be submitted to Tosa-no-Kami-dono by around the eighth or ninth month of the year, and that all matters pertaining to the methods of inspection and documentation were to follow established precedent. This circular was forwarded through the resident keepers (留守居) of Matsudaira Daizenno-daibu-sama and Hosokawa Etchu-no-Kami-dono.

Item: On the same day, a memorial service (御法事) for the third anniversary of the death of Lady Shishin-in (至心院様), the birth mother of the Lord Dainagon, was held at Tōeizan (東叡山/Kan'eiji Temple). To pay respects and inquire after the wellbeing of the Lord Dainagon, the resident keeper Yokota Sakudayū Naomichi was dispatched as messenger to the Western Citadel (西丸), presenting thirty yamato-imo (Japanese mountain yam) arranged in a blue basket on a stand. Having already received prior approval on the 20th, the personal attendant Toda Tosa-no-Kami Ujiak-dono conveyed that the matter would be announced in due course.

Item: On the 26th day of the same month, in connection with the same occasion, the messenger — the unit commander and head of the bow-bearers (御物頭・御持弓頭), Kaga Kurōuemon ■■ — presented one piece of white silver (白銀一枚) as a condolence offering (御香奠) to the main temple complex (御本坊) of Tōeizan. Prior approval had been obtained on the 19th.

Item: On the 29th day of the same month, as the Lord Dainagon had visited Tōeizan to pay his respects before the spirit tablet of Lady Shishin-in, the resident keeper Yokota Sakudayū Naomichi was dispatched as messenger to the castle to inquire after the Lord Dainagon's wellbeing upon his return. He was received by the Inspector (御目付) Makino Oribe-dono.