…entered the castle wearing a noshime (formal patterned robe) and asa-kamishimo (formal hemp ceremonial garments).

Note: On the occasion of the visit to the castle, two o-kohito (minor footmen/attendants) came to the residence to serve as guides. [Her Ladyship] rode by palanquin from Hirakawa-guchi to within the Ue-Bairin (Upper Plum Grove), and alighted from the palanquin outside the Kitte Gate. Her sword was carried from that point to the Ue-no-Ma (Upper Room) of the Ohiroshiki Entrance by the two men Akita Sangozaemon Katsusei and Shimoyama Shichirōzaemon Naosada.

Note: From this point forward, one attendant from her personal retinue is to carry the sword.

[Her Ladyship] entered the O-kyūsokusho (resting room) of the Ō-oku and changed into long hakama (formal long trailing trousers). At the lower dais (ge-dan) of the audience chamber (taimenjo), she paid her respects to the Kubō-sama (the Shogun). An august pronouncement (jōi) was received. At the upper dais (jō-dan), she received the honorable hand-length abalone (o-te-nagashi awabi). On that occasion, the following were presented as offerings from the inner household (o-naishō): one box of kelp (konbu), one box of dried sea bream (hoshi-dai), and one cask of sake (o-taru), along with one box containing five inrō (medicine cases). Upon completion of the presentation, she received in return ten rolls of white crepe (shiro-chirimen) and additionally three tan of satin (donsu).

After the Kubō-sama retired, the Lord Great Counselor (Dainagon-sama) appeared in the same chamber. In the same manner as above, respects were paid and the honorable hand-length abalone was received. On that occasion, offerings from the inner household consisted of one box of dried sea bream and one cask of sake, along with one box containing eleven purses (kinchaku). Upon completion of the presentation, she received five tan of white crepe and additionally three tan of satin.

[Her Ladyship] had an audience with Manjirō-sama; the details of the room, etc., are not recorded. From the inner household, one set of sea bream and one box of toy dolls (o-teasobi ningyō) were presented. Gifts were likewise received in return from Manjirō-sama, and having concluded these exchanges, in the guest reception room (o-kyaku-zashiki)…