A memorial tea ceremony (o-chayu) was held as an advance observance of the 27th death anniversary of Lady Hōsen-in.

Item: On the same day, at the Hyōjōsho (Council Hall), a directive was issued to the various officials stating that, due to considerable expenditures since the previous year causing current financial difficulties, all officials should take great care, consult with the magistrates (bugyō), and endeavor to reduce expenditures for the benefit of the domain. Furthermore, since the inspectors (metsuke) had also been so instructed, even minor irregularities would be subject to reprimand. The monthly-duty senior retainer (tsukiban karō), Matsudaira Shume Masaaki, conveyed this directive.

Item: On the first day of the Fourth Month, it was communicated through circular notices from the resident agents (rusuī) of Matsudaira Mutsu-no-kami and Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami that the Senior Inspector (ōmetsuke) Ishikawa Tosa-no-kami Masakata and Nose Inaba-no-kami Yoritsugu had announced at the castle that henceforth the Lord of Ōnagon (the Middle Counselor) would make his official appearances on the first day of each month.

Item: On the same day, since Hakuzen of Unshōji Temple was instructed to offer his respects at the castle upon assuming the abbacy, a messenger was dispatched to the Commissioners of Temples and Shrines (jisha bugyō) in acknowledgment of this honor.

Item: On the fourth day of the same month, a summons came from the Hitotsubashi residence, and the secretary (goyōnin) Daidōji Magogorō Shige-■ presented himself. He was informed that, in connection with a directive issued by the Bakufu at the end of the previous year, henceforth inspectors from the Hitotsubashi household would be dispatched to this domain's residence to hold discussions with the domain's own inspectors and to discreetly inquire about the welfare of both the Edo residence and the home domain. Furthermore, depending on circumstances, the domain's inspectors might be summoned to the Hitotsubashi residence. This was conveyed through the Hitotsubashi senior official (goyōnin) Komiyama Risuke.