(Continued from the previous page)

　　　　　As the matter had been communicated to that degree, we were informed through Kuratsugu Jindayū, the personal attendant (yōnin) of Lord Sagami-no-kami, that the petition should be submitted bearing an official seal. Accordingly, the seal that was completed on the 23rd day of the 3rd month of this year was used (and the petition submitted).

One entry: 19th day of the 5th month. In advance of this,
　In response to the notification issued on the 8th of last month regarding the passing (崩御) of the Sentō [retired emperor's palace, i.e., the Retired Emperor], a messenger was dispatched to Kyoto to inquire after [the Emperor's] well-being: Higashi Shingorō-emon Yū■, Captain of the Advance Guard (o-saki mono-gashira), departed Fukui today.
　　　Note: Shingorō-emon arrived in Kyoto on the 23rd of the same month.

One entry: 22nd day of the same month. Upon being summoned by the Duty Senior Councillor (goyōban), Lord Hotta Sagami-no-kami Masasuke, the castle's residential liaison officer (o-rusui) Tsuda Kyūemon Morihiro appeared before him and received a written order (hōsho) bearing the joint signatures of the Senior Councillors (rōjū).

　　　　　Regarding the stone wall beneath the earthen rampart (塀) on the eastern side of the moat edge (堀瑞) beside the South Gate of the Third Enclosure (sannomaru) of Fukui Castle in Echizen Province:
　　　　　As one section has in places collapsed and in places begun to bulge outward, it shall be rebuilt. Furthermore, one section of the moat to the north of the outer enclosure (sotokuruwa),
　　　　　one section of the moat from outside the Takegahana Gate of the outer enclosure to outside the Jizō-waki Gate,
　　　　　and one section of the moat from outside that gate to the north of outside the Koumadashi Gate,
　　　　　as these are silted up, they shall be dredged. The purport of the red-line markings on the submitted map is understood. Permission is granted to carry out the construction works gradually and restore them to their original condition, as requested.
　　　　　Respectfully submitted.
　　　　　　Kan'en 3rd year [1750]
　　　　　　　21st day of the 5th month　　　　　　Hotta Sagami-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Masasuke [seal/signature]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Ukon-no-shōgen
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Takemoto [seal/signature]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Honda Hōki-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Masayuki [seal/signature]