(Continued from previous page)
　　　　　(The plants had been growing) without notable change. However, perhaps because continuous rains persisted from the beginning of the sixth month, they withered and died standing. It should be noted that, as has been the case previously, the majority (of Korean ginseng plants) sprout in the following year, or there are instances where they sprout only after three years. The above is respectfully submitted.
　　　　　　Eighth Month

Item: On the 19th day of the 8th month, a written notice was issued by the Inspectors (metsuke) Kamio Ichiemon-dono and Tsuchiya Chōsaburō-dono, regarding the dismounting area (gejosha) at the main gate (ōte) of the West Citadel (Nishi-no-Maru) for occasions of attendance at the beginning of the year, the five seasonal festivals, monthly ceremonies, and other visits to the West Citadel. Henceforth, the dismounting area is to be set at the seventh pillar from the corner of the waiting bench (koshikake) at the main gate of said location. When proceeding to the castle, palanquins (kago), box-carriers (hasami-bako), and the like are to be moved directly to the side of the waiting bench and along the moat embankment, within the limits of the standing guard posts, without advancing forward. Upon the lord's departure, attendants are to come forward upon sighting their master. Nothing is to be left outside the designated area. Since Inspectors of Foot Soldiers (okachimetsuke) and Inspectors of Menial Attendants (okohitometsuke) have been assigned to manage the designated areas, it was ordered that the head attendant among the retinue, as well as all those below, must strictly follow their instructions. A circular notice was received from the resident caretakers (rusui) and head attendants (tomogashira) of Matsudaira Mutsu-no-Kami-dono and Matsudaira Aki-no-Kami-dono.

Item: On the same day, at the Third Citadel (San-no-Maru), from today through the 28th of this month, the assembled members of the various units (shogumi) were ordered to serve as "mokuchu" (supervisory observers). A senior attendant (sobayaku) was dispatched as a representative (omyōdai), and prizes were awarded to those individuals who performed well.
　　Note: Hereafter, the ordering of the various unit members to serve as mokuchu will not be recorded.

Item: On the 25th of the same month, the members of the permanent Edo posting unit (jōfu-gumi) were likewise ordered in the same manner as above. As representative, the deputy senior attendant (sobayaku-dai) and steward Mouke Denzaburō Kunpuku was dispatched, and prizes were awarded to those individuals who performed well.