Note: Hereafter, the ordering of the permanent Edo posting unit (jōfu-gumi) members to serve as mokuchu will not be recorded.

Item: On the 2nd day of the 9th month, for the felicitations of the Chōyō (Double Ninth) Festival, through the envoy and Resident Caretaker (rusui) Tsuda Kuemon Morohiro, and following the precedent of the previous lord:

　To the Kubō-sama (the Shōgun): Two kosode (short-sleeved robes), one noshi-me robe with the family crest in brown lining, and one of the same with satin red lining were presented. At the Yanagi-no-Ma (Willow Chamber) of the castle, Senior Councilor (Rōjū) Honda Hōki-no-Kami Masayoshi-dono appeared and the Sōjaban (Master of Ceremonies) made the formal announcement.

　To the Dainagon-sama (the retired Shōgun's heir / Lord of the West Citadel): Through the same envoy, the same items as above were presented. At the same location, the attending Senior Councilor Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami Suzutomo-dono appeared, and the Sōjaban made the formal announcement.

Item: On the 4th day of the same month, in connection with the above, through a letter from the senior lady-in-waiting (rōjochū), three seasonal robes (tokuse) and one box of dried sea bream were received as gifts for the first time. On that occasion, the following were presented: to the aforementioned envoy, a monetary gift of 300 hiki per the gift register (mokuroku); to the three senior escort supervisors (kami-sairyō), 200 hiki each; to the four junior escort supervisors (shimo-sairyō), 200 hiki each; and to the ten carriers (mochinin), 300 hiki in total. Sake and clear soup (suimono) were also provided.
　　　Note: Hereafter, gifts distributed to the envoy and others upon receipt of the Chōyō Festival presents will not be recorded, as they are established custom.

　For the expression of gratitude for the above received gifts, as the lord was still of a young age, his representative (myōdai) Yamato-no-Kami Tomotada-sama performed the duties, calling upon: the duty Senior Councilor (goyōban) Hotta Sagami-no-Kami Masasuke-dono; the Senior Councilor attending the Ōgosho-sama (Retired Shōgun) Nishio Oki-no-Kami Tadanao-dono; and the Senior Councilor attending the Dainagon-sama, Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami Suzutomo-dono. For the remaining Senior Councilors, the head of the Guard of the Shōgun's Library (gosho-in-bangashira), Nakane Yukinojō ■Kan, was dispatched as envoy. (Regarding) Senior Councilor Hotta Sagami-no-Kami Masasuke-dono... (continued on next page)