As a separate expression of gratitude, the senior retainer (karō) Okabe Minosuke (Sadatei) was dispatched. To the lord's personal attendants (sobashū): Takai Hyōbu-no-Shōyu (Nobufusa)-dono, Ōoka Izumo-no-Kami (Tadamitsu)-dono, and Ogasawara Iwami-no-Kami (Masanori)-dono, envoy messengers (o-tsukaiban) were dispatched.

　　　Note: Hereafter, the dispatching of envoys to the remaining Senior Councilors as a gesture of thanks for the above received gifts will not be recorded, as it is established custom.

Item: On the same day, in connection with the above, a female messenger (onna-tsukai) was dispatched from the inner household (naishō) as an expression of gratitude.
　　　Note: Hereafter, the dispatching of a female messenger as an expression of thanks for the above received gifts will not be recorded, as it is established custom.

Item: On the same day, due to the burning of the keep (tenshū) of Nijō Castle in Kyoto (which had burned down due to a lightning strike on the 23rd of the previous month), in order to inquire after the well-being of the Kubō-sama (the Shōgun), the Ōgosho-sama (the Retired Shōgun), and the Dainagon-sama, the Resident Caretaker (rusui) Yokota Sakudayū (Naomichi) was dispatched as envoy to: Senior Councilor Hotta Sagami-no-Kami (Masasuke)-dono, the attending Senior Councilor Nishio Oki-no-Kami (Tadanao)-dono, and Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami (Suzutomo)-dono. (Notice was received on the 3rd, the previous day.)

Item: On the 11th day of the 9th month, as the domain's administered territory (azukari-dokoro) had previously been released from its provisional administration status, the town magistrate (machi-bugyō) Iwakami Kajidayū (■■) and his mounted assistant (yoriki) Narumi Sajirōemon (■■) were dispatched to the territory's administrator (daikan) of Nakaban Village, Fujinuma Genzaemon-dono, to communicate the provisions of the domain's longstanding laws (kokuhō).

　　　　　Memorandum of Verbal Statement

　　　Item: Since prior years, all peasants (hyakushō) and townspeople (chōnin) throughout the domain's villages must not behave disrespectfully (ryogai) toward any samurai, wherever they may be. Naturally, when encountering samurai on roads in the fields and elsewhere, they must dismount from their horses, remove their hats, and take a subservient position. In particular, within the castle town of Fukui, riding on horseback is strictly prohibited. As this has been decreed since the time of the Chūnagon-dono (a former lord), all the more so within the domain of the Hyōbu-no-Tayū (the current lord), increasingly... (continued on next page)