(Continued from previous page) ...as per established precedent, this shall be strictly enforced. However, in recent years, peasants have been found riding horses within the castle town and behaving disrespectfully. When they were arrested and examined, they claimed to be subjects of the御料 (Goryō, i.e., the Shogunal domain). It has been unclear and difficult to determine whether such persons are subjects of private domains or other domains. Regarding this matter, when it was communicated to the previous administrators — Tsuzuki Chōzaemon-dono, Matsuda Matabei-dono, and Hiraoka Kichizaemon-dono — during their terms of administration, they all stated that although these provisions had already been communicated to the peasants, they should nevertheless be reiterated and enforced once more. Furthermore, since peasants under their administration have also reported that persons from other domains falsely claim to be subjects of the Goryō (Shogunal domain), from this point forward, should any such individuals be found behaving disrespectfully, they are to be arrested and examined, and if they prove to be peasants under our administration,

the matter shall be dealt with strictly and decisively. Furthermore, as these regulations are to be strictly communicated to all villages, everyone should be aware of the above. At that time, the messenger communicated to the officials (tedai) that when a disrespectful person is apprehended and is under investigation, if that person has a lodging in Fukui, they should be held at their lodging. If they have no lodging, until notification can be made to the relevant parties, they are to be placed in jail in the meantime. All parties responded that this was a reasonable arrangement.

　　　Item: When thieves or fugitives (kakuochi-sha, i.e., those who have fled their domain or obligations) are encountered, they are to be apprehended on sight regardless of location, held temporarily at that place, and returned to the appropriate administrator's custody once notification has been made. Furthermore, with regard to first notifying the administrator before making an arrest... (continued on next page)