(Continued from previous page) ...this would be the proper procedure, but there are cases where matters become drawn out and delayed. Namely, in a previous year, a man named Oyagi Shōemon from Toya Village, under the administration of Matsuda Matabei-dono, broke into a beggar's shelter at the outskirts of Fukui castle town to commit burglary, and was afterward hiding in said Toya Village. Foot soldiers (ashigaru) were dispatched to apprehend him, and he was placed in the custody of Toya Village. After subsequently notifying Matabei-dono of this action, the man was taken into custody. Accomplices were also found among the peasants of Toya Village, and following Matabei-dono's investigation, the full details came to light and punishments were duly ordered. On account of this precedent, from this time forward, when such persons are encountered, they are to be apprehended wherever found, and the supervising authority (go-shihaigata) is to be notified thereafter. This arrangement has been communicated to all previously serving daikan (administrators) as well as to other domains, so please bear this in mind accordingly.

　　Item: On the 18th day of the 9th month, regarding the matter of retainers passing through the Hakone Barrier (Hakone Gosekisho), the official seal (hankan) of the mansion administrator (o-yashiki bugyō) Ōkubo Risuke had previously been submitted for this purpose. However, as Iwasa Chōzaemon has now been appointed as mansion administrator, a large guard (ō-obanyashi) was dispatched on behalf of the chief elder (karō) to the chief elder of Lord Ōkubo Dewa-no-Kami (Tadaoki)-dono (of Odawara in Sagami Province), to exchange the existing seal for one bearing Chōzaemon's name, as follows:

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Within the household of Matsudaira Yoshimaru
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Iwasa Chōzaemon
　　　　　[Seal]

　　　The above individual is a minor retainer (karuki kerai) of Yoshimaru; please permit passage upon presentation of this seal.
　　　Respectfully submitted.
　　　　　　9th month, Kan'en 3rd year, Year of the Horse [1750]