1. On the 11th day of the 12th month, as an expression of gratitude (orei) for the recent announcement of the marriage arrangement (oengumi), Chief Retainer Honda Minbu (Michiyoshi) was dispatched as envoy [wearing noshime-asa-kamishimo formal dress; the attire of the envoys listed below was the same]:

　To the Shōgun (Kubō-sama), the following gifts were presented: one box of kelp (konbu), one box of salted sea bream (shiodai), and one cask of sake. At the Hinoki Chamber (Hinoki-no-ma) of the Main Keep (Hon-maru), the duty councillor (goyōban) Matsudaira Ukon-shōgen (Takemoto) was in attendance, and the chamberlain (sōja-ban) Inoue Tōtōmi-no-Kami (Masaatsu) served as intermediary. It was conveyed that Lord Ukon-shōgen had duly presented the gifts.

　To the Retired Shōgun (Ōgosho-sama), Chief Retainer Ashida Zusho (Kenno) was dispatched as envoy, presenting one box of salted sea bream and one cask of sake. At the Hinoki Chamber of the West Keep (Nishi-maru), the attached Senior Councillor (otsukinorōjū) Nishio Oki-no-Kami (Tadanao) was in attendance, and chamberlain Nagai Iga-no-Kami (Naonori) served as intermediary. It was conveyed that Lord Oki-no-Kami had duly presented the gifts.

　To the Lord Great Counselor (Dainagon-sama — i.e., the Lord of Owari), the same envoy (Ashida Zusho) presented identical gifts. As the attached Senior Councillor Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami (Suzutomo) was not present, Lord Iga-no-Kami received the gift list (omokuroku) on his behalf.

1. On the same day, in connection with the same occasion, a female messenger (nyoshi) named Yasoda was dispatched from the inner household (gonaishō):
　One box of fresh sea bream (senzai) was presented to both the Shōgun and the Lord Great Counselor respectively.

　To the Retired Shōgun, the female messenger Sakio presented identical gifts. On this occasion, Sakio was granted two scrolls (makimono) as gifts in return. Accordingly, as an expression of thanks, a letter (ofumi) was sent to the senior ladies-in-waiting (rōjūchū) attached to the Retired Shōgun.

1. On the same day, as it was midwinter (kanchū), in order to inquire after the wellbeing of the Shōgun, a letter of inquiry was sent to the duty councillor Matsudaira Ukon-shōgen (Takemoto), and likewise to the attached Senior Councillor Nishio Oki-no-Kami (Tadanao) of the Retired Shōgun's household.