...[yellow gold, ten ryō], one box of kelp (konbu), one box of salted sea bream (shio-tai), and one cask of sake (otaru); to Lord Chūjō (Munemitsu), one ceremonial sword (otachi), a sum in lieu of a horse [yellow gold, ten ryō], and one box of salted sea bream. After these were presented, refreshments and dishes were served, following which Lord Chūnagon and Lord Chūjō gave their personal replies (jikitō). Lord Chūnagon personally presented a gift of large abalone (nagaawabi) by his own hand.

1. On the same day, for the same purpose, Lord Owari Chūnagon (Munekatsu) dispatched his envoy, Ōyoriai Kawamura Hanzaemon, presenting one ceremonial sword, a sum in lieu of a horse [yellow gold, ten ryō], one box of kelp, one box of salted sea bream, and one cask of sake. Lord Chūjō (Munemitsu) dispatched his envoy, Senior Guard Commander (Ōbangashira) Ueno Kozaemon, presenting one ceremonial sword, a sum in lieu of a horse [yellow gold, ten ryō], and one box of salted sea bream. Both Hanzaemon and Kozaemon were received in personal audience, personal replies (jikitō) were given, and large abalone was personally presented to each by hand.

1. On the same day, as the exchange of congratulatory gifts in connection with the aforementioned marriage arrangement had been successfully concluded, Lord Owari Chūnagon (Munekatsu) and Lord Chūjō (Munemitsu) each dispatched an envoy [two men of the rank of Senior Chamberlain Commander (gosho'inbangashira-kaku)] to this residence (oyakata) as an expression of courtesy. In response, Senior Chamberlain Commander Shimada Seizaemon (Shigeaki) was dispatched as envoy to the Owari residence.

1. On the 18th day of the 12th month, as Fukujirō (Katafusa) had been invested in court rank (joshaku) as a shoshidaibu and had taken the new name Hyūga-no-Kami, envoys (otsukaiban) were dispatched to offer congratulations to the duty councillor Matsudaira Ukon-shōgen (Takemoto), the Senior Councillor attached to the Lord Retired Shōgun (Ōgosho) Nishio Oki-no-Kami (Tadanao), and the Senior Councillor attached to Lord Great Counselor (Dainagon) Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami (Suzutomo).

1. On the 19th day of the same month, it being midwinter, an envoy was dispatched and local produce [first quality] of fresh cod (namatara) was presented as customary.

1. On the same day, for the same purpose, in order to inquire after the wellbeing of the recipients, female messenger (nyoshi) Sakio was dispatched from the inner household (gonaishō) to present, for the first time, one box each of local produce — dried cod (hidara, five pieces) — to the Shōgun (Kubō-sama) and the Lord Great Counselor (Dainagon-sama). [This had been approved by inquiry on the 5th of last month.]
　To the Lord Retired Shōgun (Ōgosho-sama), female messenger Yasoda was dispatched with the same items.