1. On the 21st day of the 12th month, as a year-end (sōbo) congratulatory gift, an envoy was dispatched and small robes (kosode) were presented as customary.

1. On the 22nd day of the same month, for the same purpose, a female messenger (nyoshi) was dispatched and dried sea bream (hoshi-tai) was presented as customary. As the said female messenger had been granted a gift (hairyōmono) in acknowledgment, letters of thanks (orei no ofumi) were sent to the senior ladies-in-waiting (rōjochū) attached to the Shōgun (Kubō-sama), the Lord Retired Shōgun (Ōgosho-sama), and the Lord Great Counselor (Dainagon-sama).
　　Note: Letters of thanks for gifts granted to the female messenger upon the occasion of these presentations were to be sent beginning from this year. As this becomes a fixed precedent henceforth, it will not be recorded again.

1. On the 25th day of the same month, for the same purpose, through a letter from the senior lady-in-waiting (rōjochū) on behalf of the Shōgun (Kubō-sama) and the Lord Retired Shōgun (Ōgosho-sama), seasonal robes (jifuku) and dried sea bream were received as customary gifts (hairyō). As [Lord Shigechika] was still young in years (goyōnen), Shima-no-Kami (■■) served as his representative (omondai) to fulfill the obligations of gratitude toward the duty councillor Matsudaira Ukon-shōgen (Takemoto), the Senior Councillor attached to the Lord Retired Shōgun Nishio Oki-no-Kami (Tadanao), and the Senior Councillor attached to the Lord Great Counselor Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami (Suzutomo).

1. On the same day, two draft copies of a petition (naigan-gesho) prepared by the senior retainers (okarō) were placed for private review (onaiken) with the Lord Shōgun's personal attendant (osoba-shū), Ōoka Izumo-no-Kami (Tadamitsu).
　　Note: The draft petitions had previously been submitted for private review through Hitotsubashi's secretary (goyōnin) Tanuma Ichibei to the personal attendant Tanuma Tonomo-no-Kami, whereupon Tonomo-no-Kami had made additions in his own hand.

　　　　　Memorandum (Oboegaki)
　One item: In the year Kyōhō 6 (1721), the year of the Ox, at the time of the death of Matsudaira Iyo-no-Kami Yoshikuni, [he had held the post of] Hyōbu-no-Taifu... [continued on next page]