[Continued from previous page] ...a request had been made to adopt [Hyōbu-no-Taifu] as an adopted son. The pronouncement issued was as follows: "Regarding this house, if succession were entrusted to one of tender years, it would be unsuitable not only for the members of the family but also for those above. As Nakatsukasa-no-Taifu is the legitimate grandson of the late Iyo-no-Kami, he shall be ordered to succeed to the late Iyo-no-Kami's headship. As for Hyōbu-no-Taifu, he shall be ordered to become the adopted son of Nakatsukasa-no-Taifu and, upon reaching maturity, to take Iyo-no-Kami's daughter as his wife." This was proclaimed by means of a written directive (okakitsuke).

Thereafter, the headship of Nakatsukasa-no-Taifu was bestowed upon Hyōbu-no-Taifu, and he entered into marriage with Iyo-no-Kami's daughter; however, within several years no children were born, and his wife passed away. On account of this, the senior retainers (karō) petitioned regarding a remarriage or the taking of a concubine, whereupon Hyōbu-no-Taifu conveyed his own views to the senior retainers as follows:

"I was the second son of a branch family, yet I have succeeded to the main house and received rank and stipend far beyond my station — a most grateful circumstance. Since my wife was of the legitimate bloodline of this house, I had hoped that children would be born, but that was not to be, and her death is a matter of the deepest regret. Under these circumstances, the matter of remarriage is not in keeping with my wishes. The particulars are as follows: in a prior year, when I was first granted leave to return to my home domain and went to present my respects, at the castle I was summoned together with [a member of] the same clan, Tajima-no-Kami, and in the presence of the assembled Senior Councillors (rōjū), the duty councillor (goyōban) Matsudaira Ukon-shōgen conveyed the following pronouncement: 'There is no need to have filed a petition regarding a provisional adopted son (kari-yōshi). Should an unforeseen event occur in your home domain, those above [will...]'" [continued on next page]