[Continued from previous page] "...there is such consideration from above, and so you may rest assured." Furthermore, Ukon-shōgen conveyed his private communication (naigi), saying: "You should regard the foregoing pronouncement with gratitude. Even should an unforeseen event occur, since at present the Lord's children are flourishing in number, there will surely be consideration from above." Upon receiving this communication, [Hyōbu-no-Taifu] felt it all the more deeply grateful.

Thereafter, each year when leave was granted, he duly reported that no provisional adopted son (kari-yōshi) had been designated. Since this weighty private communication existed, he conveyed to his senior retainers that: "Should no heir be born hereafter, the succession of this house may, in accordance with the will of those above, result in the introduction of someone closely connected by lineage, which could lead to the restoration of this house. Were that to happen, it would be a matter of manifold and boundless gratitude toward one's ancestors." On these grounds, he refused to consent in any way to remarriage

or other such matters. After that, although it was his heartfelt wish that this matter be quietly brought to the attention of those above by means of the aforementioned circumstances, since it involved an exceedingly weighty private communication, he had refrained from submitting a formal petition. Then, in a prior year, it was proclaimed that Ogimaru would be adopted, bringing his long-cherished wish to fruition — a supreme fulfillment of his heart's desire, for which he was most deeply grateful.

Previously, the arrangement had been discussed in connection with the Lord Gyōbu-kyō [i.e., Keibukyo-sama], but since that personage had grown older in years, in order that [the heir] might learn the proper conduct of administration from an early age, it was privately communicated that the legitimate heir, Kogoro-sama, was to be designated as the adopted son. Since Ogimaru was one of close lineage, [the succession] returns to the ancestor Chūnagon-dono, and henceforth the restoration of this house shall be accomplished — Hyōbu-no-Taifu's long-held great wish was fulfilled, and [he felt it to be] the uttermost of divine grace (myōga)... [continued on next page]