[Continued from previous page] ...and regarded it as a matter of manifold and most grateful fortune. At that time, since it was proclaimed that the name should be changed, [Hyōbu-no-Taifu] inquired as to whether it would be permissible to change [the child's name] to "Ogimaru," using the childhood name of Chūnagon-dono [the founding ancestor]. The reply came that it should be done precisely as requested, and thereupon all members of the household, from senior to most junior, felt this all the more deeply grateful.

One item: Regarding the rearing and upbringing of Ogimaru, needless to say [this was a matter of great importance], and Hyōbu-no-Taifu exerted himself with exceptional care and effort so that [Ogimaru] might grow up in good fashion. Naturally, since this is Ogimaru, it goes without saying that once he comes of age, his service to his lord, as well as his attention to the proper governance of the domain, should be matters of exceptional dedication. However, there is a concern — however remote — that upon coming to this house, there may be no established framework in terms of rank and protocol (kakuai), which could naturally lead to the governance of the domain becoming lax and neglected. Should that be the case, one feels considerable anxiety as to how much peace of mind the people throughout the home domain, from top to bottom, can truly have.

Furthermore, that Ogimaru has been sent to this house is something for which all members of the household, from senior to most junior, feel uniformly grateful, as [the household] feels as though the family's rank has been restored to that of former times. [The household] prays day and night that there may be successive proclamations to that effect. Since there are precedents whereby this house received special treatment due to its connection through lineage to Chūnagon-dono, even down to recent times, [the household] earnestly hopes that a decree will be issued establishing an appropriate framework and standing for Ogimaru accordingly. [Those involved] had expressed among themselves the private hope to find an opportune moment to respectfully convey this appeal through unofficial channels.

However, Hyōbu-no-Taifu passed away last winter, before he could even see to the rearing of Ogimaru — something that leaves the entire household with feelings beyond what words can express. Nevertheless, in that same recent winter... [continued on next page]