【Center】
Lloyd's
Movie Crazy

Original Title　　　Movie Crazy
Production　Harold Lloyd Film Company
Story　Agnes Christine Johnston,
　　　John Grey and Felix
　　　Adler
Screenplay　Vincent Lawrence
Director　Clyde Bruckman
Cinematography　Walter Lundin
Editing　Bernard Burton
Translation　Tamura Yukihiko
Release　September 23, 1932
　　　Paramount Publix
　　　Film Company

【Right Middle】
1
　　Synopsis
　Harold is a handsome young man who dreams of becoming a great movie star while suffering from neurosis. Finally, he stands at the threshold of success in Hollywood, the coveted capital of cinema. However, despite God's favor and his desperate passionate performance in the crucial screen test, he gets fired due to his chronic neurosis. His only consolation at this time was becoming close to Mary, the star who was playing a Spanish maiden on the set.

【Right Bottom】
2
　　
　Especially since God took pity on him and sent down a torrential rain, Harold became a guest at Mary's house, where he listened to Vance, her romantic co-star, drunkenly wooing Mary with tearful pleas. Unfortunately, his remarkable perception counts the Spanish maiden Mary and Mary with her makeup removed after filming as two different people. So he wonders how what he said to the Spanish maiden could somehow

【Center Top】
3
　　leak through to Mary.
　At a grand party held at the studio, Harold, thinking he was invited, ends up wearing a magician's coat, and during his honored dance with the studio head's wife, doves and mice pop out, causing the lady to scream and creating an untimely warlike atmosphere. Due to Vance's harassment, Harold engages in a great underwater struggle without knowing he's being filmed, which fortunately catches the studio head's attention and he's suddenly hired as a star.

【Left Top】
　　●　Cast　●
Harold Hall…………………
　　　………………Harold Lloyd
Maiden Mary………Constance Cummings
Her romantic co-star………………
　　　………………Kenneth Thomson
Director………………Sidney Jarvis
Assistant Director………………Eddie Featherstone
Studio Head………………Robert McWade
Wife………………Louise Closser Hale

　Others include Harold Goodwin, Lucy Beaumont, Dwight Jennings (Harold's father), Mary Doran, Noah Young, Constantine Cummings, Arthur Houseman

― 2 ―

― 3 ―