【Right Page Top】
To the League of Nations
　"League of Nations Investigation Commission in Manchuria" Reduced Scale Retitled

This film documents the activities of the League of Nations Investigation Commission that inspected Manchuria from April to June 1932 (Showa 7), filmed with permission from the Kwantung Army Headquarters. It combines actual footage of various Manchurian scenes and parts of incident films shot during the conflict, conceived as both a memorial to the commission's inspection and a presentation of Manchurian conditions.

Resolutely Toward Recognition!

This film was shot with permission from the Kwantung Army Headquarters, documenting the signing ceremony of the Japanese-Manchurian Protocol between Imperial Plenipotentiary Muto and Manchurian Plenipotentiary Prime Minister Zheng on September 15, 1932 (Showa 7) at the Manchukuo Executive Office in Xinjing, as well as the activities during the plenipotentiary's stay in the capital.

【Right Page Bottom】
Filmed by South Manchuria Railway Company Public Relations Department
Provided by South Manchuria Railway Company World Edition

― 4 ―

【Left Page Top】
The Reality of Hollywood Filming Methods
　　　as Shown in "Lloyd's Movie Crazy"

　First, when Lloyd comes to Hollywood, he immediately begins location shooting.
　When the microphone is prepared, as you can see, rehearsals are repeated over and over again. When it reaches the point the director deems satisfactory, the assistant director shouts "All set!" (ready).
　Then the assistant director calls out to everyone "Everyone ready!" "Take your positions!" "Quiet!" and so forth. Accordingly, when the actors and various staff members finish positioning themselves and other preparations, the director says "Start" or "Action," and the movie filming begins.
　There is something called a test. Anyone who wants to become an actor must pass through this gateway. Even if you think someone has a good face normally, when filmed, it may not look good on film. Even if you think someone has a good voice, when it goes through the microphone, it may not be suitable

【Left Page Middle】
for that purpose. Such things are tested, and additionally, filming is done to see that person's acting ability.
　In this movie, that test is introduced through a screening of the completed test film.
　You will see black and white striped clapperboards being struck. This clapperboard is a start mark, serving as an editorial guide after filming and recording.
　And the man who strikes that clapperboard calls out "Test Track 809" or "811" and so forth.
　That is written on the blackboard behind him. And there, "N.G." is also written large. N.G. means "NO GOOD," that is, defective - just filmed but there were mistakes in the acting so it's no good, so that take becomes N.G. This is movie terminology that has been in use for a long time and should be widely used with the same meaning.
　Now, toward the end of this test film screening, the screen suddenly moves rapidly

【Left Page Bottom】
and Lloyd's voice becomes high-pitched and sounds strange. This is the state when the synchronize motor connecting the camera and recording machine is still running by momentum after the director shouts "Cut!" (meaning filming of this part is finished). This reverse effect is somewhat inside baseball, but it's cleverly utilized in the form of waste recycling from movie production.
　The last scene where Lloyd fights well demonstrates the large-scale filming methods of American movies. The scene was prepared for a storm aboard ship, and the water falling from behind was set up to gush out dramatically in case of shipwreck, but the real fighting broke it and released it.
　Such important filming cannot be seen even when touring a film studio. (W)

S.P. Graphic
　　Please get yours before they sell out. Thirty sen per copy. Available at stores north and south.

― 5 ―