【Shop Sign】
Deboned Loach
Catfish Big House Bankruptcy Grill
【Price tags on two dishes at the storefront】
24 mon (coins)
16 mon (coins)

Kashima (deity)
"Come, come, buy some! This is grilled catfish on large and small skewers, in revenge for houses burned down in the great earthquake. However, given these times, cash payment is required. Whether you're a doctor, provisioner, or guard, I don't know."

Fire (deity)
"Excuse me, aren't you Thunder and the old man going over there?"
Old man: "Are you Fire? Where are you going?"
Fire: "I'm planning to disappear before Kashima uses me to grill the catfish."
Old man: "That's good. Fire and earthquakes are the height of crudeness. Fire, are you living in a lively world?"
Thunder: "Since evacuations are quick, I'm secretly reopening with my retirement."
Fire: "That's your pleasure, but Thunder, you won't be allowed up."
Thunder: "Why, why?"
Fire: "Because you're a neighborhood hoodlum."

Geisha
"Say, shamisen shop owner, are you busy these days?"
Shamisen shop owner
"Not at all. Since the earthquake, I haven't earned even a single string's worth, let alone three strings. I'm really troubled at this crossroads. I wonder what to do. I hear you've been warming up with oden and heated sake."
Geisha
"That was just for the moment. If it goes on long, it'll cause problems."

Boatman
"Truly, our business is much the same - we can't even make the small daily earnings of two or three shu."

Textile merchant
"Every back alley is the same. There's no talk of making money, just idle complaints about hardships in these difficult times."

Restaurant in Yukijima
"Even cooking, which sells faster than textiles, isn't selling, and the formal dining business isn't working."

Thunder
"In this earthquake, I was the very first to run away."

【Second tier】
Book lender
"Well, I can't collect payment for burned books either. This year-end is all about crying over lost books. I want dawn to break quickly and return to a world of happy books. The only ones who don't know this hardship are you kept women."
Kept woman
"What do you mean? Because of the fires in the inner quarters, the benefits don't reach me either, and even food is scarce."

Storyteller
"To make a living by speaking, we used the guild's connections and went out to work, but it didn't work as well as we hoped in various places, so we met with fan-licking. This too will be material for future stories."

Dance teacher
"With foreign tales, the mansion performances have ended, and in these difficult times, it's fortunate that no one was hurt at the Nakamura-ya theater during the recent Fuji incident."

【Third tier】
Props dealer
"Truly, in this earthquake, large and small alike shook their storage, and the prop business is slow. Moreover, with urgent need for hat-making supplies, I'm buying from the edges to the head."

Cook
"With the double burden of earthquake and fire, after a long siege of provisions, just as I was about to fall, I barely managed to get by with night work."

Animal dealer
"More than everyone else, I deal with animals no one wants to keep. I wonder if I should just become a performer - human hair might sell better."

Haiku poet
"Unlike merchants, even if I'm not busy, I don't worry - I'm a haiku poet. If I don't take the hundred-verse challenge, I can't match the closing particle in my hands. These days, I can't produce even one verse."

Court noble
"How are you, High Priest? Even I, with all the mansions I serve having collapsed, have no clever solutions and am merely sustaining life."

Tea master
"Places like Funaichi-ya are getting thinner and thinner in their tea. When you can see the bottom, you can't avoid serving thick tea."

Spectator
"Among everyone, for the past two days, I haven't received a single mon - a great loss. Truly, earthquakes are unwelcome for spectators."

Geisha
"The catfish's tail-wagging has scary consequences."

Paper scrap collector
"I understand there are no paper scraps in the burned areas, but since the earthquake happened at night, there should be paper scraps left behind."

【Left side of the sign dialogue】
Shamisen shop owner
"The chest is two-rise, the old style. This time, the gold ball is really rising."