"Composed in Distant Sympathy with Du Yuanwai Shenyan Crossing the Mountains"

Heaven stretches long, earth spreads wide, and the mountain peaks divide. Leaving the capital and departing from home, I see only white clouds. What place resembles the scenic beauty of Luopu? The miasmic diseases of the high mountains are unbearable to hear about. To the south, floating on the vast sea, where is that person? Looking north toward Hengyang, how many flocks of geese are there? The rivers and mountains of both places span more than ten thousand li. When shall I again have audience with the sage and enlightened ruler? [Seals: "Seijō" "Shōken"]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zhang Yizhi had great power through his relations with Empress Wu. Both Quanqi and Shenyan curried favor with him, and for this transgression, Quanqi was exiled to Huanzhou, Yizhi to Fengzhou, and Shenyan to Nanling. Seeing the sad poem that Shenyan composed, [the poet] composed this work using the same distant theme. Both the southern region where Shenyan was exiled and the place where I myself was banished - the heavens seem endlessly long, the southern lands limitlessly vast. With the mountain paths of Nanling diverging and our places of exile far apart, leaving the capital and departing from home, when I longingly gaze toward my native place, I see only white clouds rising. What place could resemble the scenic beauty of the Luo River's banks in the capital? Speaking of how different the climate is - though I have not yet reached the places where mountain miasmas exist, when I heard about them previously, even then I could not bear to listen and tears fell. My dear friend Shenyan, who floated away southward on the vast sea - where might he be now? To the north lies Hengyang with a place called Huiyan Peak, beyond which geese do not travel south, so I cannot know how many flocks of geese fly there. Since the time of Su Wu of the Han dynasty, there has been a tradition of geese carrying letters. Since there are no geese in this place, I cannot even correspond with my homeland - this is what I lament. Speaking of the northern extremes of Hengyang, one can imagine how distant it is, with the vast sea at the southern extremity. Living in places separated by rivers and mountains, more than ten thousand li apart, when might our offenses be pardoned so we could return to the capital and have audience with our enlightened ruler? Probably never - such is the pitiful state described. In this poem, there are three characters that are likely copying errors.