There were spring entertainments in the elevated passageway from Penglai Palace to Xingqing Palace, and there is an imperial composition called "Spring View in the Rain." Saying that Liuchun (Retaining Spring) is the name of the pavilion has no clear source. This is because the emperor stayed in the elevated passageway and engaged in spring amusements. Looking out from the elevated passageway, one can see the Wei River naturally winding around the fortress of Chang'an in Qin, encircling the capital, and Mount Huang has long continued diagonally, surrounding the Han Palace. Summoned in a palanquin with jingling jade bells, the emperor made a distant royal progress, and the willows beside the various palace gates appeared deeply green. Looking back from the elevated passageway, the flowers in Shanglin Garden were also in full bloom. The palace gates lined up in front of the imperial city, wrapped in clouds, rose high, and among the trees that brought forth spring in the rain, the neighborhoods of the capital and the homes of countless people could be seen lined up. Viewing this scenery relates to governing the realm - it is for issuing commands to encourage farming among the people during the cheerful spring season. This imperial pleasure is not about enjoying the floral beauty of all things - because the emperor's amusements were excessive, the poet remonstrated and admonished through verses seven and eight.

Imperial Edict: Bestowing Cherries upon the Hundred Officials
A thousand officials gather beneath the Hibiscus Pavilion. Red cherries from the Purple Forbidden City emerge from Shanglan. This is just after spring offerings to the ancestral temple. It has nothing to do with birds' leavings in the imperial garden. Returning saddles compete in carrying blue silk baskets. Court attendants frequently tilt red jade plates. Having eaten their fill, they need not worry about internal heat. High officials still have the coolness of sugarcane juice.

According to the Materia Medica, cherries bloom with white flowers in early spring, and the fruit ripens at the end of March and beginning of April, with dozens of fruits per branch. Li Chao's Record of Seasonal Customs of the Tang states that on the last day of the third month, cherries are presented from the inner garden to the ancestral temple, and there is also a ceremony where they are distributed to the hundred officials, each receiving according to their rank, as also seen in the Book of Rites. Wang Wei at this time became a Secretary in the Ministry of Civil Affairs. A thousand officials were assembled beneath the pavilion in Hibiscus Garden, and red cherries from the Purple Forbidden City were brought out from Shanglan Observatory to be bestowed. Just after presenting spring offerings to the ancestral temple, without waiting long, these cherry fruits were granted. It was not necessarily because birds in the imperial garden had left remains. Since the bestowal was of cherries, when returning, they competed to tie blue silk-decorated baskets to their horse saddles, and court attendants of the monk class who carried the bestowed items frequently tilted red jade plates.