Sent to Lu Sixun, Staff Member

The ice flows melting in the twelfth lunar month, descending the Heyang River; grass colors emerge around Jianzhang Palace in the new year. In the Qin lands (Chang'an), the beginning of spring is announced by the Grand Astrologer; in the Han Palace, writing on pillars, I remember the immortal gentleman (you). Returning geese wish to cross through the snow of a thousand gates; palace ladies newly add incense for the five night watches. When will someone recommend writings similar to heroic literature? Old friend, you have already composed the "Changyang Rhapsody."

[Li Qi's Commentary]
Li Qi became magistrate of Xinxiang County and resided in Luoyang. The first line probably refers to the farewell when Lu Sixun entered Chang'an from Luoyang. When the flowing ice melted and flowed in the twelfth month, departing from Heyang and going downstream, today the grass shows hints of green, entering the new year and appearing around Jianzhang Palace. In the Qin lands of Chang'an, through government affairs, the beginning of spring is transmitted from the astronomical officials and reported, where there are ceremonies to welcome spring. At that time, if you were to attend court at the Han Palace, you would catch the emperor's eye, and he would say "What an excellent person!" and write your name with his brush on a pillar, thinking of you as an immortal gentleman. Serving in the government office, when returning geese wish to fly across, the many palace gates would also be covered in snow. Being a court official, palace ladies would newly add the fragrance of aloes wood during the dawn of the five night watches. Someday please recommend this one as comparable to Yang Xiong's writings. You, my familiar friend, have already composed the "Changyang Rhapsody" - saying this because Lu is a court attendant, asking him to put in a good word, this is based on the historical precedent of someone recommending Yang Xiong to Emperor Cheng because his writing resembled that of Sima Xiangru.