Addressed to Qiwu San

Newly granted a large district, your cord remains yellow. Recently, you head toward Luoyang with a simple, unadorned carriage. Once passing by the Chancellor's residence, you will thrice encounter the refined fragrance of the Duke. The glutinous rice flowers of Nanchuan invade the county borders, and the colors of clouds and mist from the western peaks fill the hall. Everyone says that those who recommend worthy men receive rewards from above. Let us see in how many years you will become a Court Gentleman.

[Commentary]
Qiwu is a compound surname. He transfers from magistrate of Yichun County to magistrate of Luoyang County. This time he is newly granted the large district of Luoyang County and goes to take up the post of magistrate, but the cord of his seal remains yellow because his position is of lower rank. All officials receive seals from the Emperor according to their respective positions, so they wear the seals on cords attached to their official dress. High and low positions have different colored cords for their seals. When dismissed from office, that seal must be returned. Since you are a person without extravagance, you recently head toward Luoyang in a simple, unadorned carriage. Since you are well regarded by various lords, you will be treated with courtesy. Even when passing by the Chancellor's residence once, you will also associate with refined and elegant ministers. Now, praising your good governance and encouraging agriculture well, the glutinous rice flowers in the Nanzhou area will flourish and bear fruit abundantly, extending even to neighboring counties. Because of this good governance, there are no legal disputes or lawsuits, so even when stationed at the office, you have leisure all day long and can only watch the colors of clouds and mist from the western peaks fill the hall. Everyone discusses together and says that since recommending worthy men to the Emperor brings rewards, let us watch how in just a few years people will recommend you to become a Court Gentleman. "Court Gentleman" refers to a Gentleman of the Imperial Secretariat.