Palace Service Career Sugoroku (Board Game)

Edo Ningyocho Street, Gakuya Shindo Corner
Published by Joshūya Jūzō

[From the bottom right square:]
Omemie (First Audience) - Move to: 2 Onakawi, 4 Ochichi, 6 Ohashita
"Have you heard about helping with salt drawing? Since the business is finished, I was told that water drawing is now possible. My, how unexpected! It's the princess's favorite."

Shinmyō (Needlework) - Move to: 1 Odori, 3 Oitoma, 6 Ogushiage
"The master will probably come down now. Well, let's stop work and prepare some tea."

Created by Bantei Ōga
Starting positions:
1. Omemie (First Audience)
2. Oyatoi (Employment) 
3. Oreiagari (Ceremonial Visit)
4. Ohashita (Lower Maid)
5. Shinmyō (Needlework)
6. Osue (Lowest Rank)

Illustrated by Kunisada, later called Second Generation Toyokuni

Ohashita (Lower Maid) - Move to: 3 Osue, 4 Onakawi, 6 Oyatoi
"With so many guests this spring, we can barely manage to serve meals properly. In exchange, there will surely be position changes soon."

Oitoma (Leave/Dismissal) - Move to: 1 Omemie, 2 Shinmyō, 6 Ochichi
"I can say anything to mother, but if father hears about it, who knows what kind of trouble I'll face. So let's go to aunt's place and ask for help."

[Second row from bottom:]
Odori (Dancing) - Move to: 3 Okoshō, 4 Omeshitsukai, 6 Omemie
"Well, now all the evening's props are ready. Let's see, so we need to think about the lady-in-waiting's tea ceremony performance."

Odaisan (Proxy Worship) - Move to: 1 Otsugi, 4 Gofuku no Ma, 6 (Fond of children) Oitoma
"This is fine now, so please hurry and prepare the attendants. There are some places to visit along the way."

Onakawi (Middle-ranking Maid) - Move to: 3 Osan no Ma, 4 Odaisan, 6 Omori
"Oh my, today's menu has been changed to egg rolls again. We've had exactly one hundred meals in ten days. Well, whatever happens."

Osue (Lowest Rank) - Move to: 1 Onakawi, 4 Shinmyō, 5 Odaisan
"Look at this. The illustrated books from Joshūya in Ningyocho are always interesting and easy to understand."

Oyatoi (Employment) - Move to: 1 Omori, 3 Osue, 5 Odori
"Oh, the bell is ringing. Won't someone please go? If I go, I'll probably get scolded again."

Oreiagari (Ceremonial Visit) - Move to: 1 Ogushiage, 2 Shinmyō, 3 Osan no Ma
"Well, I've been thinking of coming to pay my respects for a long time, but I've been acting so selfishly that I kept postponing it."

[Third row from bottom continues with similar format...]

[Top row:]
Chūrō (Middle-aged Lady-in-waiting) - Move to: 1 Rōjo, 4 Agari, 6 Oheyasama
"It's easy to point out others' faults, but those in service should help each other to avoid dismissal."

Oheyasama (Lady of the Chamber) - Move to: 3 Okoshō, 6 Agari
"That we humble people can achieve such success is all due to heaven's blessing. We must treasure our mistress all the more."

Agari (Success/Goal)

Rōjo (Elderly Lady-in-waiting) - Move to: 1 Agari, 3 Otsugi
"Finally, this spring the princess has served well, so you will receive rewards along with position changes. Please accept them gratefully."

Osoba (Personal Attendant) - Move to: 1 Chūrō, 6 Heyago
"Yes, princess, please practice your calligraphy. You must not go off playing like that. Oh dear, and with such a dirty face - you'll make everyone worry."