【Upper Document】

【Outside thick frame】
A new collection of foolish jokes

【Upper section, left to right】
Terrifying　How big　this morning's　earthquake
Those are　swept away　the tsunami　people
My waist is　unsteady　this morning's　earthquake made it so
Because there was no interest rate increase　they were swept away　Shimoda's tsunami
Will it continue　again?　I don't like it　a second earthquake

【Lower section, left to right】
When it's cooked　quickly put it in　the fire disaster lunch box
I have already　learned　after the earthquake
Those will　die　the earthquake's　cattle and horses
Those are going　the country's　express messengers
Even more beautiful　isn't it　the shogun's vicinity


【Lower Document】

【Right title in thick frame】
《Small text: Yura｜yura》 Abundant Questions and Answers 《Small text: The catfish opened its eyes　and moved, creating in the city｜mountains of storehouses piled up》

【Upper section, left to right】
When no one died　giving spending money, how is this so?
○Even without fires　they call it monthly duty　this year

Drinking cold sake　calling it drowning sorrows in drink, how is this so?　
○Like getting drunk　before earthquakes were even needed

Without pain, calling it　collapsed bridge, how is this so?
○Like calling it fire bridge　even when it hasn't burned

Calling uncracked ground　split drainage, how is this so?
○Like calling it Toku-emon town　even after great losses

Calling many collapsed things　corpses, how is this so?
○Like calling thousands of　firefighters　personnel

Calling a seven-block town　five-block town, how is this so?
○Like calling one moat　Mitani moat

【Lower section】
Without touching soil　calling someone a thief, how is this so?
○Like calling something sesame　ash without helping at fire sites

Earthquake causing soil to fall　from storehouses meant to prevent fire, how is this so?
○Like calling living people　blockheads

Calling undamaged houses　triangular, how is this so?　
○Like calling it Kiyosumi　town even when wells were muddy before earthquakes

Calling wealthy families' houses that dutifully inherit　collapsed houses, how is this so?
○Like calling even broken storehouses　good storehouses

Calling things diagonal without distortion, how is this so?
○Like calling places that don't collapse　side streets

Calling Inari shrines that aren't black　Kurosuke, how is this so?
Like calling those beside black walls　Shiroubei