Sukampo (Rumex)　I say:
　　　　　　　　　　Because the taste is sour, it was named by the country's
　　　　　　　　　　common usage. Therefore it has the name Yukambo.
　　　　　　　　　　In the Wakan Sansai Zue, sorrel (Sukanho) and also
　　　　　　　　　　the Japanese name for rhubarb is recorded as "sushi," both are
　　　　　　　　　　the same.

The Zoho Tashikihen, in the section on poisonous plants, says:
　Sorrel　Japanese name: sushi　Now considering what is commonly called　Sheep's sorrel (Yōtei)
　　　　　　Sui-dai-uku-sa
　Mountain rhubarb　■bu (Zanbu)　Sour mother (Sanmo)　Sour grass
　Medicinal herb

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kinoto-tori year, Kosen month, 18th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Painted from life

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　【Grass category】

　　　　　　　　　The Yamato Honzō records both apple (Rinkin) and quince as two varieties
　　　　　　　　　They are not the same thing or of the same type

The Zoho Tashikihen, in the mountain fruits section, says:
　Quince (Rinbai)　Japanese name　Some people say Rimukimu (Rinkin), also called
　　　　　　In Nanban language it is called Marumeru, which is this

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　【Tree category】

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kinoto-tori year, Kosen month, 19th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Painted by breaking off a branch

The Honzō Ikkaigen says:
　Quince (also called Marumero) Enimero tree

　　　　　　　　　This matches well with the explanation of Marumeru in Yamato Honzō. In the Honzō there is
　　　　　　　　　quince (Unhōtsu), and someone says this must be Marumeru. However, in the Honzō
　　　　　　　　　quince has a very sweet taste and its fragrance is aromatic. Also the flowers are white and
　　　　　　　　　green in color. The various theories in the Honzō speak of white, fragrant flowers.
　　　　　　　　　Marumeru has pale pink flowers, and both flowers and fruit are ineffective, the fruit tastes
　　　　　　　　　astringent and sour. It is not quince. Quince does not exist in Japan.
　　　　　　　　　Marumeru is probably a barbarian word. It came from barbarian countries and does not exist
　　　　　　　　　in China, etc. ○Genjū says: From ancient times, doubts remain doubts,
　　　　　　　　　but commonly used names should not be changed.