According to the "Zōho Tashikihen" (Expanded Multi-Knowledge Compilation), Shrubs section:
White cogongrass (hakubō) - Japanese name: commonly called "chi" and also "kaya." Alternative names include the root called "rankon" (in the Honkyō), and in supplementary alternative names "jokon" (same source), also "chisuji."

Cogongrass needle (bōshin) - Japanese name: tsubana

According to the "Kyūkō Honzō" (Famine Relief Materia Medica):
Cogongrass sprout root (tsubana) - The Honzō says cogongrass sprout root
(chigaya) - White cogongrass sedge, also called kento
One name for this cogongrass is "cogongrass needle" (tsubana)

Late spring, 3rd month, 8th day of the Kinoto-U year, sketched in the wild fields

According to the "Yamato Honzō," seaweed section: Seaweed is recorded in the Honzō. What is called "noriiso" in the collective commentary is not white cogongrass. "Noriiso" appears in the Nihon Shoki, in the records of Emperor Ingyō. In Japanese custom it is also called "jinbaimo" (divine horse seaweed), and because the Japanese name is "noriiso," meaning "do not ride the divine horse," it was written as "divine horse grass." The lower collection says: When Empress Jingū attacked foreign countries, there was no horse fodder on the ships, so they took seaweed from the sea to feed the horses, hence it was called "divine horse grass," etc. According to Shin, this explanation has no known source yet. Writing it as "jinbaimo" seems to be a new addition. This is spoken falsely without knowing the original meaning from the Nihon Shoki where it was named "noriiso." Generally, the rolled "noriiso" is recited in poetry, and when old it is called "hodawara." Japanese custom places this on spring plates in the New Year. Because the "Imyō Bunruishō" records white cogongrass as "noriiso," everyone understood divine horse seaweed and white cogongrass to be the same thing, but there is a difference between seaweed and mountain grass.

According to the "Wamyō Ruijushō":
Cogongrass - The "Daisekyō" says cogongrass, also called white feather grass (the sound of cogongrass is like "mokukō no tomo," Japanese name is "chi")
I say that "chi-suge" is "chi-kaya" and is a different plant. White cogongrass, sedge cogongrass, yellow cogongrass, and fragrant cogongrass are all different species. White cogongrass grows in fields and on embankments, and in spring months children pull it to make cogongrass needles for field games. The Japanese name is "chi."

According to the "Yamato Honzō":
White cogongrass (chi) - The Honzō's Su Song says: The sprouts that grow in spring are like needles, and commonly called "cogongrass needles"
"Tsubana" means flower buds, the flowers of chigaya
There are many types of cogongrass. Cogongrass root is used as medicine.

According to "Imyō Bunrui":
White cogongrass (chigaya) - noriiso
(tsubana) - omoikusa

According to the "Wamyō Ruijushō": The Chinese characters for "jinbaimo" are used for "mokunaru na" in Chinese. Based on this, horses are valued. Gray horses are also compared to reed flowers. It might also be called "jinbaimo" - this should be considered, etc.
I say this explanation is quite wrong. White cogongrass has no connection to the sound "jinba" (divine horse). For details, the above section should be consulted together.