156

【Right Page Upper Section・Photo Caption】
Royal Tomb - Built in Bunki 2 (1502) during the reign of King Sho Shin　　　　　　From ○○○○・○○○(○○○○)
Royal family tomb. Written as 玉陵 and called Tamaudun. Udun means "palace," but it is unclear whether Tama refers to spirit or ○○ as jewel. Enormous in scale, ○ solemn and tranquil. A masterpiece of stone architecture. Currently damaged due to war.

【Right Page Lower Section】
of such nature.
　Kudaka Island, a small island with a circumference of about one ri, has been known since ancient times as a divine island with strange customs and peculiar practices. One of these appears to be a remnant of wind burial - unlike other regions, they do not build tombs but place corpses ○○ directly in natural caves. The islanders call this place "gusho" (afterlife).
　"Wind burial customs still remain in Okinawa. Each village has a Gushoyama (afterlife mountain), and in ancient times they used caves there as tombs" (Fudoki Japan, Okinawa volume P○○○), but this misunderstands that ancient practices remaining on one small island exist in every village. The claim that every village has a Gusho mountain is also incorrect.
　The extreme contrast between the general practice of elaborate burials with those massive tomb ○ and such simple ○ practices does not align with general public sentiment ○. This extreme contrast probably made the island even more famous. The word "gusho" and its content are post-Buddhist transmission developments, not ancient ones.
　Aside from branch families, houses that have existed for more than two generations invariably have Buddhist altars and mortuary tablets, offer incense and flowers, and conduct Buddhist rituals. Funeral rites, 17-day ceremonies, and 3rd and 7th year memorial services are all Buddhist in form, but the content is ancestor worship. For first anniversary and longer memorial services, Qingming festivals, equinox festivals, etc.,

【Left Page Upper Section】
burning paper money appears to be adopted from Taoism.
　Such customs became fixed by the mid-18th century at the latest, and parallel to this, indigenous faith gradually faded, especially rapidly declining in urban areas unconnected to agriculture.
　The person in charge of ancestral rituals was the head of the main family, and unlike in indigenous faith, women did not take charge of this. However, since distant ancestors after seven generations are believed to become gods, in old clans with long histories, two women selected from the clan become servants of male and female deities. They are called kude. These gods are not deities of ancient faith but refer to ancestors who have transformed into gods, probably sharing commonality with the aforementioned clan ○ worship.
　The housewife of each home worships the kitchen fire god, which has no relation to kude.

　　　　IV　Current State of Indigenous Faith

　Thus, ancient faith in utaki gods and fire gods has yielded its position since the 17th century to ancestor worship with filial piety as its ○○ foundation. That men were indifferent to fire gods and rather considered them superstition was reasonable.
　However, indigenous faith, along with rural events, performing arts, and entertainment

【Left Page Lower Section・Photo Caption】
Clan Tomb　Shimajiri District, Itoman Town　　　　　　Photographed by Yasuda ○○

Okinawa　The Decline of Indigenous Faith

157