One entry: On the seventh day of the seventh month of the same year, Kitahara Uneme, Hyūga Saburōemon, and other officials totaling over six hundred men completed their duties and all departed by ship. As it was difficult to predict further incursions by foreign vessels thereafter, our unit remained on strict garrison duty with eighty-seven men, including attendant soldiers.

　　Note: The advance party had been waiting for favorable winds since the fifth of this month. Three ships carrying Saburōemon's unit were destined for Niigata in Echigo Province, and three ships carrying Uneme's unit were destined for Sakata in Dewa Province; all departed together today. The men of our unit went to the garrison gate and the shore to see them off, and Lord Yamaoka Denjūrō also came to the shore to see them off and remained there for a time. As everyone stood waiting at the shore, the winds proved favorable and within a short while the sails disappeared from view entirely. Where until now over seven hundred men had been stationed on guard duty, we were now left on this remote island with merely about one-tenth that number, with no hope of reinforcements. Moreover, as the days passed the signs of autumn deepened; and though there were varying degrees of severity, six or seven out of ten men suffered from conditions of leg swelling (青腿) and chancre (下疳), with virtually none spared from edema. By the time the advance party withdrew, seven men had died from these ailments, and several others with severe conditions had to be carried out of the barracks on stretcher boards and were in such precarious condition that their survival aboard the evacuation ships was uncertain. Should foreign ships arrive at any moment and hostilities break out, the outcome of battle would be swiftly determined. If negotiations were to take place and [men] were to be sent to Sōya, then from Sōya...

　　[Written in red:] ...regarding this matter, if it comes to sending [men] to Sōya ◦ (illegible) ...from Sōya, [the outcome] one way or another...