Until word arrived [from Sōya], they were to remain on especially strict alert. Ten or twenty days would not be enough time to learn the outcome one way or another. Should the season progress to the point where, amid all these various concerns, autumn deepened and crossing to Sōya became impossible, there was a chance they would have to overwinter on this island — and this possibility had been conveyed to the men under the unit's command beforehand, so that they might prepare themselves mentally. However, everyone was well aware of how many men of the Tsugaru force had died of illness the previous year, and as the number of sick steadily increased, they were consumed above all else with anxiety over illness, and in the midst of everything had come to a state of resolute readiness to face death. Nevertheless, that each man kept in his heart the purpose of defending against foreign incursions and remained at his post was, as the proper bearing of the warrior class, the greatest of fortunes — and all were thus encouraged and inspiring one another. Though it might be said this was only to be expected of men who had received domain favor across several generations, it was truly a heartening sight. As for the attendants and lower servants, one might imagine their spirits were low — and indeed, contemplating their feelings gave rise to a sense of pity — yet they too were buoyed by the spirit of the unit as a whole, showed not the slightest sign of timidity, and conducted themselves with spirited vigor. Even among the lower-ranking attendants, those whose illness made it advisable to send them home ahead of the others expressed their strong wish to remain at their posts. Two of the local duty yoriki (auxiliary officers) had conditions of considerable severity, and when they were told to withdraw ahead of the others, they appealed again and again with deep emotion, declaring their resolve to die if necessary and their wish to share whatever fate might befall the unit as a whole. However, as the cold was gradually intensifying and there seemed little prospect of sudden recovery, for men of their rank (as subordinates) to abandon their post while their commanding officer remained behind...