[The withdrawal was conducted,] including Denjūrō and all the assembled officials, as well as interpreters, guards, and craftsmen,
　　without exception, all withdrawing together.
　　　However, on the ninth of the month, having been summoned by Denjūrō, upon arriving,
　　　Arai Heibei was also present, and it was conveyed that, while instructions had previously been issued
　　　that upon mutual withdrawal, the party should cross to Sōya and proceed overland,
　　　subsequent word had arrived from the Matsumae headquarters stating that if the overland route from Sōya were taken,
　　　it would cause hardship to the Ainu people and there would be various other difficulties.
　　　Therefore, the sea crossing to Sōya was to be cancelled, and there was no option but to proceed directly by ship.
　　　It was requested that this be understood accordingly.
　　　Upon receiving these instructions, [the speaker] noted that during Uneme's garrison,
　　　orders had been issued with the intention of proceeding overland from Sōya.
　　　Word had been sent to Sōya, shelters had been erected, and even the allocation of personnel for the withdrawal
　　　had been submitted in writing to the relevant officials.
　　　Furthermore, at Matsumae, Gensuke and Uneme had jointly conveyed to all that, at the time of withdrawing the troops upon completion of their duties,
　　　if there were wounded or remaining soldiers, and if each man wished to withdraw even a single step from the evacuation point,
　　　it had been predetermined that there would be no objection to this at that time.
　　　Moreover, should the author [of this report] fall in battle, having gone ahead as the advance party,
　　　the remaining soldiers of the unit would be the first to withdraw, and the entire force would be brought back together.
　　　Should [the author] survive, it was conveyed that, in accordance with his duties, he should serve as the overall rear guard.
　　　For these various reasons, [the author] stated the desire to cross to Sōya and proceed overland as per the original orders, to which [the response was that] previously...