(Continued from previous page)

...In connection with the affairs of Ezo, amid circumstances of exceptional complexity and busyness, all matters were managed appropriately. Moreover, during the defense (*keigo*) of that location, although one unit was small in number, the arrangement and supervision of fortification works (*eisaku*) and construction (*fushin*) were handled skillfully, and those under his command exerted themselves with particular diligence. Furthermore, considerable hardships were endured during the rearguard withdrawal. In recognition of all these combined merits, it was decreed that, above and beyond his existing stipend, an additional one hundred *koku* would be granted directly to him as an increase in his service allowance (*oyakuryō*).

One entry: During the same month, in connection with the bird-hunt exercise (*oitorigari*), he assembled his unit from the previous evening and carried out his assigned duties in accordance with the precedent established at the previous horse-mustering review (*umazoroe*).

One entry: In the tenth month of the same year, during the bird-hunt exercise, it was noted that the formation of the unit, the alignment of ranks and files (*goso namiashi*), and overall operations were all conducted without any impediments in his capacity as military inspector (*gunkan*). His Lordship decreed that this was surely owing to the diligent practice of combined unit drills (*gōtai keiko*) that had been carried out beforehand.

One entry: In the second month of Bunka 7 [1810], the Year of the Horse, an order was received from the Shogunal authorities (*kōbe*) to the effect that, regarding the coastal defenses of the Uraga area in Sagami Province (*Sōshū*) as well as the shores of Awa and Kazusa Provinces, a retainer should be dispatched to conduct an inspection tour of the relevant areas. Accordingly, he was ordered to travel to Edo for this purpose. He was directed to proceed to Edo with all speed and handle matters appropriately in response to the consultations there.
　　Note: As Katamine Shirōzaemon was also to be sent to Edo for the same purpose, he was instructed to coordinate and act accordingly. Upon inquiring whether departure should be made on that very day, he was informed that there was also domain business to attend to locally, and that he should therefore make his preparations over a period of five to seven days before departing.

One entry: In the third month of the same year, having received orders regarding coastal defense preparations, for the purpose of conducting an inspection tour...
(Continued on next page)