(Continued from previous text)…Regarding the handover to the local area, as there may be such matters, concerning the aforementioned official duties, a General Superintendent (Sōji) was to be appointed in the area on a provisional basis, and in the form of the original magistrate post (moto-bugyō-shoku), instructions were to be issued going forward, with orders given to manage affairs appropriately.

One: On the 7th of the same month, [he] departed and traveled up to Edo to perform duties related to defensive preparations (o-sonae-kata).

One: On the 12th day of the 4th month of the same year, for the purpose of inspecting the various coastal areas (ura-ura), officials of the bakufu (public authorities) and retainers of Lord Matsudaira Etchu-no-kami departed together from Edo to inspect the coastal batteries (daiba) and camp installations at various locations, returning to Edo on the 2nd day of the 5th month.

　　Note: On the 26th day of the 2nd month, in response to the drifting of foreign vessels, coastal batteries (ōzutsu daiba) were to be constructed along the Uraga area and the coastal regions of Bōsō, and our house along with Lord Etchu-no-kami were ordered to take charge of this. As the areas in question were near our domain's territory and could be exchanged within the domain's boundaries, our house…

[In red ink]: ◦ Having received orders to give full attention to matters concerning defensive preparations, on the same day orders for defensive readiness were issued. Retainers were dispatched to conduct an inspection tour of the condition of the various coastal areas. ◦ △ Previously, a rough survey of sites suitable for artillery batteries was [in red ink] dispatched. △

　　Although an inspection had taken place, regardless of the above, Lord Aoyama Shimotsuke-no-kami gave notice that the matter should be fully deliberated and orders issued accordingly. Furthermore, from the Commissioners of Finance (o-kanjō-bugyō-shū), it was communicated that although a rough preliminary survey of artillery battery sites along the coast had been ordered, since specific locations had not yet been finalized, as had been communicated recently, the responsible officials were to conduct inspection tours and, without being limited by considerations of direction or orientation, even if the locations were remote, without being overly particular about specific sites, additional locations beyond those already identified were also to be added…