...anything entrusted to shore-based operations alone cannot be relied upon with confidence; the essential and practical point lies in no other than naval deployment on the open sea. Moreover, given the various obstacles and impediments enumerated in the preceding articles, such construction is altogether unnecessary. Nevertheless, it would not be appropriate to openly declare that the other party's (Shirakawa domain's) proposed construction is ill-advised. Therefore, regarding Jōgashima, since it is a location ordinarily exposed to fierce winds — so fierce that grasses and trees can be seen lying flat against the ground, unable to grow upright — the question of whether constructing tamon-style fortifications there would even be feasible arises naturally. Furthermore, since other impediments are also apparent, a recommendation (shintatsu) should be made to the effect that construction in the same manner as at Kannonsaki and Hiranesan would be appropriate. Regarding the detachment garrison on Jōgashima: at a location called Hōjō Yashiki, situated above the Tokugawa government's ship-inspection station (funabanjo) in Misaki-machi, there exists an old earthwork fortification. This was the very place where, during the time of the Hōjō clan, troops were stationed to hold down the Satomi clan of Bōshū (Awa Province). The traces of earthen ramparts (doi) and dry moats (karabori) remain. Being an original fortification, there is suitable ground in the vicinity for deployment, and the layout featuring angled flanking fire positions (in'yō yokoya) makes for a solid defensive arrangement, well-suited as a stronghold. However, having endured more than two hundred years of time, both the earthen ramparts and dry moats have in many places fallen into ruin and disrepair. The area between the fortification ruins and Mukōgasaki was in ancient times a tidal inlet that served as one of the defensive features, but now it has become farmland, and there are numerous places where the landscape has changed from what it once was. Since the Jōgashima battery is nearby — accessible by boat — and the boat landing arrangements are also favorable, if the damaged sections of the earthen ramparts and dry moats were each repaired and supplemented accordingly...