(Continued from the previous page)
...those proficient in the martial arts were to be hired (*o-yatoi*) into the *kōshi* (armored samurai) and *yoriai-gumi* (reserve group) ranks, with stipends allocated accordingly. Since firearms are of paramount importance for coastal defense preparations, those who had trained in pyrotechnics (*kajutsu*) need not even be subjected to formal examination—and furthermore, those who could serve as instructors at the posting location in the fields of scholarship, archery and horsemanship, spear, and swordsmanship were also to be added to the above group. After successive rounds of examination and deliberation, orders were issued that they be dispatched to the said location on the ninth day of the eleventh month of the current year.

For the three fortified battery positions (*daiba*), the arrangements for large and small installations, garrison dispositions, allocations, and personnel numbers were to be investigated so as not to fall short in comparison with the defense establishment (*o-sonae-kokudaka*) of the Shirakawa domain. Regarding the shortfall in large artillery pieces, it was anticipated that, should a formal request be made to borrow approximately four guns of one *kanme* (approx. 3.75 kg) caliber or larger from the *Kōgi* (the Tokugawa Shogunate) stockpile as a temporary measure, there was precedent (*o-furiai*) for such items to be provided; and for the remaining shortfall, there was no alternative but to await orders for new guns to be cast in due course.

Furthermore, for all three locations, the deployment formation of vessels into van, center, and rear positions; the color-coded signals distinguishing front, center, rear, left, and right at the three positions by day and night; the method of setting up signals for when inspection vessels (*kenshu-sen*) were dispatched; the required numbers of inspection vessels, reconnaissance vessels, and other large and small vessels for naval combat—all of these were to be managed by gradually building and fitting out new vessels at the said location, and additionally by hiring vessels owned by villages within the domain's territory. As for the assignment and numbers of combat personnel, crew members, large and small gun crews, helmsmen (*sendō*), and sailors (*kasshu*) for the ships: since relying solely on the hiring of mariners from within the domain would be insufficient, it was planned that, after careful review, suitable individuals would be recruited and retained. The methods for equipping vessels of various sizes with implements required for naval combat and fire attacks were to be examined in meticulous detail. Moreover, the duties and responsibilities of the *bantō* (senior unit commander) and all other officers to be stationed at the said location must be thoroughly understood and internalized—for unlike service in Aizu, this being an entirely new undertaking...