[The first four lines are duplicated from the previous frame]
separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the four meditations, and the purity of the four meditations is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the four meditations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the four immeasurables and the four formless concentrations, and the purity of the four immeasurables and the four formless concentrations is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the four immeasurables and the four formless concentrations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the eight liberations, and the purity of the eight liberations is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the eight liberations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the eight stages of mastery, nine successive concentrations, and ten totality spheres, and the purity of the eight stages of mastery, nine successive concentrations, and ten totality spheres is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the eight stages of mastery, nine successive concentrations, and ten totality spheres are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the four foundations of mindfulness, and the purity of the four foundations of mindfulness is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the four foundations of mindfulness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the four right efforts, four supernatural powers, five faculties, five powers, seven factors of enlightenment, and eightfold noble path, and the purity of the four right efforts up to the eightfold noble path is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the four right efforts up to the eightfold noble path are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the emptiness liberation gate, and the purity of the emptiness liberation gate is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the emptiness liberation gate are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the signlessness and wishlessness liberation gates, and the purity of the signlessness and wishlessness liberation gates is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the signlessness and wishlessness liberation gates are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the ten bodhisattva stages, and the purity of the ten bodhisattva stages is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the ten bodhisattva stages are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sūtra, Fascicle 194