[The first two lines are duplicated from the previous frame]
is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the taste-element up to the sensations arising from tongue-contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the body-element, and the purity of the body-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the body-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the touch-element, body-consciousness element, body-contact, and the sensations arising from body-contact as condition, and the purity of the touch-element up to the sensations arising from body-contact as condition is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the touch-element up to the sensations arising from body-contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the mind-element, and the purity of the mind-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the mind-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the dharma-element, mind-consciousness element, mental contact, and the sensations arising from mental contact as condition, and the purity of the dharma-element up to the sensations arising from mental contact as condition is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the dharma-element up to the sensations arising from mental contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the earth-element, and the purity of the earth-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the earth-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the water-, fire-, wind-, space-, and consciousness-elements, and the purity of the water-, fire-, wind-, space-, and consciousness-elements is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the water-, fire-, wind-, space-, and consciousness-elements are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of ignorance, and the purity of ignorance is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of ignorance are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of formations, consciousness, name-and-form, six sense-bases, contact, sensation, craving, grasping, becoming, birth, aging-and-death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, grief, and distress, and the purity of formations up to aging-and-death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, grief, and distress is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of formations up to aging-and-death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, grief, and distress are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the perfection of giving, and the purity of the perfection of giving is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the perfection of giving are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the perfections of morality, patience, vigor, meditation, and wisdom, and the purity of the perfections of morality up to wisdom is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the perfections of morality up to wisdom are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of inner emptiness, and the purity of inner emptiness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of inner emptiness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of outer emptiness, inner-and-outer emptiness, emptiness of emptiness, great emptiness, emptiness of ultimate reality, emptiness of the conditioned, emptiness of the unconditioned, emptiness of the limitless, emptiness of no beginning or end, emptiness of dispersion, emptiness of non-alteration, emptiness of inherent nature, emptiness of individual characteristics, emptiness of general characteristics, emptiness of all phenomena, emptiness of the unobtainable, emptiness of non-existence, emptiness of own-nature, and emptiness of non-existence of own-nature, and the purity of outer emptiness up to emptiness of non-existence of own-nature is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of outer emptiness up to emptiness of non-existence of own-nature are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of suchness, and the purity of suchness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of suchness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the dharma-realm, dharma-nature, non-falsity, non-alteration, equality, birthlessness, dharma-determination, dharma-abiding, reality-limit, space-realm, and the inconceivable realm, and the purity of the dharma-realm up to the inconceivable realm is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the dharma-realm up to the inconceivable realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the noble truth of suffering, and the purity of the noble truth of suffering is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the noble truth of suffering are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the noble truths of origin, cessation, and the path, and the purity of the noble truths of origin, cessation, and the path is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the noble truths of origin, cessation, and the path are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the four meditations, and the purity of the four meditations is

[The last three lines are duplicated in the next frame]