[The first three lines are duplicated from the previous frame]
this purity of the recipient and the purity of the noble truths of origin, cessation, and the path are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the four meditations, and the purity of the four meditations is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the four meditations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the four immeasurables and the four formless concentrations, and the purity of the four immeasurables and the four formless concentrations is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the four immeasurables and the four formless concentrations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the eight liberations, and the purity of the eight liberations is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the eight liberations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the eight fields of mastery, the nine sequential concentrations, and the ten totalities, and the purity of the eight fields of mastery, the nine sequential concentrations, and the ten totalities is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the eight fields of mastery, the nine sequential concentrations, and the ten totalities are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the four foundations of mindfulness, and the purity of the four foundations of mindfulness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the four foundations of mindfulness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven factors of awakening, and the eightfold noble path, and the purity of the four right efforts up to the eightfold noble path is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the four right efforts up to the eightfold noble path are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the gate of liberation that is emptiness, and the purity of the gate of liberation that is emptiness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the gate of liberation that is emptiness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the gates of liberation that are signlessness and wishlessness, and the purity of the gates of liberation that are signlessness and wishlessness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the gates of liberation that are signlessness and wishlessness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the ten bodhisattva stages, and the purity of the ten bodhisattva stages is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the ten bodhisattva stages are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the five eyes, and the purity of the five eyes is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the five eyes are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the six supernatural powers, and the purity of the six supernatural powers is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the six supernatural powers are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the ten powers of the Buddha, and the purity of the ten powers of the Buddha is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the ten powers of the Buddha are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the four fearlessnesses, the four unobstructed understandings, great loving-kindness, great compassion, great joy, great equanimity, and the eighteen unshared Buddha qualities, and the purity of the four fearlessnesses up to the eighteen unshared Buddha qualities is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the four fearlessnesses up to the eighteen unshared Buddha qualities are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the dharma of non-forgetfulness, and the purity of the dharma of non-forgetfulness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the dharma of non-forgetfulness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the nature of constantly abiding equanimity, and the purity of the nature of constantly abiding equanimity is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the nature of constantly abiding equanimity are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of all-knowledge, and the purity of all-knowledge is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of all-knowledge are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of knowledge of the path and all-aspect knowledge, and the purity of knowledge of the path and all-aspect knowledge is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of knowledge of the path and all-aspect knowledge are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of all dhāraṇī gates, and the purity of all dhāraṇī gates is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of all dhāraṇī gates are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of all samādhi gates, and the purity of all samādhi gates is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of all samādhi gates are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the fruit of stream-entry, and the purity of the fruit of stream-entry is

[The last two lines are duplicated in the next frame]