[Marginal note] The enlightenment granted was similar to how Wukang and Lufu had already been punished. No matter how much he was the son of the late Taiko, to avoid and yield the realm at this point would be like when Prince Kuai of Yan yielded his state. Even if a sage were to face this situation, how could such a thing be done while remaining in the world? Moreover, Masanori would form factions and make alliances whenever possible, creating distance between the Eastern and Western lords and seeking to disturb the realm. Not only this, but when he went to visit the Lord of Mikawa, from what was heard later, he sought to make the lord into Guan and Cai. This crime was indeed even deeper than when the Huaiyi and Xurong rebelled together with Wukang and Lufu. Even if Masanori had been good at employing his retainers and people, generally even a sage would not forgive such punishment, much less when such violence and evil were manifest.

However, when the Great Retired Lord passed away and the Shogun began to rule the world, he promoted both rank and position, showing that the old achievements were not forgotten, and likely planned for that heart to be reformed. Otherwise, this would be the culmination of rewarding those achievements, and though it should be time for punishment to follow, without understanding even this much, to think of merely fortifying castle construction and opposing the realm was detestable. The frequent pardoning of crimes was surely not only out of remembrance for Masanori's individual past service. Since this was the beginning of the founding of the realm, it must have been to give peace of mind to those who might become examples of rebellion.

Then what of Masanori's initial declaration of allegiance during the Battle of Sekigahara? This too was said to be due to the advice of Kuroda Kainosuke Nagamasa.

[Marginal note] Though there are records stating this, since it is doubtful, I have examined it in detail under Nagamasa's biography. This was because Masanori knew in his heart at the time that it was Ishida Mitsunari's scheme, so with his usual ill temper, he thought it shameful to follow someone against whom he had harbored daily resentments, and if it was Mitsunari's plot, he thought bitterly and resentfully that his own life would be destroyed afterward. So should we say he achieved great merit in the Battle of Sekigahara? Why should he think to serve our house loyally?

Also, when the Osaka campaign ended, he crafted his military reports so as not to arouse suspicion from both Retired Lords, intending by all means to accompany them personally, rush to Osaka, side with Osaka, and devise any plot. Even a foolish person would think thus, so how much more should both Retired Lords consider that person a man of great loyalty?

However, the theory that both Retired Lords thought of his great loyalty but he incurred such punishment because they pitied the laments of his retainers and people is the argument of pedantic Confucians that ancient people might have made. Originally, that Masanori yearned for the late Taiko and maintained loyalty to Osaka was not his crime. That he did not know that the Mandate of Heaven had already changed is not something ordinary people could comprehend, and such a person should quickly depart from the world. However, even for someone with courage, talent, and strategic ability, this might be acceptable, but then there should only be the single matter of death. But his weakness—let us not discuss this for now. This Masanori had only courage, and being a person without strategy, he moved recklessly beyond his station and brought about disaster.