On the night of March 26th, Koka 4th year, at the 9th hour (around midnight), a great earthquake occurred. The ground suddenly began to shake, and a fire broke out from the front of Zenkoji Temple in Shinano Province. All the townhouses and temple lodgings were burned down without exception. Since it was the time of Zenkoji Temple's special exhibition, there were many pilgrims, and the number of deaths among guests and lodgers was countless. All nearby villages collapsed completely, Matsushiro Castle crumbled, and Iiyama suffered major collapse. There were many deaths, and the shaking extended to the Iida area, Nakano area, and even to Echigo Province. The Tanba River's water stopped flowing and became a riverbed. On April 11th, the water burst through, creating a flood over one ri in width, causing many deaths in nearby villages and many injuries extending to the Echigo area. The fact that Zenkoji Temple's main hall, Niomon gate, and Honganji temple remained unharmed was due to the divine light of the three sacred Buddhas - truly a most sacred occurrence.

From the 8th hour of night (around 2 AM) on June 14th, Ansei 1st year, a great earthquake occurred, and the entire Ise region collapsed. The shrine of Amaterasu Omikami remained unharmed, but all other areas including Yamada, Matsusaka, Tsu, Kuwana, and Yokkaichi - their post stations and townhouses - collapsed completely. Fire broke out from Kuwana and burned everything down to Yokkaichi. From there eastward through Owari, Mikawa, and Totomi provinces, along the Tokaido route, the shaking reached as far as the Hamamatsu post station area. Along the highway, most post stations collapsed up to the Fushimi post station area, and there was a fire at Minakuchi post station. West of Ise, the shaking extended to the Yamato and Izumi areas, and to the north, from Kyoto and Osaka to the Tanba and Harima areas. In Kyoto, from the 9th hour of day on the 14th (around noon), the weather suddenly changed with heavy rain and countless lightning strikes. The rain stopped after the 6th hour of evening, and from the 8th hour that night, the great earthquake began. In Osaka, shaking began from the 8th hour of night, causing the collapse of Lord Chikugo's warehouse, gates, longhouses, and walls, with damage in various other places. The area up to Tennoji Temple shook particularly violently, causing major destruction in the vicinity. On the same 16th day, Osaka and its surroundings experienced a great tsunami that killed many people. Also on the same day, great tsunamis struck various coastal areas throughout the provinces. In Shimoda, Izu Province, a great tsunami killed many people. However, in the Izu area and other parts of Kanto, there were no earthquakes.