[Section 2] From Nakabashi Minami-Tenma-cho 2-chome across Minami-Kaji-cho to Kano-shindo Gorobei-cho, Tatami-cho, Kita-Konya-cho, Shirauoya-shiki, the eastern part including Suzuki-cho, Inaba-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Ota-yashiki, Yanagi-cho, Gusoku-cho, Sumi-cho, and Hon-Zaimoku-cho 8-chome riverside - all burned down. Some storehouses remained in this area. △From Kyobashi to Shimbashi, both daimyo residences and townspeople's quarters suffered major damage. △Tsukiji Odawara-cho, Minami-Iida-cho, and Moto-Yanagihara-cho areas suffered major damage with many collapsed houses. △Nishi Honganji main hall remained intact, but several buildings in the temple compound were severely damaged; daimyo residences in this area suffered major damage with many collapsed storehouses.

[Section Ro] Both sides of Shiba Shibai-cho burned down. Udagawa-cho, Mishima-cho, and Shinmei-cho had many collapsed houses with no remaining storehouses. Shinmei Shrine remained intact, and the northern section of Zojoji temple grounds suffered minor damage with some damage to temple buildings. △From this location south to Kanasugi Fuda-no-tsuji, there was no particularly severe damage.

[Section Ha] In Teppozu Jikken-cho, the Matsudaira Awaji-no-kami residence burned down. Akashi-cho had extremely many collapsed houses. The Hosokawa Noto-no-kami residence in Funamatsu-cho remained intact, but many other locations suffered major damage. △Tsukuda Island suffered major damage. △From Hon-Hatchobori northward along the main street, Hatchobori group residences, Kayaba-cho - Yakushido temple remained intact, but townhouses in all directions suffered major damage with many collapsed buildings.

[Section Ni] Reiganjima Hama-cho, Yokkaichi-cho, Hakugin-cho, Okawa-bata-cho, and up to the Minami-Shinbori riverside all burned down. The Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami middle residence remained. The rest of Minato-cho and Nagasaki-cho suffered major damage. △In the northern part of the same area at Kita-Shinbori, the Kuze, Izu, and Doi residences suffered minor damage; the Tayasu residence remained intact, while others suffered major damage. △Gyotoku riverside, Koami-cho, Tokanbori - the Sakai, Honda, Hayashi, Kishu, Mikawa, Inoue Kawachi-no-kami, and Hori Izumo-no-kami residences, along with the area from Ginza Jinzaemon-cho through Ningyo-cho street to Hatago-cho, all suffered major damage. One house burned down in the middle of Horitome-cho. Across from there, Kobune-cho, Horie-cho, Honfune-cho, Setomono-cho, and Ise-cho areas were all completely damaged. Further east along Okawa-bata, the Ando, Shinjo, and Suganuma residences suffered major damage. On the same back street, the Akimoto, Makino Totomi-no-kami, and Nagai Hizen-no-kami residences - this entire area from Okawa-bata to Yokoyama-cho in all directions suffered major damage. △From Nihonbashi Kita-Honcho to Imagawa-bashi suffered major damage; Jikken-dana eastern Ishicho-dori, Dai-Tenma-cho, Ko-Tenma-cho, Hatago-cho, Abura-cho, Bakuro-cho, Yokoyama-cho, Ryogoku Hirokoji, and up to the Yanagihara embankment all suffered major damage. The district magistrate's office at this location.