[Continued from previous page] ...In the areas of Minowa, Negishi, and Ogyomatsu, there were extremely many collapsed buildings. To the southeast of the same area, below Toezan (Ueno), at Kurumazaka, in front of Banzuiin Temple, in Okitte-machi, and in Yamazaki-machi, many samurai residences and temples suffered major damage.

[nini] On Ueno Hirokoji, the Six Amida [statues/halls] survived. The entirety of Ueno-no-machi 1-chome burned. More than half of 2-chome burned. Tokudaiji and Ichijoin Temples, and to the south, Kita-Daimon-machi, Kuromon-machi, the granted residence in Shitaya Domei-machi, and the row houses and mansion of Lord Inoue, Governor of Chikugo, all collapsed. A small area to the south of Lady Ishikawa's residence burned. The front row house of Lord Kuroda, Governor of Buzen, burned. The fire stopped at this point. Lord Oseki, Governor of Shinano, in the same area was undamaged. In Shitaya Chojacho 1-chome, 2-chome substitute land, 2-chome remaining land, Kami-no Minami-Daimon-machi, Shitaya Kurumazaka-machi, the retainers' residences, and Naka-Kachi-machi, fire spread approximately six cho south from the house of a person called Takano. Going around to the west, a physician named Tsujimoto's premises burned. Five or six houses on the opposite side of the same area burned. To the northwest, Yushima and Hongo: the Kaga domain residence and the residence of Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Bingo, suffered minor damage. From there, damage was recorded in the areas of Komagome, Hakusan, and Sugamo.

Within Koishikawa Gate, the residences of Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Oki, and Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Suruga; outside the same gate, the residences of the Lords of Mito, Aoyama, Tango, Ogasawara, and Bungo — all suffered major damage in this area. In Ushigome: Akagishita, Kaishiro-machi, Kohinata, Suido-machi, and the vicinity of Furukawa-machi saw an extremely large number of collapsed buildings. From Otowa through Mejiro-dai, Zoshigaya, and Otsuka, there was no major damage.

Outside Ichigaya Gate, the Owari domain residence suffered minor damage. From Kojimachi, Iidamachi, Bancho, and Yotsuya, through Shinjuku to the vicinity of Yodobashi, there was major damage.

Outside Akasaka Gate, the Kishu domain residence suffered minor damage. From Tenma-machi, Samegahashi, Kiribatake, and Kofu Bridge through the Akabane River area, there was major damage. Meguro, Hiroo, Shiroganedai-machi, Takanawa, Shinagawa, and the札no Tsuji crossroads to the north — minor damage in all directions in this area. Details will be shown in the following volume.

[nitsu] In Ogawa-machi, the small residences of Lord Hotta, Lord Toda, and the ceremonial house (koke) of Lord Toda suffered minor fire damage. Major damage in the surrounding area.

[nine] In Koishikawa: Ushitenjin-shita, Suwa-machi, and Suwa Myojin Shrine suffered major damage. Approximately half a cho in the same area burned. Along the Edogawa River in the same area, many buildings collapsed.

[nina] Outside Hitotsubashi Gate, at Gojinbahara, the residences of Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Buzen, and Lord Hongo, Governor of Tamba, both burned. Additionally, five or six small residences burned. From within Koishikawa Gate through Surugadai, Ogawa-machi, and as far as Sujikai Gate, there was minor damage.

In Soto-Kanda: Shamisen-bori, Nanakuma, Izumi Bridge, Shinshi Bridge, Asakusa Gate, and Yanagi Bridge suffered minor damage. Inside Sujikai Gate, from Suda-machi through Imagawa Bridge and on to Nihonbashi, many buildings and storehouses were damaged, but there were no fires.

From Nihonbashi to Nakabashi, buildings and storehouses suffered major damage.

[nira] Inside Wadakura Gate: the Oban guardhouse, the middle residence of Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Higo, and the attached waiting area all burned. The residence of Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Shimofusa, burned. From Sukiyabashi through to inside Gofukubashi Gate, the daimyo along Daimyo Koji (Lords' Avenue) suffered minor damage on both sides. Across from Tatsuinokuchi, the upper and middle residences of Lord Morikawa, Governor of Dewa, and Lord Sakai, Master of Music (Utagashira), burned. From Tokiwabashi to inside Kijibashi Gate, there was minor damage. The residences of Lord Tayasu and Lord Shimizu were undamaged.