【Right Page】
Regarding imperial horses offered as annual tribute: 《omitted》 Musashi Province fifty horses 《various ranches thirty horses, Tachino Ranch twenty horses》

For horses and cattle offered by various provinces for stabling and feeding: the Left and Right Horse Bureaus divide them equally, complete inspection, then transfer them to the Ministry of War. The numbers: 《omitted》 Musashi Province ten horses 《remainder omitted》

《Besides this, in the Kitayama-shō, Nishinomiya-ki, Chūū-ki, and many other works, the name of Ono Ranch appears frequently. There is no time to list them all》

《From Annual Events Poetry Contest》
　Across Musashi fields came horses, how many times returning, today to appear in the purple court　　Ton'a
　《I believe what the Engi-shiki calls Ogawa Ranch refers to Ono Ranch. Ono is the general name for Fuchū, and according to the Musashi Province Gazetteer, Fuchū anciently belonged to Ogawa Village. What is now called Ogawa is northwest of Koigakubo and barely remains as a minor place name. What is now called Ogawa Shinden in the upper part of Koganei Village also derives its name from that Ogawa》

Shogenzan Shōmyōji Temple: Located on the right side of the side street north of Fuchū Banba post station. It belongs to the Ji sect and is affiliated with Shōjōkōji Temple in Fujisawa, Sagami Province. The principal image is a standing statue of Amida Nyorai, over three shaku and eight sun tall, carved by the monk Eshin, which is considered a sacred Buddha. This location is said to be the former site of the residence of Rokuson'ō Tsunemoto in ancient times. 《It was formerly called Rokuson'ōzan Kyōkiji Temple. In medieval times it was written as Shōmyō, now changed to Shōmyō》 Later, the monk Ikkō Dōwa founded this temple. 《Died on the seventh day of the third month of Ōei 1》 Later still, the traveling monk revived this temple. This temple preserves an old taiko drum body. It is a very ancient object with year numbers recorded inside, but the characters cannot be read. I believe it is an ancient battle drum.

【Left Page】
Ryūmonzan Kōan Gokoku Zenji Temple: Also called Tōjiin. Located about nine chō west from Rokushō Shrine's otabisho, on the left side of the Kōshū Highway. It belongs to the Sōtō Zen sect and is affiliated with Kaizenji Temple in Futamata, Tama District. The principal image is Śākyamuni Buddha 《about one shaku five sun tall》 with attendant figures of Mañjuśrī and Samantabhadra, said to be the work of the Dharma Eye Kenshun. This temple was founded by Tawara Tōta Hidesato, and is said to be the former site of Hidesato's residence. Later, Ashikaga Shōgun Takauji restored it, so it adopted Takauji's posthumous Buddhist name and is called Tōjiin. There is a portrait of Shōgun Takauji. 《This temple was formerly called Shigenzan Kenshōji. It is so called because this temple is on the former site of Hidehira's residence. The form of moats remains on three sides - east, west, and south》 The founding priest was called Zen Master Taitetsu Shingo. In the main hall there is a plaque reading "Buya Zenrin," but the calligrapher is unknown.

Spirit Shrine of Fujiwara no Hidesato 《Located in the southwest of the temple grounds. Now dedicated to Inari Myōjin. This is because this location is the former site of Hidesato's residence》

Benkei's Inkstone Water Well 《Refers to an old well in the bamboo grove behind the hall. Benkei is said to have drawn water from this well to use as inkstone water for copying the Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sutra. However, that sutra was lost in a fire and no longer exists. There is also a hanging scroll said to be a painting of Benkei, showing Benkei at a desk copying sutras. It is on silk and is extremely antique. Also, the bridge that crosses the Kōshū Highway to the northwest is called Benkei Bridge, and the eastern slope is called Benkei Slope. There are many things connected to Benkei, but regarding Benkei's history, in the Dai Nihon compiled by Mito Kōmon Mitsukuni-kyō》