【Right Page】
《In the Dai Nihon-shi as well, (descriptions of Benkei) were excluded because they were only names without substance, with nothing that could serve as evidence》

Kannon Hall《Located directly in front upon entering the main gate. The principal image, Shō Kannon, is a wooden standing statue seven shaku tall. The six Kannon statues on the left and right are each four shaku five or six sun tall. The sculptor is unknown》

From the time of the Ashikaga family's revival, in the first year of Eitoku when Kamakura Saemon-no-kami Ujimitsu set out to suppress Oyama Yoshimasa, a military camp was established at this temple. Also in the sixth year of Ōei, when Saemon-no-kami Mitsukane was dispatched as Suō no Ōuchi-no-suke Yoshihiro raised rebellion in Kyoto, on the twenty-first day of the eleventh month, he departed from this temple for Kyoto.

In the spring of the same thirtieth year (year of the Water Rabbit), due to the rebellion of Oguri Magojirō Taira no Mitsushige, a resident of Hitachi Province, Lord Mochiuji departed from Kamakura to Yūki. After Oguri's castle fell in the eighth month of that year, he returned to this temple on the sixteenth day. In the thirty-first year, on the twenty-third day of the tenth month, this temple suffered a fire, so on the fourteenth day of the eleventh month, Lord Mochiuji returned to Kamakura. These events are recorded in the Kamakura Ōzōshi. 《Among this temple's treasures was an ancient gong said to have been used by Lord Takauji in military camps, but it was recently lost and can no longer be seen》

Sekishōzan Mirokuji Temple: Also called Hannya-in. Located about six chō west of Kōanji Temple on the right side of the same highway. It belongs to the Shingon sect and is affiliated with Myōkō-in in Fuchū. The founding

【Left Page】
origin is ancient and cannot now be known. In the second year of Eishō (1505), year of the Wood Ox, Gondaisōzu Hōin Ryōson restored it. The principal image, Dainichi Nyorai, is a seated statue about one shaku tall, and the sculptor is unknown. At this temple there is the grave of Tsuto Kageyu-zaemon-no-jō Sugawara no Noritugu.

The grave marker is as shown in the diagram [Square-enclosed grave marker]
　　　　Tsuto Kageyu-zaemon
　　　　　　died in the hour of the Ox
　　　　Fifth year of Enbun, seventh month, tenth day
　　　　　　Shami Dōtugu
　　　　no-jō Sugawara Noritugu

《I believe this Kageyu-zaemon Noritugu was a member of the Tsuto Saburō Tamemori clan. Tamemori's grave is at Kanchisan Daisenji Temple in Hachiōji. There is now a farmer in Yahata post station called Rokuemon, who is said to be of the Tsuto clan and a distant descendant》

Yaho Tenjin Shrine: Located on the left side of the Yaho village road, west of the same highway. 《This place is called Funbai-no-shō Kurihara-no-gō》

The bettō is called Anrakuji Temple. The festival is held annually on the twenty-fifth day of the second and eighth months, and there is a kaihihi ceremony on the fifteenth day of the third month. On the third day of the eleventh month, because this shrine was moved from a place anciently called Tenjin Island to its present location, wakana offerings are presented on this day.

The principal shrine deity is Tenman Taijizai Tenjin, one seat. The shintai is Sugawara no Michitake, the third son of the Suga family.