【Right Page】
He served his father in this manner with utmost filial devotion, and later this was enshrined in a sanctuary. <<In the past, this was a large shrine with many monk quarters. The six halls - Sakuramoto-bo, Yusei-bo, Sonju-bo, Umemoto-bo, Matsumoto-bo, and Taki-no-bo - remained until the medieval period, but even these fell into ruin. Now only one building called Taki-no-in remains, which is the former Taki-no-bo.>>

During the Tenryaku era, Emperor Murakami donated a pair of guardian lion-dogs. <<These still exist today and are considered very ancient and precious artifacts.>> The temple also houses four volumes of the Great Prajnaparamita Sutra, said to be donated by Minamoto no Yoshitsune. <<It is said these sutras were copied by four people: Ise no Saburo, Kamei no Rokuro, Benkei, and others.>>

Former residence site of Sugawara no Michitake Ason: Located about two cho south of the same place, with visible remains of empty moats and what appear to be castle gate ruins, encompassing an area of over two cho in all directions. Local people call it the "Saburo-dono mansion site." According to tradition, Saburo Michitake lived here and married the daughter of the local governor Kami-Heita Sadamori, having one son. This son was called Sugawara no Michifusa, and his sixth-generation descendant was called Tsudo Saburo Tamemori. <<Details about Tsudo Tamemori are found in the section on Anrakuji.>> Some say this land was the site of Sadamori's former mansion. <<The matter of Michitake marrying Sadamori's daughter has not yet been verified.>>

Kariya-zaka (Temporary House Slope): This refers to the slope that goes up westward from the street, about one hundred paces from the gate of Anrakuji temple at the same location. In the second year of Kenji, when an imperial envoy came down to Yaho Tenjin Shrine, a temporary lodging was established here, hence the name.

【Left Page】
Baikosan Anrakuji Temple: Also called Shoju Saiin. Located about one and a half cho northwest of the Tenjin shrine, on the right side of the highway. It belongs to the Tendai sect under Toeizan. This temple serves as the head temple of Tenmangu and was founded by High Priest Hoen during the Tenryaku period. The restorer was Tsudo Saburo Tamemori Songan. The principal image, Amida Nyorai, was made by Saint Honen and is a seated statue about 1.5 shaku tall. It is said that within the Buddha's body is kept a blood document written by Tamemori. Other treasures include Tamemori's sword, a portrait, and a Medicine Buddha said to be made by Great Master Dengyo, which is said to be enclosed within armor. The statue is made of aloes wood, and even the images of the Twelve Divine Generals are all carved and enclosed within a miniature shrine about one sun in height.

<<Tsudo Saburo Tamemori's grave is located at Kanchisan Daizenji temple, one of the eighteen seminaries in Hachioji city center. A stone monument was erected by his descendant Tsudo Rokuroemon (Buddhist name Junyo) for the 500th memorial service in Kanpo year of the Metal Dog. The land where Tamemori lived is in a place called Ishida on the south bank of the Tama River at the same location. His descendants continue to live in Yahata-juku to this day. Tsudo Saburo Tamemori's Buddhist name was Songan. When the literary scholar Sugawara no Takasue was appointed as Governor of Hitachi and went to his province, he married the daughter of Taira no Shigefusa, the Deputy Governor of Chichibu and General Pursuit Officer of Musashi Province, and had one son named Tsudo Jiro Tamehiro. Tamemori was his third son. At the age of eighteen, Tamemori rushed to join the Battle of Ishibashiyama in the eighth month of the fourth year of Jisho, served under Yoritomo, and repeatedly distinguished himself in battle, making a name for himself.>>