【Right Page】
Hinono-tsu (Hino Port)
【Shop curtain】
Edo　一　Takasaki
　　　　　Kondo

【Left Page】
<<In the second month of Kenkyū 6, when the shogun went up to the capital for the dedication ceremony of Tōdaiji Temple in Nanto, Tamemori also accompanied him and entered the capital in the third month of the same year. On the 21st day, he visited the hermitage of Saint Hōnen and received instruction on the path of nenbutsu rebirth. Thereafter he became a nenbutsu practitioner, and in Kenpō 7 he finally took the tonsure. Previously, he had received a Buddhist name from the saint and called himself Songan. From the 28th day of the 10th month of Ninji 3, he practiced proper nenbutsu for twenty-one days. On the 18th day of the 11th month, the night of the completion of his vows, declaring that dwelling in this impure land was meaningless, he chanted nenbutsu in a loud voice and secretly cut open his own belly, removed his internal organs, wrapped them in white silk, and had them secretly thrown into the river behind. However, since it was during the night, people knew nothing of it. Yet he felt no pain, and even by the 19th day he still did not feel like dying, so he told his son Minbu-no-Taifu Moritomo about this matter, and only then did people come to know of it. On the night of the 13th day of the first month of the following fourth year, he dreamed that the saint told him he would be received on the 15th day at the hour of the horse. After awakening, on that appointed day he put on the kesa received from the saint, held prayer beads, faced west, sat upright with palms together, chanted nenbutsu in a loud voice, and breathed his last at the middle of the horse hour. Purple clouds gathered in the sky and a mysterious fragrance filled the room. Having cut his belly and then abstaining from water and food for fifty-seven days, maintaining his usual strength and achieving rebirth - this was so extraordinary as to be almost incredible. However, his descendants have transmitted and disclosed the saint's letters along with prayer beads, kesa, etc., which is well known to the world. This merely records the miraculous wonders of Songan. <<The above extracts the essentials from the biographical supplements of Great Master Enkō.>>>>

Genbuyama Fusai Zen Temple: Located about ten chō to the right from the riverbank on this side of the Hino ferry crossing, in what is called Shibasaki village. <<This place is called Tatekawa. It was the name of an ancient district, now become a minor place name.>> It is a Zen temple of the Sai school affiliated with Kenchōji Temple in Kamakura, Sagami Province. The founding priest was called Shinshō Taijō Zen Master Motsukai Kashū Oshō. <<He passed away on the 8th day of the 12th month of Jōji 2 (1363). The Zen master's tomb and portrait exist.>> The principal image is a seated statue of Kannon about two shaku tall, with wooden statues of the Sixteen Arhats, Ten Great Disciples, etc. placed on the left and right. The makers of all of them are unknown. The great patron of the restoration was called Tatekawa Kunai-no-Taifu. His Buddhist name was Hōzan Dōki Dai-Zenjōmon.