【Right Page】
...said 《Note: The memorial tablet is at this temple, but the location of the grave is unknown》
The Buddha Hall is within the main gate. The principal image is Shakyamuni Buddha, a seated statue about three shaku tall. The attendant bodhisattvas are
Manjushri and Samantabhadra, about two shaku each, all of unknown makers 《Note: It is said that genealogical records of the Tatekawa family and other ancient documents are stored within the principal image》
《Note: Those records are said to contain the names of Taira no Shigeyoshi, Taira no Yoshichika, Taira no Takachika, and others》
Igarashi Ichizaemon's commendation letter states:
　During Lord Kagetora's campaign, Mita Danjō-chū Masasada led the vanguard at Ōhata々
　When they engaged in battle with Hōjō Ujiteru, lord of Hachiōji Castle, and were routed,
　Igarashi Ichizaemon killed a warrior named Takeda Shinhachirō, achieving second arrival
　For this merit, he was granted the Shibasaki domain of thirty kan-mon
　Therefore as recorded
　Eiroku 3, Year of the Metal Monkey, 3rd month, 7th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　Tatekawa Kunai Shigenō [with seal]
The record beneath the true image of founding master Daijō Zen Master states:
　Painted Keitan, construction assistance Yoshie Ben'ō Keiham Shūrai Keiichi Shūka

【Left Page】
　Shūgi Keitan Shūjun Keishō Shūhan Keiju Jushō Ryōshū Shūkai'ō
　Lacquerer Gyōsei, Buddhist sculptor Kazusa Hokkyō Asatsuna, patron monk Keitatsu
　Respectfully recorded on the 3rd day of the 12th month, 3rd year of Ōan, year of the Dog
The northern part of this temple's grounds was formerly the residence of Tatekawa Kunai-taifu.
Being a battlefield for several years, there are still mounds called "head burial mounds" in the forest, which explains this.
It is said 《Note: Remains of what appear to be moat traces still exist, and arrowheads and weapons are occasionally found in the mountains. Also, around the Keichō era, there was a person called Tatekawa Shōga, who was likely also of the Kunai-taifu lineage》
Based on having Toyotomi Hideyoshi's vermillion seal document, the temple's Abbot Tensō Shūyū
petitioned for temple lands during Tokugawa Ieyasu's unification and received a vermillion seal. Also, for the subjugation of Kunai-taifu,
Buddhist buildings were set on fire, but a certificate was granted stating they should be repaired after pacification.
Later, the resident priest Kakuei Shūri 《Note: disciple of Tensō》 petitioned about this matter, so an increase was to be
granted, but due to delays, Abbot Ei went to Kyoto for ordination ceremony but
died en route. Afterwards the temple remained without a resident priest for a long time and lost the vermillion seal document. However,
at the end of the Kan'ei era, a priest named Tainen resided at this temple, but due to certain circumstances was made to retire to
a place called Kōfukuji, taking with him all the temple treasures, ancient documents, and old implements.