【Right Page】
No one knows its whereabouts, so the wife of Tatekawa Kunai, the lord of this land, deeply lamented this matter and had a new Amida statue cast and enshrined it in the shrine. {{The inscription on the back of the Buddha statue is recorded below. It is noted that the new statue has a plum blossom crest on its knee, which may be the family crest of the Tatekawa clan or perhaps the family crest of the wife's natal family}}

Later, during the Hōei era (1704-1711), when they were about to construct a new shrine building, they dug up the roots of a dead pine stump in the precincts and discovered the lost honjibutsu (original Buddha), a golden Amida Nyorai statue, while plowing the ground. {{The marks of the plow blade from that time remain imprinted on the chest of the sacred statue}} Also, in the summer of An'ei 5 (1776), it was stolen by thieves, but due to its spiritual power, it returned to the shrine again on August 4th of the same year.

Inscription of the newly erected honjibutsu from the Tenshō era:
　Honjibutsu of Hachiman in Shibasaki Village, Tatekawa-gō, Tatō District, Musashi Province, and patron
　Tatekawa Kunai [name unclear]
　Tenshō 14, Year of the Metal Dog, March 15th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief patron Shikibu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Master carpenter Shiina Tosa-no-kami

Inscription on the halo mirror:
　Hachiman Shrine in Shibasaki Village, Tatekawa-gō, Tama District, Musashi Province　One mirror
　For household safety　　　　　Igarashi Yohachirō
　Genbun 4, Year of the Earth Sheep, August

【Outside frame】 Volume 3, Page 203

【Left Page】
Mt. Iō Mangan-ji Temple　Located about forty paces south of the same place, this is a Ōbaku Zen temple that was originally the site of a hermitage where Zen Master Tetsugyū resided, and later became a temple building. The principal image, Yakushi Nyorai, is a seated statue about three feet tall, attributed to Eshin Sōzu, with attendant statues of Nikkō and Gakkō bodhisattvas and the Twelve Divine Generals.

Plaque "Mt. Iō" (main hall entrance)　Plaque "Tōkōin" (interior beam)　Couplet "Vast compassion reaches all earth as medicinal herbs / Empty dust, pure filth, throughout the dharma realm all is lapis lazuli" (hung on left and right pillars, calligraphy by Nangaku Etsuzan and Ōbaku Kōsen Hōtan)

Suwa Shrine　Located about sixty paces east of Hachiman Shrine, enshrining Takeminakata-no-mikoto. According to tradition, it was established through kanjō (divine invitation) on July 21st of Kōnin 2 (811). This shrine is also maintained and served by the Miyasaki clan.

Tama River　Considered the foremost scenic beauty of this province. {{The Wamyō Ruijushō writes it as 多磨 and pronounces it "taha." The Man'yōshū follows 多麻, and the remaining chapters of the Musashi Province Fudoki use 多摩. The later practice of writing it as 玉 likely came from grouping it with the Tamagawa rivers in Yamashiro, Settsu, Kii, Ōmi, and Mutsu provinces, collectively called the Six Tamagawa, thus changing the characters. This river originates in Mt. Tanba on the border of Musashi and Kai provinces and flows along Tanba Village in Tama District, hence it was called Tahagawa. In Nichiren Shōnin's Annotated Illustrated Praise, when describing the Great Master's final moments and move to Ikegami, it records "Tahagawa in Musashi Province"}}

【Note: "萬願寺" should be "満願寺"]