【Right Page】
(The monk agreed that I should create this. The mysterious monk then entered a room, closed the door, and never came out. Soon the construction was completed, and the strange monk departed, his whereabouts unknown. An Inari shrine was established on the ground of that room.)

Ancient wani-guchi (temple bell) - one piece (hung in the Fudō Hall, diameter 1 shaku 9 sun, inscribed with 94 characters. The inscription is as follows):
Respectful dedication
　　　Humbly hung
This temple was established by Great Teacher Jikaku, imperial prayer temple of Emperor Seiwa, second establishment
Tōen Emperor Yōzei
At that time Minister Yoriyoshi climbed the mountain and worshipped Hachiman, third establishment Eii Tokugyo
■ both platforms
　Great patron Mimasaka-no-suke Masa and Kishi, Ichinomiya resident, metalworker Gen Tsuneari
Bun'ei 10th year, year of the metal rooster, 5th month, 20th day
　　　　　　　　　　Gin'nen Saimori-shi, Shōren

Fuku-ishi (Sacred Stone) (Located behind the Fudō Hall, beside the Atago shrine. About 6 shaku wide and 5-6 shaku high. It is said that those who worship this stone will not be touched by defilement. Therefore, at the time of purification, local people visit this stone first before making pilgrimages to various Buddhist and Shinto deities)

Niō-mon Gate (Kongō Misshaku statues are placed on left and right) Plaque (Takahata-san) written by High Priest Hakujo

Main Gate (adjacent to the left of Niō-mon) Plaque (Takahata-san) written by Monk Kōnen

Hana-i Well (Located at the foot of the mountain to the left front of the kitchen quarters. A spring about 7 shaku wide. According to tradition, on the night of the 4th day of the 8th month of Kenmu 2 (1335), a great wind arose and the hall suddenly collapsed, so it was moved down to flat ground. At that time, a clear spring gushed forth where the head of the principal image fell. Later it was called Hana-i and used for ritual water. For all people's hot and cold diseases, swellings, eye ailments, and other various illnesses, whether drunk or applied to the painful area, there is no case where it fails to heal)

The Kamakura Ōsōshi states: On the 21st day of the 1st month of Kōtoku 4 (1455), [forces] advanced to Bunbai-gawara in Fuchū, Musashi Province.

【Outside Frame】Volume 3, Page 210

【Left Page】
Nariyoshi with over 500 horsemen charged out, engaged in close combat, and fought fiercely as if fire would break out.
During this, the vanguard general of the Uesugi side, Uma-no-suke Nyūdō Noriaki, suffered severe wounds and could not retreat, so he committed suicide at Takahata Temple. Although the Kamakura forces were victorious, Ishidō, Isshiki, and 150 others died in battle. Exhausted from fighting, they set up camp at Bunbai-gawara. (Takahata Temple refers to this temple)

The temple origin story states: Hirayama Musha-dokoro Sueshige revered the Fudō-son of this temple from childhood and gained fame in the world for his valor. During the Jishō period, at the time of the pursuit of the Heike clan, he served under the Right General of Kamakura, followed Yoshitsune to the western provinces, distinguished himself at Ichi-no-tani, and his military reputation became known throughout the world. Therefore, he later built a hall for this principal image on the peak of this mountain. However, on the 4th day of the 8th month of Kenmu 2 (1335), it was damaged by a violent windstorm and the hall was destroyed. Consequently, it was later moved to flat ground. The financial sponsors at that time were Taira-no-Suketsuna and daughters of the Ōnakatomi family, it is said.
Since then, when natural disasters such as floods or epidemics are about to occur in the realm, the Buddha statue perspires. Its divine power is beyond enumeration.

Kikiri-sawa (Refers to a valley about half a chō west of Kongō-ji Temple. It is said to be the historical site where Taira-no-Sueshige cut timber for hall construction when building the hall)