【Right Page】
Climbing up to the middle of the slope, there is another ancient monument. It has deteriorated and cannot be read, with only the single character "平" (Taira) remaining clear. It is over six shaku in height, about two shaku in width, with the lower portion buried in the earth. There are also two other old stone pagodas, both about four shaku in height. Local people say these are the tombs of Hirayama Sueshige or other members of the Taira clan, but this is not clear (this place is the hereditary burial ground of the Taira family of farmers. There are also monuments from the Kōshō era). This area is called Taira Village and has many people of the Taira clan. It is said that the village headman of the Taira family possesses a document issued by Hōjō Ujinao of Odawara.

Jigaku-san Shōren Jushō Zen Temple - Located about twelve chō to the southeast of Takahata, in Mokusa Village (formerly written as Mogusa. When Minamoto no Yoriyoshi and Yoshiie brothers returned victorious from their Mutsu campaign, they changed the mountain name from Masui to Masui [with different characters meaning "increasing might"]). This is a Ōbaku sect Zen temple belonging to Zuishō-ji Temple in Shirokane, Edo. Formerly it was Tendai sect and was called Sōsei-san. During the Tempyō era, Shaku Dōkō, a leading disciple of Dōsen, served as head fundraiser and first established a monastery with all seven halls complete. Later, in Kōhei 5, when Iyo-no-kami Yoriyoshi was proceeding to Mutsu, he passed through this area, stayed at Shōren-ji Temple, restored Hachiman Shrine, and prayed for the subjugation of imperial enemies. Also, from the Kenkyū era onward, beginning with Lord Yoritomo, it was designated as a prayer temple for successive generations of the Minamoto family. In Kenchō

【Outside Frame】Volume 3, Page 112

【Left Page】
7, the temple's head priest Yūkei invited Master Rinchō from Sagami Province to convert it to a Zen temple. There is a roof ridge plaque from the construction of Shōren-ji's abbot's quarters in Keichō 15. The principal image is a seated Shakyamuni Buddha statue about three shaku tall, with standing attendant figures of Ānanda and Kāśyapa, also three shaku tall. These are said to be carved by the Buddhist sculptor Fujimura Chūen (Chūen was a Chinese person who was in Nagasaki, Hizen Province). The restoring founder was called Priest Egoku (died on the 24th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 6, year of the metal ox). In Kyōhō 2, year of the fire rooster, the wife of Lord Ōkubo Kaga-no-kami Tadahide, Jushō-in-den Jigaku Genchō-ni, became the restoring patron (Genchō-ni took the tonsure in Kyōhō 6 and was called Jushō-in Jigaku. She constantly revered the Three Treasures and eventually restored this temple. There is a wooden statue of her at age 45 in this temple). The six large characters of "Shōren Jushō Zen Temple" on the plaque in the main hall's inner sanctuary and the "Jigaku-san" on the main gate plaque are all written by the restoring founder Dōmyō Egoku. The purple and gold plaque hung before the principal image is calligraphy by Zen Master Ingen.

Three sutra cylinders, their inscriptions are as follows. One is made of copper. Length nine sun and two bu, mouth opening four sun and five bu wide.

Chōkan 1st year (Great Year Mizunoto-Hitsuji) 10th month 13th day (Kanoe-Uma)
　　　　　　Craftsman Fujiwara no Morimichi