【Right Page】
　　(However, because there are no donations of manor estates, the Buddha lacks the provision of offerings, and the monks have lost their stores of robes and bowls. Here there is a monk who came today requesting to install a complete sutra collection at this temple and repair the damage, whereupon he was appointed to the position of temple head. Also, in the same book under the entry for the eighth day of the fifth month of Kenkyū 3rd year, the retired emperor's forty-nine day Buddhist services were held at the Southern Hall with a hundred-monk offering, and the monks included three from Shinjihiji Temple. Also, in the same book under the entry for the twentieth day of the fourth month of Jishō 5th year, it states that Oyamada Saburō Tomonari added the lands of Yoshitomi in Tama District and Ichinomiya Renkōji Temple to his own domain, indicating that Yoshitomi is in this area, but when Shinjihiji Temple was abandoned is unclear, and even its former site is now uncertain)
　(According to the Hachiman Shrine Record, in Kenkyū 4th year, the Kamakura Right General wrote out the Lotus Sutra and placed it in a golden jar to be deposited at this shrine. The characters of the bamboo paper Lotus Sutra he transcribed have mostly decayed, with only traces remaining)
　Masui Well (Located at the foot of the mountain behind the main hall, the temple constantly draws from it. It is an exceptionally pure spring)
　Yakunimi (Eight-Country View) (Located on top of the mountain behind the main hall. Climbing to this place, one can see the mountains of eight provinces, hence this name)
Niō Mound (About five chō southeast of Shōren-ji Temple, in a slightly elevated place in the mountains where more than ten pine trees flourish, this area is so called. The area below is named Shindō because there were once temple buildings there. There is also a place called Hōzō, and foundation stones still exist here and there. There must have been a great temple complex in ancient times. The sutra tubes and natural bronze Kannon statue one sun eight bu tall, as well as stone jars, decayed swords numbering several dozen, flower dishes and the like now stored at Shōren-ji Temple are said to have been obtained by digging at this location)
Mokusa Hachiman Shrine Located on the mid-slope of the mountain to the west of Shōren-ji Temple, it is the shrine served by Shōren-ji Temple. August 15th is observed as the festival day. The three characters "Hachiman Shrine" on the plaque of the main shrine's worship hall were written by Umenokōji Dainagon Sadafuku-kyō. According to the temple monks, the objects enshrined in the main hall

【Outside Frame】Volume 3, Page 115

【Left Page】
　are wooden statues of Hachiman Shrine, Empress Jingū, Wani, Tsuto Myōjin, Takenouchi Daijin, Yoshiie-kō and others. According to tradition, in Kōhei 5th year, when both lords Minamoto Yoriyoshi and Yoshiie were subjugating the barbarian rebels of Ōshū, they dug soil from the shrine altar of Otokoyama Shō-Hachiman Shrine in Yamashiro Province, put it in a stone jar, built a shrine structure, and established it at this location with prayers and other documents stored there. Afterward, the rebellious forces were completely pacified, and at the time of victory songs, they came to this place again, also enshrining a gilt bronze Kannon statue, intending to transmit the worship permanently (The matter of this Kannon is detailed in the section on Shōren-ji Temple. Also at this time, there was a donation of five hundred koku of ritual fields). Moreover, the retainers of both generals also each prayed for military success, storing their swords and staves and giving thanks for divine virtue. From then on, Kamakura Yoritomo-kyō revered the gods of this shrine, and in Kenkyū 4th year transcribed the Lotus Sutra, placing it in a golden jar as an offering, but after years passed this precious vessel was lost, and in the Shōtoku era it was recovered by digging at the Niō Mound site. The temple monks say that when trees in the shrine precincts die, they all fall toward Ōshū, and this has been so from ancient times to the present. This is considered one of the shrine's mysterious phenomena.

【Note: "Sadafuku" may be "Sadatomi"】