【Right Page】
　To the right, beside the fields, there is an ancient mound marked by an old hazel tree. It is said to be the grave of over 400 people who died in battle during the Musashino Battle in the second year of Shōkei (1333).

Shiroyama (Castle Mountain) - This refers to the mountain range behind Enmei-ji Temple. Ancient roof tiles are occasionally found in the soil, but the castle lord and period are not well known. Local people say that long ago, a retainer of the Odawara Hōjō family named Sekido Suruga-no-kami lived here, or alternatively, around the Eiroku period (1558-1570), a warrior named Saeki Ichisuke Michinaga served the Odawara Hōjō family and lived in this area. 《Therefore, this place was also called Saeki Valley》

　In the first year of Meitoku (1390), Nen'a Gohō Nyūdō founded a temple here and rebuilt the Zen temple called Kichijōzan Shutoku-ji. 《This temple is on the right side of the road from the Sekido entrance》 Michinaga himself became the restoration founder and invited the great monk Nisshun Sōe to be the restoration founding abbot. 《Ichisuke's Buddhist name was called Michināga-an. On February 3rd, 12th year of Eiroku (1569), he died in battle in Michinoku. Michinaga's descendants - Mikawa-no-kami Michināri, Izumi-no-kami Michiyasu, Hayato, Chikugo and others - all lived in this area and eventually became commoners》

Tenshu-dai (Castle Keep Foundation) - Located to the west of the same mountain range. Old pine trees flourish from the middle slope of Castle Mountain, winding up to the summit. The view in all four directions from this location is most spectacular. 《Recently, a shrine to Konpira Gongen was built on the summit》

【Outside frame】Three-221

【Left Page】
Kutsukiri-zaka (Horseshoe-cutting Slope) - This refers to the slope south of Shimo-Sekido station town. The top of the slope is called Furu-ichiba (Old Market). It was formerly a place with shops and post stations. Since the Tenshō period (from 1573), the old road through this area fell into disuse and now only the name remains, but it serves as an official relay station from Fuchu across to Sagami Province's Yakurasawa, Ōiso, etc. 《Even now, people from Jōshū and Yashū regions pass through this road for pilgrimages to Sagami Ōyama Sekison and Mount Fuji》

According to tradition, on February 8th of the 7th year of Shōhei (1352), during the Musashino Battle, Lords Nitta Yoshisada and Wakiya Yoshiharu were reduced to merely 200-odd cavalry, and their allied forces were scattered beyond trace. Thinking that since they were destined to die in battle anyway, they would enter Kamakura to face Ashikaga Sama-no-kami Motouji and lose their lives. When they passed through Sekido after midnight, they encountered forces of 5,000-6,000 cavalry including Ishidō Nyūdō and Miura-no-suke, proceeded through Kanagawa, entered Kamakura, and achieved victory. It is said that the name comes from their removing their horses' shoes at this slope before the battle.

Akasaka-dai (Akasaka Plateau) - From Sekido, go about 16-17 chō to the east, cross through Renkōji Village, and climb the slope called Akasaka to reach Akasaka-dai. After about one and a half ri, there is a place called Kawaradani.

Hira-dai (Flat Plateau) - This refers to the eastern continuation of Akasaka-dai. At this location there is one large old pine tree with a circumference of more than three arm-spans.