【Right Page】
《Small text: There are those who claim this, and it is not far from this place. The published version of "Azuma Kagami" writing it as "Kashiwae" is an error. Edo's Zōshigaya should be seven ri distant, but this temple lost its old records in the Tenmei period fires, so there is no basis for comparing with ancient times. This still needs to be corrected over many days》

Kuniyasu Myōjin Shrine: Located about fifty paces south of Ikō-ji Temple, on the same side, about thirty paces down the small path to the left. Shrine priest Yamamoto serves here. The sacred body is as described below, what is commonly called a cast metal divine image. According to tradition, in ancient times a person named Ozawa Saemon-no-jō Kunitaka ruled this land. When Kunitaka was strolling in this area, a white-haired old man appeared under a pine tree and said, "I am Ōkuninushi-no-kami. If you venerate and worship me in this place, all people will have peace in the land." Kunitaka, thinking this strange, built a shrine and immediately revered and worshipped him as Kuniyasu Myōjin, donating 850 tsubo of shrine land and praying for long-lasting military fortune.

《Small text: Upon examination, Ozawa Saemon-no-jō Kunitaka was probably a member of the clan of Ozawa Jirō Shigemasa and Ozawa Sakon-shōgen Nobushige mentioned in "Azuma Kagami." His era is now unknown》

Kuniyasu Divine Image
《Small text: Bronze object, about 6 sun 4 bu across. There are traces suggesting a canopy was once attached above. Below there is also》

【Outside frame】Three-224

【Left Page】
《Small text: something like a flower vase with an opening at the top. The sacred body is in monk form, holding a jewel and sword》

【In illustration】
Principal patron
Yamamoto Gon-risshi Kōshin

Ōan 6th year, 8th month, 11th day

Anazawa Tenjin Shrine: Located in Yanokuchi village, about three chō northeast of Ikō-ji Temple, down a small path on the right side of the same highway. The shrine is on the middle slope of a mountain. This area is called Ozawa-ga-hara. The enshrined deity is not currently clear, but in later times Kan-shin (Sugawara no Michizane) was added as a co-enshrined deity. The festival is on the 25th day of the 7th month. Also on the same day kagura is performed, and on the 25th day of the 9th month lion dances are held. The bettō (supervising temple) is of the Shingon sect and is called Ikō-ji.

The Engi-shiki Jinmyōchō states: Musashi Province, Tama District
Called Anazawa Tenjin Shrine