【Right Page】
Due to divine manifestation and oracle, a shrine was established and the local people worship it with reverence (this is Ōmato-no-tsu-no Tenjin).
(The Engishiki calls it Ōmato-no-tsu, while the Fudoki calls it Ōmato-no-chi. "Chi" and "tsu" are phonetically equivalent. Also, Ōmato is rendered as Ohomato, or variously called Futomato, Tamato, etc.) Thereafter,
In the 5th year of Emperor Seimu, year of kinoto-i, Etakehi-no-mikoto was made the provincial governor of this land.
(Grandson of Ame-no-hohi-no-mikoto and ancestor of the Izumo-no-omi clan, named Futai Ukamoro-oshi-no-kansa-no-mikoto's tenth-generation descendant) Thus a government seat was established here (This was the beginning of Musashi Province's provincial governorship and the origin of Fuchū).
Also, since Ōnamuchi-no-mikoto was a divine spirit who manifested in this land, he was revered, and as the ancestral deity,
Susanoo-no-mikoto was enshrined together (Since Etakehi-no-mikoto was a descendant of the Izumo-no-omi clan, there is said to be divine mystery in the special veneration of Susanoo-no-mikoto among the deities of this shrine).
Four deities - Izanami-no-mikoto, Ninigi-no-mikoto, Ōmiyame-no-mikoto, and Furu-no-ōnkami - were enshrined in the auxiliary halls, and a new shrine was established on this land with sacred rice fields attached to make it a provincial shrine,
called Rokushō-miya Ōmato-no-chi Tenjin. Also Ame-no-shitaharu-no-mikoto (deity of Ichinomiya shrine, detailed in that section below),
Seoritsu-hime (deity of Ono Shrine, detailed in that section below), and Ukanomitama-no-ōnkami (deity of Ono Shrine's auxiliary hall) - these three
deities were transferred to the auxiliary halls of Rokushō-miya and called Kyakurai-sanjo, and were
worshipped with the rites of a provincial shrine. From then on, it became a shrine combining Ōmato-no-chi Tenjin and Ono Shrine. By Emperor Ankan's kinoto-u year, spring and winter

【Left Page】
seasonal festivals were held, as recorded in old histories. However, after many years passed, in Kōhei 5, when Lords Minamoto no Yoriyoshi and Yoshiie set out to subjugate
the Abe Sadatō and Munetō clan in Ōshū, they visited this shrine to pray for military victory, and when they pacified the barbarian rebels
and sang victory songs, as thanksgiving they planted several zelkova trees on both left and right sides within the first torii
to express gratitude for their success (those rows of trees still exist today). In Jishō 4, Right General Lord Yoritomo
visited this shrine for prayers and achieved great victory in battle. During the Bunji era he rebuilt the shrine, and also
during the Jūei era, seeking an heir and having Lord Yoriie, he had Kasai Saburō Kiyoshige
present sacred objects (In Kanki 4 as well, Musashi Saemon-no-jō Sukeyori served as administrator to repair the shrine's damage). The ordained
rituals continue unbroken to this day, and thereafter until the Ashikaga house, successive
shogunal families continued their reverence without decline. Especially upon entering the province, the current house has
shown deep faith, granted 500 koku of shrine lands and commanded prayer services. For the battles of Sekigahara and
Osaka, the shrine's head priest Saruwatari Saemon-no-suke Morimichi was ordered to conduct prayers for vic-
tory and received imperial commendations and direct written orders. Thereafter, the second generation