【Right Page】

Four propositions: namely, regarding one true nature—it exists, it doesn't exist, both exist and don't exist, neither exists nor doesn't exist; it is one, it is different, both are so, neither is so. All other propositions can be understood by analogy with the above. Since it is already thus, these three natures, looking at each other mutually, whether identical or separate, both identical and separate, or neither identical nor separate.

Therefore the fundamental sūtra draws an analogy saying: "For example, though pure crystal has no blue or other contaminating colors, it has the capacity to appear similar to blue and other contaminating colors when conditions combine. Due to this, when it encounters blue contaminating color, it immediately resembles sapphire, lapis lazuli, and other blue gems. Foolish people see this and immediately grasp it as definitively real sapphire, etc. When it encounters yellow, red, and various other colors, everything follows this pattern. However, this true nature, at all times, constantly and eternally, remains distant from all colors, fundamentally unchanging, pure and uniform, equal and equal."

The dharma-gate of the three natures is also like this. Imagined characteristics are like those wrongly grasped real blue gems, etc.; dependent characteristics are like those apparent blue gem characteristics, etc.; perfectly real characteristics are like that originally unchanging self-nature that is separate from all contaminating colors.

Now why are these three natures both definitively separate and also definitively identical? Because there is no separate substance. Because the three meanings are distinct. Therefore the Consciousness-only [Treatise] says: "Are these three different or not different? One should say both are not so. Because there is no separate substance. Because wrong grasping, dependent origination, and true meaning are distinct."

What wise person, upon suddenly seeing the text "because there is no separate substance," would carelessly speak of "separate substance and definitive separation dharma-gates"?

However, based on these three natures, the three non-natures are also established. Namely, abandoning the previous imagined characteristics because they have no substantial characteristics, they are called "non-nature of characteristics"; abandoning the previous dependent [nature] because it has no naturalness, it is called "non-nature of arising"; abandoning the previous perfect [nature] because it has no various characteristics, it is called "non-nature of ultimate meaning." Each of these "non-" is also not partial non-existence. Each abandons immeasurable four propositions, hence called "non." They do not at all contradict the previous three self-natures.

Due to this principle, in all dharmas, each and every one possesses the three natures and non-natures. In one moment simultaneously, the six gates are unobstructed. Namely, within one particle of form, its substance is dependently arisen like illusions and dreams. Therefore it is separate from immeasurable four propositions of fixed grasping, and still possesses immeasurable four propositions without grasping. Not being form yet appearing as form, not being arising yet appearing as arising, not being cessation yet appearing as cessation. Since it is already apparent, the true neither arises nor ceases. Because it neither arises nor ceases, it is characterless and quiescent. Because it is characterless and quiescent, there is no natural arising. Because there is no naturalness, there are no deluded characteristics.

Since one particle of dust already possesses [all six meanings] in this way, all dharmas each and every one completely possess the six meanings. Within these six meanings, each individual meaning also each separately transcends the various four propositions. Moreover, regarding the various four propositions, what definitive separation and what definitive identity do these six meanings have when compared portion by portion? Since they transcend both identity and separation, "both neither" can also be understood by analogy. That they still possess the four propositions can also be understood by analogy.

Therefore in the fundamental sūtra, in the understanding arising from meaning, from the beginning with the five aggregates to the end with the seven factors of enlightenment, eightfold noble path and other dharmas, each layer upon layer of three natures and non-natures being sovereign and inconceivable—this is precisely this meaning. Hence the Consciousness-only [Treatise] says: "Form, sensation, perception, mental formations, consciousness, and the unconditioned all possess wrong grasping, dependent origination, and principle."

The fundamental commentary explains: "The six dharmas all possess the principle of wrong grasping and dependent origination. Principle is suchness, also perfectly real." When the five aggregates and unconditioned are opened out, they are precisely the hundred dharmas. Therefore the three natures of each of the six dharmas are precisely the three natures of each of the hundred dharmas. The three natures and three non-[natures] are also immediately non-dual. Each of the hundred dharmas possesses the six gates completely—that this is inconceivable, its principle is evident.

Having thus completely abandoned such immeasurable and countless wrong graspings, could the dependent and perfect hundred dharmas that are revealed and illuminated possibly retain any one-sided definitive real existence? Therefore, regarding these three natures and non-natures, if we discuss just the one gate of emptiness and existence, there is inexhaustible meaning.

【Left Page】

Speaking of the major divisions first: the gate of existence of the three natures prevents reductive grasping because each dharma-gate expresses nature. The gate of emptiness of the three non-[natures] prevents proliferative grasping because each dharma-gate prevents nature.

Next, regarding gradual minor divisions: within the three natures, the gate of emptiness of the imagined prevents proliferative grasping because it expresses non-nature. The gate of existence of dependent and perfect prevents reductive grasping because it expresses having nature. Within the three non-[natures], the gate of existence of non-characteristics prevents reductive grasping because it prevents non-nature. The latter two gates of emptiness prevent proliferative grasping because they prevent having nature.

Next, making gradual fine distinctions: within the emptiness of the imagined, the gate of existence of emotional existence prevents reductive grasping because it expresses what appears to consciousness. The gate of emptiness of rational non-existence prevents proliferative grasping because it expresses non-nature. Within the existence of dependent and perfect, the gate of existence of rational existence prevents reductive grasping because it expresses having nature. The gate of emptiness of emotional non-existence prevents proliferative grasping because it expresses non-meaning.

Within the existence of non-characteristics, emotional existence of non-characteristics is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it prevents what appears to consciousness. Rational non-existence of non-characteristics is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it prevents non-nature.

Within the latter two emptinesses, rational existence of non-nature is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it prevents having nature. Emotional non-existence of non-nature is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it prevents non-meaning.

Next, making detailed distinctions: within emotional existence, the gate of proliferative existence prevents reductive grasping because it expresses having characteristics. The gate of reductive emptiness prevents proliferative grasping because it expresses non-characteristics. Within rational non-existence emptiness, proliferative rational non-existence is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it expresses non-nature. Reductive rational non-existence is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it expresses having meaning.

Within rational existence, non-extreme existence is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it expresses non-meaning. Middle existence is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it expresses having nature. Within emotional non-existence emptiness, non-extreme emptiness is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it expresses having nature. Middle emptiness is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it expresses non-meaning.

Within emotional existence emptiness, proliferative non-nature is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it prevents having characteristics. Reductive non-nature is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it prevents non-characteristics. Within rational non-existence existence, increasing non-existence of non-nature is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it prevents non-nature. Decreasing non-existence of non-nature is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it prevents having meaning.

Within rational existence emptiness, provisionally established non-nature is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it prevents having nature. Non-extreme emptiness is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it prevents non-meaning. Within emotional non-existence existence, emotional non-existence of non-nature is precisely the gate of existence, preventing reductive grasping because it prevents non-meaning. Non-extreme existence is precisely the gate of emptiness, preventing proliferative grasping because it prevents having nature.

Next, making even finer distinctions: within proliferative existence, regarding...