In the reign of Engi, called a sage's era, as peace had continued, all people from high to low had become extremely extravagant, adorning themselves with beautiful clothes and adopting useless things. Lamenting and contemplating this, [the Emperor] cast off even the dragon-patterned robes of eight tan of Hachijo silk, amber-colored Tango kelp-like hakama, and persimmon tea damask stone obi that he had been wearing, changing into plain tea-striped island silk Kyoto santome robes during a quiet night.

The empress and court ladies assisted with the change of clothes.

Now, Minister Sugawara became thunder and lightning, and after killing Lord Tokihira and Kiyohara no Maryo, the court was left with very few officials. Therefore, [the Emperor] summoned Kanshu-sai, the only son of Kansho-zo, made him a minister to assist in political affairs, and entrusted him with all governmental matters.

When Lord Sugawara took charge of all governmental affairs, all the court nobles who had served until then had some connection with Tokihira and Kiyohara no Maryo, creating obstacles to their employment. Until suitable people could be found elsewhere for government service, there were no good people other than the ancients. Moreover, when peace continues for a long time, people naturally flow toward literature and become estranged from military arts. Therefore, to first teach martial ways and strengthen the military, he summoned Minamoto no Kuro Yoshitsune for military strategy and swordsmanship, Chinzei Hachiro Tametomo for archery, and Oguri Hangan Kaneuji for horsemanship, issuing imperial edicts that they should provide instruction and training from court nobles down to commoners.

"Since the period is recent, I know about it, but let's conceal this here."
"Since it's that way, just leave it aside."

【Empress's dialogue】
"Your repeated undergarments suit you well. Black would be unbecoming."

【Emperor's dialogue】
"Indeed, I think so too."

【Main text continues】
Kuro Yoshitsune, Chinzei Hachiro, and Oguri Hangan came to court upon summons.

【Oguri Hangan's dialogue】
"For unworthy persons such as ourselves to be chosen is truly a grateful fortune. However, we are people from a much later age than you. I believe there may be some mistake regarding us being 'ancients.'"