The fire was stopped at Hirose-sama's residence. On the east side of this area, three residences - Minobe, Katsuyama, and Okubo-sama - burned down. Also, in Tenjin-yokocho, the residences of Momoi, Morishita, Oyagi, Inoue, Hirao, Yoshikawa, Takagi, Hasegawa, Matsumoto, Teshima, and Mochizuki-sama burned. In Ueno-machi-yokocho at Fukuro-machi, the residences of Kido, Ishii, Yoshimura, Takada, and Nakamura-sama burned. Also in Aoishi-bashi-yokocho and Sakana-dana street, the residences of Takayasu, Yamamoto, Miyagawa, Ogura, Momoi, and Ota burned. In this area, amidst the fire, two residences of Morita and Saigo-sama remained. In the second ward cross-street of Ueno-machi, the fire burned up to the residences of Ichida, Sakamoto, Yamamoto, Iida, Sakata, and retainer Kimura-sama.

In the first ward cross-street, the fire stopped at the residences of Kameyama, Akiyama, Sato, Kawara, Wakana, and Yoshida. On the opposite side of Choja-machi, the residences of Arita, Sakakibara, Komine, Sakaguchi, Ogura, Toooji, Ito, Sanma, Yoshida, Wakitani, Uchimagari, Inamura, Kuroda, Sato, and Ichida-sama burned. The residences of Kajiyama, Teshima, Yoshikawa, Fujii, Miura, Mitamura, Yukawa, Taguchi, Otani, Takai, Suzuki, Ito, Tanaka, Aizawa, Tawarada, and Takeuchi-sama burned. Anma and Takagi-sama's residences remained. Yamaguchi-sama's burned. Shimura-sama's remained. Tsujimoto-sama's burned. Hazama-sama's remained. The fire stopped at the southwest corner of the new residence complex, at the residences of Kubota, Fujii, and Kawara-sama.

On the west side of the ceremonial road, the residences of Ishikawa Shuden-no-kami-sama and Kuroda Buzen-no-kami-sama burned. In this area, most of the smaller residences collapsed, and Iga-sama's residence burned. Also, along Myojin-shita street, the front longhouses of Tatebe Takumi-no-kami-sama and Naito Bungo-no-kami-sama collapsed. In Myojin-shita Odaidokoro-cho, Dobo-machi, Kanazawa-machi, and the Hatagoya-cho area, most suffered damage. Shohei Bridge and others collapsed slightly. In Yushima-yokocho first ward, there was little collapse. Kanda Myojin shrine had no particular problems. Outside Sujikai Gate, in Hanabusa-cho, Naka-machi first and second wards, in this area the townhouses along the ceremonial road, both east and west sides including the back streets, mostly collapsed. Matsunaga-cho and Aioi-cho also...