slightly collapsed. From the front gate of Lord Tōdō in Sakuma-chō to the riverbank, there were few collapsed areas. Shinbashi-dōri had many collapses. Also, in Nanamgari, the Medical Academy of Lord Taki, Lord Gyōbu, Lord Ii Hyōbu, Lord Matsuura Hizen, Lord Sakai Saemon-no-jō's middle residence, Lord Satake's middle residence, Lord Satake Iki, Lord Ikeda, Lord Kyoroku, Lord Abe, and Lord Koide - none suffered major collapses, but there were partial collapses in various places. Also, in Shamisen-bori, starting with Lord Satake, there was no particular damage, only collapsed walls.

《Nine》 Inside Asakusa Gate, Bakurō-chō street, the Ryōgoku area, and Yanagihara street had little collapse. Around Hashi-chō, Yagen-bori, Muramatsu-chō, and Hama-chō areas had little collapse. Tomizawa-chō had severe collapse, and east and west of Ningyō-chō street had extremely many collapses in various places. Around Oyaji Bridge and Arame Bridge, in Kobune-chō, Horie-chō, Horidome, Ise-chō, Setomono-chō, Uogashi, Takara-chō, Ryōgae-chō, Kugi-dana, Hon-chō, Ōtemma-chō, Ishi-chō, Shirogane-chō, Abura-chō, and Shio-chō areas, many storehouses were damaged and collapsed, causing many people to be injured when their houses collapsed.

《Ten》 In Kanda, Hashimoto-chō and Toshima-chō areas collapsed slightly, while Koyanagi-chō area and Hiei-chō collapsed greatly. From Sujikai Gate to Imagawa Bridge street, there were many collapses in various places. West Kanda suffered damage bit by bit throughout the area. Also, Kamakura-gawara street had few collapses.

《Eleven》 In Ogawa-chō, from Sujikai Gate to Suidō Bridge street, the barracks of Lord Inaba Nagato-no-kami and the area around Lord Uneme-no-shō were damaged. Lord Toda (11,000 koku) Ōi-no-kami burned down, but the front barracks remained. Lord Naitō (33,000 koku) Suruga-no-kami burned down, but the front gate barracks remained. Across from there, Lord Tanaka Yuiichi remained. Furthermore, Lord Hotta (110,000 koku) Bitchū-no-kami burned down greatly. On the opposite side, one building of Lord Nakarai Izumo-no-kami burned down. Lord Mizoguchi Yasogoro, Lord Satō Kinnosuke, Lord Fuseya, Lord Ōkubo, and Lord Tsuge burned down. One building of Lord Yoda remained. Kami Oribe...

《Two》