The residences of Arakawa, Soga, Kondo, Aoki, Honda, and Niimi were all burned down. The residences of Kawachi, Kobayashi, and Sato were burned. From there, the back Jimbo-koji area including Mashita, Nagasaka, Terashima, and Arai were burned.

On Hitotsubashi-dori, the residences of Meiraku, Amemori, and Ooka survived, but the official fire brigade residence on front Jimbo-koji was burned. Sakakibara Shikibu-no-taiyu's residence was half-burned. From the service gate across the way, Honda Bunzen-no-kami's residence was half-burned. From there, Toda Kaga-no-kami's residence burned with only the southwest corner partially remaining. Washinosu Awaji-no-kami's residence burned. Two houses of Hasegawa and Arai remained, though only the front portions. Yamamoto's residence had only minor burning that stopped there. In another section, on Zoshi-bashi-dori in Ogawa-cho, Hongo Tango-no-kami's residence burned. In Sanban-hara, Matsudaira Bunzen-no-kami's residence (50,000 koku) burned. Hanawa Soetsu's residence burned. In another section, Watanabe Sannosuke's residence burned. In yet another section, Isshiki Tango-no-kami's residence burned, and Isshiki Kuninosuke's rear quarters burned slightly. The entire area suffered severe earthquake damage and extensive collapse.

《Section 12》 Inside Koishikawa Gate, Matsudaira Suruga-no-kami's residence burned. In this area, the group residences of Kato, Ohara, Watanabe, and Fuyuki burned. Honma Heibei's residence burned. Omori Yuzaburo and Honme's residences burned. Nakajo Nakasei-no-taiyu and Yamamoto's residences burned, and Takai's residence burned. Kurokawa's residence was half-burned but stopped there. Most houses in this area that didn't burn collapsed. West of Koishikawa Gate suffered minor damage.

《Section 13》 Around Iida-cho, Manaita-bashi, and Kudan-zaka areas had minor collapse. After thorough inspection of Bancho-koji, there was no major damage. Kojimachi main street had minor damage. Low-lying areas around Hirakawa-cho, Hayabusa-cho, Yamamoto-cho, and Tani-cho had somewhat more damage.

《Section 14》 Outside Yotsuya Gate, from Tenma-cho-dori to Okido area [text cuts off]

After thorough inspection of various Bancho alleys, there was no major damage. Kojimachi main street had minor damage. Low-lying areas around Hirakawa-cho, Hayabusa-cho, Yamamoto-cho, and Tani-cho had somewhat more damage.

《Section 14》 Yotsuya Gate extends from outside Tenma-cho-dori to Okido area [text cuts off]