The residence of Kii-no-kami burned down. In this area, the interiors of Sakurada Gate and Babaki-saki Gate were largely collapsed. Outside Babaki-saki Gate, the residences of Endo Tajima-no-kami (12,000 koku) and Matsudaira Sagami-no-kami (325,000 koku) were half-burned, and the fire-brigade residence also burned down. Inside Sukiyabashi Gate, there was much collapse, and among the residences destroyed by spreading fire were those of Nagai Totomi-no-kami (36,000 koku) and Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu (50,000 koku). The guardhouse at Hibiya Gate burned down. The residences of Matsudaira Tosa-no-kami and Tsuchiya Oi-no-kami suffered great damage. Outside the same gate, the residence of Matsudaira Hizen-no-kami (357,000-plus koku) burned down. Inside the front gate of Choshu domain (369,000-plus koku), there was slight burning. The residences of Arima Bingo-no-kami (10,000 koku) and Nanbu Mino-no-kami (200,000 koku) burned down. On the opposite side, the front row house of the Satsuma domain's (770,800 koku) ceremonial-dress residence was slightly burned. Inside Saiwai-bashi Gate, one central row house belonging to Yanagisawa Toki-no-suke (151,280 koku), Ito Shuri-no-taifu (51,080-plus koku), and Kamei Oki-no-kami (43,000 koku) burned down, and the fire stopped there. At the corner of Tatsunokuchi, the residence of Morikawa Dewa-no-kami (10,000 koku) burned down. In front of Ote (the main castle gate), the residence of Sakai Uta-no-kami (150,000 koku) burned down; the front gate remained, but the residence across the way burned down. In this area, the residences of Echizen domain, Hitotsubashi domain, and the Ogasawara domain suffered much collapse. From inside Gofukubashi to inside Sukiyabashi, there was collapse in various locations throughout.

[Section 19] In Soto-Sakurada, as only large daimyo residences are found there with no smaller residences, the majority of the plastered-wall row houses collapsed. In Kasumigaseki, the Geishu (Hiroshima) domain residence suffered no particular damage, and the row houses from the corner turret and watchtower of the Kuroda domain residence to the front gate suffered no collapse. Other domain residences suffered much collapse. On top of Edomi-zaka hill and in the Nagatacho area, slight collapse can be seen in various places. The Sanno Shrine was unharmed. Inside Akasaka Gate, the residences all show collapse in various places.