《Box: 20》Outside Saiwai Bridge, the area around Toranomon-shita street, Kubo-machi, outside Shimbashi at Kiridoshi, and around Zojo-ji Temple's ceremonial gate showed collapses in various places. From Shibaguchi to around Yoritsuki-machi, extending to Shiodome and the area around the Sendai domain's upper residence, damage was light, but Shibai-machi first district burned down. From there up to the Daimon area, the earthquake was strong, and in Mishima-machi, Shinmei-machi, and the waterfront residences, many places collapsed completely without exception.

From Hamamatsu-cho upward, including Chumon-mae, Katamon-mae, Kanasugi, Hon-shiba, Tamachi, Mita, Hijiri-zaka, and the Koyama area, places that suffered damage bit by bit were observed, but there was no particularly severe damage. In the Akabane area, the Arima family residence collapsed greatly, but Suitengu Shrine was unharmed. From Hijiri-zaka to Isarago-dai, there were many collapses, and Takanawa-dai-machi suffered much damage. Shirokane, Nihon-enoki, and Gotenyama had no particular damage, Takanawa street had little damage, and one watchtower of the Satsuma domain residence collapsed. Shinagawa post station suffered some damage; one inn called Ichiya collapsed, and there were many other collapses on the other side of the bridge.

《Box: 21》South of Nihon-bashi, along the east-west main street, Gofuku-bashi riverside, and Shinba riverside street, there was nothing particular up to around Naka-bashi, but from Minami-tenma-machi there were many collapses, and from the second district of that place to near Kyobashi, areas burned. To the west, Minami-kaji-machi, Minami-daiku-machi, and Gorobei-cho burned; in Tatami-cho, though it was amid the fire, some places remained. It burned up to Daikon riverside. To the east, one side of Gusoku-machi, Yanagi-cho, Inaba-cho, Suzuki-cho, Tokiwa-cho, and Matsukawa-cho burned, and the fire stopped at Sumi-cho and Takegashi. Also, beyond Kyobashi, around Yumi-cho, there was much damage in various places. Ginza and Sanjikken-bori had few collapses, and Kobiki-cho and Tsukiji also had little damage. Sukiya-bashi street, Yamashita street...

《Box: 4》