The second district burned down, the third district only collapsed, the fourth and fifth districts burned down, and Mitsume Kuramachi suffered some fire damage. On the other side of the river, from Hayashimachi 1st to 5th district, many buildings collapsed, Tokuemon-cho 1st and 2nd districts burned down, and the 3rd district suffered many collapses. All three districts of Kikukawa-cho suffered many collapses, and about half a district of Fukagawa Nishi-cho near Ogi Bridge burned down. Also, upstream from Suzaku Bridge, both banks suffered many collapses.

[Box: 24] In Fukagawa, fire spread from Ofunakura-mae-cho to the Yanamegawa-cho area. Saikoji Temple remained, Lord Okubo's residence partially remained, Toshigami Shrine burned down, the ship warehouse guards' quarters burned down, and from Lord Choshu's residence to Dainichi Yokocho, Kanno, Inoue, and Makino areas burned down. Lord Kinoshita Zusho's fire watchtower remained, Lord Hayashi's residence burned down, and half of the rice warehouse remained. From Yanamegawa-cho to Kita-Rokken-bori, Minami-Rokken-bori, and Shinmei Shrine were unharmed, the area north of the back streets remained, and the shrine's front gate area burned down. In another area, Lord Ogasawara's residence from Morishita to Minami-Morishita-cho Moto-cho burned down. In yet another area, fire broke out near Sarue-bori and Lord Inoue's residence suffered some fire damage. From there, Lord Ota Bicchu-no-kami's residence in Tokiwa-cho 1st to 2nd districts suffered only minor damage before the fire stopped, with scattered areas burned. Like the rice warehouse, Fukagawa Moto-cho collapsed, with only three houses remaining in the entire first district. Near Lord Tayasu's front gate, only one house of one family remained, and this area suffered major collapse. From here to the Ogi Bridge area, the entire zone suffered many collapses. Nishi-cho and Higashi-cho suffered major collapses, with only three houses remaining in about three districts of Sarue Ura-cho. Lord Doi Ooi-no-kami's residence on Ogi Bridge Street burned down, and from there the Onagigawa area suffered major damage. Also, from Kaibe Daiku-cho to Kiyosumi-cho and Shintera area, all areas suffered many collapses without exception. In another area, Isesaki-cho 1st district...

[Box: 5]