Illustration of the Great Earthquake in Shinano Province, Mountain Collapses, River Blockages and Flooding on March 24th, Spring of Kōka Hinoto-Hitsuji Year

○The Sandai Jitsuroku (Volume 50) states: On the last day of the seventh month of the third year of Ninna, Hinoto-Hitsuji year, during the reign of Emperor Kōkō, at the hour of the monkey (saru), the earth shook violently for several hours without stopping. The Emperor left Jinjuden Hall and went to the southern courtyard of Shishinden Hall, ordering the Ministry of the Treasury to erect a seven-jō tent as his temporary residence. Many governmental buildings and residences in the eastern and western capitals collapsed, crushing many people to death, and some died instantly from shock. At the hour of the boar (i), there were three more tremors. All provinces of the five home provinces and seven circuits experienced great earthquakes on the same day. Many official buildings were damaged, and sea tides surged onto land, drowning countless people.

○The Fusō Ryakki (Volume 22) states: (omitting the beginning, as in the record) On this day, great mountains in Shinano Province collapsed, great rivers overflowed, castle towns in six districts were swept away by the floods, and cattle, horses, men and women died in the floods, forming hills of corpses.

Personal reflection: From that time to the present Kōka Hinoto-Hitsuji year is approximately 961 years. The historical records state that during the Ninna Hinoto-Hitsuji disaster, all six districts of our province were completely devastated. The place names are no longer recorded, and after barely a thousand years, no oral traditions remain. Although verification is difficult, examining the great rivers that run through the six districts, they are probably nothing more than the Sai River and Chikuma River (the Kiso, Tenryu, Oi, and Hime rivers of Gifu do not compare). In this recent great disaster, the worst affected areas were Minochi and Sarashina districts, with flooding reaching up to Chikuma and Azumi districts above, and sweeping down to Hanishina and Takai districts below. Generally, where the flood damage reached, nearly all people and livestock in the six districts were crushed or drowned, just like the Ninna disaster. People today say this is unprecedented in history. I have a humble intention here: I visited that region several times, climbing and wading through it, and finally created this illustration, secretly storing it in my family chest to serve as a lesson for future generations. The matter occurred suddenly, and the details depend on what I saw and heard.

Shinchū Hei Shōgen (signature and seal)

[Upper section]
○Ancient tradition states: In the 15th year of Empress Suiko's reign, Taijin (6th court rank official title) Tori no Omi was sent to the eastern provinces, traveled through Mino, reached Shinano, governed the Minochi Sea, went to Kōzuke, and governed the Tone Sea. He then split the rocky rapids of Mount Togakushi, entered Karikoshi, and opened the Kurigara Road and Agero Road.

Examining this: Minochi village in Minochi district was the original site of this district's founding, and what was called "Minochi Sea" in ancient times probably referred to this area. Even now there are many large marshes in the northern districts, which are probably remnants of that. This land is bounded by the steep险 of Mount Togakushi to the north, bordered by the Sai River to the southeast, with Sakai River to the west and Susuhana River to the east, forming what is called an island. Without the ingenious construction of Minochi Bridge, there would be no means of passage. I think the Minochi Valley emerged here.

Minochi Curved Bridge (also called Kumejino Bridge, listed under Shinano in the Utamakura Myōyose. The Iwabashi of Kurume mentioned in poems is said to be in Katsuragi, Yamato. Shūi-shū: "The buried wood is said to be eaten by insects within, so cross Kumejino Bridge with care" - author unknown)

○The Nihon Shoki states: In the 20th year of Empress Suiko's reign, there came naturalized people from Baekje Kingdom. Their faces and bodies were all mottled white, and they were skilled at building long bridges. The people of the time called this person "Rojikō" and also "Shigimaro."

○Ancient tradition states: In the 20th year of Empress Suiko's reign, naturalized people from Baekje Kingdom (details omitted, as in the chronicles) skillfully built long bridges and were sent to various provinces to construct them: the long bridge of Yahagi in Mikawa Province, the curved bridge of Minochi, the suspension bridge of Kiso, the bridge of Hamana in Tōtōmi Province, the bridge of Kuro River in Aizu, the monkey bridge of Kai, and 180 other bridges in total.

Since the sources of these accounts are not detailed and have already been examined by previous scholars, there is no need to elaborate further. I merely excerpt one or two points and present them here.

At this location, the two mountains are extremely narrow, and the Sai River's waters rush and fall, carving through the middle of the northern bank from west to east for 5 jō 4 shaku, then curving south where a great bridge spans it. Length: 10 jō 5 shaku, width: 1 jō 4 shaku, railing height: 3 shaku. The normal distance between bridge and water is about 15 jō (some say 33 hiro). The sight of the blue-green deep pool surging is terrifying to the liver, and the ancient poem "cross with care" remains as true as ever.

However, during the recent disaster (Kōka Hinoto-Hitsuji), in late March, the flood water already reached several jō above the bridge, and the bridge beams floated upside down and drifted to the water surface at Hokari (village name). On April 13th, they collapsed and flowed away to unknown places (some drifted to downstream districts; those over 3 shaku in diameter and over 10 jō in length may have been bridge materials). Recently, I moved on foot to visit those ruins and inquired with local people: both banks (standing rocks) had completely collapsed, remaining water still pooled several jō deep, and the means for reconstruction were almost completely lost. Alas, with such changes to hills and valleys, will this thousand-year famous site perish here? Is this not also a matter for regret?

Hotaka Shrine (listed in the Engishiki Jinmyōchō as a great deity, located in Hotaka village, Azumi district)
○The Kojiki states: The deity Watatsumi is the ancestor of the Azumi no Muraji clan.
○The Seishi-roku states: Azumi no Sukune are descendants of Hotakamino-mikoto, child of the sea deity Watatumi Toyotamahiko.

Since this was a deity who governed waters in the early days of this land, we should revere and look up to those meritorious achievements with awe.

[Lower section]
The so-called four districts of Kawanakajima are Hanishina, Sarashina, Minochi, and Takai. The Genpei Jōsuiki, Azuma Kagami and other sources call this the inner districts of Shinano, and even today local people call them "the inner districts."