(The old chamberlain Lady Takizawa announced that Junior Elder Murase and one lady-in-waiting of the middle rank were to receive two sheets each, and one outer messenger, one secretary, and one attendant were each to receive one sheet.) Three sheets each were to be received, two sheets each for Junior Elder Murase and one middle-ranking lady-in-waiting, and one sheet each for one outer messenger, one secretary, and one attendant, as announced by the senior lady-in-waiting, Lady Takizawa. In addition, five silver coins were distributed to all the ladies-in-waiting as a group.

Item: Upon departing,
　A set of stacked lacquer boxes (sagejū) was received as a souvenir gift from the Shogun (Kubō-sama).
　　Note: Although it had been planned for the gift to be received in the audience chamber (taimensho), due to the young age of the recipient, it was received in the Karako room through a senior lady-in-waiting, by means of a written inventory (mokuroku).
　　In addition:
　　　Two loads of food containers (hokai) and one set of supplementary stacked boxes were granted to the attendants of the side retinue.

Item: At around half past nine (approximately 1:00 PM), the party departed from the castle. At that time, foot soldiers (okobito) preceded the procession as far as the outer bridge at Hirakawa Gate, and those attending knelt in obeisance approximately ten ken beyond the outer bridge along the castle moat.
　Lord Gijimaru stopped at the Hitotsubashi residence, and after paying respects at the main hall, dried abalone (nagaawabi) was bestowed upon the chief elder (karō).

　As an expression of gratitude for the above,
　Lord Munenori made rounds of courtesy calls to the Senior Councilors (rōjū).

Item: On the first day of the fifth month, at the Tokiwabashi residence,
　As it was the first time the Boys' Day banners (nobori) were to be raised for Lord Gijimaru, Lord Munenori had previously presented irises, a decorative helmet (kabuto), banners (nobori), and an offering of fish (sakana), and they were raised from this day onward.
　　Note: Although it had been planned to raise them from the twenty-eighth day of the previous month, (continues)