all dragon palaces refer to what is called Ryukyu ○ The Ryukyu Kingdom has three provinces.
Chuzan is Nakagami Province, Sannan is Shimashiri Province, and Sanhoku is Kunigami Province. The subordinate districts of these three provinces total thirty-six, which are called magiri ○ The capital is called Shuri. All others are called magiri 《magiri are like castle towns here, or refer to counties》 The lord of each magiri is called aji ○ There are thirty-six subordinate islands. Kikaigashima 《also called Kikaigashima》 has eighty-two islands. These are called the Five Islands and Seven Islands. Of those thirty-six small islands, there are four islands to the east ■ Kudaka, also called Kodaka. Fourteen and a half ri east of Chuzan 《their country's road measurement uses sixty chō as one ri. When using our thirty-six chō as one ri, it is over twenty-four ri》

There are several varieties of products: red glutinous rice, yellow millet, five-colored fish, kaso fish, and many more △ Tsuken 《three and a half ri east of Chuzan, which is five and a half ri and twelve chō by our road measurement》△ Hamashima 《there are two islands, north and south, the same distance from Chuzan as before》

△ Ikei Island. There are three islands to the west ■ △ Higashibashizan 《there are five islands, large and small. Products include cattle, horses, millet, cloth, shells, and rare stones》△ Nishibashizan 《there are four islands, large and small. The people of this island are extremely dark-skinned and excel at fishing》○ This island has magiri called Zama, Mito, and Kerama ■■■ ○ They excel at fishing and stay underwater for five or six days to catch fish. Also, there is sea lettuce on the seabed below the mountains, and many people make their living by gathering this △ Kumeyama 《forty-eight ri west of Chuzan, using sixty chō as one ri. When using our road measurement of thirty-six chō as one ri, it is eighty ri》○ This island has two magiri called Yasugawa ■ and Gushigawa ■ ○ There are high mountains, and besides the five grains, there are many products including cotton, silk thread, paper candles, shellfish, chickens, pigs, cattle, horses, cuttlefish, and many more products.