1. The "Sanshū-shi" states: On the twelfth day of the tenth month of winter in Manji 1, Lord Chōmyō (Toshitsune) passed away in Komatsu Castle. He was sixty-six years old. On the twenty-eighth day of the intercalary twelfth month, Lord Shōun (Tsunanori) was appointed as Sasachūjō and Kaga-no-kami concurrently. He was sixteen years old. Therefore, he went to the castle to have an audience with the Taiju (Shogun), and there was a ceremony of respectful presentation. He offered gold for horse expenses and twenty court robes. The Taiju graciously issued a benevolent command that he should govern the retirement domain of Lord Chōmyō consisting of 222,760 koku and Komatsu Castle as before. The lord was deeply moved by this favor and again presented gifts of gratitude: 300 pieces of white silver for ceremonial horse expenses and 200 bundles of silk floss. Subsequently, he appointed Maeda Sanzaemon Naoyuki as keeper of Komatsu Castle. In the following year, kinoto-i (Manji 2), he moved his residence to Komatsu Castle. According to one theory, Yokoyama Saemon Tadatsugu became the castle commander. The "Honpō Jojikyō" states that the old retirement domains consisted of over 70,000 koku in Nomi District and over 150,000 koku in Niikawa District.

1. In Manji 3, the domains of both Toyama and Daishōji han had been scattered throughout Kaga and Etchū provinces since their division in Kan'ei 16. Upon the petition of Lord Toshinao of Toyama han, it was decided that Toyama domain would be concentrated around Nei and Niikawa, while Daishōji domain would be established near the castles and residences in Enuma and Nomi, and mutual village exchanges were carried out.

The "Shōun-kō Yawaroke" records as follows:
1. Lord Awaji-no-kami's (Toshinao) domain territories were previously scattered in various places, but after the death of Lord Chōmyō-in (Toshitsune), Lord Awaji petitioned: "I would like to offer Toyama Castle and have my domain territories consolidated in that vicinity. If it is difficult to offer Toyama, I would like to offer 100,000 ryō as funds for you to develop Momozuka." Based on this, Lord Matsudaira Hizen(-no-kami)...