Through consultations with Lord Goshū-sama and Lord Asano Inaba-no-kami, and also through private discussions with the Rōjū Lord Matsudaira Izu-no-kami of that time, it was determined that establishing Momozuka as a castle residence and offering 100,000 ryō would be difficult to accomplish. Since a domain of 100,000 koku would be the same regardless of location, Toyama was offered, domain territories were consolidated in that vicinity, and the previous territories became part of our lord's domain. This was the decision of the eleventh day of the eleventh month of kinoto-i.

1. Upon examination, this was a noble discourse by Lord Tsunanori in Kyōhō 4, kinoto-i year. It is said that when the domains of Toyama and Daishōji were divided, the territories were not consolidated but were distributed as scattered lands throughout Kaga and Etchū provinces due to the deep consideration of Lord Toshitsune. Even during the lord's lifetime, although Lord Toshinao had petitioned for village exchanges, permission was not granted. Following the death in Manji 1, Lord Toshinao used his authority as uncle to present difficult demands to the main house, and unavoidably, the territorial exchange of both domains proceeded as petitioned. Since Lord Toshiharu of Daishōji domain died in the fourth month of Manji 3, this was solely Lord Toshinao's petition. Consequently, Toyama domain became like a legitimate branch family of the Maeda house within the main house, different from Daishōji domain. This was due to that village exchange incident, and so forth.

1. The self-annotation in "Sanshū-shi" states that the record indicating that 100,000 koku of Nei and Niikawa were granted during the division in Kan'ei 16 is incorrect. According to examination of Toyama old records, out of the 100,000 koku granted: 60,000 koku were in Nei District, 20,000 koku in Nomi District of Kaga Province, and 16,800-odd koku were in the Urayama area of Niikawa District. Additionally, 3,270-odd koku were granted in Kami-Niikawa as provisions rice.