(Continued from the previous page) The roaring sound continued day and night without ceasing. At first, no one knew what was happening, and as heaven and earth shook in this extraordinary manner, all people were greatly alarmed and thrown into confusion. When the commotion finally subsided and the true nature of events became clear, it was found that a new mountain, as high as a small hill, had formed beside Mt. Fuji. This was called "Muronaga-yama" (Mt. Muronaga). After that, Mt. Fuji no longer erupted; no smoke was visible during the day, no fiery light appeared at night, and it became tranquil. The smoke of Mt. Fuji, once so famous, was gone, and the mountain no longer matched the image celebrated in ancient poems and traditions. This was surely because the great change in the fire-veins had altered their course. During the Kanpō era, Ōshima in Matsumae erupted, and more recently, Izu Ōshima also erupted. From the 29th day of the 9th month to the 15th day of the 10th month of the 8th year of An'ei (1779), Sakurajima in Satsuma erupted; great earthquakes struck, the mountain burned and collapsed, and of thirty-four or thirty-five villages with human habitations, eighteen were burned. Large boulders were hurled about, and approximately sixteen thousand people or more perished in the flames.

Furthermore, in the third year of Tenmei (1783), Mt. Asama erupted, the mountain collapsed with great rumbling and tremors, and not only in the nearby villages, but even in the regions of Musashi and Kōzuke provinces, the ground caved in day and night, and many villages were submerged. As this is a recent event known to those of long life, the details are omitted here. There is no doubt that all of these were caused by the sudden eruption of fire and similar forces. There is no reason to be puzzled about the cause of earthquakes. These records were gathered in the posthumous writings of Lord Negishi, and were copied for safekeeping by an elderly person who had formerly served in that household and with whom [the author] had been on friendly terms. Therefore, it is believed that the recent earthquake was also triggered by a transformation of fiery forces that had been building for over seventy years, and one should approach this with fear and reverence. The evidence for this has been gathered from the original sources and compiled here.