(Continued from previous page) In the eleventh month of Tenshō 13 (1585), during the time of His Excellency the Taikō (Toyotomi Hideyoshi), there was a severe earthquake at Nijō (Castle). As a result, people had gone out to the open courtyard to take their seats, and while everyone was unable to make their way to the castle, Katō Kiyomasa, being a man who by habit disliked falling behind others, was the first to go to the castle and inquire after (Hideyoshi's) well-being. (Hideyoshi) was in excellent spirits and praised him extraordinarily. Moreover, at this time, after returning from the Korean campaign, Kiyomasa had been placed under house arrest due to the slanderous words of Konishi Yukinaga — yet Hideyoshi praised his sincere heart for valuing his lord's safety above all else, forgetting himself and not sparing his own life to come to the castle. The suspicions were resolved, reconciliation first became apparent, and the matter was settled without further incident.

I (the author) was born after the eruption of Mt. Asama in Bunka 2 (1805), and therefore, even though I have now reached sixty years of age, I have never experienced an earthquake as severe as this one. In the sixty years (of my life), there were perhaps three occasions of strong earthquakes, but one of the scale of this year's was entirely unprecedented. Since I had previously memorized the records of Lord Negishi, I immediately understood this to be one of heaven and earth's great upheavals, and I attempted to leap up and run out of the building, but found I could not even walk. I sat back down and waited for things to settle.

Recently I have heard that in the Kamigata region (Kyoto/Osaka), within the residences of the noble and imperial court, there is a construction method specifically for earthquakes, whereby single-story buildings are made with various sturdy timbers set as earthfast posts (hottate-bashira). Until now I had thought such things to be unnecessary, but given what has happened, I can now see that this was certainly a design born of precautionary wisdom. These measures, being precautions taken by those of high rank and station, have proper meaning behind them, and I now believe they are indeed a good thing.