Inspector of Financial Affairs
1. Aoyama Yasōemon - This person was not a retainer of the Aoyama family, but rather a retainer of Lord Hori's wife.
　　　　　　　　　(Chinese text: If she had been the wife of a feudal lord, what would her funeral have been like? Perhaps it was due to karmic causation as spoken of in Buddhism.)
　　When his mother was seriously ill and bedridden, the house collapsed. A maidservant covered the patient with her own body and endured the falling roof beam to protect the sick woman. Meanwhile, the master rushed over and pulled his mother out. The maidservant also fortunately survived.

Senior Captain of the Great Guard
1. Ishiguro Sakuemon - His daughter died instantly, aged sixteen. (Marginal note: Alas, the loyal and brave achievements of this daughter were no less than those of men. May heaven's blessings not be in vain in the future.)
1. Naitō Kannosuke - Died instantly
1. Matsudaira Sanuki-no-kami - Many injured among his retainers
1. Koide Shinano-no-kami
　　　The master was injured but evacuated to the lower residence at Nezumiyama. The physician Kimura died instantly, but Mr. Kake was unharmed.

Page of the Privy Chamber
1. Moriyama Hachijūrō - His daughter and maidservant died

Chamberlain
1. Tsuji Jūbei - Died instantly
1. Kuze Masayoshi
　　　The master was severely injured and evacuated to Lord Tsutsui Kii-no-kami's residence. His forehead injury required eleven stitches. His wife and others died instantly.

Unemployed Samurai
1. Tanuma Yasusaburō - The retired Seiō and Yasusaburō's wife and concubines all died instantly
1. Tōdō Sado-no-kami - Two daughters died instantly, and there were other deaths among high and low ranks
1. Tachibana Shikibu
　　　Died instantly. Probably a dependent of a branch family of the great Tachibana house, with a guardian at the time. His lodging was in Honjo.

Uraga Magistrate
1. Toki Bunzen-no-kami - Nineteen retainers died instantly
1. Morikawa Dewa-no-kami - From his household retainers down to the lowest servants, a total of more than forty people died

Ogawa-chō
1. Hyūga (surname unknown) - His daughter and others, six or seven people in total, died instantly