One item: For the purpose of inspecting and preparing the national construction work (kokueki fushin) in the area of Shiozaki Village along the Chikuma River in Sarashina District, Shinano Province, which is the domain of Matsudaira Hidano-kami, I had traveled to that location together with my colleague Takasaki Hyōhachi and his party. Around the hour of the fourth watch (approximately 10 p.m.) on the twenty-fourth of last month, without any prior warning whatsoever, a great earthquake struck. Shiozaki Village is a village with a rice yield of over 1,900 koku, said to have a total of over 600 households. However, including main houses, storehouses (dozō), storage sheds, outbuildings, and other structures, the total number of collapsed buildings reached 2,400 units in all, with approximately 60 to 70 percent having been destroyed, as reported to us in a general survey by the domain's chief retainer (jitō yōnin). Regarding the injured, there were a great many, and we were told that there were approximately 60 people killed instantly. Furthermore, even up until our departure from the area, bodies continued to be found as they were dug out from under collapsed buildings. As for travelers, their numbers could not be quickly ascertained. Regarding our own lodgings, in Shiozaki Village there was no outbreak of fire, and only two or three houses burned down in total.

At the time of the great earthquake, fires broke out simultaneously near and far in all directions, with great plumes of smoke rising together. Throughout the night, the rumbling collapses and the screaming of people occurred countless times, and the sound of crashing rocks reverberated powerfully. In the fields, paddies, and roads throughout, the ground cracked both lengthwise and crosswise, splitting open by as much as two to three shaku or as little as four to five sun, with water and muddy water spurting out, as if the very ground itself were disappearing. In the places where the ground had cracked, steps of about two shaku in height formed, and the places where mud and sand were ejected had a terrible smell, seemingly containing sulfurous gases. However, the places where water alone spurted out had no such smell.

One item: From the tenth of last month, due to the opening of the Zenkōji Temple's special exhibition (kaicho), there were a great many pilgrims traveling from all provinces. On nights when many were lodging, one inn alone had 1,240 people staying, of whom 1,200 paid lodging fees while the remaining 40 stayed free of charge. In the midst of this great gathering of people, the earthquake struck, and Zenkōji Temple town was largely destroyed by the shaking and collapsed, and additionally fires broke out, resulting in deaths of an undetermined number...