(The waters of the Sai River, being dammed up,) may cause a sudden great flood, and I believe that numerous post towns along the Sai River, as well as washed-away houses and abandoned settlements, will inevitably result.

One item: I myself departed the area (around Zenkoji) around midday on the 26th following the earthquake, and made my way with difficulty through locations where the ground had cracked open. The steward of the Lord of Hida also departed in succession. However, as a great clamor of voices arose from the direction of the hills near Shiozaki Village, people began to gather one after another, surrounding the steward and crying out: "Some of us have been separated from our parents, others from our wives and children — please help us, give us food!" and wailing desperately. In response, the local daikan (magistrate) stationed there and his assistants were summoned, and the situation was explained to the people one by one, with arrangements for relief communicated to them, until they eventually dispersed. Given these circumstances, rapid construction work (for rebuilding) is utterly impossible to carry out immediately, and with no lodging available in the area, our party was forced to sleep outdoors for two days and two nights before finally being able to leave the area. Nevertheless, once temporary shelters and other relief measures are in place and people have settled, I intend to send word immediately and return myself to oversee the commencement of construction work — and it was with that intention that I departed.

One item: It is said that this great earthquake affected an area of eighty ri in all directions, but it appears that the actual heavily affected zone is limited to approximately five to six ri in width (north-south) and twelve to thirteen ri in length, with areas beyond that suffering no particular damage. After departing Shiozaki Village, crossing the Chikuma River, and traveling approximately one ri to Matsushiro River and Yashiro-juku, we found that about thirty houses had collapsed and approximately twelve to thirteen people had died instantly. The number of cracked fields (from Shiozaki Village onward) became fewer, and the damage appeared somewhat lighter. Traveling a further three ri from there to the vicinity of Sakamoto-juku, under the jurisdiction of the magistrate Kawakami Kingo, there were no collapsed houses or fatalities, though all fixtures and fittings throughout had been damaged by the shaking, and tremors continued many times both day and night. Traveling yet another three ri further into Ueda domain, the damage was again one degree lighter, though people were still sleeping outdoors both day and night. From there, two and a half ri brought us to Komoro town, and another three ri to Yamanakamichi and Oiwake-juku, where —