There were occasional slight rumblings, but only minor tremors from time to time. Beyond that, crossing the Usui Pass toward Edo, there was only a considerable earthquake on the 24th, and thereafter it appears there have been no earthquakes. The above is a rough summary of the extraordinary events witnessed and heard during the course of official duties, as described in this letter. The details will be investigated and reported from each location in due course. Respectfully submitted.

　　　　　　3rd day of the 4th month, Year of the Sheep [1847]

On the night of the 24th of last month, around the Hour of the Boar (approximately 10 p.m.), a great earthquake struck the village of Shiozaki in Sarashina District, Shinano Province, a domain of approximately 2,900 koku belonging to Lord Matsudaira Hida-no-kami. Approximately 1,400 to 1,500 houses were destroyed, many were injured, and approximately 60 people died instantly. Our inn also collapsed in the earthquake, but both myself and our two servants escaped without injury, and as we were able to carry away the official post-horse documents, there are no further complications to report. This was truly a great earthquake of a kind rarely seen in history; both fields and paddies were rent open, and in some places a great quantity of water gushed forth. Regarding the construction works at Shiozaki village, the embankment stonework has mostly collapsed, and the Chikuma River rose two to three jō (approximately 6-9 meters) above its normal level. However, we believe that as long as there are no further extraordinary occurrences, there will likely be no exceptional flooding. Not only in Shiozaki village but throughout the surrounding area, there appear to be many collapsed houses and injured persons, and fires broke out in all directions near and far during the great earthquake. Among these, smoke from the direction of Inariyama-juku and Zenkōji-machi could still be seen as of this morning. From last night until this very moment, the ground has been shaking and rumbling dozens of times throughout the day and night, with tremors strong enough to bring down walls in some instances. Furthermore, regarding the Sai River in Shinano Province, it is reported that landslides have occurred upstream, and since the great earthquake, traffic has been completely cut off to this day. Thus, it is feared that at some point within the next day or two, a sudden great flood may occur from some direction, and residents along the river as well as those in low-lying areas have been fleeing one after another. We hereby report this extraordinary situation as described above. Respectfully submitted.