Minouru [Year of the Ram], Third Month, 25th Day　　　　　　　　Gofushinkata [Construction Official]: Takagi Heihachi (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 Same, Apprentice: Nishimura Kakuuchi (seal)

A written notice submitted as a preliminary urgent report regarding the great earthquake in Shinano Province.

Item: The 24th day of this month was clear throughout the day and night, warm and thoroughly calm, when around the Hour of the Pig [approximately 10 p.m.], a great earthquake occurred. At our administrative outpost (jinya) in Shinano Nakanoyomura, the mud-plastered walls were toppled in various places, and in the surrounding villages near the outpost, the shaking caused weaker structures to be twisted and collapsed. After a violent trembling, the shaking subsided briefly, but thereafter continuous tremors followed with only brief intervals between them. A roaring sound like thunder was heard in the direction to the north of the outpost, and until dawn there were approximately eighty or more tremors in total. The following morning things became somewhat quieter, but the tremors have not yet ceased, and we have heard that within the ten villages of Mizuchi under our jurisdiction, there are collapsed houses and seriously injured persons; however, no formal reports have yet been submitted, and we have only been receiving the information gradually through rumor. According to what we have heard:

In the area stretching from Kawanakajima in the same province through Zenkoji and further south to the area known as "Yamanaka," the earthquakes appear to have been particularly severe. In the Kawanakajima area, entire villages without exception — or at least the majority of houses — were shaken down, and on top of that, fires broke out and entire villages burned to the ground. In some villages, anywhere from thirty or forty to two or three hundred persons were instantly killed, with many more injured. In Zenkoji, almost all the houses were toppled and subsequently burned, with a great number of immediate fatalities and injured persons. As the main roads were at this time packed with large numbers of travelers who had lodged there for the Zenkoji memorial service (kuyo), the death toll is reported to be considerable. The area called Yamanaka is remote and difficult to access, so the situation there is unclear; however, it is reported that a landslide occurred in the upper reaches of the Sai River, damming it completely so that the water flow ceased entirely, and the Tanbajima ferry crossing dried up, becoming passable on foot. As for the situation in Echigo Province, this is not yet known. Since all of the above is based on rumor and cannot be confirmed with certainty, we will promptly dispatch agents to inspect and investigate the collapsed houses and other damage in our jurisdiction, as well as to look into the damage in nearby villages through inquiry, and we will report the details in due course. Furthermore, regarding the attached outpost in Saku District of the same province (continued on next page)...