(Continued from previous page) ...have sunk beneath the water. Reports are arriving one after another warning that if the water continues to rise for another five or six months, it will reach the areas buried by the landslides. Furthermore, the Tsuchijiri River, which is a smaller river than the Sai River, was also blocked upstream by a landslide collapse, creating a state of inundation until the 10th of the month; however, on that same day in the early afternoon, the blockage was breached and a great flood of over one jō (approximately 3 meters) suddenly rushed out, though by evening the waters gradually subsided. This river originally flowed into the Sai River, but since the earthquake its channel had run dry, so the damage caused solely by this river's waters was not particularly severe. Nevertheless, should the backed-up waters of the Sai River, which have been impounded for scores of days as described above, burst through all at once, it is impossible to predict what manner of disaster would befall not only Nakanoshima but also the villages of the Imperial demesne (goryōsho) downstream. In particular, at the area known as Makami-yama, north of the ferry crossing at Koichi Village at the mouth of the Sai River, the mountain has collapsed into the Sai River, burying much of the river's width. Should the currently impounded Sai River water burst through all at once and strike the collapsed section of Makami-yama, it is impossible to predict what further catastrophe might result. We are doing everything in our power to address these locations for the time being, but the situation is by no means easy to manage. Moreover, many of the areas under our administration are in similar condition, but most notably Zenkōji Temple suffered the collapse of its row of houses, which then caused a fire, burning everything to the ground except for the Main Hall (hondō) and the Mountain Gate (sanmon) — an extraordinarily severe situation. Consequently, we promptly dispatched retainers and arranged for the immediate provision of rice, grain, and laborers. Our domain's territory has no scattered enclaves (tobichi) and forms a single contiguous unit connected to the castle; however, flooding on the Sai River in the mountain areas and the many roads blocked by landslides make travel impossible in many places, and detailed investigation has yet to be completed. Based on what has been ascertained through the 10th of the month, the total number of completely and partially collapsed houses — from the castle town to mountain villages — amounts to approximately 8,747 dwellings; the combined total of deaths and injuries amounts to approximately 3,924 persons; and the number of dead livestock (cattle and horses) amounts to approximately 230 head. Given these circumstances, we lament deeply that there are scarcely any villages without deaths and collapsed houses, and we find this situation to be in the extreme most grievous. Of course, we are doing everything possible to arrange relief measures, but with the time for seedbed preparation (nursery rice) now at hand, and wheat crops also...(continues on next page)