Although investigators were dispatched to survey the damage, most bridges large and small had been washed away, and even after the water receded, there were places where water remained in low-lying areas, where roads had collapsed, or where pushed-out excavations made passage extremely difficult, making even a rough estimate impossible. Regarding the collapse of the Saigawa River dam caused by the accumulated floodwater: the water level gradually rose to a depth of some twenty jō, and as the water began slowly to overtop the dam, the base of Mt. Iwakura began to crumble away in succession. Once a channel formed and the great flood began to flow, the rocks and boulders that had been buried at once were pushed aside and collapsed, with large quantities tumbling down toward the foot of the mountain, eventually sending the accumulated water of several tens of days pouring out toward Nakajima.

To prevent this, emergency embankments were hastily constructed using stone-filled straw bales (ishidawara) along the left and right banks of the old embankments below the Koichi Village ferry crossing in Mizu-uchi District. However, since this was for the benefit of the villages of Nakajima and the surrounding shogunal and private domain villages along the riverbanks, not only laborers from within the domain but also large numbers of people from neighboring villages that were also at risk of flooding were mobilized, and construction proceeded with the utmost effort.

Nevertheless, the overwhelming force of the water could not be held back even briefly, and the embankments were entirely swept away. Furthermore, at the area called Makamiyama in Koichi Village, Mizu-uchi District, a landslide of some twenty ken in height and fifty ken in width had previously slid into the river, leaving only a narrow channel. As leaving it in place risked a change in the river course even with a small amount of water, orders were given to excavate it as thoroughly as possible, but the abundance of large rocks made this difficult to complete. In the end, the fierce floodwaters swept away boulders so large that even a hundred-odd workers could not move them, pushing them downstream and out onto cultivated fields in riverside villages. Since the water depth in that area reached over six jō, of the approximately eighty households that had once stood in Yotsutani Village in Sarashina District, only six or seven remained, and the rest were entirely washed away, leaving the site as open wasteland. There were many other villages where all the houses were similarly swept away, and furthermore, as many mountains along the inland watercourses collapsed, large trees were washed down, and not a few houses were knocked over and destroyed by them as well.