From the ferryman at the Tategahana Village ferry crossing in Takai District, an urgent report was received at the fifth hour of that night (around 8 p.m.) stating that water had suddenly appeared at the leading edge of the Chikuma River, and that within a short time the water level had risen to an alarming degree. It was suggested that the place where the Sai River had been blocked up might have broken through. Without delay, the agents of Kiyoemon (acting for Takagi Seizaemon) were dispatched in all directions, and relief and flood-prevention personnel were sent to the villages along the river, but there was no time to spare. Even the villages near the administrative office (jinya) were flooded with backwater, and homes were submerged. Nakamura village suffered no particular damage as it is situated on higher ground. People, cattle, and horses gradually fled to higher ground.

As for the Chikuma River, by around the ninth hour of that night (around midnight), the water level had risen to approximately two jō, eight or nine shaku (roughly 8.7 meters), inundating fields and homes throughout the villages on both banks. As it was the middle of the night, it was difficult to clearly determine the course and extent of the flood. By around the sixth hour of the dawn of the following 14th day (around 6 a.m.), the level had reached over three jō (approximately 9 meters or more), remaining there for some time, and it was feared the water level might rise even further. From the middle of the night, enormous quantities of household goods, timber, and building materials came floating downstream, and many people clinging to thatched rooftops were also seen being swept away,

and it is believed that there were many deaths and injuries. It is reported to be an unprecedented great flood.

However, from the fifth hour of the morning of that same day (around 8 a.m.), the river surface appeared to begin receding, and the backwater also seemed to be gradually subsiding; however, it remains unclear how much it will increase or decrease going forward. Regarding the extent of the flood damage, reports are arriving one after another from the nearby villages, and the damage to the villages along the river and the inland villages under this administration appears to be considerable overall. Further details will be reported in due course.

Seizaemon (Takagi Seizaemon) is currently making rounds of the disaster-stricken villages in the vicinity of Akane Village in Mizuchi District, and as the river routes as well as the main roads are all submerged and impassable, this report is submitted in his absence by the person in charge of the office.

　　Fourth month, Year of the Ram　　　　　Takagi Seizaemon's Deputy Chief Clerk
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kobayashi Jinuemon　[Seal]

　　　　To the Office of Accounts (Go-Kanjōsho)