Ishino Kanato
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nasuno Ishirō

You were ordered, as subordinates of the Kashima Deity of Hitachi Province, to prevent earthquakes from running rampant. Yet how have you conducted yourselves? Since the medieval period, earthquakes have occurred numerous times, and you have shown no results whatsoever despite having been ordered to suppress them. You have already forgotten that in recent years, the Lord Mito Chūnagon sought to have you dug up and dealt with, but out of exceptional leniency you were left as you were. Heedless of this, you have not only terrified the inhabitants of the capital with repeated earthquakes in recent years, including the great earthquake in Kyoto, but have further gone so far as to cause a tremendous earthquake in the Shinshū region. You have persistently failed to listen and restrain yourselves, conducting yourselves in the manner of a gourd — hollow and without purpose. This is a most egregious breach of duty, and while you ought rightly to be handed over to Nomi Gen'nosuke to be ground to pieces, in light of representations made on your behalf by the Kashima Deity, by exceptional clemency you are hereby ordered to be buried and entombed in the earth.

---

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The Great Catfish (Oinanji) — Earthquake

From ancient times you have rampaged at the storefronts of eel shops, and while you ought rightly to have been made into grilled eel (kabayaki), out of exceptional compassion you were placed under the supervision of the Kashima Deity of Hitachi Province and ordered to remain in seismic confinement. Nevertheless, you have caused earthquakes on repeated occasions in recent years, beginning with the great earthquake in Kyoto, and in particular, on the night of the twenty-fourth day of last month, you brought disorder to Shinano Province: you shook and destroyed both Matsushiro and Iiyama castles, convulsed the great earth, collapsed high mountains, blocked the flow of great rivers, spewed muddy water from the ground, and moreover endangered and killed numerous people and horses, with entire districts left as wasteland. Your innermost intention to reduce all to a sea of mud is a most flagrant act of misconduct. You are therefore once again placed into the custody of the Kashima Deity and ordered into confinement at Naraochi.

　　　　　　　　　　Kōka 4th year, Year of the Sheep (Hinoto-Hitsuji), 4th month