【Right Page Upper Section】
《Title: Eternal Inspiration》
Asahi Newspaper Prize-winning Song
　Song of the Imperial Army's Great Victory

Saburi Shin
Takamine Mieko
Tokudaiji Shin

Ryu Chishu
Miura Mitsuko
Maki Fusako
Nanbu Kosaku
Morikawa Mayumi

Behind the Imperial Army's great victory
weaves the touching expression of familial love

―――Opening Next Week on the 6th―――

【Right Page Lower Section】
People Waiting for Spring

Iida Choko
Kawamura Reikichi
Tokudaiji Shin
Higashiyama Mitsuko

Kobayashi Jukuji
Takeda Haruo
Isono Akio
Tani Reiko

Once a geisha, now a sewing teacher. O-Toyo, who has raised her only child Kimiko through the strength of a single needle, was recently worried that undesirable suitors might pursue her dear Kimiko. The electrical appliance store's Nagase and the sewing machine shop's young master Takao were those undesirable suitors, but even before O-Toyo noticed, Kimiko and Takao were already in a good relationship. Stealing away from the eyes of the sewing students and mother, they secretly exchanged signals, meeting at predetermined places for enjoyable dates. For the sewing teacher, the sewing machine shop was naturally disagreeable due to business competition, and moreover, knowing that its young master was Kimiko's lover, O-Toyo couldn't remain silent. She tried to catch and punish the two during their date, but the quick couple escaped from the mother's grasp and fled.

【Left Opening, Outside Upper Frame】
This Week's Movies: December 2nd through 5th
【Upper Square Frame Left Side】
Bodhisattva's Eyebrows
　　Script: Nakano Ryujiro
　　Photography: Morio Tetsuro
　　Direction: Osone Tatsuo
　・Cast・
Unosuke: Kawanami Ryotaro
Chokichi: Yamaji Yoshito
Sanuemon: Takamatsu Kinnosuke
Gozo: Hori Masao
Isoroku: Hayama Junnosuke
Hyakusuke: Kusakabe Ryuma
Kantaro: Iwai Sennosuke
Jirosaku: Nakamura Kichimastsu
Lead merchant: Onoe Eijiro
Tooth powder merchant: Hirota Takashi
Soba shop owner: Seki Misao
Detective Hideyoshi: Mochizuki Nobumitsu
Kambara Ninpei: Nakamura Masataro
Kinzo: Yamaguchi Katsuhisa

【Lower Section】
Synopsis... Unosuke, blessed with the triple combination of skill, courage, and good looks, was known as "Papier-mâché Uno" for his skillful creation of papier-mâché tigers as a hobby, making him popular with women in the neighborhood. Particularly with Oshika, daughter of boss Sanuemon, he was in mutual love and was desired as an adopted son-in-law, living happy days. However, Gozo, who disputed territory, used Jirosaku, who had committed island-breaking with Sanuemon twenty years ago, as living evidence, demanding territory and money, exposing old wounds and tormenting the Sanuemon family in every way. Unable to bear this persecution, Unosuke single-handedly attacked Gozo's gang to settle the matter, but without killing Gozo, he was pursued by detective Hideyoshi and had to bid tearful farewell to Oshika and flee Edo. Learning that Unosuke was gone, Gozo's subordinates killed Sanuemon and sent three henchmen after Unosuke. Following them, Oshika, who had lost her father, left Edo with henchman Chokichi.

【Upper Square Frame Right Side】
Thou Shalt Not Steal Friendship
　　Script: Ikeda Tadao
　　Director: Munemoto Hideo
　　Photography: Ikai Suketaro
　・Cast・
Yamamoto Kazuko: Maki Fusako
Father Yuzo: Iwata Yukichi
Brother Zenichi: Tokkan Kozo
Miyakawa Akiko: Higashiyama Mitsuko
Father: Mizushima Ryotaro
Mother: Okamura Fumiko
Nishimura Shizuko: Miura Mitsuko
Brother Kunio: Saburi Shin
Section Chief: Kobayashi Jukuji
Takeda: Abe Shozaburo
Hara: Himori Shinichi
Mita: Ito Koichi
Cleaning woman: Takamatsu Eiko

【Lower Section】
Synopsis... Akiko and Shizuko, who grew into long-haired maidens blessed with peace and happiness, were looking at their girls' school album, reminiscing about the happy memories of their trio of friends while worrying about Kazuko, who had once been one of the three. On a certain day in early spring before graduation, due to her father's business failure, Kazuko suddenly disappeared from the trio, and her whereabouts remain unknown to this day. Akiko and Shizuko felt like criticizing Kazuko's aloofness all over again. One day, when Akiko went golfing with Hara, one of her earnest suitors, the caddy boy who was struck down by Hara's ball happened to be Kazuko's brother Zenichi, which revived the trio's friendship after a long time. Kunio, sympathizing with Kazuko, got Zenichi employed as an office boy at his company and looked after him in various ways. Akiko asked her parents for approval of her marriage to Kunio, the man of her heart. From then on, Kunio was considered the absolute groom candidate.

【Lower Section Horizontal Writing】
Standing in Hope
　Hirose Tetsu　　Mito Mitsuko
　Tokudaiji Shin　　Hayama Masao

【Vertical Writing】
Ueyama Kusajin　Otsuka Kimiyo
Wakamizu Kinuko　Tokkan Kozo
Yoshikawa Mitsuko　Miura Mitsuko
Supporting Cast

The life struggles that sprouted among the pure-hearted, innocent people living in a village that dawns and sets in peace; the suffering of life depicted within the hope of youth burning like fire. This is Ofuna's unique work that perfectly depicts one aspect of life's endless suffering.