The circumference is approximately fifteen jō.

1. Within the territory of Gokayama Shimohara Village, there is a place called "Yofutome" where there is a rock cave about two shaku in diameter. This cave is called a wind cave, but no one has ever seen wind blowing out of it. It has been called a wind cave since ancient times.

1. Within the territory of Inami Town Matsushima, there are old castle ruins. Regarding these castle ruins, when Shakunyo, the fifth head priest after Shinran of Honganji Temple, was conducting an inspection tour of the northern provinces, he selected this estate in the first year of Meitoku (1390). Within this estate there was a small pond, which is called "Tonami-sui" (Wave-Asking Water). Taking its name from this, a temple was built and named Zuisenji Temple. At the time of the temple's construction, Shakunyo's personal fundraising record is said to still be held by Zuisenji Temple. The current site of Zuisenji Temple is about five chō west of this old castle. Zuisenji Temple is said to be an imperial prayer temple of Emperor Go-Komatsu, and Emperor Go-Komatsu's memorial tablet is said to still exist there.

1. Within the territory of Ikejiri Village, there are castle ruins. They measure about fifty ken east to west and thirty ken north to south, with earthworks and moat traces about three to four ken wide inside and outside. They have now become rice fields and farmland. They have been called Inokuchi Castle since ancient times.

1. Within the mountain territory of Rindō Village, there is a flat area in the mountains called "Itsumi Valley" where there is a water pool. It is about three shaku in diameter, and water bubbles occasionally rise up. To the east of this location, there is a horizontal cave with an opening about two shaku wide, with a small water pool. Deep in this cave, sounds like flowing water can be heard, but there is no actual flow below. Since snakes, small birds, frogs, and such are occasionally found dead there, it is said that no one wonders if it might be poisonous water.

1. Within the territory of Yabushi Village, there is a pond called "Crab Pool" that is about one hundred ken long and fifty ken wide. Since many crabs emerged from this pond in previous years, it came to be called Kanita-no-gō (Crab Field Village), and thus it came to be called Crab Pool. About half of this pond has become rice fields.

1. Within the territory of Matsuo Village, there is a shrine hall called Daimyōjin. This shrine is Matsuo Daimyōjin, and in ancient times the hall was said to be large, with stone foundation traces of a torii gate remaining. Within the shrine forest, there is a pond said to be dedicated to Benzaiten, and there is also pure water called "mitarashi."