was residing in the castle, according to tradition.

1. Within the territory of Shō Kongōji Village, at a place called "Dan," there are old castle ruins. It is said that a person named Ishiguro Yozaemon resided in this castle.

1. Within the territory of Yasukawa Village, there are old castle ruins called Onigashiro (Demon Castle), but it is unknown who resided there.

1. Within the territory of Tsunekuni Village, there is a place called Yumi Shimizu (Bow Spring). There is a spring about two ken square, and it is said that long ago, when Lord Kiso passed through, he dug this spring with his bow. It is located at the border between Imizu and Tonami territories near Sakai.

Imizu District

1. At a place called Takadera within the territory of Kosugi Three Villages, there is a Shingon sect temple called Ren'ōji. This temple was built long ago by Minister Yuriwaka for falcons. At that time, it had a seven-hall complex with twelve temples. In medieval times, when Echigo's Kenshin advanced into this province, it was destroyed by war fires. Even now, there remain the head, hands and feet of a jōroku Amida Buddha, as well as the head of a Niō guardian about eight shaku long. These are said to be Buddhist statues created by Gyōki Bosatsu. The mountain name of this temple has been called Takaozan (Falcon King Mountain) since ancient times.

1. At the same location, there is a stone pagoda about five shaku four or five sun long. It has been called Tawara Tōta's stone pagoda since ancient times, but no characters can be seen on it.

1. Within the territory of Hashimogejō Village, there are old castle ruins. It is said that the lord of this castle was a person named Jinbō Nagataka.

1. In the same neighborhood, there is a place called Sannō Hachiman-yama. Long ago, both Hachiman and Sannō shrines were established at this location. It is said they were destroyed when Nagataka's castle fell.

1. Within the same village territory, there is a field name called Nikkō. This place was so named because Nikkō Gongen was once enshrined there, and the place is still called Nikkō today.

1. Within the territory of Mitoda Village is called Kumano-yama, where Kumano Gongen was once enshrined. At that time, there were also many temples, but when Jinbō Nagataka's castle fell, all of them were abandoned without exception. The site of this shrine is now a pine forest.