1. Within the territory of Kurokawa Village, at Noge Mountain, there is a small elevated area about twenty-five to twenty-six ken from east to west and twelve ken from north to south. It is also said that when Taikō-sama came down to suppress Sassa Narimasa in former years, he rested at this place. Even now, earthworks remain on all four sides.

1. Within the territory of Iikubo Village, there are old castle ruins. It is said that about one hundred and twenty years ago, a person named Shikano Nakatsukasa resided in this castle.

1. Within the territory of Ikeda Village, there are old castle ruins. It is said that a person named Miyoshi Asamune resided in this castle in former years.

1. Within the territory of Futaguchi Village, there is a place called Mishimano. This place is said to be the site of residences where court nobles lived in ancient times.

1. Within the territory of Koizumi Village, there are old castle ruins. This was a fortified castle of Sassa Narimasa, and it is said that a person named Terashima Ushinosuke resided there. Now it has become fields and shrine forests.

1. Within the territory of Rengeji Village, there has been a Shingon temple called Tōgakuzan Rengeji since ancient times. Within the temple grounds, there is a stone pagoda said to be of Lord Yoritomo, about six shaku six sun long and three shaku wide. It has been called Lord Yoritomo's stone pagoda since former years.

1. Within the territory of Hōjōzu, there are old castle ruins. It is said that Jinbō Aki-no-kami Nagamoto built and resided in this castle, and later Yamazaki Nagato-no-kami occupied it.

1. Within the territory of Kamata Village, in the middle of a rice field, salt water emerges from what is said to have existed since ancient times. There is a pond about one jō deep. A well curb has been installed in this pond since former years, and local people draw water from it. This Urata Village is located in a mountain valley, about two ri from the seashore.

1. Within the territory of Futatuka Village, there are old castle ruins. It is said that in ancient times, a person named Nagoe Tōtōmi-no-kami resided in this castle.

1. Within the territory of Nakagawa Village, there is a shrine. It is called Kakuya Shrine and is also said to be called Kumano Gongen. There was a shrine built at a place called Takaoka Sekino, but when Takaoka became a castle, this shrine was within the castle grounds, and it is said that it was then relocated to the territory of Dō Village.

1. Within the same village territory, there is a mound called Nyūjō-zuka. The mound is about thirty ken in circumference and about one ken in height. It is said that in ancient times, an ascetic entered meditation (nyūjō) at this mound.

1. Within the territory of Nishi-Tōhei-zō Village, in the middle of a marsh, there is a spring-water pond about five shaku square that is called "Hikarigama." Within the same village territory, in the middle of a rice field, there is a spring about two ken square.