1. Within the territory of Machi-Shinjō Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Kutsutsuda Bingo resided there. Now it has become rice fields and granary estates for food production.

1. Within the territory of Kuromaki Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Murata Shuri resided there. Now it has become a wooded mountain.

1. Within the territory of Ōta-Motoe Village, there are mansion ruins. It is said that Kajita Shingo resided there. Now it is used as fields.

1. Within the mountainous area of Funakura Village, there is a place called Sarukura. It is said that Kuwashima Sahachirō resided there. Now it has become a wooded mountain.

1. Within the same village territory, there are castle ruins. It is said that Shioya Chikuzen resided there. Now it has become a wooded mountain.

1. Within the territory of Busshōji Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Hosokawa Sojūrō resided there. Now it is used as fields.

1. Within the territory of Kakizawa Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Toi Mimasaka resided there. Some traces of moats and earthworks remain. More than half has become rice fields.

1. Within the territory of Hinaka Village, there are castle ruins. It is said these were auxiliary fortifications when Sasa Kuranosuke attacked Toi Mimasaka. Now it is used as fields.

1. Within the territory of Nakaritani Village, there is a place called the ruins of Senryūji Temple grounds. It is said that in ancient times there was a memorial hall for Minamoto no Tametomo and temples. Now it is used as fields.

1. Within the territory of Ina Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that someone with the Toi surname resided there, but it is not known who exactly. Now it is a wooded mountain.

1. Within the territory of Kakizawa Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Toi Magojūrō resided there. Now it is used as rice fields.

1. Within the territory of Morijiri Village, there was formerly a front hall of Tateyama in ancient times, and even now, traces of stone foundations for mountain gates remain within the same village territory.

1. Within the territory of Nojima Village, at the collapsed bank of the Kamiichi River, there is a large rock. Since ancient times it has been called Iwade-ga-hana. It is said that this rock has Buddha figures and inscriptions, but they cannot be clearly seen.