One. In the territory of Fukami Village, there are two waterfalls. The male waterfall is about eight jō in height, and the female waterfall is about fifteen jō in height. Beside these waterfalls, inside a small hall, there is a stone about two shaku long and seven sun wide with the characters "Iwaya Kaisan Gyokushu" carved on it, and a large Buddha head about seven shaku high. The creator is unknown.

One. At a place called "Nakama" in the territory of Uyama Village, there is a Kannon statue said to be made by Bodhisattva Gyōki. In ancient times, there was a Shingon temple called Saikō-ji, but it fell into ruin, leaving only the Kannon hall.

One. In a rice field in the territory of Yamagishi Village, there is an elevated area about twenty ken in circumference and four to five shaku high. It is said to be the burial site of Hasebe Nobusuke.

One. In the mountains of Sato Village territory, there are castle ruins. It is said that Iguchi Saburōzaemon resided there.

One. In the mountains of Watariai Village territory, there are castle ruins. It is said that a person named Mii resided there, but the lineage is unknown.

One. At a place called Sakiyama in Ushitsu Village territory, there are castle ruins. It is said that Miyake Kosaburō resided there. Now it is all farmland.

One. At a place called Tōshimayama in the same village territory, there are castle ruins. It is said that a man named Chō Yoichi, who was a magistrate of Echigo Kenshin, had his castle there. Now it is a pine forest.

One. At a place called "Sukawa" in Maenami Village territory, there is a small stone buried underground with characters said to be written by Kōbō Daishi. It is called a sutra stone.

One. At a place called Kōyama in Kō Village territory, there are castle ruins. It is said that Tairaku Uemonjo had his castle there. Now it is a pine forest.

Suzu District

One. In the territory of Matsunami Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Matsunami Hitachinnosuke had his castle there. Now it is a pine forest.

One. In the territory of Kawajiri Village, there are castle ruins. It is said that Kurotaki Chō, a retainer of Echigo Kenshin, had his castle there. Now it is farmland.

The above is a survey and record of places with historical significance in each district of Noto Province.