【Title】
Illustration of the Great Earthquake in Ise, Iga, Shima, Omi, Owari, and Mino

【Main Text】
The time was the 14th day of the 6th month of Kaei 7, Year of the Tiger (1854), around 8 o'clock at night. Starting with Yokkaichi post station on the Tokaido in Ise Province, a great earthquake struck from Owari in the east to Omi Province in the west, Mino in the north, and Iga and Shima provinces in the south. The reverberations were extraordinary.

Particularly in Yokkaichi in Ise Province, the shaking was extremely severe. First, the entire North Town and South Kawahara were destroyed, and about half of South Town collapsed. Fires then broke out, raising clouds of dust and smoke, and within a short time over 90 houses were consumed by flames. Hamada, Akahori, Ochiai Bridge, Kawake Bridge (Shikake Bridge), Nagata Bridge, Katabushi Bridge, Hinaga, Sunagawa, Uneme Village, and Tsuetsuki Village were all devastated, with bridges collapsing and being swept away.

How could anyone, young or old, male or female, not panic in such circumstances? Everyone tried to flee, but the earth split open greatly, making it difficult to determine even familiar directions. Approximately 500 people were injured or killed, and about 160 cattle and horses died instantly.

In the domain of Matsudaira Etchū-no-kami of Kuwana (110,000 koku), the rural areas were severely affected. In the castle town, Yada Town, various residences, Daimon, Yasunaga Village, and the storehouses along Machiya River were greatly damaged or collapsed. Kasuga Shrine, Hachiman, and Hazu Myōjin Shrine were damaged. The double embankment, Kaneba Village, shrine officials' quarters, Iso riverside, Nanatsuya, Mitaki River, and Sue earthen bridge all collapsed.

Nagashima, the 20,000-koku domain of Masuyama Kawachi-no-kami, saw great damage to the castle town and devastation throughout the countryside. Ishiyakushi and Shōno were affected. Kameyama, the 60,000-koku domain of Ishikawa Tonomo-no-kami, suffered extensive damage to both the castle town and rural areas. On the Ōmi route, Seki, Sakanoshita, Suzuka, and Yamada Village shrine were damaged, as was Tsuchiyama post station. Minakuchi, the 25,000-koku domain of Katō Etchū-no-kami, experienced significant trembling extending from the castle town and countryside to Ishibe, Kusatsu, Ōtsu, and even Kyoto. On the Nakasendō, from Moriyama to Ōtabe, a total of 16 post stations were severely shaken. The domains of Ōgaki and Takasu were affected. In Owari, the area from Tsushima, Saya, Manba, Miya, to Inuyama was affected. In Ise, the 15,000-koku domain of Honda Iyo-no-kami at Kanbe was severely shaken.

Shiroko and Tsu, the 323,000-koku domain of Tōdō Izumi-no-kami, experienced extremely strong shaking including the castle town, with damage in various places. From there, the post stations and areas near Yamada suffered greatly, though both shrines (of Ise Grand Shrine) suffered no damage. Mount Asama was greatly affected. Tamaru and Hisai, the 53,000-koku domain of Tōdō Sado-no-kami, experienced strong shaking and damage around Hattabe. In Ōmi, the 350,000-koku domain of Ii Kamon-no-kami at Hikone saw severe shaking all around Lake Biwa. By the morning of the 15th, things finally calmed down, and people felt relieved.

○Although the area around both Ise Shrines was particularly devastated, both sacred shrines suffered not the slightest damage. The divine majesty's sacred power should be recognized through this fact.