The above articles have been determined through consultation by the entire shrine community acting in unison.

Kyōhō 6, Year of the Metal Ox, 11th month - Seal of the shrine community

Addition
The above main text consists of previous regulations that have been established since Kyōhō 6.
However, in recent years there have been unavoidable petitions from one or two individuals, and out of benevolent consideration, some accommodations have been made. But if such accommodations continue in the future, the established laws will gradually fall into disorder, and eventually the integrity of the main text will be completely lost to posterity. Therefore, this time the elders and younger members of the three groups have met and deliberated, and henceforth the provisions of the main text shall be strictly observed. Even if there are unavoidable petitions, no consideration for delay shall be given, and the regulations of the main text shall be firmly maintained.
Accordingly, this addition has been decided upon unanimously by the entire shrine community, as stated herein.

Hōreki 7, 9th month

Regarding Substitute Rice Fields
[In red: Direct consideration]

1. It is inappropriate to report fleeing from one's position as an appointed official and surrender one's stipend rice fields.

Examining this matter in secret, according to the records of Lord Kanroji Chikanaga: "Bunmei 8, 8th month, 13th day, clear weather. I attended court and reported on the matter of the ringleader who murdered a shrine official at Kamo Shrine on the 20th day of the 5th month. The other day [in red: 22nd day of 5th month] it was reported that four or five people had fled, so an official letter was issued granting pardon to those who came forward. However, this time the shrine administrator reported being away from the shrine and staying in Kyoto overnight [marginal note: There is no precedent for a shrine administrator staying overnight elsewhere, etc.]. Due to this appeal, an imperial edict was issued ordering that the ringleader be reported. The day before yesterday a report was made, so I informed the court. The imperial statement said: 'Regarding the murder of the shrine official in the 5th month, last year two clan members conducted a settlement at the riverbank, carrying out this settlement as revenge for their parent, etc. If these individuals are now to be charged with crimes...'