【Outside black frame, right】
From the lower part of the tatsu hour (around 9 AM) on the 4th day of the 11th month of Kaei 7, year of the Tiger, great earthquakes began, and on the 5th day at the saru hour (around 3 PM) there was another great earthquake, continuing four or five times until the inu hour (around 8 PM) that night.

【Title within black frame】
Osaka Area　Tokaido　Detailed Investigation
Great Earthquake and Tsunami Illustration

【Upper section within black frame】
Osaka
1. Fujiya at Tennoji Shimizu
1. Sanoya Bridge at Shiomachi
1. Near Shiotsu Bridge
1. Kyomachi-bori 3rd district
1. Near Awada Toya-machi
　Total of about 20 houses
1. About four houses at Oike-dori 5th district
　collapsed
1. North Kutaro-machi, north of Doike
　Two or three houses
1. Fukushima Five Hundred Arhats
1. Kagoya-machi
1. Namba Shinchi ditch
　river
1. Sumiyoshi lanterns, six pilgrims'
　path collapsed
1. Ikasuri Shrine torii
1. Goryo Shrine well and buildings
1. Temma Tenjin well and buildings
1. Sakakei-machi, south of Doike
1. Tamatsukuri Niken-chaya, about ten
　houses
1. Amidaike Yokomon-suji
Besides these, there were damages in various other places,
too numerous to describe fully,
so details are omitted.

【Lower right diagram in upper section】
Tsunami Illustration

【Upper left】
Tokaido Ise Route, Shima Province Area

【Upper left section】
Yamada　Kawasaki-kan, Okayamada suffered major damage
　　　Both Shrines (Ise Grand Shrine) were unharmed, but Futami
　　　was hit by a great tsunami
Tsu　　Hachiman-cho, Ito-cho, Benten-cho
　　　This area was particularly severely affected,
　　　many houses and storehouses greatly damaged.
　　　Moreover, due to the tsunami at the shore
　　　up to Iwata Point, high waves
　　　struck, and all people fled
　　　to the hills - it was terrible
Matsusaka　Funaguchi, Kawai-cho, Atago-cho
　　　Houses collapsed in this area, Heijo-cho,
　　　Minato-cho, Hon-cho suffered great
　　　damage, countless houses and storehouses collapsed
Shima　Ote-gomon, townhouses and others
Toba　The earthquake was not particularly severe, but
　　　the tsunami caused great damage, and
　　　the entire shoreline was inundated

【Lower left section】
Miya　The earthquake was not particularly severe,
　　　but the tsunami struck and
　　　damaged houses
Kuwana　Great earthquakes on both the 4th and 5th days
　　　caused some damage to houses and storehouses,
　　　and moreover, the tsunami greatly
　　　damaged the shoreline
Yokkaichi　Same as above, about thirty houses
　　　were damaged. However,
　　　this time there was nothing particularly severe
From Shono and Kameyama area
to Kusatsu area, conditions were similar
　　Generally as described above
This information was brought by express courier
on the 7th day of the 11th month

【Lower section】
During the continuing great earthquake of the 5th day of the 11th month of the Tiger year, a great tsunami struck from offshore at Minato-guchi. All large and small ships anchored at the river mouth were swept upstream beyond Aji River Bridge. Aji River Bridge and Kame Bridge were washed away. Large ships with masts still standing were swept upstream beyond the bridges. At Dotonbori River, all bridges up to Daikoku Bridge collapsed, and large and small ships were swept up to Daikoku Bridge, along with much lumber. All waterways were clogged with ships and lumber, with countless wrecked vessels. From what was generally observed, about 90% of the usually anchored ships were damaged, and the number of people swept away is unknown. The state of this tsunami is indescribable and unprecedented. Those who went to see the sites know well that while people usually exaggerate a five-sun matter to one shaku, this time even a one-jo matter could only be described as five shaku - it was truly an unimaginable disaster. The tsunami struck all the rivers marked in the Minato-guchi illustration, but townhouses were not swept away, only ships. However, the ships were smashed to pieces. The collapsed bridges are listed on the left:
Karakane Bridge　Taka Bridge　　　Mizuwake Bridge
Aji River Bridge　Kamei Bridge　　Kurogane Bridge
Hiyoshi Bridge　　Shiomi Bridge　　Sachi Bridge
Sumiyoshi Bridge　Daikoku Bridge　and stopped there
Kanaya Bridge

【Lower left illustration】
Osaka
Minato-guchi
Illustration