The Three Great Earthquakes Captured Alive

Carpenter:
"Yes, sir, we will thoroughly scold these troublemakers for their wrongdoings and offer our apologies. Please entrust them to us. The truth is, from when we start work until we finish, we earn one bu per day and can shave as much wood as we like, all thanks to this master [earthquake]. We must make this apology even at the cost of our lives, boss."

Roof thatcher/construction worker:
"That's right, that's right. As you say, without something like this, we couldn't even go see that bastard's face. This is the best chance for us to save face."

Pickled radish vendor:
"As those gentlemen say, I don't rejoice in others' misfortune, but without incidents like this, business dries up completely. Roofer, you must be sleepy, aren't you?"

Roofer:
"Truly, when I'm just doing repair work to get by, I can't even afford to drink sake. For us, this is like having a rock-eating earth parent. Please have mercy and forgive us."

Doctor:
"Yes, yes, even someone like me, thanks to the earthquake deity, can earn five or six coins just in the morning. I've paid off my five-month debt for rice to the earthquake deity and cleared up my shop rent completely. Please consider this and overlook our situation here. Now that everything has been settled satisfactorily, please make good use of us. We can also lend money and treat injuries, so please consider our self-serving proposal."

※Even as they made their apologies, the earthquake deity inwardly found it amusing and smiled, but deliberately raised his voice harshly:
"No! This cannot be allowed! If I were to forgive such sinful creatures, the catfish throughout Japan's sixty-odd provinces would take this as a good precedent and again cause such suffering to all people, turning the city centers into great destruction. As a warning for the future, they shall be executed by pot-roasting!" Since he would not listen at all, everyone had no choice but to sigh and say, "Shake us, well, let's flee."