A retainer of a certain lord was stationed in Edo and lived in the domain's residence in the Honjo area. On the morning of the 2nd day of the 10th month, noticing something of concern, he informed a senior official, saying: "This morning, the water in the well has become murky and carries a briny smell. This is surely a sign of a great earthquake. Please return the belongings I have stored with you. In the event of an earthquake, a storehouse (dozō) cannot be relied upon. Please take care." However, the senior official secretly laughed at him and returned the belongings. The man received them back and returned home, then went on to warn fellow officials and others of the impending great earthquake. Everyone laughed, saying things like "How could such a thing happen?" and paid no heed. Yet that very night, a great earthquake struck. The senior official's storehouse collapsed in the shaking, and everything the man had predicted came true. Those who had laughed were put to shame. Fortunately, they escaped fire, but had there been a fire, not a single thing would have remained. Alas, how perilous it was!

A man named Shinozaki of Nagakura-chō in Honjo was fond of fishing. On the night of the 2nd day of the 10th month, he was using a device called a "zuzuko" to try to catch eel, searching along various stretches of the river, but catfish kept stirring about wildly and not a single eel could be caught — only three catfish were obtained. Pondering the matter carefully, he recalled that "when catfish grow restless, there will surely be an earthquake," and taking heed of this, he stopped fishing, returned home, spread mats in the garden, brought out his household belongings and furniture, and prepared for some unusual event. His wife thought this strange and secretly laughed at him. However, that very night, a great earthquake struck. Their dwelling was completely destroyed, but all the household items that had been brought outside were not damaged in the least. Now, on that same night, neighbors who had also gone fishing — seeing the catfish in a commotion — did not return home, and not only did they catch little, but they were unable to bring their household belongings out from their homes... (continues on the next page)