This Week's Films: September 8th to 11th

The Record of Kuroda's Loyalty

Staff
New Japan Film Research Institute
Screenplay: Tai Zenzo
Direction: Kinugasa Teinosuke
Cinematography: Sugiyama Kohei
Sound Recording: Dobashi Takeo
Costume Research: Yoshikawa Kanpo
Music: Fukai Shiro
Still Photography: Kimura Ihei

◇Cast◇
Kuriyama Daizen Toshiaki: Bando Jusaburo
Kuroda Uemonnosuke Tadayuki: Bando Kotaro
Kura Yasota: Takada Kokichi
Lady Ohide: Iizuka Toshiko
Kuroda Kai-no-kami Nagamasa: Iwata Yukichi
Hoshina Danjo: Namino Mitsuhiro
Ogawa Kuranokami: Araki Shinobu
Koyo Osho: Shiga Yasuro
Mitamura Sukehachi: Takamatsu Kinnosuke
Miyagawa Sangoro: Yamaji Yoshito
Tokieda Shushin: Hori Masao
Kiriyama Tanba: Tsuboi Tetsu
Kuroda Kenbutsu: Nanko Akira
Kuroda Mimasaka: Seki Misao
Arikawa Suruga: Hayama Junnosuke
Ohashi Benzo: Honjo Katsuji
Akashi Shirobei: Nagata Yasushi
Kondo Kazuya: Hongo Hideo
Daizen's wife Osae: Fushimi Naoe
Senior Councilors: Doi Toshikatsu: Usuda Kenji
Yagyu Tajima: Mitsuoka Ryuzaburo
Sakai Tadayo: Bando Kitanosuke
Ii Naotaka: Katsuragi Koichi

[Additional cast members listed...]

Everyone Disappears at the Pass

Staff
Original Story: Okazaki Jutaro
Adaptation: Nakamura Yoshiyuki
Director: Munemoto Hideo
Cinematography: Ikai Suketaro

◇Cast◇
Takichi: Mizushima Ryotaro
Oyoshi: Okamura Fumiko
Otsuta: Miyake Kuniko
Otoyo: Otsuka Kimiyo
Michio: Tokudaiji Shin
Village Girl: Matsukawa Asako

Synopsis: A life tragedy involving the daughter of old coachman Takichi and a stagecoach in a small hot spring town.

Next Week's Program
Next week features Shinko Cinema's special production: Torazo's rokyoku film "A Man's Soul" and the familiar Shinko ghost cat film "The Phantom Cat of the Fifty-three Stations."
Please come see both films together.

Intermission Music
POLYDOR, KING, Teichiku Records
Film theme songs and popular songs
Monthly new releases performed

Tianjin Mori Trading Company

Information
★ Thank you for this week, please come again next week
★ Doors open at 1 PM on weekdays with continuous screenings
★ Luggage can be checked at the ticket booth
★ The telephone is located in front of the shop at the back of the ground floor
★ Restrooms and powder rooms are located at the end of the corridors on both floors
★ Tea service is available
★ Operating as your cinema theater - please freely share any suggestions regarding publicity, service, etc.

Authentic Rokyoku Film
A Man's Soul

This is the true spirit of Japanese men! Abandoning his yakuza past to rush to honorable military service! Magnificent! An explosion of the Japanese spirit!

Master director Sone Seizen
The king of rokyoku, Hirosawa Torazo in his film debut
[Cast list follows...]

Opening next week on the 12th

"Now is the time when everyone must sacrifice their lives for Japan's emperor. Forget your three years of yakuza wandering and hold tight to your man's soul as you go forth."

The renowned Torazo's once-in-a-lifetime film appearance! Refreshing Edo-style bravado, unmatched under heaven!
(Teichiku Records recording)

The Phantom Cat of the Fifty-three Stations - The ultimate cat transformation film
Suzuki Sumiko, Otani Hideo