[Page number "4" at bottom right of right page]
[Pages 4-5 divided into three sections, title at top section, read from right]
[Title across both pages in horizontal writing]
THE SILENT ENEMY
[Across both pages in vertical writing]
Presented by
Paramount Pictures
Produced by
W. Douglas Burden
William C. Chandler
Original Story by
W. Douglas Burden
Scenario by
Richard Carver
Music by
Massard Car Zeen
Cinematography by
Cecil Le Picard
Directed by
H. B. Carver
Titles by
Julian Johnson
Released
August 2, 1930
[Box with cast below photo on second section of right page]
[Read from right]
Cast
[Inside box, vertical writing]
Chetoga (Chief)
••••••Chief Yellow Robe
Baluk (Hunter)
•••••••••Chief Long Lance
Dagwan (Medicine Man)
•••••••••Chief Akawanush
Neewa (Chief's Daughter)
••••••Spotted Elk
Cheeka (His Son)
••••••••••••••••••••Cheeka

・Synopsis・
Chetoga, chief of the Ojibway tribe, had ruled his people well for a long time, but having reached old age, he decided to entrust the responsibilities of chieftainship to Baluk, a skilled hunter, and Dagwan, a medicine man, while he himself would retire from duty.

However, this medicine man Dagwan was an extremely cunning man who secretly harbored feelings for Chetoga's daughter Neewa, waiting for an opportunity to act on them. But since Neewa had long loved the hunter Baluk, she always found Dagwan sinister.

[Bottom section of right page]
Eventually, Dagwan finally approached Chetoga to propose marriage to Neewa. Upon receiving this proposal, Chetoga hesitated to refuse immediately, fearing Dagwan's mysterious and supernatural magic.

Meanwhile, the terrible winter came for the Arctic peoples.

Winter was the most fearful Silent Enemy for these Indians, bringing food shortages.

An intense council was held under Chetoga. At that time, Baluk proposed to take many hunters south, but Dagwan strongly opposed this.

Moreover, he berated Baluk, saying that the food shortage was caused by Baluk's inadequate skills as a hunter.

However, Chetoga comforted Baluk and declared they would travel south according to Baluk's plan. Thus Baluk's party set out toward the south.

Several days passed.

There was no word from Baluk. The food of the waiting tribe grew scarcer day by day.

[Middle section of left page]
Then Baluk's party returned empty-handed and dejected. Sadly, no food could be found in the south.

Baluk said, however, that if they went north, they would surely encounter large herds of caribou this time, but again Dagwan opposed this.

But Chetoga agreed to Baluk's plan again, and they decided to head north.

Traveling over the barren ice fields for days and nights.

The food was completely exhausted, and the elderly and women could no longer take another step forward. They had no choice but to make camp and begin a life of hardship.

Baluk went to the forest seeking game and returned having shot only one moose. During this time, Chetoga went to the mountaintop to offer prayers to the gods, but unable to endure the severe hunger and suffering, he died after naming Baluk as chief.

The newly appointed Chief Baluk

[Bottom section of left page]
again led the tribe northward.

Dagwan, now completely betrayed, conspired with the warriors to devise various plans to bring down Baluk's power.

After several weeks of travel, Dagwan performed a ritual claiming to receive divine oracle.

At that time, while he was performing his magical dance, a gust of wind arose, and while everyone thought it was the result of Dagwan's mysterious power, he proclaimed that this was the gods' will to sacrifice Baluk.

Baluk, however, was willing to accept Dagwan's fire ordeal for the sake of his tribe, when tens of thousands of caribou appeared en masse beyond the blazing flames. Baluk led his hunters to attack this great herd.

Many caribou were killed, and the tribe achieved abundant hunting in one stroke.

At the same time, the new chief Baluk was praised for his achievement, the false medicine man Dagwan was banished from the tribe, and Neewa was finally able to be embraced in Baluk's arms.

[Page number "5" at bottom left of page]