Page 8

there is a stone monument to the Koman couple. Koman's husband was from the main house of the Heihachi family, but since that house line ended, the branch family of Yamada Heihachi probably erected the stone monument and enshrines them. Considering the origin of the aforementioned folk songs, Koman was a courtesan at the Seki post station in Ise Province. There was a retainer named Yosaku in Tamba Kameyama who, due to certain circumstances, became a masterless samurai and fell into poverty, living in Ise Kameyama. Through some connection, he formed a deep bond with the courtesan Koman, and Koman would secretly visit Yosaku in Kameyama every night. Thus when Yosaku was able to return to serve his former lord, at that time there was a small goods merchant named Yamada Ichirō-emon in Sakagemachi of Yoshida station in Mikawa Province. Whenever he traveled to Kyoto for business, he would become infatuated with Koman's beauty and visit her regularly. When Yosaku wanted to take her as his wife, she refused, and was eventually redeemed by Ichirō-emon, brought to Yoshida, where she lived harmoniously with the family and worked diligently in the business, living to the age of sixty-

some years and dying on the third day of the sixth month of Tenna 4 (1684).

○Goshōji Temple: Located in Sekiya-machi, Toyohashi. It is called Kohozan Jōgyō-in and belongs to the Jōdo sect. It is said to have been founded in Jōji 5 (1366) when Zen'chū Jōshō Shōnin Jakuō Oshō, a prince of the 59th Emperor Kōgon, petitioned Shogun Ashikaga Yoshiakira for its establishment. In October of Meiji 11 (1878), when His Current Majesty made an imperial tour, this temple was designated as the temporary imperial residence.

Imperial Memorial Cold Season (from January 19th to 25th) - Sekine Chidō
Sharp cold威 intensifies at dawn / Pitying others' sandals adorning spring appearance
River clouds dark and gloomy, heaven about to snow / On the pillow, wind carries the imperial memorial bell

○Ryūneniji Temple: Located in Yoshiya-machi, Toyohashi. It belongs to the Sōtō Zen sect and is one of the foremost great temples in the district. The former lords of Yoshida domain held it in deep reverence. Also, the tomb of Kanze Sakon-dayū that was at Saikōji Temple in Tema-machi was moved to this temple grounds at some point.

Five Hundred Arhats - Sekine Chidō
Pine temple without dust, day naturally leisurely / Cool-seekers gone, between green shade
Clear wind, five hundred arhats / No need to seek immortals toward snowy mountains

○Branch Temple: Located in Hanazono-machi, Toyohashi. Called Seizanzan Seinenji, it is a branch temple of the Shinshū Ōtani sect. This temple was originally of the Shingon sect called Seizanji, but in Tenbun kinoe-uma year (1534) it became a subsidiary of the 10th head priest of Honganji, former Dai-Sōjō Shōnyo Shōnin.

○Tomb of Kanze Sakon-dayū (Assassination)
Located in the grounds of Ryūneniji Temple in Yoshiya-machi, Toyohashi. Considering this, Kanze Sakon-dayū was a branch of the original Iga Province Hattori clan, became one of the kagura performers for Nanbu Haru Daimyōjin, and at some point moved to live near Kyoto, becoming a teacher of court music and Noh chanting with many disciples. Among them, he became intimate with a courtesan of beautiful appearance and made her his wife, but this woman was extremely jealous, so Sakon-dayū found her troublesome and abandoned the courtesan, fleeing his residence in the capital by night to come to Yoshida (Toyohashi), where he took temporary residence in Saruya-kōji (Nakazeko). In time he acquired many students of Noh chanting and lived without want, but one morning when neither his gate nor shutters opened even after the sun rose high, the neighbors found this strange and gathered to push open the door, only to find Sakon-dayū severely wounded from his face to his hands and feet, lying dead. People wondered at this mystery, and his disciples buried him with tears. I think that at this time there was discord between Osaka and Kantō, and it was said that Noh teachers would go in and out of the palace and act as go-betweens, so Kanze-dayū's unnatural death was probably also for this reason. However, according to popular accounts, several days after Sakon-dayū's death, unexpectedly the courtesan who had been his wife came searching and said that one night in a jealous rage she had subjected the dayū to cruel treatment, causing his unnatural death, and having dreamed this, she could not remain in the capital and had come searching from far away, she confessed

Page 9