Page 10

and shamefully cut off her hair to pray for the dayū's afterlife. Sakon-dayū died on the 29th day of the first month of Tenshō 5 (1577), with the Buddhist posthumous name Jōkō-in-den Gyokuanjō Kin Koji.

○Yoshida Shrine (Fireworks) - Called Tennō Shrine. Located behind Hyakkaen in Sekiya-machi, Toyohashi, it enshrines Susanoo-no-Mikoto. The time of its founding is said to be during the reign of Emperor Kanmu. At some point, a strange stone that supposedly fell from heaven, named "Kagefuri-ishi" (Shadow-falling Stone), is located about ten steps inside the torii gate. The shrine's annual festival takes place over three days each year: June 13th, 14th, and 15th. On the 13th and 14th, fireworks are launched. The fireworks in front of the shrine, called "Ōnashi," thunder like a hundred bolts of lightning striking at once, and the launched fireworks along the Toyokawa riverbank display such varied and magnificent forms that they make spectators cry out in delight. They far surpass even the famous fireworks of the Ryōgoku River opening in Tokyo. On the 15th, there is a procession of portable shrines, and among the ceremonial procession is the Sasa-odori dance with unusual costumes,

wearing braided hats and many people singing songs in unison. It is quite a remarkable sight.

Gion Festival Fireworks - Sekine Chidō
Tower upon tower, smoke plays in luxurious competition / Jade moon and pearl stars each boast their own
Young girls of thirteen, full of spirit / Soft hands able to release great pear blossoms

Water village smoke games mark the beginning / Adorning Toyokawa's premier entertainment
Laughter and song on the bridge, dancing below / Lamplight and wine shadows fill the mid-stream

○Shinmei Shrine (Oni Festival) - Located in Naka-hachi-machi, Toyohashi. It worships Amaterasu Ōmikami. The annual festival is on January 14th, when shrine priests in white vestments and eboshi caps line up in front of the shrine to shoot arrows at targets. This is not to determine winners and losers but is a Shinto ritual. Called the "Oni Festival," it brings great excitement to the city. Specifically, in front of the shrine, red demons hold wooden mallets and Sarutahiko fights with a long sword. When finished, many parishioners wearing kamishimo chase the red demons out of the shrine and run through the city,

throwing candy on the roads and shouting loudly. There are also those called "chigo" who perform unusual dances. Later, red demons and black demons compete for hackberry fruits.

Shinmei Shrine Oni Festival - Sekine Chidō
Golden palanquin illuminates the road, colorful banners new / Red demons leap and prance, black demons rage
Unlike sending away poverty in cold weather / The whole city competes with laughter and words to welcome spring

○Benzaiten Lotus - Located in the grounds of Shinmei Shrine in Minato-machi, Toyohashi. Lotus flowers are planted in the pond, like a smaller version of Tokyo's Ueno Benzaiten, where tourists gather in crowds during summer. Considering this, during the Shōtoku era, an island was built in the pond to create the form of Hōrai, something that Yamada Sōhen created for aesthetic pleasure.

○18th Regiment Memorial Monument (Imperial Bronze Statue) - Located at the southeastern corner of the parade ground at the north end of Higashi-hachi-machi. A bronze statue of Emperor Jinmu is installed. Several jō tall, holding a bow and arrows, standing upright. With solemn dignity, people naturally bow in reverence.

Every year on March 9th, a memorial service for war dead is held, with the entire town of Toyohashi organizing entertainments. There are fireworks, festival floats, horse racing, swordsmanship, jujutsu, sumo wrestling, archery, and hand dancing. Old and young, men and women gather from the surrounding area, and even the spacious parade ground becomes crowded like a mountain of people.

○Sekiya, Shinsen, Uoichi - According to the traditions of Mikawa elders, there was once a barrier station on the Yoshida River, but after the Eiroku battles it was abolished, and that place was called the former castle's Sekiya Gate. Probably Sekiya-machi originated from this. Also, investigating the origin of Shinsen-machi, in ancient times when Mizuno Hayato-no-kami Tadakiyo served at Yoshida Castle, during the two years of Kan'ei 13 and 14, new coins were minted by imperial command. This is why there is the name Shinsen-machi. (Incidentally, there are two types throughout the provinces: Yoshida koma and ikkan koma. These were koma-biki coins minted one for every ten mon to keep track of the number of new coins minted and put into circulation. As a remnant of this, even now one hundred mon is called ten hiki. This is because there were ten koma-biki coins for every hundred mon

Page 11