Page 16

And since ancient times it has been called Takashi-yama, Takashi-no-hara, etc. and sung about in waka poetry, but now Takashi-no-hara has become a training ground for the 18th Infantry Regiment and is among the leading locations in all of Japan.

Shin Zoku Kokin-shū - Former Middle Counselor Lord Masataka
Day will not end, shadows still high on the mountain
Should I stay in thought or pass on by?

Fuboku-shū - Priest Saigyō
The moored boat leaving harbor in the morning wind
Was the autumn leaves of Takashi mountain

Same - Second Rank Lord Tameie
When evening showers end at Takashi mountain and all is calm
You can see seaweed salt being made at the foot of the beach

Record of Viewing Fuji - Priestly Middle Counselor Lord Masayasu
Since ancient times, is it only the name of Takashi mountain?
Which is the foot, which the peak, there is none

●Tō-Kannon-ji Temple - Located in Komatsubara, Ozawa Village, over two ri from Toyohashi, called Komatsubara Kannon and its name is known far and wide. It belongs to the Rinzai sect and was built by Priest Gyōki in the 5th year of Tenpyō Shōreki during the reign of the 45th Emperor Shōmu. The Emperor bestowed imperial decrees and two imperial calligraphy plaques for the imperial prayer temple, displayed at the mountain gate and main gate. There are many rare ancient paintings and artifacts, and the land is elevated with halls worth viewing.

Fuboku-shū - Kiyosuke no Asomi
The small pine groves visible far in the future
Are examples of your thousand years

●Oizu Island (Sea Bathing) - Refers to Susaki in Oizu Village. In recent years a sea bathing area has been opened. From Toyohashi town via Muro ferry landing, it is within sight, with calm wind and waves where one can cast nets and fish - a fine summer retreat. Long ago there was already a poem by Murasaki Shikibu.

Personal Collection - Murasaki Shikibu
Facing an island called Oizu Island in the Mikawa Sea,
casually composing about the charming inlet called Warabe Bay:
Does the god guarding Oizu Island admonish?
Even the waves don't disturb Warabe Bay

At Amatsu Nawate - Bashō
Shrinking away, on horseback a shadow priest freezing

●Tahara Town (Kazan Monument) - Located in the center of the district, embracing Tahara Bay, it is the market town second to Toyohashi. In ancient times it appears to have been imperial shrine land, as it is listed as Tahara Mikuriya in the Shinpō-shō. Later, through the years, during the Meiō period, Toda Danjō Saemon Munemitsu built a castle here and resided there. Later the Miyake clan became castle lords with a fief of 12,000 koku, with descendants continuing until the beginning of Meiji. The castle ruins are in the northern corner of the town with Tomoe-gawa Shrine and a monument to the late Edo period notable Watanabe Kazan, and the scenery is quite beautiful.

●Ashi-ga-ike Pond (Ashi Shrine) - Located in Ashi, Noda Village, about one ri in circumference, excavated for irrigation convenience, and the pastoral scenery is also worth admiring. Especially in autumn and winter when flocks of ducks and geese gather, it is a good hunting spot. Near the pond is an old village shrine called Ashi Shrine, which is also well-known.

●Ōmu-ishi (Parrot Stone) - Located in Mabushi, Izumi Village, about three ri from Tahara town in a secluded mountain location, it is a rock about three ken by four ken in size. When you sing or play stringed instruments facing it, it echoes as if there were people inside the stone making the same music. Hence the name Parrot Stone. Many people come with walking sticks in spring and summer.

●Grave of Tokoku (Haiku Poet) - Located in Hata, Fukue town. Tokoku was originally from Bishū, committed a crime and was to be executed...

Page 17