Page 22

The imperial residence was established in Hoshino-gō for three years. Prince Takeuchi was born, but soon fell ill, and prayers were offered at Sanmei-ji Temple. Also, Kusakado Kiminori-kyō was sent as an imperial messenger to Hōrai-ji Temple, where the hermit Rishū was made to perform fire rituals (goma) for prayers. Beside the prince's mausoleum stand stone pagodas of twelve empresses and consorts. There is also a pond called "Gosho-ga-ike" where it is said that the twelve empresses and consorts threw themselves in grief at parting from the prince, but the truth of this cannot be determined. There is no record in historical documents of Emperor Monmu's visit to this province.

○Ancient Poems of Fujino Village　It is unclear which place this refers to, but there is a place called Fuji-ga-ike in Shimojō Village - perhaps this is what was meant.

Fuboku-shū (Famous Places of Mikawa - Fujino Village)
　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Asomi Munekuni
What appeared to be purple threads being spun must be the village of Fujino in full bloom

Same collection　　　　Fujiwara no Asomi Dōkyō
Without shores, the wisteria waves of Fujino village hang upon the treetops of pines

●Akaiwa-san (Temple and Cherry Blossoms)　Located in Tame Village, called Hōgen-ji Temple of the Shingon sect. When Kaba no Kaja Noriyori was governor of Mikawa, he had Tōkurō Morinaga construct it as one of the seven halls of this province. The view from the mountaintop is profound and secluded, and the cherry trees at the temple gate present the finest scenic beauty in eastern Mikawa. There is also a valley stream forming waterfalls, and in spring and summer many poets and artists come with their walking sticks, making it most famous. It is about one and a half ri from Toyohashi.

○Tame Waterfall　Located in Tame Village, also called Fudō Waterfall. It drops straight down more than one jō two shaku with a width of about three shaku. Its downstream flow becomes the Asakura River, reaching Toyohashi and entering the Toyo River. In summer, crowds of visitors come for cool recreation.

●Ishimaki-yama (Shrine)　About one ri northeast of Toyohashi, belonging to Miwa Village. The summit is composed of rocks and stones, with a truly extraordinary mountain form. The view in all four directions is expansive - to the southeast it overlooks Enshū-nada and Lake Hamana, to the northeast it faces Mount Fuji, and to the west it encompasses the mountains of Owari and Ise from Kinugaura in one vista. The scenery is extremely magnificent. There is a shrine on the mountainside enshrining Ōnamuchi-no-mikoto.

●Hirō Shrine (Midorino)　Located in character Shimoyashiki of Mikami Village, enshrining Ōkuninushi-no-mikoto. Among its treasures are nine seal stones, one of which is carved with a poem by Izumi Shikibu:

As spring grows ever deeper, the jeweled seaweed in the pond of Midorino appears in various colors

This poem is included in the Fuboku-shū. In ancient times, the governor of Mikawa would come here to inspect the harvest conditions and determine the annual tribute accordingly. Hence it was called Midorino (Inspection Field). In medieval times it was written as Midorino, and what is now called Miwatarino is this place. There are also places called Midorino Pond and Midori Mound.

Fuboku-shū　　　　　Koshō Sei
Since the spring rain began to fall, the shores of the pond in Midorino have grown deeper

Same collection　　　Anonymous
Lotus flowers floating red in Midorino - the water grows turbid, waves rising like a dream

Red lotus floating in Midorino - when white waves rise, they become flowers of deep mixture

Man'gin-shū　　　　Keichū
The willows by the pond in Midorino - who planted these things of spring here?

●Shōshū-ji Temple (Famous Paintings)　Located in Suzan Village, belonging to the Rinzai Myōshin-ji sect. The land is high and dry with ancient cedars and cypresses of great atmospheric beauty. In the past, great masters like Ōkyo and Rosetsu stayed here and painted many works. There are also works by Genshin, Tan'yū, Chōdensu, and others

Page 23