Page 32

○Tōshōgū Shrine Located above the various halls of the temple. The shrine buildings are magnificent and still maintain their original form unchanged, and it is ranked among the prefectural shrines. Upon investigation, when the father of Tōshō-kō (Tokugawa Ieyasu), the posthumously appointed Dainagon Hirotada, lamented having no heir, he and his consort made a pilgrimage to the Yakushi of this mountain and prayed for the birth of an heir. Miraculously, there was divine response, and on the 26th day of the 11th month of Tenbun 11 (1542), the heir Lord Ieyasu was born. Therefore, later in Keian 1 (1648), Shogun Iemitsu ordered Abe Bungo-no-kami to construct the Tōshōgū at Hōraiji.

○Buppōsō Bird Also called Sanpō-chō (Three Treasures Bird). This is a rare bird that cries in Hōraiji mountain from March to September, but its form cannot be seen. Its voice sounds like "Buppōsō" (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha). It is extremely quiet, so many people come from far and near to hear its voice. This bird is said to also inhabit Kōyasan in Kii Province, Daigosan and Matsuo in Yamashiro Province, Murōsan in Yamato Province, and Nikkōsan in Shimotsuke Province, among others.

When ascending the mountain as an imperial messenger - Kusakado Kōsen
In the mist or sea, the mountain's form resembles islands
When I listen thinking it might be waves, it's the sound of pine winds

A bird that cries "Buppōsō" was sent from the Grand Minister and kept under the eaves of the usual palace quarters, but it cries especially on rainy days. Indeed, its name rings clearly. Its form is like a female bird but somewhat larger. - Ben-no-naishi

In any case, in this august sovereign's reign
Even the bird of the three treasures sings

From Shūgyokushū - Priest Jichin
Is this a bird that will bring joy to future lives too
Entrusting the three treasures to its voice

When the priests of Hōraiji in Mikawa Province requested it

The bird's call mingles with clouds in the deep mountains - Sōgi

A verse from the slopes of Hōraiji
In the winter wind, blowing through the cedar gaps above the rocks - Bashō

When passing by the mountain area of Hōraiji
Cool spring water connecting like prayer beads to mushrooms - Kikaku

From Meisho Kokyō (Famous Places Small Mirror)
Clouds like those from which hermits might emerge, autumn wind - Ryōdai
Over there too, blizzards blow on rocky peaks, evening Yakushi - Rōtsū  
A mountain path climbing a single hollyhock - Ransetsu
Dense foliage, gaps between trees and temple eaves - Otoyoshi
The sound of falling onto bamboo leaves, autumn water - Tesshi
Bell freezing, the peak's Yakushi in thin clouds - Sharō
Mist clearing, morning sun on the six cedars - Otoyoshi
Nightingale, show your voice's source at Mirror Hall - Tadamaru
Heat shimmer, whose reflection in Mirror Hall - Chōmu

○Kita-Shitara District
●Origins Detailed in the section on Minami-Shitara District. This district is at the northeastern tip of Mikawa Province, bordered on the north by Shimo-Ina District of Shinano Province and Ena District of Mino Province, and on the east by Toyoda and Shūchi Districts of Tōtōmi Province, forming the provincial boundaries. The topography consists of continuous mountain ranges with little arable land. Therefore, while there are many places of scenic beauty, because the land is remote, few people visit, and there are few famous scenic spots known to the world worth recording.
The district office, police station, tax office, postal and telegraph office, etc. are located in Taguchi Town.

●Kawai Stone Bridge (Eight Victories) Located in Ōaza Kawai, Miwa Village, this is a large rock formation suspended between cliffs on the mid-slope of Chibusa Mountain, appearing as if constructed artificially. It is commonly called Kawai

Page 33