Page 40

raised in deep seclusion, her beautiful appearance was no less than that of Imperial Concubine Yang, who was compared to the lotus of Taiye Pool and the willows of Weiyang Palace. When Sadamoto Ason caught a glimpse of her at some opportune moment, he eventually welcomed her to his mansion at Funayama and they formed a deep bond of conjugal love. "Meeting leads inevitably to parting" - this is the inescapable lot of human life. When Princess Rikiju fell gravely ill and took to her sickbed, Sadamoto, from the beginning down to the serving women and slaves, grieved deeply and exhausted all efforts in medicine and nursing care, but to no avail - she finally became a guest of the Yellow Springs (died). At this point, Lord Sadamoto awakened to the tastelessness of this floating world and devoted himself entirely to the Buddhist path. Then, after the first seven days (shonanka), he received a revelation from Manjusri Bodhisattva in a dream. He extracted Princess Rikiju's tongue root and buried it in the precincts of Mount Darani in this district, enshrining above it the Manjusri Bodhisattva in whom the princess had deep faith during her lifetime. He also built a temple hall nearby, naming it Rikijusan Zetkon-ji (Princess Rikiju Mountain Tongue-Root Temple), located south of Zaiga-ji. This was more than eight hundred years ago. Later, that temple fell into ruin, and now only the Manjusri Hall remains on the mountaintop. Lord Sadamoto completed his term of office and returned to the capital, petitioning around March of Eien 1 to become a Buddhist monk. In the second year, as he wished, he removed his court cap and changed his name to Jakushō, entering the quarters of Priest Genshin and quickly gaining fame in Buddhist learning. In Chōhō 4, he again petitioned to travel to Song China. The time was autumn of Chōhō 5, the 25th day of the 8th month, corresponding to the 3rd year of Jingde in the Song calendar. The Song Emperor summoned Jakushō for an audience, bestowed ceremonial robes and silk bundles upon him, and had him lodge at a superior temple. Next, he settled his staff at Wumen Temple. Ding Wei of Gusu served Jakushō very diligently. In the 1st year of Jingyou, at the foot of Mount Qingliang in Hangzhou, he passed away in proper mindfulness and upright posture.

"In the thatched hut, no one helps the sick to rise; in the incense burner, fire faces west in sleep
From distant heights of lonely clouds, music is heard; holy multitudes come before the setting sun"
The sound of music from far above the clouds -
Might people be coming as day draws to dusk?

Thus he composed his death poem. He was posthumously honored with the title Great Master Enzū.

Shinkokin-shū, Anonymous
When the priest Jakushō was about to enter Tang China, someone sent ceremonial robes, but not knowing the departure date, sent them afterward:
Though I thought they would be useful, these traveling clothes -
The day of departure became unknown

Reply, Priest Jakushō
These must be what they say are woven at heaven's edge -
Celestial feathered robes that know not of departure

Shika-shū, Same person
Whether to stay or not to stay, I cannot think -
For no dwelling place is the same anywhere

Goshui-shū, Former Grand Councilor Kintō
When Priest Jakushō was about to enter Tang and was departing for Kyushu, he boarded ship on the 7th day of the 7th month - this was sent to him:
Even the heavenly palace of the Milky Way is so distant -
How sad this ship's departure to unknown destinations

Same, Priest Jakushō
Even the parting of this cuckoo's promised journey
I hear that meetings are rarely to be found

●Mount Miyaji (Imperial Palace Ruins, Autumn Leaves) About three ri from Goyu Station, this high mountain spans across the four villages of Akasaka, Goyu, Nagasawa, and Mitsu. It is famous because in the 10th month of Taihō 2, when Empress Jitō made an imperial tour of this province, a temporary palace was established on this mountain. The ruins of the temporary palace are on the western ridge of the mountain. Local people say it is the site of the ninomaru (second bailey), but it is too narrow to qualify as a ninomaru. Separately on the mountaintop, there is a mound about six feet higher, newly built with earth piled in a geometric shape - this must be the site of the temporary palace. It directly overlooks Nankai (the southern sea) below and faces the mountains of Owari and Mino to the northwest.

Page 41