Six

　　　　The threads of green willows on Honno Plain
　　　Miyaji Evening Illumination
　Exceptionally beautiful, the red maples of a thousand branches
　　　　When evening sun shines on Mount Miyaji
　　　Watazu Night Rain
　All night long, with heart uncleared by falling rain
　　　　How melancholy is the crossing in this world
　　　Sanmyō Evening Bell
　How mysterious, the three realms are also announced by sound
　　　　The evening temple bell of the ancient temple in this world
　　　～～～～～～～～～～～～～
　　　○Cherry Abyss　　　　　　　Oda Sei
　Coming to see the cherry abyss in full bloom
　　　　The flower-viewing boats were also flourishing
　　　○Cow Falls　　　　　　　Same person

　Even the cooling wind falls at Cow Falls
　　　　I did not think summer was bitter
　　　○Four Seasons of Eastern Pilgrimage (Six poems)　　Fukui Yoshimasa
　　　New Year at Kinuura
　In the chilly morning at Kinuura
　　　　The waves of a thousand generations have begun to rise
　　　Mist of Himejima
　Hidden in the mist of Himejima
　　　　The small boats of commoners gathering shellfish at low tide
　　　Lesser Cuckoo at Irago Cape
　Singing once and departing from the pines of Irago Cape
　　　　The cuckoo goes far into the Ise Sea
　　　Autumn Leaves on Mount Miyaji
　The foothills of Mount Miyaji begin to darken in mist
　　　　Evening sun illuminates the autumn leaves on the peak

　　　Storm at Nagashino
　As if wondering whether it might be the sound of arrow-cries
　　　　The fierce wind blows through Nagashino valley
　　　Snow at Hōrai Temple
　The Misaka slope we climb is also buried in snow
　　　　Looking up, the peak's Yakushi Buddha cannot be distinguished
　　　　～～～～～～～～～～～～
　　　○Miscellaneous Poems on Famous Sites of Eastern Mikawa　　Kakuen Gan
　　　Toyokawa Pavilion
　After praying in red skirts at the white fox shrine. Spring wind outside the forest ■sake■. Each
　jade-like slender hand indulges freely in drunken play. Competing to pluck green wheat to blow as reed pipes.
　　　Smoke Rock Mountain
　Evening sun breaks through ancient Smoke Rock with a roar. Daring to let the giant spirit indulge freely ■■. Embracing a blue
　qin diagonally while climbing stone walkways. Suddenly commanding white deer and scolding jeweled bits. The sun and moon of all heavens
　encircle golden millet. In the distant bay, clouds and mist reveal brocade sails. Plucking by hand one flower of the flat peach

Seven