[Right Page]
(This is a work that does not accord with ancient times.) ○ In works such as Futabamasu, based on this theory, the Yahagi River is still called Yahagi River today, the Toyo River (also called Ane River) refers to present-day Yoshida River, and the Otoko River (also called Fushito River or Oto River) refers to either present-day Ōhira River or the river that forms the border with Owari Province. (The Kojiki-den also mentions this theory.)

Also in Futabamasu, citing another theory: "Toto River was originally Ato River. When Ōnamuchi-no-mikoto traveled around the various provinces, his footprints remain in various provinces to this day. His footprints are said to be in the fields of Chiryū. In Suga Kiyokō's record, footprints are read as 'toto,' so considering various sources, this would refer to Chiryū post station. (This is not a name derived from the commonly mentioned three rivers.) (West of that river, west of present-day Oka village, there is another stream. This is a boundary river that flows into the sea together with the western stream of Chiryū. These) (in Mikawa Province) (are the two eastern mouths. Therefore, Toyo River is a rice field. Now, in the continuation of Oka village, there is a place name Imo River. Now it is corrupted to Imo River, but it is not in West Mikawa Province. Imo is a common term for women, and these two streams would be Female River and Male River. If so) (it would be clear that this connects with the western stream of Chiryū as the Male River)."

[Left Page]
○ According to the theory in Uchiyama Shinryū's Kokugō-kō (I have not yet seen the complete work): "Mikawa, Mino, and Owari together formed the terrain of one province, but there is no record of them being established separately. In ancient times, it was not called Mikawa Province, but rather Koromo, Takasu, Moroka, Hoo, Otsuki, etc. The reference to Mikawa-no-koromo-no-kimi in the Kojiki is a retrospective account. The later theory that the province was named after the Male River, Toyo River, and Yahagi River is quite a folk explanation. Even when written as 'three rivers,' it means the sacred river of Kamo. In the Suinin Chronicle, Ōnakatsuhiko-no-mikoto is the ancestor of Koromo-no-wake and Takasu-moroka-no-wake, and Prince Ochiwake is the ancestor of Otsuki-no-yama. This is the beginning. For Otsuki, there is now Tsukiyama Township at the foot of Mount Kuwachihara in Kamo District." The Seishi-roku states that "Otsuki-yama-no-kimi are descendants of Ochiwake-no-mikoto." Generally, the lands belonging to the Yahagi River - Koromo Township and Tsukiyama Township in Kamo District, and north of Yamaami in Nukata District - in ancient times

Wakō 5

[Right Page Header]
○ In Minister Karasumaru Mitsuhiro's Tōji-ki from Genna 4, the location of Oto River is like present-day Ōhira River.

○ In Yamazaki Ansai's Gayūki-kō as well, Ōhira River was formerly called Otoko River. Today it is also commonly called Otto River (Husband River).