[Right page]

The Shishō-zu states: "In ancient times, the residence of the provincial governor was called shi-no-kanfu (today the name Fuchū still remains). In later warring states period, there were ōryōji (military commissioners)." (There are various theories about this.)

○The site of the ancient fu probably extended from the present-day area of Hachiman Hakuchō Kubo to the vicinity of the present Kokufu. According to the accounts of old people, the ancient highway passed north of present-day Akasaka and reached Sagi-saka (even now, a small hill in front of the gate of Saimyōji temple in Hachiman village is called Sagi-saka. The Taiheiki, volume 14, folio 12, records a battle at Sagi-saka in the tenth month of Kenmu 2 [1335]). It connected to Kami-juku (within Hachiman territory; said to be the ancient Goyu post station), Hachiman, and led to Toyokawa post station (from present-day Furujuku village to Toyokawa village was probably the ancient Toyokawa post station). From the vicinity of present-day Sanmyōji, it passed through Tōko-wada, Kaneda, Iwasaki (where there is a shrine to the tutelary deity Kuragake; Lord Yoritomo dedicated a saddle there during the Kenkyū period) and others, crossed mountain passes, emerged at Unoya (at Fumon-ji there are remains from when Lord Yoritomo traveled to the capital during the Kenkyū period), and reached Hashimoto. This is said to have been the main highway in ancient times.

○In the Izu Nikki, under the entry for the third month of Eiryaku 1 when Minamoto no Yoritomo went to his place of exile in Izu: "On the 25th day, lodged at Yahagi. On the 26th day, rested at the mansion of Ōe no Nyūdō Teigen in Toyokawa, etc. On the same day, lodged at Hamana."

○In the Genpei Seisuiki (Volume 23, folio 9), in the section on the Taira clan's eastern expedition in Jishō 4 (1180): "On the fourth day of the tenth month, arrived at Yahagi in Mikawa Province. On the fifth day, arrived at Toyokawa in the same province. On the sixth day, arrived at Hashimoto in Tōtōmi Province, etc."

[Left page]

○In the Azuma Kagami (Volume 32, folio 5), under the entry for the second month of Katei 4 (1238) regarding Shogun Yoriie's journey to the capital: "On the 7th day, mizunoe-hitsuji, arrived at the Hashimoto station, etc. On the 8th day, kinoe-saru, etc., arrived at the Toyokawa post station, etc. On the 9th day, kinoto-tori, entered the Yahagi post station, etc."

○The same book (Volume 32, folio 31), under the entry for the return journey on the same 10th day: "On the 18th day, tsuchinoto-hitsuji, etc. Entered the Yahagi post station, etc. On the 19th day, kanoe-saru, etc. At the first hour of inu [7-9 PM], arrived at the Toyokawa station. On the 20th day, kanoto-tori, etc. At the hour of tatsu [7-9 AM], departed from Motono-hara, etc. At the hour of tori [5-7 PM], lodged at Hashimoto, etc."

○The same book (Volume 10, folio 64), under the entry for the twelfth month of Kenkyū 3 (1192) regarding Lord Yoritomo's return to Kantō: "On the 18th day Oguma, on the 19th day lodged in the Miyaji mountains. On the 20th day Hashimoto, etc."

○The Jōō Kaidō-ki states: "Chiryū or Baba. Lodged at Yatsuhashi Yahagi station. Lodged at Akasaka Motono-ga-hara, Toyokawa station. Passed through Mineno-hara, Takashi mountain, etc., and lodged at Hashimoto."

○The Ninji Michi-no-ki also shows: "Futamura mountain, Hachiman, lodged at Yahagi. Passed through Miyaji mountain, Akasaka, Homuno-ga-hara, Toyokawa, Takashi mountain and lodged at Hashimoto."

○All of these show the pattern of going from the vicinity of present-day Sagi-saka to Hachiman, passing through Toyokawa post station, and emerging at Hashimoto.

Wakō 14