across the valley, and some were shot down, many suffered wounds before their eyes and lost their lives. Tsutsui's arrows ran low and were exhausted, so he said "What shall we do now? We cannot win, this is hardly even a battle. It is useless to merely create more sins. Come, let us resolve ourselves," and he stabbed the governor of Awa and fell together with him. The remaining four men also intimately stabbed each other to death. The thirteen mounted retainers also charged into the large force, with four or five riders pressing against each one in combat, but being few against many there was no way to win, and they were all struck down. The heads of the nineteen horsemen were hung at Motono-ga-hara.

●"When we emerged onto Homu-no-kawara, the seas in all directions appeared faintly with no mountains or hills, giving the feeling of looking out over a thousand ri of the plains of Qin, with both grass and earth vast and boundless. One wondered what the view would be like on a moonlit night, feeling drawn to it. In the bamboo grass plains there were many trodden paths, and though one might easily lose one's way, the willows that the late Governor of Musashi (meaning Taira no Yasutoki) had ordered his guides to plant, though not yet grown enough to provide reliable shade, serve at least as markers for the road, which is touching."

●From the Jinji Michi no Ki:
"The willow grove left masterless where someone once planted—do people still rely upon its shade?"
Passing in front of the lodging called Yokawa...

●Upon consideration, in Toyokawa village there is a shrine called Chimoto-sha with one old willow tree, which someone said is that historic site. ●According to Hakuun, "The thousand willows of Eastern Mikawa refers to the willows of Motono-ga-hara. There was a tradition of using them for writing desks, and there was once an order from certain daimyo to supply them. These willows were planted by the Governor of Musashi. It is said that even now there are willows at Yo-kawa-bayashi."

●From Gessei Collection, Upper Volume　　　　Lord Gokogoku Yoshitsune
"The dew drops on the small bush clover transplanted to the garden—do they long for the autumn of Motono-no-hara?"

○　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Lord Kōshun  
"Do they yearn for Motono-no-hara where they once dwelt? Are the insects troubled by being buried?"

○According to Senk ō's investigation, for Otowa River there is now a river slightly east of Sekiya in Nagasawa village, called Otowa River, and upstream there is also something called Otowa Mound. The lower reaches of this river flow out to Goyu. This must be it. If so, it matches the description in the Jōkyū-ki of "attacking Miyaji-yama and dismounting at the edge of Otowa River." This entire area was probably called Otowa-gō in ancient times, as I recall seeing "Otowa-gō" written on an old roof tablet of the tutelary deity Gaku Daimyōjin of the same village (it was from the Ashikaga period but I have forgotten the exact year).

According to Chōki: "The 'Motono-no-hara' in these two poems is probably not referring to Motono-hara. If we consider the meaning of the poems, it seems to mean 'longing for the original plain where one once dwelt.' I don't clearly remember the source, but in Zōboku-shō it says 'the insects troubled in the insect house.' This should be considered more carefully."

Ancient Poem Study, Volume Two, Part Six