○Fujino Village (Fujino-no-mura)　●According to "Mikawa Moshio-gusa," this refers to Fujigaike village in Shimojō district, Yana county. According to the
　　　　　　　oral tradition of the village elders, in ancient times they presented wisteria flowers to the emperor, and even today there are many
　　　　　　　colorful wisteria flowers. ●According to Haku, perhaps this refers to Hachiman village.
　　　●According to "Sanpo-matsu," it's called lower Hachiman, or also called Fujigaike. ●"Moshio-gusa" volume 6, page 24, Fujino village (Mikawa)

　●"Fuboku-shū"　volume 31, miscellaneous 13　　Poems on famous places in Mikawa Province by Tadatada Asomi, Fujino village (Mikawa)　Fujiwara no Munekuni
　What appeared to be spinning purple thread was the wisteria flowers in full bloom in Fujino village
　●Same　same　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiwara no Michitsune
　Without banks, the wisteria waves of Fujino village hang upon the treetops of the pines

○Mineno Plain (Mineno-no-hara)　　●"Matsuba-shū" volume 13　Mikawa　●"Ruiji meisho gaishū" same　●"Moshio-gusa" (also volume 6, page 23, Mineno village　listed as Mikawa) volume 3, page 13　same
　　　　　　　●According to "Mikawa Moshio-gusa," at the foot of Mount Ishimaki in Yana county, within Suseyama village, here there is an ancient temple
called Chikubera-san Fumon-ji, which enshrines Kannon, said to be the ancient Mineno-ji temple. "Sanpo-matsu" says the same.
　As mentioned above, Mineno is to the east of the river after crossing the Toyokawa ferry. This connects Shigasuga ferry
　directly to the opposite bank of the Toyokawa as Ima Bridge, which is today's Honzaka crossing road. To travel to Kantō,
　one exits Suseyama village, crosses Honzaka at the border between Mikawa and Tōtōmi, meets at Mikkaichi post station,
　and also connects Shikasuga ferry to Imahashi village, reaching the foot of Mount Takashi and going to Mikkaichi
　post station in Tōtōmi Province. From today's Tōkaidō Futagawa-Shirasuka, on the left mountain side there is an ancient
　road called the Kamakura road. South of Mikkaichi post station, there are ruins of Hamana Bridge. What is said to be between today's Tōkaidō Shirasuka and Arai
　is not the ancient ruins. Kamo no Chōmei's poem "Yama no ha" appears to have been composed when crossing Honzaka.
　●According to Haku, facing northeast of Futagawa, traveling about one and a half ri, within Kanza village, commonly called Suyama, halfway up a large mountain