●"Senzai-shū" volume 16, Miscellaneous, Part 1. Among the hundred poems, one composing on pine - Minister of Public Works Akinori
　Harvesting seaweed at Irago Cape, the rock-rooted pine - through how many ages has it grown old? (Also recorded in "Haku")
　●This poem is also recorded in "Horikawa Hyakushu" Part 2 with the topic "Pine."

●"Shoku Gosen-shū" volume 12, Love 2. Topic unknown - Fujiwara no Michinobu  
　The fishermen of Irago who harvest seaweed - like me, without a moment to dry, their sleeves must be constantly wet (Also recorded in "Haku")

●"Shoku Go Shūi-shū" volume 3, Summer. On "Cuckoo passing early" - Former Middle Counselor Masafusa
　The fishermen harvesting at Irago Cape - the cuckoo calls before even finishing announcing its name (Also recorded in "Haku" and "Matsu")
　●This poem is also recorded in "Fuboku-shū" volume 26, Miscellaneous 8, among cuckoo poems.

●Same collection, volume 15, Miscellaneous, Part 1. On "Pine by the seashore" - Priest Prince of the Second Rank Kakushō
　Wind blows across Irago Cape's shore-bent pine - when the tide recedes, wave flowers have bloomed (Also recorded in "Haku")
　●This poem is also recorded in "Fuboku-shū" volume 26, Miscellaneous 8, in a 360-round poetry contest by Prince Kitain of the Second Rank.

●"Horikawa Hyakushu" Part 2. Sea route - Middle Counselor Kuninobu
　A ship entering where waves break at Irago Cape - row quickly across, for island mist is rising (Also recorded in "Haku" and "Matsu")
　●This poem is recorded in "Fuboku-shū" volume 26, Miscellaneous 8, from the hundred poems of Emperor Horikawa's time: "A ship entering where waves break at Irago Cape - row quickly across, for island mist is rising."

　　　　When crossing to Irago, seeing that "igai" (a type of shellfish) are like clams
　　　　that contain the source of pearls, and their shells after harvesting
　　　　were piled up high
●"Sankashū" - Priest Saigyō
　Piling up the shells of pearl-bearing igai - showing us the traces of treasure

Ancient Song Studies, Part Two, 18