Traveling far and wide, there is a place called Mineno-no-hara. Soon reaching Takashi Mountain,
　　treading on stone profit and passing over Daiteki Mountain, at Yakeno-ga-hara grass shoots emerge and the treetops
　　raise colored smoke. Going far through this forest land, there is Sakai River in the mountains. From here one crosses
　　into Tōtōmi Province.
　　　〽Even going down, if called high, what shall I do - the barrier of the eastern road of a journey without climbing
　　Descending south over this mountain pass and looking far down, the blue sea rolls wave upon wave
　　and white clouds sink deeply," it says,
●In Minamoto no Mitsuyuki's Michi-no-ki from Ninji 3 (this is what is commonly called Chōmei's Michi-no-ki): "At the border of Mikawa and Tōtōmi
　　there is what is known as Takashi Mountain. While crossing over the mountain, valley streams flow down and the waves at the rocky rapids
　　sound magnificent. This is called Sakai River.
　　　〽Following the rocks, horses cross the valley river - the sound too has come to Takashi Mountain"
　　(Note: This poem is also recorded in Fuboku-shū Volume 20, Miscellaneous 2, attributed to Minamoto no Mitsuyuki) - this indicates a mountain straddling the border of both provinces.
●In Master Sōgi's Meisho Hōgaku-shō: "North of Takashi Mountain are mountains, south is the sea, with plains in between. Beyond lies
　　Shiomi Slope. Mount Fuji is visible. At the beach below this slope there is a lodging place commonly called Shirasuga,
　　which is Shirasuga Port." This is evidence referring to the mountain on this side of Shiomi Slope.
　　　The reason I think it also referred to the area around present-day Shiomi Slope is:
○In Lord Masatsune's personal collection (Lower Volume), descending Takashi Mountain at Shirasuga Beach:
　　　〽Offshore winds, sounds too crossing over Takashi Mountain, waves washing ashore at Shirasuga Beach
　　　The reason Mount Fuji is visible (this is because even now that mountain can be clearly seen from this side of Shiomi Mound)
●Fuboku-shū (Volume 20, Miscellaneous 2)　　(When returning to the capital, at Takashi Mountain) Middle Palace Minister Prince Munetaka
　　　〽Fuji's base - taking this as the final farewell, gazing back at Takashi Mountain
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Koka-kō, Lower Volume, 25