●Same (Same volume, same section)　　　　　　Monk Jichin
　　When wind blows, white waves strike once against Takashi Mountain - who would cross over?
●Same (Same volume, same section)　　　　　　Lord Masaari
　　At Takashi Mountain, in the direction where there are no pines, is it the pine wind or the sound of shore waves at the village below? (Ho)
●Same (Same volume) Jōō 3rd year, hundred poems　　Lord Ieka
　　Having finished crossing Takashi Mountain at evening and resting, I see seaweed salt being burned on the beach below
●Same (Volume 23, Miscellaneous 5) Personal collection, Einin 6th year, distant view while traveling　Hōgen Keiyū
　　Having come over Takashi Mountain and looked, the beach pines stretch in a single line far across the bay inlet (Ho)
　　(●In the same collection, next to this poem: "Takase Mountain - crossing in the morning, waves ripple over the inlet of beach pines," attributed to Former Middle Counselor Tamekane. "Takase Mountain" is likely an error for "Takashi Mountain," according to the current Anmeiseki-kō. ●Keichū's Hoyoku-shō states that Takase Mountain and Takashi Mountain are the same)
All these poems are evidence of its location by the sea. (This sea likely refers to the present-day coastal area of Motoshirasuga and such places. Also, in ancient times, between Takashi Village and Ueda Village, there was a bay inlet extending eastward for about one ri, and it is said that seaweed salt was burned there, so it may refer to that area as well. This should be further considered and determined.)
That it is also close to a lake is evident from:
●In Abutsu-ni's Izayoi Nikki: "Crossing Takashi Mountain, gazing at the lake was most interesting. The sea wind was rough, the pine trees' sound eerie, and the waves very high."
　　Is it for me that the waves are high at this Takashi beach? The wind at the harbor of sleeves does not cease
●Shoku-Kokin (Volume 10, Travel) (When going east, seeing the unclouded moon at the lodging of Hamana Bridge) Taira no Masamura
　　Having crossed Takashi Mountain at evening and grown dark, I see Hamana Bridge at the foot in the moonlight
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Koka-kō, Lower Volume, 28