How could I pledge to follow the path of reality, if there were no君 to awaken me from dreams?
　●Ninji Michi no Ki (Record of the Ninji Era Journey)
　　　　　　Departing from a place called Yahagi, as we crossed over Miyaji Mountain, there is a post station
　　　　　　called Akasaka. It is a pitiful tale that Ōe no Sadamoto left his home because of a woman
　　　　　　who was there. The path by which people attain religious awakening has various causes, and though he regretted an
　　　　　　unsatisfying parting, it seems admirable that he turned around even his deluded heart and headed toward the true path.
　　　Promising not to part, the kudzu leaves grew thick to the end - how could they return in a different direction?
　　　●In the Genpei Jōsuiki, volume 45, page 2, in the section on Minister Munemori's journey to the east, it says: "Having crossed Miyaji Mountain, we came to what is called Akasaka
　　　　post station. The Mikawa lay monk, Ōe no Sadamoto, being separated from a courtesan of this post station named Rikiju, perhaps thought it desirable to enter the true
　　　　path," etc. The same work, volume 7, page 23, also records that Ōe no Sadamoto was appointed Mikawa Governor,
　　　　parted from the Akasaka courtesan Rikiju, awakened to religious life, and became a monk, etc.
　　　●In the Uji Shūi Monogatari, volume 4, page 11, in the section titled "What We Hear About the Mikawa Lay Monk's Renunciation of the World," it says: When the Mikawa lay monk was
　　　　still a layman, he divorced his former wife and became infatuated with a young woman of good appearance,
　　　　made her his wife, and brought her down to Mikawa. This woman fell ill for a long time, and
　　　　her once-beautiful appearance declined until she died. In his overwhelming grief, he could
　　　　do nothing else but speak with her night and day and kiss her mouth, whereupon a terrible
　　　　smell came from her mouth, and disgust arose in his heart, so he buried her while weeping.
　　　　From then on he came to think that the world was a sorrowful thing (middle section omitted), and immediately
　　　　that day he left the provincial office, went up to Kyoto, and became a monk. (remainder omitted)
　　　　　This matter is recorded in the old version of Konjaku Monogatarishū, volume 19, saying "In the Konjaku, in the reign of Emperor En'yū-in, there was a person called Mikawa Governor
　　　　　Ōe no Sadamoto," etc. The text differs, but the facts are the same - this should be considered together.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kokakō Volume 2, Page 41