there should be a Shihatsu Mountain. The annotation reads "Shihato," but "to" and "tsu" are phonetically equivalent through the five-sound correspondence. (This is like how Kadono is written as "Kazuno" in the Nihon-ki, and Takamaru is written as "Takamatsu" in the Man'yōshū.) In the Kōtoku Chronicle there is a person named Kawabe no Omi Shihatsu, and Kasayui is also in Mikawa, etc. (The Katchi Tokai-hen says much the same.) Section on Kasanui Island

●According to the Man'yō-kō by Shinto priest Arakida Hisaoi, "Shihatsu Mountain is in Mikawa Province. This appears in the Wamyō-shō, etc. This must be it. As for Kasanui, someone says it is in Mino Province. This may well be so."

●Shinto priest Watanabe Masayō sent word in a letter saying: "When I was young, I climbed Shihatsu Mountain in Hazu District and looked at the sea. There was an island shaped like a hat, belonging to Atsumi District. The area beside it is called Oitsu-shima Warabe-no-ura. When I asked an old man cutting firewood about the names of that island and this mountain, he answered that the island was Kasa-shima and the mountain was Hatsu-yama. When I asked again whether there was a reason for calling it 'Hatsu,' he replied that in ancient times it was called Shihatsu-yama, but the first part was omitted and it came to be called Hatsu-yama. The small boats circling that island presented the very scenery sung about in the Man'yōshū poem, so I suddenly recalled the theory of the monk Keichū that 'Shihato Mountain is in Mikawa.' I visited Shihatsu Shrine in the nearby Tsunohira Village, and seeing that the mountain groves were sacred and the land very ancient, the Shihato Village mentioned in the Wamyō-shō probably referred to this general area. Since it is a mountain in Shihatsu Village, it is natural to call it Shihatsu Mountain. Kasa-shima was probably also called Kasanui-no-shima in ancient times, but was later abbreviated to two characters as is common, or perhaps one character was omitted."

●However, the Yakumo Mishō lists "Shihatsu-yama (Buzen)" and "Kasayui (Buzen)" and "Kasanui (Bungo)" (perhaps the same place as Yui, but listed separately), and the Meisho Hōgaku-shō lists Shibatsu Mountain and Kasayui Island under Buzen Province. Also, the Ruiji Meisho-shū, Matsuba-shū, Aki no Nezame, etc., place them in Bungo Province.

●Furthermore, in Motoori-ōjin's Tamakatsuma, Ban Kōkei's preface to Katchi Tokai-hen, Tachibana Chikage's Man'yō Ryaku-ge, etc., both Shihatsu Mountain and Kasanui Island are said to be in Settsu Province. This should be considered more carefully before deciding.

Kokka-kō, Volume 2, Page 58