○Komochi Mountain (Komochiyama)　In Keichū's Ruiji Meisho Gaishū it is listed under Mikawa (though it says "eastern provinces"), and in the Man'yō Ryakuge it appears to be a place name. In the same work's Kensetsu section it is placed under provinces and districts unknown, and in Aki no Nezame it is listed as uncertain. This should be studied more carefully.

●Man'yōshū (Volume 14)
Komochiyama (Komochi Mountain), wagakaherudeNo (of my returning path), momidumade (until the autumn leaves), nemotowahamo (I will lie at its base), nahaadomofu (you too shall follow) (Outside Mikawa Province)

○Related Poems
●Fubokushū (Book 4, Spring 4)　　　　　　　　Toshiyori Ason
At Komochi Mountain growing up in the valley's embrace, I see flowers held in every leaf of every tree (Outside Mikawa Province)

●Rokujō (Book 6) Kaete　　　　　　　　　　　Tadafusa
At Komochi Mountain, on my returning path until the autumn leaves, I think to sleep, but how fares my beloved? (Outside Mikawa Province)


○Star River (Hoshikawa)　In Ruiji Meisho Gaishū (2) it is listed as Mikawa (Fuboku 24).

●Fubokushū (24, Miscellaneous 6)　Hoshikawa, province unknown　　Mitsutoshi Ason
As dawn breaks and the sky grows distant, in the star river even my reflection seems to disappear (Outside Mikawa Province)
The left annotation states: "This poem was composed when he was staying at a place called Hoshikawa on his return from a pilgrimage to Kashima Shrine, as he departed at dawn."

●According to Wada Anzen: "The Hoshikawa in Gaishū might be a mistake for Hosokawa, but that is listed separately with the poem 'Hosokawa no... mine no kasumeru.' Also, Aki no Nezame has 'Hoshikawa, Ise' with the poem from Nayose: 'Kagiri areba hashi to zo naranu kasasagi no tateru shirushi ni Hoshikawa no mizu, Chōmei.' This is also included in Gaishū as Fuboku 24, with the second phrase as 'hashi to wa naranu' and the fourth phrase as 'tateru shirushi.' In that case, it would not be an error for Ise. This should be considered."

Kokka-kō, Volume 2, Page 59