he states.

●According to Keiyū's opinion, in Sōgi's "Hōgaku-shō" (folio 47) under the Ise Province section, it states: "Hoshigawa Mountain is distant, Asake no sato, a lodging by the sea. The Hienaga River flows south. The bay is distant. 'Coming from Kuwana with additions, the morning air of Hoshikawa has passed, it is Hienaga,' etc." Therefore, it is clear that Hoshikawa is in Ise. On what basis did Keichū designate it as belonging to this province (Mikawa)? Later scholars should consider this more carefully.

●Anzen states: In "Meisho Gaishū," citing the saibara song "Nukigawa no yahara tamakura," Nukigawa was designated as belonging to this province. However, in "Ryōjin Guan-shō" it states "In Mino Province there is a place called Izu Nukigawa, abbreviated from Izu." Therefore, it would not be in this province (Mikawa). Considering that there are phrases like "yahagi no ichi ni kutsukai ni kan, mata uhamotori kite miyaji kayowan," he probably mistakenly thought it belonged to this province. This should be considered, he says.

●The aforementioned Yanase River, Yorami Plain, Shibatsu Mountain, Ikoma Mountain, Shinozuka, Komochi Mountain, Hoshigawa, etc., should be properly studied by later scholars to determine them based on correct evidence.

●Also, in "Moshiogusa" (vol. 3, folio 12) "Ihashi no hara," and in the same work (vol. 5, folio 32) "Haheko Cape" are designated as belonging to this province. However, the supporting poems and locations are not clear.

●Also, in "Mikawa San-po Matsu," it lists "Haheko Cape (according to one theory in 'Futaba Matsu,' this might be Irago, probably Iroko Cape)," "Ihashi no hara ('Futaba Matsu' states 'this location is unknown; considering, there is Kamiji no hara in Nukada District')," "Katsumata Pond," "Noshima Cape." Though these are said to be famous places, their locations are completely unknown. Ōta Hakusetsu, Sano Kenbutsu and others searched extensively, but the locations remain unknown, it states.

●Considering Katsuamada Pond, there is a poem in Man'yōshū volume 16. In "Aki no Nezame," "Ruiji Meisho-shū," etc., it is placed in Shimōsa, while in "Meisho Eikaku" according to Kiyosuke's theory it is in Mimasaka Province. In Akinaka's "Ryōgyoku-shū" it appears to be in Yamato Province. There are various theories, it states. In Keichū's "Tokai-hen" (upper volume, folio 24), in the Man'yōshū left annotation,

Kokka-kō, Volume 2, Page 60