"Prince Niitabe went out from within the capital and viewed Katsuamada Pond," and citing this, states it was in Yamato Province, Soenokami District (around Yakushiji Temple area). Also regarding Noshima Cape, in the same volume it states in "Ruiji-shū" that it was in Awa Province (Ōmi and Awaji have places of the same name), but in Man'yōshū volume 3, Hitomaro's poem has "Awaji no Noshima no mae," and in volume 6, Akahito's poem has "Awaji no Noshima no amako," so it is Awaji. When this was changed to "Azuma-ji" in the Senzai-shū, people thought "Awaji" meant "Awa-michi" (Awa road) and designated it as Awa Province. Also, misunderstanding "Awa-michi" as "Afumi-ji" (Ōmi road), in the Fūga-shū it was also composed as Ōmi Province. He explains this in even greater detail. One should consult the main volume.

●Also, in Lord Fujiwara no Masayasu's "Kantō Kaidō-ki" from Meiō 8 (1499), following the poem about Shiomi-saka, there is: "Resting briefly in the shade of pines at a place called Koi no Matsubara (Pine Grove of Love), 'Who in ancient times first gave this name to Koi no Matsubara, after the cold demeanor of one who waits?'" This is followed by a poem about Yahagi village. The location is not detailed. In "San-po Matsu" it presents the poem "Ōshima ya Kojima ga saki no Hotoke-jima, suzume no mori ni Koi no Matsubara" and states "The common people传 this as a composition by Lord Shunzei." Considering this, there is now a place called Koi no Matsubara on the western seashore of Fusō, where those Ōshima, Kojima, and Hotoke-jima islands can be seen spread before one's eyes. One might think this could be the place, but since that area was not on the official road of that time, how could it be? This should be carefully considered and determined.

●Also, in the "Fuji Kikō" by Lord Fujiwara no Masayo and the monk Gyōkō, there are three poems composed about something called "Futago-zuka" (Twin Mounds). This also appears in continuation with Shiomi-saka and would be within this province.

Kokka-kō, Volume 2, Page 61