They were deeply shocked. In this earthquake, more than anywhere else, the area from Hashiba to Asakusa and Yoshiwara experienced particularly intense shaking, and the extent of the devastation described above makes this clear. This too has been illustrated here for the benefit of future generations and people from other provinces.

△The neighborhoods in front of Daiōnji Temple to the west of the same area also suffered great collapse and fires, as described above. In Tanaka-shin and the Torikoe area, there were an extremely large number of collapsed houses.
△In Chizuka-gō, at Chōkokuji Temple and the main shrine of Washi Daimyōjin, the main shrine was damaged, and the monks' quarters and stone monuments suffered severe damage. Residences and townhouses in this area also collapsed extensively.
△In Ryūsenji-chō and the surrounding four directions, there were many collapsed houses.

[21] From Yoshiwara, Nihonzutsumi, the sedge-hat teahouses (amigasa-jaya) lining both sides of Tamachi for two blocks, and Sodezuri Inari Shrine (first block), the area burned as far as the mouth of Mitsuya-bori canal. The surviving townhouses to the west of the same area also suffered major damage and fires, as described above.

[22] To the east, the main shrine of Masaki Inari on the Sumida River suffered no damage, though its torii gate and stone lanterns were shattered. Many private homes in the surrounding area of Asajigahara collapsed. The riverbank along the great river burned from the Hashiba ferry landing southward as far as the Zeniza (coin mint). The Fukujuin and Hōkenji Temple on the west side suffered major damage, with monks' quarters collapsing, and the fire reached as far as the temple's front-gate neighborhood. In Imado-chō in the same area, Rensōji, Myōkōji, and Chōshōji temples suffered damage to their main halls and severe damage to the monks' quarters, with many other collapses. Anshōji and Shōfukuji temples also had many areas of collapse.

[23] In Imado-chō to the north of Imado Bridge, one block on the east side of Imado-chō burned. On the west side, Shōrinji, Hon'iji, and Keiyōji temples suffered major damage with many collapses. The state of the fallen and scattered stone monuments and stone lanterns at these temples was beyond description. △To the south, Mitsuya Bridge, Jaribā, Shin-Torikoe 1-chōme, the lower section (Kawara-chō), and the villages to the east of Matsuchiyama were utterly destroyed.