【Upper Right Box Title】
【Title】Wealthy Merchants' Tearful Competition

【Content from upper right】
Tame (The Frugal One):
"Sir, master of the disaster house, what do you think of this great earthquake being unprecedented? There has never been such a great calamity in Edo since ancient times. We are suffering greatly from internal damages. All 123 of my properties have been severely damaged, and 56 or 60 of them have burned down. In addition, 68 bathhouses and hairdressers' establishments [that I own shares in] were damaged. Moreover, the cargo from upstream was destroyed and worthless. I am so discouraged that I feel completely deflated. Under these circumstances, house rents and interest on loans will have to be written off for the time being. The damage to houses and storehouses is the worst in society, so it cannot be helped. We should be grateful that at least we weren't burned out and no one was injured. All my assets marked with ○ symbols have been lost, and I am truly at a loss. Since there is no other way to deal with this misery, I intend to begin strict economizing. The first area of frugality will be food. For breakfast, I'll have thin rice gruel made from leftover evening tea. For lunch, just two pickled plums each time. For dinner, pickled vegetables with tea over rice. Fresh fish and meat only on the five seasonal festivals, and even then only dried fish. Although rice prices have dropped considerably, they still haven't reached affordable levels. Imported rice is still quite expensive, so I'll buy old rice at about 1.5-1.6 koku and make do with rice of about 3.5 quality to make the accounts work. Besides this, I plan to cease all social relations with family and relatives for 20-30 years. Of course, no sightseeing for life, baths only six times a month, haircuts and shaving only every ten days, and not spending a single sen from my personal funds. Even with such economizing, I don't think this misery can be resolved in one or two generations, so I'm worried about the future. There's no other good option. I hope to live for 200 more years, restore my original fortune, and pass it on to future generations."

Son (The Loss-Sufferer):
"Indeed, as the saying goes, making money and mortal illness are both painful things. Money doesn't accumulate easily at all. I think it's dangerous for wealthy people in society to store large amounts of gold and silver coins. If thieves break in and steal them, all that I've saved by not eating proper food and not enjoying pleasures would be lost in one swoop. So instead of keeping gold, I store everything in copper coins. That way, even if thieves break in, it's not such a serious matter. However, this earthquake has caused me great suffering. As you know, my houses are warped, my storehouses completely collapsed, and there are four or five places that need to be rebuilt. I'm troubled by where to put the wall earth, so I'm renting vacant lots in side streets to store it. Moreover, over sixty of my storehouses in Fukagawa burned down completely with all their contents. On top of that, I can't collect on my loans, and those who owe me money have either defaulted or become insolvent. My villa is destroyed, wells are muddy - there's not a single good thing. People say the wealthy defecate gold, but I defecate copper coins. In contrast, working people make money and eat their fill of sake and delicacies [...] Thanks to the earthquake, this is what they call 'catfish's shadow fall.'"

Yoku (The Greedy One):
"Ah, my chest hurts so much. This time's [...] what I had crammed in [...] how pitiful. I've never [...] like this. Namu Amida Butsu [...] From now on for life [...] first standing up, so that descendants will forever remove their parents' worries [...] I swear and pray. Ah, my chest is getting queasy again. As Izaemon would say, 'Damn that catfish, my chest feels awful.'"

【Lower Right】
Yokufuka-inu (Greedy Dog):
"Woof woof! Serves you greedy [...] right. Usually showing no mercy or compassion, just being mean-spirited. Even for buying a single mon coin, while the catfish played around, you hoarded desperately. Now you have to give it all out at once. Stay alive [...] Such a face doesn't deserve to eat properly, but companions don't eat money [...]"