There was a great earthquake. Day of Wuzi: There was an earthquake. Day of Jichou: There was an earthquake, and at the hour of the Horse there was also great movement, and at the hour of the Goat there was movement again.

Respectfully noting: After this, there were continuous earthquakes in the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th months, but these are abbreviated here.

12th month, day of Xinchou: There was an earthquake, and one hundred pure-conduct monks were respectfully requested to come to the Daigokuden to recite the Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sūtra for three days in order to stop the earthquakes.

Same 5th year
○Ruijū Kokushi 《Section on Disasters and Anomalies》
Emperor Junna, 5th year of Tenchō, 6th month, day of Dingsi: There was an earthquake. Day of Jiwei: There was an earthquake. Day of Xinwei: There was thunder, rain fell, mountains collapsed and water overflowed. 《This passage is from the Imperial section》 Day of Jimao: There was a great earthquake. 7th month, day of Renzi: An imperial edict was issued saying: "Recently the virtue of Earth has been disrupted, mountains have collapsed and earthquakes have occurred. Strange phenomena do not create themselves - the fault truly lies with people. I suspect that one of the eight governmental principles has gone astray, or that something has lost its proper place. Speaking quietly of these errors, the responsibility lies with my own person. I fear and revere the majesty of Heaven and do not forget to reflect upon this. For those in the realm's prisons who suffer from false accusations or delays, let the officials re-examine and investigate their circumstances so they may obtain justice. Also, collect and bury the dead on roadsides, cover bones and bury rotting flesh. Do not use elderly people with white hair for corvée labor, and permanently grant lenient exemption from the corvée service of old men and conscripts. For those eighty years and older, as well as widowers, widows, orphans, and those unable to sustain themselves, grant gifts according to their rank, and quickly make this known so all may hear of it."

8th month, day of Jiazi: Right Minister of the Second Court Rank concurrently serving as Imperial Prince's Tutor, Fujiwara