Middle Counselor Gō conveniently served as superintendent
【vermillion writing】"Offerings to Twenty-two Shrines"
On the 5th day of the 12th month, Kanoto-Tori, there were special offerings to the twenty-two shrines. The senior noble was the Master of the Empress's Household《marginal note: omitted｜》This was for prayers regarding earthquakes.

On the 7th, around the hour of the Boar, there was an earthquake that shook quite severely《marginal note: Recently every day and night｜there are small earthquakes》postscript

【vermillion writing】"Era change"
On the 9th, due to celestial omens and earthquakes, it was decreed that there should be an era change, and both Doctors of Literature were ordered to select and submit the characters and reasoning for a new era name. Chamberlain Secretary Tokinori issued instructions to the Minister of the Left《marginal note: remainder omitted｜}}

On the 15th, today at the Great Hall of State there was a special hundred-seat Ninno-e ceremony. This was
【vermillion writing】"Prayers"
prayers for earthquakes. The senior noble was Provisional Grand Counselor Ietsugu《marginal note: remainder omitted｜}}

【vermillion writing】"Prayers"
Today also at Tōdaiji Temple there was a thousand-monk continuous sutra reading《marginal note: omitted｜}}This was also earthquake prayers《marginal note: omitted｜}}

From today at the seven great temples, with ten monks each for seven days, the Saishōō-kyō sutra was recited. The administrator was Junior Assistant Secretary Toshitada. This was earthquake prayers. At Enryakuji Temple, from today for five days, every day sixty monk-officials recited the Daihannya-kyō sutra《marginal note: This is earthquake prayers｜}}Today also at Onjōji Temple
【vermillion writing】"Prayers"
a hundred-seat Ninno lecture was performed《marginal note: This is earthquake prayers｜}}

On the 17th《marginal note: Era change｜}}the era name inquiry document was issued by Chamberlain Secretary Tokinori《marginal note: note omitted｜}}Eichō was selected and submitted《marginal note: This was deliberated and submitted by Middle Counselor Gō｜citing the Book of Later Han, etc.》and then received imperial approval《marginal note: internal｜}}
《marginal note: Was a general amnesty proclaimed?｜}}This was to be carried out following the precedent of the Tennen era, when there were also celestial omens and earthquakes.

On the 20th, early in the morning, there was an earthquake.