On the day of Tsuchinoto-U in the 5th month, one hundred monks were assembled in the Daigokuden (Great Audience Hall) to recite the Daihannya-kyō (Mahāprajñāpāramitā-sūtra) for seven days in order to eliminate disasters of earthquakes, epidemics, and calamities.

Jōwa 8 (841)
○ Shoku Nihon Kōki: On the day of Kinoe-Tora in the 2nd month of Jōwa 8, Shinano Province reported: "There was an earthquake that sounded like thunder, occurring approximately ninety-four times in one night. Walls and houses collapsed, causing damage to both public and private property."

The edict of the day of Mizunoto-Tori, the first day of the 7th month being Tsuchinoto-Mi, states: "Recently it has been reported that Izu Province suffered earthquake disasters, leaving villages incomplete, people injured, and some crushed or drowned to death. Spiritual reproof inevitably corresponds to bad governance. Reflecting on past precedents, I feel shame within my heart. Is it not said that people are the foundation of the state, and when the foundation is firm, the state is at peace? My innermost feelings truly contemplate the merits of nurturing and education, therefore I specially dispatch envoys to provide comfort and care. For people whose residences have been scattered and livelihoods lost, the envoys shall consult with local provincial officials to exempt the current year's taxes and tributes, open granaries for relief, and assist in rebuilding houses. For those who have died, attend to their burial. Where the transformation of Heaven extends, there is no distinction between civilized and barbarian; where benevolence spreads, it must encompass both interior and exterior. It is proper to bestow generous care universally regardless of whether they are ordinary people or barbarians, fully extending magnanimous love to fulfill my compassionate intentions."

Kajō 3 (850)
○ Montoku Jitsuroku: On the day of Kanoe-Saru in the 10th month of Kajō 3, Dewa Province reported: "The earth shook violently and cracked, mountains and valleys changed positions, and many died from being crushed."

The edict of the day of Hinoe-Saru in the 11th month states: "The destruction of Dewa Province was entirely due to the shaking of the bronze dragon, and the people of the border region suffered harm from rapacious birds in vain. The villages and dwellings shook violently, and while treading on the thick earth and bearing the high sky..."