[Right Page]
On the 6th day, Hinoto-Ushi, a rainbow descended upon the Eastern Palace, its tail reaching to heaven, and the rainbow entered the Imperial Treasury Bureau《Marginal note: omitted》. That night there was an earthquake《Marginal note: omitted》. On the 30th day, Kanoto-Ushi, at the hour of the Monkey, the earth shook violently, lasting for several hours, and the trembling still did not cease. The Emperor left the Jijūden and was in the southern courtyard of the Shishinden, commanding the Ministry of the Treasury to erect a seven-jō curtained enclosure as the imperial residence. The buildings of various government offices and houses in the eastern and western parts of the capital successively collapsed, with many crushed to death, and some lost consciousness and died suddenly. At the hour of the Boar, there were three more tremors. The Five Home Provinces and Seven Circuits throughout the provinces experienced great earthquakes on the same day, many government buildings were damaged, and sea tides flooded the land, with countless drowning deaths《Marginal note: omitted》. On the 4th day of the 8th month, Kinoto-Mi, there were five earthquakes. On this day, above the Tachichi Gate there appeared a phenomenon like smoke but not smoke, like a rainbow but not a rainbow, which flew up and reached heaven. Someone who saw this said, "These are winged ants"《Marginal note: omitted》. On the 12th day, Mizunoto-Ushi, herons gathered on top of the Byakko Tower of the Chōdōin and the Seika Tower of the Burakuin. According to divination by the Bureau of Onmyō, "one should be cautious of fire incidents."

[Left Page]
On the 13th day, Kinoe-Tora, there was an earthquake, and herons gathered on the ridge-end ornaments of the south gate of Burakuin. On the 14th day, Kinoto-U, at the hour of the Rat, there was an earthquake. On the 15th day, Hinoe-Tatsu, at the hour of the Sheep, herons gathered on the eastern ridge-end ornaments of Burakuden《Marginal note: omitted below》.

According to the Kōtei Kishō, on the 9th day of the 7th month of the 1st year of Bunji, at the hour of the Sheep, there was a great earthquake. Temples, shrines, pagodas, and houses in and around the capital mostly collapsed, trees broke and fell, mountains and rivers all changed, and there were many deaths. Thereafter, without rest for over forty days consecutively, people all suffered distress, their minds and spirits as if intoxicated.

According to Chōmei's Hōjōki, around the 2nd year of Genryaku, a great earthquake occurred. Its appearance was extraordinary—mountains collapsed and buried rivers, the sea tilted and flooded the land. The earth split and water gushed forth