1. Today, scribe Naoyasu, through private consultation, had Keiken, Sonken and others certify the scrolls to be carried by the Aoi messenger.

1. Today, remaining wood from shrine construction was distributed in front of the repair hut. Nine people - Kazue-no-kami, Oribe-no-sho, Gagaku-no-suke, Chikuzen-no-kami, Sakon-shogen, Harima-no-kami, Izumo-no-suke, Hitachi-no-suke, and Harima-no-suke - received pine wood. Awa-no-kami and Kii-no-kami both received brushwood. All received 116 copper coins each as sake money. Hodo was in the fifth position, Chikuzen-no-kami in the seventh position.

1. Around the hour of the Sheep (2-4 PM), representatives Hosho and Miyuki, returning to their home provinces, were given travel permits for boat and river crossings by the document office in the east. Regarding the inquiry made this time about offering Aoi scrolls annually to Her Ladyship behind the curtain starting this year, the response was that following previous precedent, it should be inquired of the Edo temple and shrine magistrates and follow their instructions. Immediately, an accompanying letter from the town magistrate was handed over, and after that, courtesy visits were made to the deputy governor, both magistrates, and four document officials before returning home.

1. Tomorrow, the 8th day, after the midday meal, there was to be a small meeting to discuss interest payments to Kiage and Eishō, and silver matters with Maruya Zenbei. However, since Miyauchi and Hosho will be going to Kyoto tomorrow and cannot attend, the small meeting has been postponed. This matter was explained by Gakken of the meeting place.

1. This evening, with candles lit, the three groups assembled at the meeting place. Those who gathered were Kunishi, Tetsuken, Miyuki, Kishu, Hokaku, Moriken, Hōsei, Hodo, Seisoku, Teiken, Genshū, Bunchoku, Kenken, Hoken and others. Year officials Kanenori, Kinken, and Sokuhommi made announcements.
The purpose of convening this evening's meeting was due to the submission of small folded papers (court rank certificates) from those who would petition for court ranks before the festival. Those who submitted small folded papers were:
Petitioner Hizen-no-suke, Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Yoho; Petitioner Etchū-no-suke, Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Keiken;
Petitioner Ise-no-suke, Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Toshitoshi; Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Upper Grade (note: 8th year of Chū) Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Ujiyoshi;
Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Upper Grade (note: 8th year of Chū) Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Kamo Kaneyasu; Petitioner Senior Fifth Rank Upper Grade (note: 5th year of Chū) Senior Fifth Rank Lower Grade...