"Please summon the officials from the three villages through the shrine community, inquire about their thoughts, and arrange for mediation. If water is abundant this year, there will be no complaints and matters will be resolved. If there is drought again, the shrine community should give thorough instructions as appropriate. Regarding water officials, they tend to be rash in various matters, and if there is even the slightest favoritism, they cannot serve as proper officials. Please conduct thorough examinations and give instructions to the water officials. What I am saying today is not what Noto-no-kami has instructed. Since you have received my opinion, when you submit notification documents, please write that it is based on instructions from Kimura Yosōbei. Of course, you should also instruct that settlement documents submitted by both parties should be written accordingly." As a response, you have given excellent instructions regarding these troublesome matters, and it is most grateful that our headquarters' intentions are being upheld.

Summoning both villages is indeed an awesome responsibility. However, even when you sent them to our shrine last year, though it was called "giving instructions," we repeatedly called them and gave advice that seemed more like counsel or mediation, but they took advantage of their position and refused to comply, and again filed a lawsuit this spring. If we now send for them from the shrine community and again instruct them about mediation, it might not be effective, and if it appears that our headquarters is withdrawing its support, that would be most pitiful. Therefore, I humbly request that you give special consideration and order those people to come to our shrine." When I made this request, he replied: "That matter was already instructed previously. I sent word that the Kamo shrine community should summon them, so they will surely come to call, so tell them to come promptly - there is no problem. You should inform them that I have made this request." I have understood the details completely.