【Right page】
Saxifrage　Cultivated in home gardens. Thrives well in shady, moist ground. Also frequently planted among the stones of wells.
　The leaves are round and flat, thick, with shallow indentations around the edges. The surface is deep green mixed with purple, and the leaf veins are tinged
　with white and have purple hairs. The underside has no hairs and is pale purple. In summer months it extends stems about one shaku high. There are
　many purple hairs. At the tip it branches and produces many flowers. Two white petals hang down. Length seven to eight bu,
　width about two bu. Above, three short petals are arranged. Pink in color with red spots. There is one variety with pale pink flowers
　but it is rare. Both put out thin red threads from above the roots, extending in four directions. At their tips small leaves form,
　and later they put out fibrous roots and flourish. One variety called Spring Saxifrage has green leaves that are not purple
　and opens flowers during spring. Small and white in color. Later it produces fruit. Another variety called Rock Butterbur
　grows in northern provinces. The leaves are large like leopard plant. The flowers are small and the spikes large. One variety called Snow Pattern
　is green with deep indentations and opens flowers in autumn. It also has long leaves. One variety called Fatsia Saxifrage has
　green leaves resembling ivy maple, thick, with autumn flowers shaped like the character "大" (large). Hence it is called
　Large Character Grass. Besides these, there are many more varieties. △Main properties　Slightly bitter, neutral, non-toxic. Treats ear pain.

【Left page】
[Dead-nettle《Chinese name: Dipsacus》]
　Hami　　　《Wamyosho》　Oninoyagara《same》　Odoriko-so　Odori-bana
　Kuruma-gusa《Bungo》　Komoso-bana　Komozo-gusa　Purupuru-so《Hizen》
　Totoki　　《Banshu》　Yabu-soba《Chikuzen》　Uba-gachi《Sashu》　Kanko-bana《Yamashiro Province, Kami-gamo》
　Kazaguruma《Bitchu》　Odoriko-bana《Eastern provinces》　Odoriko-gusa《same》

[Fourth month season]

【Characters within [　] are enclosed in frames】
【Worm-damaged characters □ and unclear characters have been supplemented by collation with materials held at the University of Tokyo Komaba Library】