【Right page】
Millet　There are extremely many varieties of millet, reaching over one hundred types. Seeds are sown in the fifth month. The leaf shape generally resembles that of Japanese millet (kibi), but the stem is smaller and has a reddish tinge, and the leaves are also somewhat elongated and fine with a little white hair. The stem height is 3-4 shaku, producing ears at the tips. Fine seeds numbering in the hundreds form one cluster, and hundreds of clusters continue in sequence to form one ear. Those that ripen around the seventh month are called summer millet, and those that ripen in late autumn are called autumn millet. One variety with large ears and long hair is called ō-awa (Chinese name: liang). There are names such as shishi-kuwazu (boar-won't-eat), saru-awa (monkey millet), oni-awa (demon millet), shima-awa (striped millet), ke-awa (hairy millet), etc. There are red-haired and black-haired varieties; because they have hair and even wild boars cannot eat them, they are called shishi-kuwazu. One variety that becomes mochi (sticky rice cake) is called mochi-awa (Chinese name: shu). There are both large and small varieties. These also have varieties of eight-stone millet, red millet, black millet, and white millet, with white being considered the finest grade. In Iga, this is called gozen-awa. The other varieties are countless.

Primary properties
△ Salty, slightly cold, non-toxic. Benefits kidney qi, promotes urination, stops diarrhea, and treats nosebleeds.

【Left page】
[Tsuyukusa (Chinese name: yazhicao/dayflower)]　Omohikusa　Kamonokashiragusa
Momoyogusa　Hanadagusa　Tsumikusa (the above from ancient poems)　Tsukikusa (Wamyōshō)
Aobana (Kyoto)　Aoai (Matsumae)　Hotarugusa (Sesshū)　Utsushi (Chikuzen)
Kamatsuka (Banshū, Bitchū, Sekishū, Ashū)　Tarobe (Gōshū)　Chikusa (Ishū)　Kamatsuko (Sanshū)
Gisugusa (Unshū)　　　　　　　　　Bōshibana (Bishū, Nōshū, Jōshū)
Utsushibana
Tombogusa (Tanshū)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Sendai)
Kōyamen (Kashū)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pechipechibana
Kōyanomen (Kashū)　Kamadzuka (Sanshū, Doshū)　Kōgami (Etchū)　Kagibana (Sashū)
Kōyanoomen (Bōshū) Hahashigusa (Sashū)　Kōyatarō (Nōshū) Hanagara (Chōshū, Sesshū)
Konyatarō (Gōshū)　Nekonohanagara (Sendai) Suzumushisō (Sasshū) Kamegara (Sekishū, Unshū)
[Eighth month season]　　　　Chinchirobana (Echizen)　Hataorigusa (Kazusa) Aibana (Ashū, Banshū)