【Right page】
Dog knotweed (Inutade)　There are many varieties. They grow abundantly by waterside and roadsides. Similar to knotweed but without pungent taste, all those not used for food are called inutade. Also called kawaratade. Some have long leaves like blue knotweed, some have broad and long leaves, and others have short ones. Some have beautiful autumn foliage. Those with black spots on the left and right of the leaf center are called suppon-no-tade in Kawachi Province, with the Chinese name bokki-sō. These spots come in varieties of large and small, dark and light, and some form the shape of the character "eight" (八). Some resemble blue knotweed but with half-black leaves. The taste is very pungent. Stems, leaves, and spikes all turn deep crimson in autumn. Commonly called hōtade. Both produce spikes from July onwards. The form is no different from knotweed flowers. After flowering, the seeds ripen and the seedlings die. Seeds fall and grow naturally in spring.

　　　△Primary properties　Pungent and warm-natured, non-toxic. Removes intestinal parasitic worms and lightens the body.

Korekore-gusa Volume 2 - End

【Left page】
《Newly Engraved and Supplemented Bandai Hayabiki Setsuyō-shū Taisei - With True Characters, Complete in Two Volumes》

The good editions of setsuyō-shū (practical dictionaries) exist in numerous versions and are incomparably convenient for the world, yet occasionally needed characters are lacking, leaving one with the regrettable feeling of trying to scratch an itch through one's shoe. This time, Master Miyata has accumulated the merit of sincere and painstaking effort, collecting and recording those lacking elegant and popular characters, and further adding many matters of daily use for all people to create this new complete edition. I earnestly hope that all gentlemen will place this at their side for high perusal.

　　　　　　　　○Thin paper printing is also available, so we await your orders

《Revised and Expanded Zoku Ōdai Ichiran - Main Edition 35 Volumes, First Set 10 Volumes》

This book details without omission the thirty years from the 15th year of Tenshō under the 108th human emperor, Retired Emperor Go-Yōzei, to the 2nd year of Genna under the 109th emperor, Retired Emperor Go-Mizunoo, covering political upheavals, governmental changes, famous persons, accomplished men, poetry, linked verse, incense and tea ceremony, eminent monks, learned men's biographies, the rise and fall of shrines and temples, and differences in gold, silver, rice, and money. However, since the original work did not cite sources, Master Ryūan has thoroughly cited and recorded all the source books, so there is nothing dubious down to each event and phrase. This should be called the foremost historical reference for one's desk. Know that the continuation begins from the 3rd year of Genna.