On the preparation of cuisine when cooking aboard a boat

Even boat cuisine does not particularly differ from ordinary formal meals. It is only that one dislikes the cramped conditions and the oppressive heat of cooking, so everything should be well-prepared before bringing the catered food aboard the boat. Accordingly, it is essential to arrange the menu in a light and refreshing manner. Also, when mooring boats on inner rivers for recreation, there are often foul odors from the riverbanks. Even without this, in confined spaces there are human odors and the smell of perspiration, so for soup appetizers and accompaniments to side dishes, one should use fragrant and refreshing items. Use many clear salt-seasoned dishes, and for miso soup dishes, simmer and strain without grinding the miso. The flavor should be light and good. Avoid rich, heavy dishes of any kind. However, oily large fish and fried tofu help ward off the heat, so having two or three varieties is acceptable. The Dutch tempura in the upper tier of the previous stacked boxes, and the arrangement of shiruko sweet soup base with katakuri noodles, are designed to dispel the summer heat. With this in mind, I have considered...

[One line illegible]

I will record one or two examples of such creative preparations below. Following these examples, one should make improvisations suited to each occasion. However, this is not necessarily limited to boats alone - there should be various such improvisations for ordinary drinking parties as well. But this is not something that must absolutely be done in this manner. If it might breach etiquette depending on the guests and the occasion, one should follow what is appropriate for the time.

○Cut a watermelon in half, thoroughly scoop out the flesh, and use the rind as a bowl to serve the watermelon - this is quite amusing.

○Fill a large bowl with water, cut abalone randomly to make "water shellfish," then catch small fish called "gichi" that play near riverbanks and release them into that water - this is quite good.

Note that these "gichi" are young needlefish that live abundantly in riverside waters and are easy to catch. When put into the water with the shellfish, they swim about creating a very pleasing scene.

With such methods as these, there should be even more ingenious ideas.