appearance will improve. Into those well-arranged spots, supplement with respective dishes. When done this way, any number of variety combinations can be made skillfully.

1. Sashimi packing method is no different. However, when placing vinegar miso sauce not directly but to the side of the packed items, use thin hinoki boards or kyōgi (thin wood shavings) as dividers. It's acceptable even if they show on top.

1. The same applies when combining sweet bean paste and other items.

1. For fresh packing, there's no need to press tightly together. Between fish and fish, use items like red algae, fresh nori, or sea lettuce fronds as dividers for arranged packing.

1. Simmered kelp packing is the same. However, for this, hijiki seaweed or kelp must definitely be laid down.

1. For pulled fish boxes, the appearance when placed in regular flat dishes is fine.

1. If there are items whose volume decreases after being stacked and left for a while, place them slightly higher than other items when first packed. Later they will be just the right height.

The general method of packing is as follows. Follow this example for the rest. Cutting and cooking methods will be presented at the end.

　　　　Daily Evening Meal Tray　Surname Rice　　Spring Section

Nori Rice
　　　Place Asakusa nori on a roasting pan
　　　Crumble finely and mix in
　　　
　　　　　Just enough to crumble to
　　　　　the fineness that would
　　　　　fall through a metal sieve
　　　　Cook slightly firmer than usual,
　　　　steam well, then
　　　　mix in the nori

Hand Salt (Pickles)
　　Eggplant (koji pickles)
　　Nara pickles
　　　Serving portion
　　Vegetable pickles
　　　(finely chopped and sautéed with sake)

Small Cup
　　Tsukudzukushi (scouring rush)
　　Sedge grass
　　　Marinated vegetables

Medium Plate
　　Miso-pickled
　　　Mullet
　　　　Cut into squares
　　　　Grilled, two pieces
　　　　served
　　Sweet dew plums

Flat Arrangement
　Sprinkled with dried sansho pepper
　　　　Whitebait
　　　　Chinese hackberry
　　　　　　Bamboo
　　　　Wild yam
　　　　　Steamed
　　　　　With white miso
　　　　　kneaded
　　　　　poured over

Tea Bowl
　Arrangement
　　　Cod
　　　Blue kelp
　　　　Cut into strips
　　　　Two pieces
　　　Bonito flakes
　　　　　　sprinkled over

Seasonings
　　Scallion slivers
　　Dried tangerine peel, finely chopped
　　Yuzu, finely chopped
　　Mustard
　　Pepper mustard

Soup Server
　　Clear soup
　　　However, sweet is good
　　　Add a little tamari