Nameless (also called Sazare-ishi)
　　　Peel fresh long yam well and grate it,
　　　add wheat flour, white sugar, and salt to taste, grind well
　　　in a mortar, cook dainagon azuki beans and set aside,
　　　mix into this mixture, lay a cloth in a frame
　　　inside the steamer and pour in. The steaming method is the same for all,
　　　slice from the end.

Nameless (also called Uba-dama)
　　　Grind a large amount of black sesame well, squeeze the water from
　　　tofu thoroughly, grind and mix with the sesame, add a little
　　　wheat flour and white sugar, make it firm in consistency,
　　　shape like a round stick on a board and place in the steamer.
　　　The steaming method is the same, slice from the end.
　　　　　　However, if too soft, add more wheat flour.

Nameless
　　　Peel fresh arrowhead, add wheat flour,
　　　white sugar, and red miso sauce, grind well
　　　in a mortar, shape thickly into squares
　　　on a board and place in steamer. Steaming method is the same.
　　　However, if green kelp is attached on top, it becomes even more splendid.

○Yam Tamagawa - Shape same as kamaboko
 Boil long yam well, peel, strain through a grater, color with
 gardenia, sprinkle black sesame on white parts, place in frame and pack as before, then steam.
○Spring Haze - Shape appears before. This uses lily bulb steamed well and strained through a grater,
 color green parts with ground tea. Salt seasoning, steaming method,
 and cutting method are all the same. All should be understood accordingly.
○Yose-kurumi has the same preparation as yose-kaya mentioned in the previous volume
○Yam whitebait is made by adding white sugar and roasted salt
 to the strained long yam mentioned above and shaping it like whitebait
○Maki-ginu: mix high-quality wheat flour with white sugar, soy sauce, and water,
 knead, grease a frying pan with sesame oil and heat, pour the wheat flour mixture,
 turn with a spatula and when cooked it becomes thin silk. Put strained
 long yam as filling and roll, roll to about the size of senbei crackers, then lightly fry
 in the pan again. However, if overcooked the silk will crumble. Generally stop
 when the color has changed appropriately.