The above molded dishes and shaped foods are generally prepared in this manner. Besides these, when devising and creating various other molded items, the methods should all be similar - one should adapt accordingly.

○Egg Shinju: Crack eggs, use only yolks when making yellow, only whites when making white. Dissolve high-quality Yoshino kudzu in water and add about one-fourth to the eggs (however, the amount is difficult to determine as it depends on the size of eggs and the season). Mix well and put in a bowl, place the bowl in a steamer and steam like chawanmushi. Remove when the color has cooled to the right degree and let cool - it will become like tofu. Prepare a clear soup base well, and before serving to guests, scoop in with a metal ladle. Do not add ginger-scooped tofu preparation.

○Intestine Kamaboko: Mix fish paste with green abalone intestines and a little green seaweed, attach to a board like regular kamaboko and steam.

○Beaten Jellyfish: Remove salt from salted jellyfish and cut finely like chopping arame seaweed, then simmer deliciously. However, it's also good to mix edge jellyfish and beat together.

○Japanese Whiting Fish Crackers: Fillet the whiting, remove skin, carefully remove bones, sprinkle a little roasted salt, lay Mino paper on a board, arrange on this, cover with Mino paper on top as well, place another board on top with heavy weights, leave for about half a day, then remove weights and paper, wipe moisture well, sprinkle roasted salt again and sun-dry thoroughly. When it becomes a thin dried fish, place over charcoal fire and let it dry naturally until it curls up like salt crackers.

○Tempura: Make kamaboko mixture from sea bream and flounder flesh, add mountain yam, wheat flour and salt, grind and mix well. Finely chop ginkgo nuts, wood ear mushrooms and similar ingredients, mix in and knead well. Shape to the size of round yuba and deep-fry in sesame oil or kaya walnut oil, then slice. Seasoning the mixture with soy sauce is also good.

○Frost Chrysanthemum: Real chrysanthemums are coated with kudzu powder batter and fried in oil. The batter should have white sugar and salt added, applied so it coats the flowers properly.