○Orchid Flower: Soak old broad beans in water, and when they have swollen, remove moisture, make one cut with a small knife at the head of each broad bean, and deep-fry in sesame oil. The beans will open into four petals like orchid flowers.

○Mountain Rose: Hard-boil eggs, remove only the yolks and strain them through a fine grater. This is the same as the mixture for egg rice.

○Kudzu Dumplings: Add a little glutinous rice to kudzu powder, add white sugar, knead with hot water, then boil water and drop portions into it. Lift out with a bamboo strainer, cool, and use in anything. Coloring with red dye according to the dish is also good.

However, I omitted the method for setting red dye in the previous volume, so I present it here.
Generally, people devise various methods for setting red dye. However, depending on the ingredient, the color sets quite well naturally. With kudzu, Chinese yam, rice flour, high-grade wheat flour, etc., it sets without difficulty. However, if you don't mix the red dye well on the ingredient surface and dissolve it properly, there will be lumps and with washing [text unclear]...

The color sets well without worry. What has difficulty holding red dye are tofu varieties and fish flesh. The red color leaches out due to the balance of salt and oil. Since tofu is soft and watery, even when dye is simply applied on top, the red flows off and is difficult to set. To fix this:
Phellodendron bark powder and vinegar (a little) mixed with the red dye will make it set.
However, when using this extensively, adding these two flavors transfers the sourness and bitterness of phellodendron, which is quite unpleasant. For just a little garnishing, mixing kudzu powder or rice flour with the red dye will also set the color sufficiently.

However, using red coloring on foods is for occasions like Girls' Day feast boxes, and since it's not much favored for ordinary packed meals or writing box lids, it would be pointless effort with no merit.

○Grated Yam Sprinkle is a clear soup. Like the method for egg sprinkle, whether in hot water preparation or clear broth, grind grated Chinese yam well in a mortar and pour it over the simmering base, then quickly sprinkle through a tea strainer.

○Chinese-style Braised Eggplant: Take medium eggplants with skin on, make vertical knife cuts from the top