Kyara-buki (Spiced Butterbur Stems)
Cut large water butterbur into lengths of about 5 sun each, split lengthwise into quarters, immediately season with mirin and a bit of soy sauce on the salty side, add plenty of powdered chili pepper, simmer well until the liquid completely reduces, then place in a jar and seal the lid.

White Melon
Note: Including winter melon
Both winter melon and white melon are varieties that are difficult to preserve. To store these, tie them with rope and hang them above where a large fire is built in the stove - this way they can be preserved.

Sixteen Cowpeas
During summer, when sixteen cowpeas are at their best, boil as many as desired thoroughly, then dry them for 2-3 days in hot weather. In winter, use them in mixed dishes and vinegared preparations - they have an unusual and pleasant flavor.

Dried Eggplant
Peel large eggplants in a spiral pattern and dry them in the summer sun for winter use, same as with dried turnips and dried daikon radish. Also cut and dry Chinese eggplant. Excellent for use in vegetarian broths.

Matsutake (Pine Mushrooms)
Hatsutake (First Mushrooms)
These are commonly preserved by salt-pickling. However, ordinary ones lose their flavor. There is one secret technique: grind pine resin into powder, mix it with the salt for pickling - this way the aroma won't be lost. This is a secret method.

Yellow Chrysanthemums
Take freshly bloomed autumn chrysanthemums from September that are vigorous and half-open, pour agar into a box and let it set, plant them in this, seal the lid - they will keep until spring.

Chrysanthemum Pickle
Wash large new pickled plums well, place them with chrysanthemum flowers in a jar, add good sake to cover, wrap white sugar in a silk bag and add to the mixture, pickle and seal.

Note: For this chrysanthemum pickle, the proportions of plums, sake, and sugar are taught orally. It's difficult to write down the amount of sake needed as it depends on the size of the plums. The degree of pickling is also crucial and cannot be learned without hands-on practice.