【Right Page】
Himeko (Princess silkworm)　　(Emerges among yellow-white varieties. Most beautiful in form and somewhat small. Hence the name "princess")
　　　┌(Metamorphoses from among spring varieties taken, superior to summer silkworms. Its eggs metamorphose in spring and are not different from spring silkworms.
Saisan (Re-silkworm)┤
　　　└However, they do not regenerate again. Probably inferior to spring silkworms)
　　　┌(These three varieties are named according to their color, luster, and form. Originally
Kuroko (Black silkworm)│mutated from blue-white varieties, their cocoons are also good. Moreover, they are easy to raise. Only they consume桑 桑 excessively
Shimako (Island silkworm)┤and due to their lowly appearance, experienced practitioners never favor them. All are of the same variety and their egg varieties are also good.
Doroko (Mud silkworm)│Italian variety silkworms resemble mud silkworms almost entirely in form. However, their cocoons are reddish-yellow
　　　└like the cocoons of Kinkōju)
　　　┌(Metamorphose twice in spring and summer. Cocoons are small and unsuitable as original stock. However, they are easy to raise. Among yellow-white varieties, those that
Natsuko (Summer silkworm)┤
　　　└develop and form cocoons twice are all considered summer silkworm varieties)

【Left Page】
Sanminko (Three-sleep silkworm)　Occasionally transforms among good varieties and forms cocoons
　　　┌(By nature, several cluster together to form cocoons. Extremely large. Healthy in nature and produce many eggs. At the beginning of foreign exports,
Hachidaiko (Eight-large silkworm)┤
　　　└it is said there were those who used this variety to forge silkworm seed papers)
　　　Chapter Two
To evaluate the quality of silkworm varieties, those with orderly granules without gaps, purple-black with luster, or with large seed granules appearing dusted with white powder, well-filled throughout the paper, not falling off when touched, and appearing clear and beautiful are considered superior grade.
　　　Chapter Three
Although the arrangement of eggs is fairly good, the granules are small and lack luster