O. Gunpowder warehouse
P. Temples
Q. Various matters concerning public works and repairs

Table of Contents for Residence Section
R. Regulations for residence inspections and various matters of residence magistrates
S. Residence lot sizes and various matters of granted residences
T. Official residences, vacated residences, borrowed residences
U. Residence petitions and residence grants
V. Various matters concerning residence exchanges
W. Residence lending and borrowing, tenement borrowing, co-residence, separate residences, vacant residences
X. Residential construction work
Y. Storehouses and storage buildings
Z. Gates, tenements, fences, hedges, alley entrances, and window projections, lattices
AA. Various land matters and lower residences, subsidiary residences
BB. Various matters concerning residences of assistant magistrates, minor officials and below

Natural Disasters Section
Matter of Fire Incident Reports
1. When there is a fire within the citadel grounds, the circumstances should be reported upward
※Three pages following
1. On December 4th, Kyōhō 16 (Year of the Boar), a storehouse within the residence of Castle Deputy Koma Ichiemon was destroyed by fire, and a report was made to the Edo Council of Elders
　　However, the memorandum submitted by the inspector was submitted by Ichiemon's retainer Shitara Giemon
1. On December 4th, Kyōhō 16 (Year of the Boar), regarding the fire at the storehouse within Koma Ichiemon's residence, Monthly Inspector Tochiwa Hanemon reported that since Ichiemon extinguished the fire at its source, all the firefighters in attendance withdrew through the gates, and the fellow inspectors patrolled around the seven storehouses and other guard posts near the fire source, reporting that there were no injuries overall
1. On January 12th, Kansei 4 (Year of the Rat), fire at the Hanaki Kuzaemon tenement in the Third Citadel
1. On November 8th, Kyōwa 3 (Year of the Boar), fire at Matsubara Shintaro's main house within Hato Gate; the tenements and storehouses remained. The report to the duty elder at this time was as follows:
　　One samurai residence within my castle-facing Third Citadel outer bailey was destroyed by fire on the evening of the 8th. There was no spreading fire. It was quickly extinguished. Though it is a minor matter, I report it as it concerns castle grounds.
　　　November 20th　　　　[Honorable Name]
1. Regarding whether even rural fires reaching one hundred houses should be reported to the government, and matters of whether town fire reports exist
1. On May 4th, Kyōhō 17 (Year of the Rat), 148 houses and two temples in Dorobara Shimbo-ura were destroyed by fire; on the 15th of the same month, a report was made to the duty official through Caretaker Sakata Shichiemon
1. In April, Kyōhō 19 (Year of the Tiger), 103 houses in Kuritabe village were destroyed by fire, but there was no report to the authorities and it was kept on record
　　Regarding the destruction of over one hundred houses in Kuritabe village, I reported to the Council of Elders that I understood that reports should be made for fires of over one hundred houses as had been done previously. They replied that the caretakers would also have their thoughts on this matter and should consult together. When consultation was made accordingly, Sakata Shichiemon explained that when Mikuni Kamishin-machi suffered fire in previous years, a report was made, but this was due to the nature of the location, and moreover, one hundred houses