Fires in the Retainer Quarters and Other Castle Town Fires

1. January 28th, Genroku 14 (Year of the Snake) - A fire broke out yesterday, the 27th, in the longhouse of the page guard Tsutsumi Anza-emon's residence, and more than half of the longhouse was destroyed. After making an inquiry about this, he was granted abstention and pardoned on February 6th (marginal note: until January 9th). Even for major fires, there are precedents of such abstention being pardoned in six or seven days.

1. February 8th, Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster) - A fire broke out in the longhouse of the supernumerary Hasegawa Denbē after sunset today, the 8th, but only a small part of the longhouse burned and it was quickly extinguished. Regarding this, Denbē made an inquiry and abstained (marginal note: until the 5th), and was pardoned on the 12th of the same month.

1. Kyōhō 4 (Year of the Rooster) - When there was a fire at Koma Ise's longhouse, it should have been a matter for abstention, but since there was no abstention when there was previously a fire at Sakai Yosanza-emon's place due to deliberations, no request for abstention exemption was submitted. The inspector Masugi Shoza-emon was asked to go to Sakai Tange and convey this matter, and when it was conveyed to Tange, he acknowledged it and said abstention was not necessary. This matter is recorded.

1. August 16th, the same 10th year (Year of the Snake) - The longhouse of the bow commander Ichimura Kan'uemon caught fire and was destroyed. After making an inquiry, he abstained (marginal note: until the 14th) and was pardoned on the 29th of the same month (marginal note: however, the provincial inspector was staying).

1. March 27th, the same 17th year (Year of the Rat), past 8 o'clock in the day - A fire originated at Kasuya Denzaemon's residence (which was Suzaki Sagisuke's house around the Kaei period) near the castle bridge, destroying seven samurai houses, and Honkō-ji Temple was also destroyed by the spreading fire. Denzaemon made an inquiry and abstained from the 27th until April 18th, a period of 22 days (marginal note: The matter of family members and relatives of those affected by the fire being taken in only required notification to the inspector, with no formal petition submitted. This was done this way because it was during the lord's absence).

1. November 11th, the same 19th year (Year of the Boar) - A fire broke out from Asami Tokuuemon's longhouse, with three houses destroyed by spreading fire. Tokuuemon made an inquiry and abstained from the 11th to the 25th, a period of 15 days (marginal note: Regarding family members and relatives of those affected by fire being taken in, since the lord was in residence this time and the matter would reach his attention, the senior retainers instructed that each should make a formal petition. Petitions were also made regarding relocation matters).

1. August 15th, Enkyō 1 (Year of the Rat) - Akita Sagenta's main residence was completely destroyed by fire with no spread to other buildings. He was ordered to house arrest, and there were no special matters regarding his clan leader Suzu who was also in confinement.

1. Kawai Shōzō's main residence was completely destroyed by fire with no spread to other buildings.

1. January 14th, Kanpō 3 (Year of the Boar) - Ōmiya Tōma's longhouse was destroyed by fire with no spread to other buildings.
Ōmachi Kinzō's main residence was completely destroyed by fire with no spread to other buildings.
Suzuki Seihachi's longhouse caught fire with no spread to other buildings.
Oguri Hachibe'e's longhouse caught fire with no spread to other buildings.

1. August 15th, Hōreki 3 (Year of the Rooster) - Kaifuku Ihē'e's longhouse was destroyed by fire with no spread to other buildings. Abstention for five days.