After hearing this, both men departed past 8 PM that night. However, regarding Jirōbē, after consultation, Assistant Magistrate Nakayama Tarōzaemon was brought along.

1. Past 4 PM that same night, Tōshichirō sent word orally only about the great fire, so this was reported to the senior retainers.

1. Regarding the above, the following was communicated to the magistrate through written documents, and both men received from the accounting office:
   1. Two official crested lanterns, two servant carriers, one equipment-carrying servant, two carriers for double loads
   1. One umbrella carrier, three spare hands, one pack horse
   1. Twenty candles - however, accounting for those received and lit will be settled later

1. Magistrates should bring two men each from one group

1. To the assistant magistrate, one long-handle weapon bearer and two servants were lent

1. On the same day, Watami Shinemon also went on official business for transported rice - from the depot magistrate

1. On the 23rd, Jirōbē, Hachibē, and Shinemon all went on assignment

1. Total houses: 1,124

1. Regarding the above, 600 bales of rice were designated as relief aid

1. On March 14th, Kansei 9 (Year of the Rat), regarding the Kanazu great fire, Magistrate Tanabe Hiragaku (bringing fourteen men each from one group, original group summoned), Senior Armorer Suzuki Kobē (bringing hand-picked group), Assistant Magistrate Yajima Jūrōemon (one long-handle weapon bearer, two servants) went on the above assignment. Borrowed personnel and all other matters were exactly the same as in Anei 7 (Year of the Dog), without the slightest difference. All returned on the 15th.

1. On the 16th of the same month and year, Fuchū suffered a great fire, but magistrates were not dispatched at this time.

1. On March 18th, Tenmei 4 (Year of the Dragon), during the Mikuni great fire, Magistrate Senbon Chōemon and Senior Armorer Ishikawa Chūzaemon were dispatched. Borrowed personnel and others were as in Anei 9 (Year of the Rat), with group official crested lantern carriers becoming two people.

1. Before 8 AM on April 6th, Tenmei 6 (Year of the Horse), town patrol group members reported that this morning there was a fire from Eiheiji temple kitchen, and there were rumors that the kitchen, guest rooms, etc. were destroyed. Therefore, two fire-site group members were dispatched the following morning.

1. On April 17th, Kansei 1 (Year of the Rooster), regarding the Ōno great fire, group members were dispatched on the 20th.

1. In spring of Bunka 12 (Year of the Boar), the following written document was received from depot supervisor Arakawa Jūemon:
   1. If there is a report of great fire while official transported rice is at Mikuni depot, depending on the situation, the supervisor and magistrate should go on duty
   Right regarding the above, rushing personnel as follows:
   1. Fourteen official servants should rush to the magistrate's residence
      Seven and a half of these should be armed
   1. Ten candles of twenty monme weight
   1. Two pack horses - for these, wholesalers should be contacted and wages paid, but filled in the district
   1. To assistant magistrate, two servants, one of whom carries a sword, one pack horse
   Total

1. On February 16th, Kansei 5 (Year of the Ox), it was decided that magistrates dispatched during fires in Mikuni, Kanazu, etc. should serve from the month following their monthly duty.