Fire Site Guard Posts and Fire Fighting and Other Administrative Matters

1. On August 28th, Genroku 13 (Year of the Dragon), since Honda Magotarō's mother died of illness yesterday on the 27th, Magotarō is in mourning. When an inquiry was made about how he should perform fire-fighting duties at the shrine and Buddhist hall, it was conveyed through intermediary Honda Jiemon to monthly duty officer Koma Moku that it would be appropriate for him to remain at the Buddhist hall while his retainers handle instructions for the shrine.

1. For fire-fighting at the shrine and Buddhist hall, two people from among the Kōchi group have been appointed and are reporting for duty.

　　　Since Asai Hyakuri has over 2,000 koku, there is precedent for him being appointed to one-year duty. Since Sakai Geki has less than 2,000 koku, he was appointed to two-team duty.

1. According to records from January 16th, Shōtoku 3 (Year of the Snake), when fires occur, Senior Armorers should first take their available groups to the shrine, and among them about two groups of shrine fire-fighting Senior Armorers should remain (there are no fixed regulations, and two people from the vicinity go), while the others should report to their assigned posts. Also, regarding the handling of shrine fire-fighting equipment, this has been assigned to ashiko (lower-ranking warriors), but if these ashiko are not available, foot soldiers should handle it. When foot soldier inspectors are delayed, Senior Armorers who arrive early should break the seals. They should always pay attention to ensure there are no discrepancies with the seals at the Shimizu Gate guards' equipment storage. However, foot soldier inspectors' duty officers have reported for duty. Reference should be made to regulations issued later in April, Kyōhō 3 (Year of the Dog).

1. For Unshōji Temple fire-fighting: two people from the recent council members are on permanent duty, and two from among the Senior Armorers are on permanent duty.

1. For Kōkenji Temple fire-fighting: two people from among the council members are on permanent duty.

1. On March 25th, Hōei 1 (Year of the Monkey), regarding fires that might naturally occur in the castle town, while one of the two castle deputies was supposed to be stationed at the shrine until now, from this absence onward, one of the two should report to the lord's quarters.

1. Fire-fighting at Akesato warehouse is the same as above.

1. Memorandum issued to council members, various unit commanders, and various monthly duty messengers on August 1st, Hōei 2 (Year of the Rooster):

　When fires occur in the castle town, if there is no wind and it is a minor matter with nothing to worry about, individuals need not report to their designated offices but should make preparations and remain on standby. Since even minor matters can become tumultuous, this point was ordered to be communicated. Of course, the escort guards reporting for duty is a special matter.

1. According to records from March 15th, Kyōhō 3 (Year of the Dog) - [with crossed-out text and red ink notation for Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster)], the senior retainers conveyed to the construction magistrates: "While you have until now remained at your offices during fires, henceforth you should take carpenters and group members with you to the fire site and consult with the magistrates to work on fire prevention."

　　　[Later addition] According to office records, while until now they were supposed to go to designated locations and proceed to the fire site according to senior retainers' instructions, henceforth this was ordered as stated above.

　　　Note: The previous guard posts had one construction magistrate at Koma Moku's front and one going to Urushi Gate.

[Red ink] ○ A seal should be placed after one page

1. In April of the same 3rd year (Year of the Dog), at the castle, the following was conveyed through written orders from magistrates to Senior Commander monthly duty officer Nomura Ichirōzaemon:

　　Henceforth during fires, all without exception should report to the shrine for consultation, with two groups remaining while others report to their usual offices to await orders. When proceeding to fire sites under orders to fight fires, they should meet with the magistrates at the location and report their arrival. If during the time of orders there is illness or...