There are no other matters of difference. Since Jiheitai is away, I report this personally. Above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ogawa Inotarō
　　To Miyakita Jūrozaemon-sama

1. Kan'en 1, Year of the Dragon, 6th month, 3rd day: The following written instruction from Matsudaira Gentayū was conveyed:
Hereafter, during thunder, earthquakes, and similar events, for generally severe incidents, there is no need to come out to inquire about His Lordship's well-being. For extremely severe thunder and earthquakes, these are exceptional matters. For nighttime incidents, there is even less need to come out. If the situation warrants coming out, one should come the following day to inquire about His Lordship's well-being.

1. Regarding fires: Even if fires break out in the castle town, for small fires with favorable wind direction, one need not come out. Of course, if it appears likely to become a major fire, one should come out. If the wind direction is unfavorable, one should come out even for small fires.
　　　　End

1. Kyōhō 15, Year of the Dog, 1st month, 26th day: Due to flooding from the 24th, as before, the boatmen's office should send boats around areas where water levels make passage impossible. Although this should naturally be done, since it had not been discussed for a long time, there is a record of Gizaemon communicating very carefully with boat captain Hayashi Matazaemon.

1. Same 16th year, Year of the Boar, 10th month, 21st day: The Keya retainers requested to borrow one official boat so that Matsudaira Shōbei could travel the lower river during guard duties, but there was no available boat. Instead, during floods, a hired boat was ordered for the river where they go to Keya-chō. This matter was discussed and decided by the magistrates, inspectors, boat captains, etc., with consecutive records on the 22nd, 29th, and 11th month 23rd.

1. Same year, 4th month, 11th day: District Magistrate Hikosaka Matahei reported that the boatmen of Yasui Ryōto Village petitioned as follows: During floods, they send five small boats from Dōgata to the lower town's Baba district when His Lordship is in residence, and three boats during His Lordship's absence years, to serve the retainers' official business. This arrangement was ordered by the boatmen's office about twenty years ago. Previously there were sixteen or seventeen small boats at both ferry crossings, but due to recent impoverishment, only eight boats remain. Two boatmen are assigned to each boat. Although each boatman receives one shō of rice, when staying overnight in Fukui there are lodging and meal expenses, causing hardship for these impoverished people. They request that boat owners along the domain's rivers be ordered to serve in rotation, which would be most grateful. When this was reported to the senior councilors, they were told to consult with boat captain Oguri Kuemon. On the 16th of the same month, it was further reported that after Kuemon's consultation, having them serve in rotation would interfere with official business, so the two villages have continued this service from previous years. Therefore, the request cannot be granted as asked. However, hereafter when boats are dispatched during floods, the rate will be fixed at 1 monme 7 bu per boat, with this amount to be provided by all boat owners to the boatmen. The number of boats and service days will be inspected by the boatmen's office, and the rice previously granted will also be provided. It was decided that this arrangement should be ordered for both ferry operators and all boat owners, as Kuemon had discussed. When this was reported, they were told to issue these instructions. However, the senior councilors then ordered further investigation before implementation.

After consulting with colleagues and Suzuki Hikotayū, it was learned that until twenty-two or three years ago, the boatmen's office handled this service, but due to certain circumstances, after investigation, it was assigned to the Yasui people. Hikotayū, who was serving in the boatmen's office at that time, had consulted and received these instructions. Although the Yasui people would face hardship, if this arrangement were implemented, there might be future complications, as Hikotayū mentioned. Further investigation and reporting were ordered on the 29th of the 5th month. ○ On the 16th of the 12th month, the following written instruction was issued by the senior councilors to boat captain Nakamura Yasaku:

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Memorandum
During high water at Dōgata, the Yasui ferry keepers have been employed and used, but since they have reported financial difficulties, they are hereby released. Hereafter, all boat owners in the domain territory will be assigned this duty. The boats will be provided by Yasui, and boatmen, boat pullers, and other matters will be handled proportionally by all parties. The boat fees previously given to Yasui ferry keepers will continue to be paid as established. All boat owners and Yasui people should be ordered to serve in rotation. Since boatmen and boat pullers may charge excessive fees, this matter should be investigated to ensure no one faces undue hardship. Above. 12th month

However, in the record of the 29th of the 12th month, recently at the council chamber, the senior councilors instructed Nakamura Yasaku that regarding dispatching small boats during Dōgata flooding, after investigating river boat owners, there are a total of 217 boats including those of Yasui. Therefore, 1 monme of boat service silver per boat should be sent to the Yasui people, and in exchange the Yasui people would... [The text is damaged here, referring to a record from Kyōhō 17, Year of the Rat, three pages earlier]

1. Same 18th year, Year of the Ox, 4th month, 25th day record: When boat owners sell their small boats to retainers due to poverty, or dismantle them and fall into ruin, official notification is waived. The senior boat captain petitioned that compensation should be provided from above for such cases, but this did not require deliberation - the shortfall would be covered by the Yasui people's collection of silver. When additional boats become available in the future, they should pay the standard service silver. There is a record of this decision. On the 29th of the 5th month, there was also a case of one small boat being abandoned in Matsuoka Kubo Village.

1. Genbun 3, Year of the Horse, 11th month, 16th day: When Yasui boats served official duties during Dōgata flooding, 1 monme of silver per boat was paid, but since last year they have been paying in bungin (a type of silver currency) causing hardship, an increase of 6.5 percent was added. This was conveyed by the senior councilors to the Kanazu Magistrate and Three Districts Magistrate.