1. Kyōhō 6, year of the ox, 5th month, 16th day: Naval personnel head Hori Toyozaemon was appointed as senior ashigaru head, and by this appointment, Hanemon was assigned to the surrendered residence. Since Toyozaemon's residence was severely damaged, the senior retainers ordered that Toyozaemon should carry out repairs. Based on this instruction, Toyozaemon was summoned to the monthly duty inspector's residence and given these orders. He was told that a slight delay in repair work would not be a problem. Monthly duty inspector: Yano Uemonnosaku.

1. Same 18th year, year of the ox, 3rd month, 18th day: Since the official residence of Kaga-guchi senior ashigaru head Ōki Yogorōemon was severely damaged, he requested to remove the eaves and live in smaller quarters. When this was discussed with the senior retainers, they said that arrangements that did not hinder the housing of the ashigaru heads should proceed as requested, and this was communicated to Yogorōemon.

1. Kan'en 2, year of the snake, 2nd month, 29th day: The front fence of naval personnel head Hori Kanzaemon's residence was severely damaged. Although he had petitioned previously, it was not approved, so he carried out the construction himself, but there were unsightly aspects. Therefore, it was ordered that the roof be done with old wood, and white clay should be applied as before. Henceforth, repairs should be done at his own expense. This was communicated by the senior retainers to inspector Hasebe Koemon at the council chamber, and this was relayed to Kanzaemon.

○

1. Hōei 7, year of the tiger, 1st month, 23rd day: Castle keeper Ariga Magozaemon was ordered to retire, and on the 29th of the same month, Sakai Yosōbē was appointed as his successor. Since the residence where Ariga Shōsuke was staying was the castle keeper's residence, it was ordered that Yosōbē should move in, replacing both Shōsuke and Yosōbē.

1. Same year, intercalary 8th month, 24th day: Since castle keeper Sakai Yosōbē died yesterday, the 23rd, to maintain security within the castle, caretakers Nagami Jibuemon and Amagata Gorozaemon were ordered to take turns staying overnight in the lord's quarters where the lord had previously resided.
　　(It was subsequently ordered that both men should continue serving in this manner until a successor castle keeper was appointed)
Since Yosōbē's former residence had official waiting rooms, it was ordered that the castle keeper's retainers should continue to be stationed there day and night as before. This was communicated to both men.

1. Same year, 10th month, 26th day: Honda Jirōdayū was appointed as successor castle keeper to Sakai Yosōbē, and it was ordered that he should move to the lord's quarters where the lord had previously resided, which was designated as his official residence.

1. Kyōhō 3, year of the dog, 3rd month, 25th day: Caretaker Amagata Gorozaemon and Sengoku Ichitarō were granted a residence exchange. However, the residence within the castle where Gorozaemon had been staying was for official use.

1. Same 6th year, year of the ox, intercalary 7th month, 22nd day: Castle keeper Honda Minbu's residence was needed for official use, so he was granted an official residence exchange. However, since the current official residence lacked stables and storehouses, these would be built before transfer.

○

1. Hōei 3, year of the dog, 3rd month, 16th day: Nagami Chūzaemon was granted an upper residence exchange. Ariga Magozaemon was to move to the official residence where Sugita Gorobē and Amagata Gorozaemon had been staying, and Amagata Gorozaemon was to move to Sugita Gorobē's former residence.
Magozaemon's former castle keeper residence was requisitioned for official use, specifically as quarters for young lord Shōan-kō. On the 18th day of the 4th month of the same year, it was ordered that Magozaemon's upper residence should be transferred to the construction magistrates, and the estate magistrate should be informed accordingly. The construction magistrates were also to be notified and should receive it. This was communicated to the inspector. On the 5th day of the 9th month of the same year, the young lord was granted leave to return to the domain for the first time, departing Edo on the 23rd of the previous month and arriving at the castle today. After completing ceremonies at the main keep, he entered the new quarters.

1. Kyōhō 19, 7th month, 21st day: Castle keeper Koma Ichiemon to the official residence, caretaker Suganuma Yoichirō to Koma Ichiemon's residence.

1. Shōtoku 2, year of the dragon, 7th month, 11th day: Regarding repairs to official residences, although these had been ordered by the construction office until now, they are suspended during the period of simplification. Therefore, each person may carry out repairs as they see fit, and may modify inconvenient housing at their discretion. This was to be communicated to those residing in official residences. Accordingly, this was communicated to the following: castle keeper Honda Jirōdayū, caretaker Amagata Gorozaemon, town magistrate Kaifuku Ihē, Akita Sangozaemon of Kaga-guchi, naval personnel head Higuchi Kozaemon, Horie Genzaemon (same position), head falconer Kishi Mozaemon.

[Vermillion notation] Ne (year of the rat)