1. Bunsei 3, year of the dragon (1820), 8th month, 9th day: The following was decided regarding household retainers:
　1. Cutting back front long houses is acceptable, but "tatami-oki" (complete demolition to vacant land) is not permitted.
[Lower section] However, the following cases occurred:
　　　　Tenpō 2, year of the rabbit (1831), 4th month, 29th day: Ashida Zusho's lower residence long house of 10 ken was approved for temporary demolition
　　　　Same 5th year, year of the horse (1834), 2nd month, 20th day: Ogino Sakon's long house of 2 × 6.5 ken, which had been demolished in previous years, was approved to be rebuilt as before
　　　　Same 14th year, year of the rabbit (1843), 5th month, 11th day: Ōtani Sukeroku's 5 × 3 ken long house built in previous years was approved for demolition as it was no longer needed
　　　　Kōka 1, year of the dragon (1844), 8th month, 4th day: 100-koku stipend recipient Takahashi Kichibei's long house became severely damaged, so demolition for the time being with rebuilding when needed was approved
　　　　Same 3rd year, year of the horse (1846), 9th month, 14th day: 100-koku stipend recipient Takeda Tsurushi's long house, same as above
　　However, this does not apply to rice stipend recipients
　　　　Tenpō 2, year of the rabbit (1831), 10th month, 13th day: Nomura Yōsuke's long house demolition for the time being was approved. Same 11th year, year of the rat (1840), 4th month, 16th day: Takeuchi Kazō, same as above.
　　　　Same 13th year, year of the tiger (1842), 2nd month, 16th day: Yamada Seibei, same as above. Same year, 3rd month, 11th day: Sasakura Uemon, same as above.
　　　　Kōka 3, year of the horse (1846), 8th month, 14th day: Hongi Jūtayū's residence and long houses suffered wind damage, so the long houses were demolished

○Regarding the transfer of stables, feed storage, and external horse tethering within long houses during residence changes for household retainers: This had been handled according to established law, but since Kansei 5, year of the ox (1793), 4th month, when cutting back long houses became permissible, there have been various difficulties during transfers. Estate magistrate Kobayashi Kinbei submitted a proposal regarding this matter, and when this was consulted with duty officer Koma Taitō, he instructed that hereafter it should be handled according to the attached document, so Kinbei was instructed to take note of this.
　　　　Attached document
　1. Regarding stables, feed storage, and external tethering: If the parent of the person ordered to change residence owns horses, both should be received and transferred
　　However, there is no distinction even if long houses are cut back upon request
　1. In the same situation, if the grandfather or above owned horses, there is no need to receive and transfer both, and no need to be attached to them
　　　　　Total: Bunsei 3, year of the dragon, 8th month

1. Bunka 12, year of the boar (1815), 1st month, 25th day: Naval commander Kawazu Zentayū's official residence already had one alley entrance, but his request to open another for emergencies was approved

1. Bunka 13, year of the rat (1816), 4th month, 8th day: When Ashida Daigaku's residence flooded and there was no water outlet, he requested through written application to open a water gate to the south. This was consulted with the senior councilors, approved, and communicated to Daigaku

1. Removal of projecting lattices is not reported to senior councilors but only to estate magistrates, according to Bunka 10
　　　　　　　　　　　Ariga Sōsai
　　　　　　　　　　　At this time, even one ken projections of lattices were removed
3rd year, year of the rat (1813), 4th month, 8th day, recorded in the residence register. There is also a record on the 21st day of the intercalary 8th month of the same year

1. Tenmei 8, year of the monkey (1788), 1st month, 25th day: When Ashida Shimotsuke requested to partially demolish some of the 57+ ken on the east side of his long house, he was told by the senior councilors that since it was on the front side, it should be left in its current form and repaired

1. Bunka 5, year of the dragon (1808), 4th month, 3rd day: Saiki Yōsuke reported that he lived in a townhouse but had no gate at the front, so he wished to build a gate for security purposes

1. Ogawa Sukeuemon, a cook of ittō rank, had built his own residence on the tea garden land in Abura-machi and requested through written application to the magistrate to build a gate for security. However, since there was no precedent for ittō rank persons building gates and this was a new matter, the magistrate inquired. After deliberation, it was decided that hereafter for ashigaru building gates, it would be concluded by reporting to the ashigaru commander. Since ashigaru residences also have wooden gates, there was no reason why ittō rank persons could not build gates even if it was new. Therefore, it was decided that hereafter, for those who have audience with the lord, building gate-like structures would be acceptable. This was discussed with the senior councilors, and it was replied to the magistrate that Sukeuemon's request should be granted as wished

1. In the same year, when ashigaru Oka Kinsuke was granted a new house and residence site, a gate was also provided from above
　　However, those below kossan rank cannot build new gates. Of course, purchasing and residing in existing houses with gates requires no particular concern

1. Kyōwa 2, year of the dog (1802), 7th month: The following written application was submitted and granted as requested. Gentarō also submitted a written application with the same content
　　　　Oral memorandum
　　Since my neighbor Matsudaira Gentarō is of the same surname lineage, there has been an alley at the residence boundary that we have used as a passage from long ago, but it was blocked according to recent edicts. However, given the current times with few people, it would be good for emergencies, so I wish to open the alley entrance as before. Please handle this matter favorably. Above
　　　　7th month　　To Murata Jūtayū-sama　　Matsudaira Shuma

[Red ink] No