1. On the 11th day of the 3rd month of Genroku 5 (1692), Okada Sukeemon, a yoriki (assistant) to castle magistrate Ariga Saemon, who serves as an archery instructor, petitioned that his current residence (marginal note: facing Matsumoto Taiku-ji temple) is located in a back street area and lacks space for establishing an archery range. Therefore, he requested to be granted a replacement residence at an available vacant lot in the Mizushimo area where he currently resides. If granted, he would lease the land, construct an archery range, and diligently conduct practice. Saemon submitted this petition through an oral statement, which was relayed by keeper of the castle Tagaya Gondayu. The petition was approved as requested, and this decision was conveyed to Gondayu, with the estate magistrate also being informed. From the official records.

Various Matters Concerning Residences of Yoriki and Lower-Ranking Officials
1. According to records from Kyoho 3 (1718), regarding the residence of Hasegawa Jidayu that was granted to Kawamura Rokudayu, it was initially ordered that this should be designated as an official residence and this should be communicated to the estate magistrate. However, since it was known that ashigaru-metsuke (foot soldier inspectors) traditionally do not reside in official residences, it was decided that henceforth it should be designated as a samurai residence. Inaba Uneme conveyed that this matter should be communicated to the estate magistrate, and accordingly informed Ochiai Zenbei of this decision.

1. According to records from the 24th day of the 12th month of Kanpo 2 (1742), ashigaru-metsuke Ideura Nagatadyu petitioned for residential land, which was granted in the Keya district where he built a house at his own expense. When Nagatadyu died and his successor was appointed as ashigaru, since ashigaru-metsuke also perform official duties, they are granted samurai residences. Given that house construction had recently been completed, a petition was submitted. After deliberation, it was decided that the adoptive son Sadaharu would be granted the residence for his lifetime, and this decision was to be communicated to the ashigaru-metsuke through monthly administrator Nakane Juzaemon from Okabe Sazen's office.

1. Regarding the granted residence of minor official and record keeper Mizuno Kyudayu in the 9th month of Kyowa 2 (1802), details appear in the section on residential lot sizes.

1. Of the 24 ashigaru residences, two had been designated as group leader residences, but due to unavoidable circumstances, henceforth duties will be performed from private residences. However, if there are justified requests for residential grants, they will be provided outside the regular order when vacant residences become available. Details regarding the number of ashigaru residences appear in the section on granted residences.

1. Regarding the granting of family construction portions of ashigaru elevated residences to family members upon relatives' petition in the 8th month of Tenmei 8 (1788), details appear in the elevated residences section.

1. When ashigaru rebuild their granted residences through private construction, they may continue residing there for three generations even if transferred to other duties. However, rebuilding due to fires and similar disasters is treated separately.

1. On the 25th day of the 11th month of Kyoho 11 (1726), five lots of ashigaru residential land located behind Esashi-cho were initially confiscated for official use. As replacement land, five lots were granted within the fire prevention area near Katsumi New Residential District. However, since this is designated fire prevention land, replacement land would be provided when houses are constructed, as communicated to Mizutani Oribu by the senior retainers.
[Red notation] Ku