【Right Page, Upper Section】
　Preface to Kingan Dōji-kyō (Golden Words for Children's Education)
This book contains the words of ancient sages and worthy men that have been widely known and quoted among people for generations. Although I am
foolish, I have selected important words from various books, gathering them year by year, collecting them month by month,
and adding plain explanations above each phrase as annotations, making it into one book to serve as
a ladder (primer) for reading instruction for the young children of my family. When a friend suggested engraving it on woodblocks
to make it convenient for the young children of the world as well, I could not refuse, so I had it given the name "Golden Words for Children's
Education" and entrusted it to a publisher. Although there have been many writings by various scholars since ancient times,
the essential phrases are few. If beginning students and young children obtain this book and do not think of the sages as distant,
but rather think they are receiving their teachings now, and read with it deeply embedded in their hearts, the benefits they gain will be
many. Since not even one phrase comes from my private thoughts,
do not dare to despise it just because it is a foolish compilation.
　At this time, Shōtoku 6th year, hinoe-saru, spring, first month
《Note: Similar to this book｜a book called Dōshin Taiku-shō was created》Compiled by Katsuta Sukeyoshi　【Seal: Sukeyoshi】

【Left Page】
【Library catalog number in upper right margin】
TiA
21
54

【Main Text】
　《Note: Essential words from various books｜Knowledge essential for children》　Golden Words for Children's Education《Note: With annotations｜》
《Note: Good medicine, even if bitter, when used well｜has the virtue of curing illness. If one dislikes the bitterness｜and doesn't use it, even good medicine is useless》　Although good medicine is bitter to the mouth｜when used for illness, there is surely benefit

《Note: Loyal advice that people give is sure to｜go against the ear, but if used well and｜practiced in one's conduct, the person becomes righteous and virtuous》　Although loyal words go against the ear｜when practiced in one's conduct, there is surely virtue

《Note: Everyone knows that using medicine｜cures illness, but no one knows that｜doing scholarly learning brings good order to oneself》　Although one knows that medicine cures illness｜one does not know that learning brings order to oneself

《Note: A foot-long jade disk is a large gem. A cun of time refers to a brief｜interval. Jade is not a true treasure. One should｜rejoice in gaining an inch of time and compete in learning》　A foot-long jade disk is not a treasure｜An inch of time should be competed for

《Note: If one reads books well and wisdom arrives, one becomes a great wise｜person. Therefore there is ten-thousand-fold profit｜When one reads books, books add the wisdom of a gentleman to a person》　Reading books brings ten-thousand-fold profit｜Books add the wisdom of a gentleman

《Note: Those who have gold and silver should build a library and store books｜Those without gold and silver should make a chest｜for storing books, put books in it and look at them regularly》　If you have means, build a library｜If not, then prepare a book chest

《Note: One should sit before a quiet window and｜look at books transmitted from ancient times. Also under lamplight｜one should contemplate the principles of books one has read》　Look at ancient books before the window｜Seek the meaning of books under the lamp