The Dragon Palace are all what is called Ryukyu. ○Ryukyu Kingdom has three provinces. Chuzan is Nakagami Province, Sannan is Shimajiri Province, and Sanhoku is Kunigami Province. The subordinate districts of these three provinces total thirty-six, which are called magiri. ○The capital is called Shuri. The others are all called magiri《Note: magiri refers to counties like the castle towns here》The lords of those magiri are each called aji. ○There are thirty-six subordinate islands. Kikai《Note: also called Kikaigashima》consists of twelve islands. That is, what are called the five islands and seven islands, those thirty-six small islands are "There are four islands to the east" △Kudaka (also called Kodaka) is fourteen and a half ri east of Chuzan《Note: That country's road measurement takes sixty cho as one ri. When using our thirty-six cho as one ri, it is over twenty-four ri》

There are several products: red celebratory rice, yellow small rice, five-colored fish, kasuo fish, and many more. △Tsuken《Note: Three and a half ri east of Chuzan, which is five ri and twelve cho by our road measurement》△Hamajima《Note: There are two islands, north and south, the distance from Chuzan is the same as before》△Ikeshima "There are three islands to the west" △Higashibashizan《Note: There are five large and small islands, products include cattle, horses, millet, cloth, shells, and strange stones》△Nishibashizan《Note: There are four large and small islands. The people of this island are extremely dark-skinned and are good at fishing》○This island has magiri such as "Zama," "Mito," and "Kafushi." ○They are good at fishing and hunting, staying underwater for five or six days to catch fish. Also, there is sea lettuce on the seabed below the mountains, and many people make their living by gathering this. △Kumeyama《Note: Forty-eight ri west of Chuzan, but taking sixty cho as one ri. When using our thirty-six cho as one ri, it is eighty ri》○This island has two magiri called "Yasugaha" and "Gushigaha." ○There are high mountains, and besides the five grains, there are many products: native cotton, silk thread from cocoons, paper, candles, shellfish, fish, chickens, pigs, cattle, horses, cuttlefish, and many more products.