After whaling, we arrived at Oahu Island around what I recall was October, took on firewood and water, and stayed for about thirty days. During that time, I went ashore to inquire about Denzō and the others. Denzō and Goemon were not there, but I met with Toraemon. I was told that Denzō and Goemon, wanting to return to Japan, had requested passage on an American whaling ship and departed. I heard that Jūsuke had died of illness some time before. Toraemon said he was afraid of being at sea and did not take passage on a ship, but remained there and had become a carpenter's apprentice. I told him about my circumstances up to that point and took my leave.

Three days before our ship was to depart, I heard that the ship carrying Denzō and Goemon had returned, so I inquired and went to that ship to meet with both men and hear about their situation. They said they had gone as far as the Matsumae area of Japan and landed at a place whose name they didn't know, but it was like an uninhabited island, so they had returned. We talked about various things and then parted.

We departed from that place and sailed around whaling in the waters near small islands in the South Pacific. Around March 1848 (corresponding to February of Kaei 1), we moored at Kian Island, took on firewood and water, and stayed for about thirty days. We departed from there and spent about seven months whaling near the equator, during which time we put in at small islands to take on firewood and water. These were barren islands, similar to those we had visited before. We occasionally put in at small islands to take on firewood and water, which were also similar. In November of the same year, we moored at Ceylon Island, a Spanish territory. It was an island about the size of the Ryukyu Kingdom, with a harbor entrance about one ri long and about eighteen chō wide, and about fifty houses. We stayed for about forty days taking on firewood and water, and departed in late January 1849 (corresponding to mid-December of Kaei 2).