【Text within the signboard illustration】
Storehouse
Opening of doors
Ruidasan (Tears Mountain) Hijō (Emergency) Myōō (Wisdom King)
Buddhist prayers and Nichiren chants, etc.
From the night of the 2nd of this month at the fourth hour until the next morning
All are currently in distress
Earthquake Temple
Fire

【Main text to the right of the principal image】
The Tears Mountain Emergency Wisdom King is the principal deity of rescue huts, town laws, and important works, embodying earthquake, thunder, fire, and fathers. Beyond subduing demons, his sacred vow is to correct the hearts of people in the world and stop debauchery and laziness.
When manifesting as an earthquake, he topples the storehouses of the greedy and wicked. When appearing as thunder, he pierces the ears of the deaf, sending souls flying to heaven and transforming merciless hearts. When manifesting as fire, he releases flames from collapsed houses, and if no one extinguishes them, they burn freely. As night turns to day, the flames mysteriously disappear, leaving nothing behind. Even when reduced to having neither tears nor chopsticks, if life remains, he will rewrite one's fate. When father-earthquakes rush out and people flee, deceived by talk of rain and tsunamis, there are villains who steal afterward, but those with honest hearts are sworn to be saved. The sword of the Emergency Wisdom King is the sword of parental admonition. Grasping purse strings with one hand, he bestows upon descendants the protection of frugality, according to his divine message. Those who perish in destruction will surely regret it.

【Main text to the left of the principal image】
Finally finding peace and security. When inquiring in detail about the origin of this principal deity, long ago there were rumors of an Earthquake King and gate conflagrations. Unable to settle on business and receiving orders, Tahara-hyō, when fire broke out, came as rescue in cotton garments of two and a half gō, his swollen belly pressing forward. At this time, Tears Mountain prayed daily to the greatly inappropriate king, and through the measure of charitable rice, the collapse of the gates became the virtue of this sacred image. The poem from that time:
At the gate again, chanting arose from the temples
The fallen tiles cracked and split

【Words of the monk in the illustration】
Disaster
Sympathy visits
Thunder protection
Fire protection
Worry protection
Amulets
Are available
From here