【Right Page】
Their ship was damaged, and they were able to reach (China) by boarding the ship of the inner palace official Chai Shan. When they requested to be granted a ship to return to their country and also to use for tribute missions, the Ministry of Public Works at the imperial residence was ordered to provide it. In the fourth year, King Tarumei of Shannan also sent envoys twice to present tribute. 《Marginal note: According to Wang Ji's record, from this point on the King of Shannan never again sent envoys. He was probably absorbed by Chuzan. Since King Kyoanchi of Sanhoku stopped paying tribute after the 13th year of Yongle, Sanhoku perished before Shannan, and fourteen years have passed since then.》 In the seventh year, Emperor Xuanzong, noting that among foreign tributary states only Japan had not yet come, ordered the inner palace official Chai Shan to carry an imperial edict to the (Ryukyu) kingdom and commanded the king to send people to Japan to persuade them. The following year (Japan) came to court. Xuanzong ordered the Ministry of Public Works at the imperial residence to provide one seagoing vessel to Chuzan's tribute envoys. 《Marginal note: This was because the tribute envoys said their ship had been damaged when they came.》 In the tenth year, the king sent envoys to express gratitude for the imperial edict and gifts bestowed the previous year. At this time, Minister of Rites Hu Yu memorialized that they should select principal and vice envoys along with twelve to twenty attendants to proceed to the capital, while all the rest should be detained locally and provided for. This was followed.

【Left Page】
In the first year of Zhengtong, Emperor Yingzong bestowed the Datong Calendar. Just then the king had sent tribute envoy Wu Shijian, who arrived. Shijian was given an imperial edict to carry back, and was ordered to inform both the king and the Japanese sovereign Minamoto no Yoshi- 《Marginal note: referring to Shogun Yoshinori》. In the second year, the king sent envoys to tribute horses and local products, memorializing: "The court robes of all officials in our country were all bestowed at the founding of the dynasty, but after many years they have become worn and tattered. We request that they be bestowed anew. Also, although our country follows the orthodox calendar, because the sea routes are treacherous and dangerous, the envoys who receive the calendar sometimes take half a year or a full year to return." When this was deliberated by the Ministry of Rites, they responded in a memorial saying that "court robes should be manufactured and used according to what was originally bestowed upon that country. The Datong Calendar should be provided by the Provincial Administration Commissioner of Fujian." In the fourth year, the king sent envoys to present tribute and