【Right Page】
Sho Kinpuku ascended the throne at age 53 in Zhengtong 14th year, because Shitasu had no children. In Jingtai 2nd year, Emperor Jingtai dispatched an envoy to conduct memorial rites for the late King Shitasu and invested his uncle Sho Kinpuku as King of Chuzan. In this year, Hōtoku 3rd year (Xinwei), during the time of Shogun Yoshimasa, Ryukyu's envoy arrived at Hyōgo port in Settsu Province, entered Kyoto to present tribute, and conducted trade in Hyōgo. 《Various chronicles including the Jiryaku consider this year as the beginning of Ryukyu's tribute to Japan. However, the Kōshi Zatsukan records Yoshinori's reply letter from Eikyō 11th year》 Yoshimasa dispatched an envoy to Ming China in this year.

Sho Taikyū 《The Chūzan Seikan states that Taikyū was Sho Kinpuku's first son, the Ming Shilu records him as Kinpuku's younger brother, and the Seisan-zu cited in Wang Ji identifies Taikyū as Sho Shitasu's younger brother. The Denshiroku states: "The Seikan is in error. The Shilu merely uses the memorial requesting investiture as evidence, and there is nothing else to examine," so it is correct that he was Sho Shitasu's younger brother》
After Kinpuku had already died, his younger brother Furi and his son Shiro fought over the succession, burning the government treasury,

【Left Page】
and both were wounded and perished together. 《At this time, the bestowed gold-plated silver seal was also melted and destroyed》 The people promoted Sho Taikyū 《said to be Shitasu's younger brother》 to manage state affairs. In Jingtai 5th year, Taikyū reported this and also requested that a seal be cast and bestowed. Officials were ordered to provide this. He also dispatched envoys to present tribute. In his memorial he styled himself "Sho Taikyū, King's Younger Brother Managing State Affairs of Ryukyu Kingdom." 《Therefore the Ming Shilu identifies him as Kinpuku's younger brother》 In the 6th year, the king's younger brother sent tribute twice. This year, Ming sent principal and deputy envoys bearing an edict to invest Taikyū as successor king.
In the 7th year, he sent tribute still styling himself as king's younger brother, and after investiture dispatched envoys to express gratitude, and also dispatched envoys to send tribute. In Tianshun 2nd year when Emperor Yingzong resumed the throne, tribute was sent three times. In the 3rd year, he dispatched the envoy Li Jing to present tribute of horses and gold and silver vessels, stating in his memorial: "The royal palace suffered a fire and the copper coins in the treasury were burned. We request Yongle Xuan-