【Right Page】
4 red-shafted spear bearers in front of the palanquin, 4 red-scabbarded long side-sword bearers, 2 black side-sword bearers, 4 long chopping sword bearers. According to Xiao Chongye's record, there were dozens of warriors wearing copper masks, clad in lacquered armor, and bearing swords. Now they carry these in regular clothing. 1 large fan bearer, 2 red-corded golden incense burner bearers, 2 golden gourd bearers, 2 pearl-decorated fan bearers, 2 small goose-feather fan bearers, 2 fly-whisk bearers. From the golden incense burners down, all are carried by young boys. The young boys are called "Satto-nushi." 30 yellow-hatted horsemen (officials from ear-and-eye officials and palace attendants downward), 12 purple-hatted horsemen (officials including purple-gold attendants and purple-kerchief officials), 2 green ground five-flower gold-brocade hatted horsemen (officials including royal uncles and judicial officers).

Congratulatory Offerings Along the Route

On this day, wherever the king passes, various flower offerings are set up along the roadside. Along the roadside on the Izumizaki Bridge embankment, dozens of varieties of flowers and plants are arranged in basins and pots, displayed in dozens of layers with vermillion railings surrounding them. In the center, one beast is created (carved from wood and painted to resemble a qilin), and behind it a wooden plaque is erected with the inscription: "Neither dragon nor leopard, neither bear nor brown bear, but an auspicious beast of the king," forming an antithetical couplet. This was set up by the people of Kume.

【Left Page】
To the east of the envoys' residence, within the marshy ground in front of Tianfei Temple, an artificial mountain was constructed. Paper was cut to make white cranes, a large pine tree was cut and planted in the ground by the pond, and another white crane was made on top, arranged as if flying and calling to each other. Artificial mountains were made with paper around the four sides, surrounded by dozens of varieties of flowers and plants, with an old man and two deer created in the center in the manner of mountain calls for longevity celebrations. This was set up by the people of Naha.

Mid-Autumn Banquet

In the courtyard of the royal palace, in front of the dripping water of the north palace, a wooden platform measuring five to six zhang square was constructed with curtains and drapes on all four sides. The king invited guests to enter and take their seats, and after everyone was seated, sacred songs and congratulatory verses were first presented. According to the explanatory text: "In the primordial chaos of our country, the first to emerge and rule the world became the Tensho clan. Like the righteous emperors of China, they governed through tranquility and detachment. After succession, when national rulers ascended to the throne, the gods would always appear to manifest their spiritual power."