[Right Page]
was conducted. However, since human nature is the same in all ages, when Shō Tei requested succession investiture, the Ministry of Rites deliberated and said that tribute envoys should receive the investiture. Although the tribute envoys earnestly requested this, the ministerial council stubbornly refused. Nevertheless, the Sacred Ancestor [Kangxi Emperor] specially granted permission. At that time the sea routes were especially unsettled, but in reality this was due to fear of the perils of ocean navigation. That tribute envoys originally came for trade purposes was already discussed in ministerial councils during the Ming dynasty. The retinue of investiture envoys was also permitted to engage in trade (The Denshin-roku states: In general, soldiers and servants accompanying [the mission] are limited to carrying 200 jin of baggage and goods each. Upon examination, historically the soldiers and servants crossing the sea on investiture ships all had the old custom of carrying pressed notes and goods to reside and trade. In the 7th year of Wanli, jimao [1579], the investiture envoy Xie Jie, Herald of Changle, wrote the "Record of Eastern Trade." Later there is an article on "Relief for Service Personnel." It states that since the Hongwu period, it was established as regulation that five hundred people crossing the sea could each carry 100 jin of baggage to trade with the Ryukyu people. In the jiawu mission, ten thousand gold was obtained. Five hundred people each got twenty gold; those with more got thirty to forty gold, and even those with less got ten to eight gold. In the xinyou mission, only six thousand gold was obtained, with five hundred people each getting twelve gold. Those with more got twenty gold, those with less got five to six gold, somewhat failing expectations. Therefore in the jimao recruitment, only mediocre personnel could be obtained to serve in the mission, unable to achieve the skilled workmanship of before. The proceeds were only about three thousand gold, with each person getting eight gold, those with more getting fifteen to sixteen gold, those with less getting three to four gold.)

[Left Page]
(Greatly disappointing expectations. Only after depleting stores to assist them could they finally complete the ceremonies and return. In the jiawu mission, foreign ships engaging in resale trade came from probably more than ten countries, so profits were already substantial. Therefore what our people obtained was also abundant. In the xinyou mission, foreign ships engaging in resale trade came from only three to four countries. Since profits were already small, what our people obtained also decreased. In the jimao mission, restrictions on foreign trade relaxed and foreign ships did not arrive. Profits were suddenly cut off, so what our people obtained was extremely little. Circumstances made it so. Now in the 22nd year of Kangxi, guihai [1683], at this time maritime prohibitions were particularly strict. Foreign countries competed to purchase Chinese goods. Islands near Ryukyu, such as Satsuma Province, Tokara Seven Islands, and other places, all heard rumors and came gathering. Their goods were traded and sold. Fujian people have continued to speak of this until today, so many serve in these missions. With long-lasting peace, Ryukyu has come yearly to trade Chinese goods, and foreign countries have many. After this investiture ship arrived, not one foreign ship from Tokara and other places came. Our country is inherently poor, many goods cannot be sold, and both people and servants are in distress. By law, the profit-seeking activities of merchants should be prohibited. Those serving in missions should reduce their retinue and equipment. This would both relieve the material difficulties of our small country and eliminate the covetous thoughts of the various service personnel. Perhaps both benefits could be fully achieved.)
(The above is based on the record by Vice Envoy Herald Xie Jie who invested Ryukyu King Shō Ei in the 7th year of Wanli. Upon examination, the jiawu mission refers to when King Taromai of Sannan was invested in the 12th year of Yongle under Ming Chengzu, corresponding to the 21st year of Ōei in our court. At that time, since Shogun Yoshimitsu had died and communication with Ming China was severed, Chinese goods were scarce, so the goods brought by Ryukyu investiture envoys sold easily, probably obtaining ten thousand gold. The xinyou mission refers to when Shō Chū was invested in the 6th year of Zhengtong under Yingzong, corresponding to the 1st year of Kakitsu when Shogun Yoshikatsu succeeded. From the time of the previous shogun Yoshinori, envoys were again sent to Ming China.)