[Right folio]
When a hat-like cover is placed on branches and the bees are driven from below with bamboo leaves, they all enter into it. When one bee enters, the swarm follows and all enter. This is taken down and placed upright, covered with a box on top, wrapped with a hand towel and left overnight, whereupon all the bees climb up into the box.

There is a proper time for cutting and harvesting honeybee combs. It is good to harvest after the autumn doyo period ends. Generally, one should observe the number of bees or test the weight of the comb to estimate and harvest accordingly. Generally, half should be left and half taken. If only one-third is left, when there are many bees, there may be insufficient food until spring. Depending on the year, when rainy weather continues or when wind blows roughly and cold arrives early with few flowers, the comb holes may not be filled with honey. This is called "empty comb" (karasu). Combs filled with honey are called "candy combs." These empty combs should be removed without hesitation. There are tools for cutting and harvesting these. Made of iron, one shaku six sun long, with a blade one sun three bu wide at the tip. The tool for piercing and cutting the corners of boxes is called "tsukikiri" (pierce-cutter). There is also one shaped like a hoe, also with a handle one shaku six sun long and a blade at the tip, also one sun three bu. All have wooden handles attached for convenient gripping. There is also one of this shape with a pointed tip. This also measures one sun three bu from the curved part to the pointed part. The above two

[Left folio]
tools are called "kakikiri" (scrape-cutter). Besides these, there is what is called a kitchen knife, similar to what is now commonly called a thin blade. This tool is primarily used. Generally, for cutting and harvesting combs, seven to ten days after the autumn doyo period is good. Clear, sunny midday is best. Generally from around the 10th to the 20th of the month is good, when there are moonlit nights. From around the 24th-25th until the 5th-6th of the following month is good for cutting and harvesting, when there are dark nights. This is because on moonlit nights, the bees play around at night and leave flower combs as they are. On dark nights, there are few flower combs and much honey. "Flower comb" refers to yellow stamens from flowers packed into cell holes without being fermented, remaining just as yellow powder. On dark nights, they do not wander outside at night but stay focused on the nest throughout the night, frequently fermenting yellow stamens into honey. This theory was unknown to the ancients and is not recorded in the writings of previous scholars. This records what I personally observed when harvesting honey from bees kept in the Nanki lord's western garden, hearing what a person called Niwagata Ryūzō told me at that time, which I record here as a curious matter.

When opening the door of the bee hive intending to cut the right side, lightly tapping the top of the box on the right side,