[Right folio]
Those that are transparent all the way to the tail are selected and placed in the mabushi (cocoon frames). When placing those that have even one-third black areas, they excrete turbid urine, and if this touches the cocoon, it rots and becomes bad. In China too, they say one should use the "ten silkworms, nine mature" method when placing them in cocoon frames. Mabushi refers to bundled forked branches that are placed inside with rice straw covering the top. When silkworms are placed inside, they immediately begin spinning silk, hanging it on the forked branches to create thread. This is commonly called "sugaku." When they form the cocoon shape and become transparent so the silkworm can be seen, for about a day and night, without a moment's rest, they contract their bodies, looking up and down, moving left and right as they spin silk, never resting even briefly. Later, when it becomes thick, the silkworm can no longer be seen. It appears to be in great distress. This is their natural disposition. There are several types of cocoons. Those that are tight, small, and constricted are from males. Round-shaped ones are from females. Therefore, China also says "male cocoons are pointed, narrow, tight, and small."

[Left folio]
"Those that are round, loose, thick, and large at the waist are female." When one silkworm creates one cocoon, the shape is narrow, the quality good, and the silk strong. The Wamyōshō reads this as "hikimyu." What is now commonly called "komyu" (small cocoon). Using these cocoons, this silk is employed for weaving habutae silk, gauze, crepe, chirimen, etc. It is pure white with much luster and of superior quality. The Tiangong Kaiwu states: "Generally, to obtain silk, one must use perfectly round single-silkworm cocoons, then the thread ends will not tangle." When two silkworms or four to five silkworms together create one cocoon, the shape is broad and large. In Hishū this is called "futomyu," and in Kōshū "hachinin-makura" (eight-person pillow). This silk is weak with little luster and considered inferior quality. Therefore it is mostly made into cotton. This is called "dōgū-ken" (same-palace cocoon) in China, as seen in the Jiwa Ganzhu. Regarding cocoons, there is the name "silkworm clothing" in the Jiwa Ganzhu. The Zhengzi Tong states: "Jian is the common character for cocoon, and sometimes the simplified character 𫊱 is used." This should be considered the same abbreviated character as cocoon. Generally, cocoons are dried in blazing sun for about three days before drawing silk. For this, the mulberry leaves left uneaten by silkworms are stored, burned to ash, and lye is made. This lye is boiled in a pot, cocoons are added, and silk is drawn. The thread ends do not tangle, and even two to three hundred cocoons will all emerge as a single continuous thread. This can be called a divine and miraculous wonder. Sun-drying is to kill the pupae inside. Otherwise, if they break the cocoon and emerge as moths, the cocoon silk becomes severed and difficult to make into thread. Therefore, all are made into cotton. This is commonly called "watamyu" (cotton cocoon). The Dongui Bogam has the name "cotton jian." There are also names like "empty silkworm cocoon," "moth-mouth cocoon," and "cocoon cavity." What resides in the cocoon resembles the form of a pupa.