【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Galls (Goboshi)
Sumac Tree (Hadagi)

【Left Page】
Galls (goboshi) are also called "gokyofū" (Kaishun), "shōkekketsu" (Hyakuichi Senpō), and when used medicinally, are called "bunkō." These are insect nests that grow on the Japanese sumac tree (nurude). They resemble the fruit of the sumac tree, but are distinct from the actual fruit. The real fruit is called "enbushi." The Honkō has an entry in the fruit flavor category. The Japanese name for galls is "fushi," and in ancient poetry they are called "mimifushi." Those harvested fresh directly from the tree are called "kibushi." The Chinese name for the sumac tree is "hadagi." The leaves resemble lacquer tree leaves but are larger with coarse serrated edges. In late autumn, the foliage turns beautifully red, called "nurude momiji." This tree is extremely common in mountains and fields. These galls grow on sumac trees (nurude) found in mountainous areas. Their attachment points are not fixed - they may be found on branches, stems, or leaves. All have small stalks and hang downward like fruit. Their shapes vary greatly in size and length, some resembling water chestnut shells, others dividing into three to five branches. When dried, their color changes to brown. The interior is hollow and contains much white powder like rice bran. This is the insect itself. Therefore, those stored for long periods become over-steamed. Perfect specimens are harvested and ground into powder called "fushinoko" or "kibushi powder," used by women for teeth blackening. Hyakuyaku-sen (hundred medicine decoction) has the Japanese name "asenyaku," and pharmacies commonly write it as "asen-yaku." This is also made from galls. Several imported varieties exist. Currently, merchants from Settsu province manufacture and sell these throughout the country. Sesshū Asama's Bankin-tan, Edo's Kinbukuro-en, and others all incorporate large amounts of this hyakuyaku-sen into their pill preparations, yielding great benefits. Sagami Odawara's Tōchōkō (ūirō) also contains this substance. It is used for various diseases and has spread throughout all provinces as medicine. The prescription appears in "Junsei Hakusen." The Banbyō Gedoku-gan and Satsushū Shōdoku-gan contain "bunkō," all of which are these galls. What medical texts call "sen-bunkō" all refer to this substance. Generally, the large pills that common people call "poison eliminators" and the restorative pills that various schools treat as secret formulas all without exception contain this substance. It has extensive uses.