【Right Page】
Insect White Wax: The Japanese name is Ibotarō. This is wax obtained by boiling the nests of insects that attach to trees called Ibota. It is produced abundantly from Aizu in Ōshū province, hence it is also called Aizu wax. Ibota refers to the Chinese privet tree (Ligustrum obtusifolium), which is a shrub similar to the Chinese privet (Ligustrum lucidum). It is used for low hedges along field boundaries and roadsides. Those growing in mountains have thick white powder wrapped around the bark like cotton, appearing white. This is the insect nest, which can be peeled off softly when rubbed with fingernails. From a distance, it looks as if snow has accumulated on the bark. It is commonly called "Ibota flowers," but this is incorrect—the actual flowers are separate. Small spikes emerge from branch tips, with small four-petaled white flowers clustering densely. They bloom in summer months and have the odor of rotting wood. No other insects are seen attached in large numbers eating the leaves; only these nests are observed. In Bingo province it's called "Yama-oshiroi," in Awa province "Tobashiri," and in Harima province "Tosuberi." This insect powder is collected and applied to squeaking doors and sliding panels that move with difficulty, making the thresholds smooth so doors slide easily. Hence these regional names exist. It is also used to remove warts. By tightly binding the base of a wart and dropping one drop of this hot wax on it, the wart falls off. Thus the name Ibota exists—it's a contraction of "Ibotori" (wart remover). The collected insect nests are called wax dregs, placed in cloth bags, boiled and strained, then thrown into cold water to make wax. After boiling again and straining into porcelain jars through cloth, the color becomes pure white with luster and very

【Left Page】
hard. When split open, it forms brush-like striations. This is called insect white wax, also termed insect wax to distinguish it from lacquer wax and wood wax. Originally, for use in surgery to make ointments, this wax should be used entirely. Currently, many ointments are made using lacquer wax, which is not good because fresh lacquer wax causes skin irritation. In China, these insects are raised on Chinese privet trees, hence the tree is also called the "wax tree." Vermillion is added and kneaded to make artificial coral beads.