【Right Page】
Yamagamasu (Mountain cocoon)　Also called Karabitsuko
Collected and sketched by myself on August 10th of the Bosshi year
This is a type of wild silkworm cocoon found on the branches of the Amur cork tree

【Left Page】
Iwi Zaishitsu　In Sanshū Shiragamine, the so-called Aya-no-matsuyama
　　　　　Cuckoo's tamadzusa (letter/message)
There is a work by Tōji Hōjibō in eight volumes
　According to Wago Shioku-shō, in Kōya there are leaves rolled up one by one like this
　The inside of these rolled leaves is hollow and not an insect nest; all are rolled horizontally
　These are thin, ordinary leaves. When I asked the monks of Kōya,
　they said it is not the name of a particular tree species, but according to
　the folklore of Oku-Kumano in Kōya, when the leaves of various trees
　roll up like this in every household, it is the time when cuckoos appear, and the
　cuckoos pick up these leaves and scatter them, hence
　this name exists.
　The leaves I observed were like
　this illustration. According to Sadamoto's analysis,
　the ancient name for the cuckoo's tamadzusa is Aya-no-
　matsuyama, and in Sanshū Shiragamine, it is said that
　cuckoos come and tie up mulberry leaves with their beaks
　like this and then leave. However, according to Ranzan's theory, calling it the cuckoo's tamadzusa and attributing it to the bird's handiwork is erroneous;
　it is actually an insect nest. This too is a one-sided view that should not be dismissed. In Shimotsuke Province at Mount Nikkō, there is something called the warbler's sutra scroll
　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Before warblers stop their singing,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　they roll up all the tree leaves to
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　form shapes like rolled sutra scrolls.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　When people see this,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　the warblers have already
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　stopped their voices.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Indeed, it is as the saying goes. In the early Bunsei period, Yō Sadamoto of Shiba
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　presented me with one specimen he had long treasured.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The tree leaves are [continues]