【Right Page】
Camphor tree worm: When placed in vinegar, it dies, and when the sinews are extracted from its abdomen, they extend over ten feet. Fujian people use it like maple silkworm silk, and it can also be made into strong large fishing lines. All tree worms like silkworms have silk, form cocoons, and become moths. All smoked paper armor is thick. From "Wuli Xiaoshi" (Small Records of Natural Philosophy) by Mr. Fang of Fushan Cicang Studio in Tongcheng, Anhui Province, Qing Dynasty.

The camphor tree worm is about finger-sized, several inches long, and green in color. When washed with vinegar to remove flesh, there is silk inside which, when extracted, is about two feet long. This is called "insect silk" and used as fishing line. From "Zhangzhou Prefecture Gazetteer."

In Hengzhou, Guangxi, there is what is called the maple silkworm. When maple leaves first emerge, insects eat the leaves like silkworms. They are reddish-black in color and spin silk when mature in the fourth month. Local people split and extract the silk, which is lustrous like qin strings. Coastal Dan people buy it to make fishing lines.
From "Liuqing Rizha" by Tian Yiheng of the Ming Dynasty.

In Shobutsu Ruisan by Niwa Shohaku, it states: "In the spring of Kyōhō Year of the Wood Rabbit (1735), I had interpreter official Ume of Keiho inquire about maple silkworm silk from Chinese people. They replied: 'This is heavenly silkworm silk, also called insect silk. It comes from Hainan in Guangdong, and Fujian also has it. These insects are born on maple trees in the third and fourth months, and by the sixth and seventh months grow to two or three inches with swollen abdomens. The abdomen is cut open to extract silk. Its appearance is like intestines, soaked in vinegar and stretched into thread, then air-dried for use as fishing line. It is also wound around the edges of palm leaf hats.'" In our country, it is commonly called "tegus," and Dan people exclusively use it as fishing line.

Changzō further notes that these insects grow on chestnut and maple trees, are finger-sized, and are no different from ordinary caterpillars.

【Left Page】
There are fine hairs as shown in the left diagram. When it forms its nest, it becomes brown in color. The silk forming its web is extremely strong. It forms mesh through which the pupa inside can be seen transparently. Children collect them to hold fireflies, so they are commonly called "firefly bags." If one raises many of these insects and removes them when their abdomens become large and transparent before they make cocoons, they should be easily obtainable in our country as well. Last year, someone took a self-made tegus string from their pocket and showed it to me. It was a superior product, transparent and pure white. When I asked the person, they said they took it when the throat area of their domestically raised silkworms became transparent amber-colored before making cocoons.

I once heard that in Iida, Shinshū, they catch insects growing on oak trees to make tegus, calling them "nara insects." In recent years in Awa Province, insects raised to make tegus are called "tochikanjō." In Kishū too, those who learn this to make tegus produce items no different from imported goods. Looking at the cocoons made by these insects, they are like the sukidawara shown below. I, Tanshū, believe that in Aizu, insects raised on oak trees to make cocoons are called "shiragadayū." The silk is spun to weave cloth - superior quality resembles raseita, while inferior quality resembles monpa. Called "kemushiori," it is considered a domestic product. This is made from cocoons created by these insects. Tegus made from these insects is resilient and flexible, the same as imported products. It is said that Dan people of Shikoku and Kishū exclusively prepare it for fishing line use with great profit. Diagrams of the insects that make this will be shown elsewhere and should be examined. There are names like Chinese camphor insects and maple silkworms - do they eat any tree leaves? It should not be limited to chestnuts and oaks.