【Right Page】
1. When handling silkworms, one should rub fresh mugwort on the hands before handling them. Most importantly, cut it finely and apply it even between the fingers in this manner. Also, straw and other woven baskets - everything that touches the silkworms should be rubbed with mugwort before putting silkworms in.

1. Dew on mulberry leaves is harmful. When there is much rain on the mulberry leaves, bundle five or six bundles together and pile them up, place a mat on top, and after a short while, the dew will dry quickly in this state. If hung on poles or stood upright, the dew dries slowly.

1. Things forbidden for silkworms are the smell of grilling fresh fish from sea or river. First of all, grilling sardines is greatly prohibited. Salted fish is not problematic.

1. In places where silkworms are kept, daikon radish seeds or garlic should be hung. This removes bad odors. Eating these is greatly forbidden. Hanging chives is also forbidden.

1. The method of sweeping and sorting silkworms: first, when about one-tenth have hatched, these should be

【Left Page】
swept away and discarded. These are called "uwa-ko" (top children) and are inferior silkworms, so they are discarded. Use those that hatch the second time. Gradually sweep them up, and when about one-tenth remains, separate and sweep them into something else. This is called "nade-jiri" (sweep-tail), and these are very inferior silkworms that should be discarded. The sweeping should be done with the feathers of male and female pheasants. Those that emerge more than half a day after sweeping and discarding can be used.

1. Silkworm eggs should be soaked in cold water from the previous year from 9 o'clock in the day until 9 o'clock the next day, then dried so they don't freeze. After that, they should be stored away. This is to kill weak silkworms. Since 9 o'clock is during the day, when taken from water and dried, they won't freeze, so 9 o'clock is determined. Refer to the previous text as well.

1. There is something called "standing the bottom." From the second molting, the bottom should be thinned. This way they grow quickly. "Standing the bottom" refers to silkworm droppings.