【Right Page】
　etc. are used.
One: When insects appear, take out rotted manure from the night soil pit and use it frequently, and also if
　liquid fertilizer is added to it, insects will disappear before long and seedlings will grow
　well.
One: When cotton bolls ripen, there are insects that eat the cotton bolls. For this, put much buckwheat
　hulls into the night soil pit and use frequently, then insects will be few. Also, soak chinaberry
　tree branches and leaves with mugwort in water and sprinkle with a brush broom for four to five days,
　then insects will completely disappear. This should be done during daytime. However, sophora root
　added at one hundredth the amount of mugwort should be well decocted, cooled and then added.
One: When cotton is ready and picking time comes, seed cotton that has been over-dried is bad. Dry in clear weather for
　about two days, then put on the cotton gin. When cutting, dry it a little and it's good.
　Sort the picked cotton, remove bad cotton and put on the cotton gin, and then again
【Left Page】
　sort and remove bad cotton before beating. Most importantly, beat gently.
　　　Cotton Beating Method
One: Cut two or three thin bamboo poles to about four shaku five sun in length, tie them together,
　attach string from the bamboo tips and tie on a bow. This is called a shinai bow.
　However, tie it about one shaku five sun away from the far corner of this bamboo.
One: The beating place should be about two ken long horizontally and one ken vertically on a wooden veranda.
One: Make a coarse-meshed basket about three shaku five sun long, two shaku five sun wide, and three sun high
　in a rectangular shape. This is called a spreading basket. Lay this basket down and
　place cotton on top to beat it. However, this basket is not limited to
　being rectangular. Round baskets are also used.
One: First place the cotton to be beaten beside the spreading basket, put the amount to be beaten
　on top of the spreading basket, and feed cotton onto the spreading basket as you beat it.