【Right Page】
　Add boiling water and plum vinegar, then stir to bring out the color. Put the thread to be dyed into this place to dye it. Next, it should be done in a double boiler. When using a double boiler, put your hand into the water with the rouge to check that it becomes lukewarm. At this time, lift it up, cover it with silk from above, put a tight lid on top, and leave it for about half an hour (kohanji) so that the rouge will be fully absorbed. However, with the double boiler method, if the water is too hot, the rouge will not be fully absorbed and will burn. By keeping it so that no steam escapes, the rouge is fully absorbed. Dyeing dried thread gives particularly good rouge absorption.

1. To dye white thread, first soak the white thread in a mixture of equal parts straw ash water and rice vinegar. Without wringing, lift it up about three times, soak again, and dry directly in sunlight. Then extract turmeric with hot water, dye with it, and dry in shade. After that, dye with rouge. For peach color dyeing, there is no turmeric base dyeing - it is dyed directly with rouge. If you think the color of something dyed with rouge is poor, use phellodendron bark

【Left Page】
　100 monme per 100 monme of thread, decocting it - for example, if using 1 sho 5 go of water, boil it down to about 1 sho, strain this decoction through water, and while still hot, put in the items previously dyed with rouge. Soak for about half an hour, wring lightly, and dry in shade. It is particularly good to put items into this decoction after the rouge dyeing is completed.

1. For deep rouge dyeing: 10 monme of rouge per 10 monme of thread.
1. For medium rouge dyeing: 7 monme of rouge per 10 monme of thread.
1. For light rouge dyeing: 6 monme of rouge per 10 monme of thread.  
1. For Chinese scarlet dyeing: 15 monme of medium rouge per 10 monme of thread.
1. For peach color dyeing: no turmeric base dyeing, 1 monme of rouge per 10 monme of thread. The intensity of color depends on the amount of rouge used.

　　The above rouge dyeing is a secret art of dyers, with many oral traditions. Especially, extracting rouge water from safflowers requires great skill, with much difference between skilled and unskilled practitioners, and its