【Right Page】
　　one should know that there are varying qualities in the extracted juice.
　　　Purple Color Dyeing Method
1. Take fresh roots of purple grass (murasaki), put them in a stone mortar and crush them, then put them in a bamboo strainer. Put the items to be dyed in a tub, lay two bamboo poles across the top of the tub, place the strainer containing the purple roots on top, and pour hot water from above. By doing this, the dye will penetrate the fabric. There are oral traditions regarding the temperature control of the water.

1. Take the purple roots that have been used once for dyeing, crush them again, and pour hot water as before. Control the water temperature for the second round, dry in sunlight as initially done, then put in ash water and turn by hand so that it blends well. Repeat this process two or three times, wring well, and dry in shade. Use plenty of ash water. There are secret teachings about adding ash water at the end.

1. If there is too much ash water, blue tones will appear. If insufficient, red tones will appear.

【Left Page】
1. The wisteria color dyeing method uses a diluted extraction of purple roots.
　　　Indigo Dyeing Method
1. Cut indigo grass flowers during the summer dog days, strip the leaves, dry them in the sun, knead them into powder, moisten with clean water, grip and compress into balls, wrap with reed mats so that wind cannot enter. When the moisture has dried, break it up by hand, sprinkle a little water again, compress as initially done and wrap. After three days, then two days, repeat the same process. Continue this for about twenty days. After that, compress firmly like a ball, dry it, and powder it. When extracting indigo juice, measure the amount of indigo by weight, boil 2 sho of ash and lime in water, adding 3 sho in the morning and 3 sho in the evening for seven days. There are oral traditions for observing how well the indigo develops. However, although good color emerges from the fifth day, actual dyeing begins around the ninth day. After dyeing, add about 5 shaku of lime each time.
　　　Yellow Color Dyeing Method