【Right Page】
　Methods for啄木 and ridge braiding　Methods for Korean-style braiding
　Ripple wave braiding　　　　　　　Wickerwork braiding
　Dense beating　　　　　　　　　　Methods for bag braiding
　Methods for lower cord braiding　　Methods for dragon-tiger beating braiding
　Thread stand setup and braiding methods　Methods for Genji beating cord
　Methods for Tang beating cord　　　Methods for eight-strand beating cord
　Methods for four-strand beating cord　Methods for three-strand beating cord
　Methods for pine bark beating cord　Methods for basket beating cord
　Methods for Suruga beating braiding　Oral traditions for thread winding balls
　Braiding thread stand diagram　　　Cord thread stand diagram
　Suruga beating stand diagram　　　Methods for braiding without stands

End of Table of Contents

【Left Page】
Comprehensive Guide to Weaving, Volume One
　　Methods for Cultivating Mulberry Seedlings
1. To obtain mulberry seedlings, bend the new shoots that have grown from the stumps of cut mulberry trees and bury them in soil during the period from April to May. Those growing to the right should be bent to the left, and those growing to the left should be bent to the right, bending them as strongly as possible. By doing this, the vigor of the main stump will weaken and the vigor of the new shoots will strengthen. When cutting the stump with a sickle, cut straight through in one stroke. If not done properly, it is bad. If even a little of the bark at the cut surface peels off, or if the cut surface becomes crooked, the sprouting of buds will be poor. Therefore, the sickle for cutting mulberry stumps should have a thick spine and a well-forged sharp edge. The thickness of the spine should be about three to four bu, and the handle length should be nine sun. This should be known as the standard method. In the eastern provinces, sickles forged in Yonezawa are considered the best. The blade edge is of the Kaifu style.

【Note① "胸" is likely an error for "棟"]
【Note② "図" is likely an error for "国"]
【Note③ "海苻" is likely "海府", "海符", or "海部"]