【Right Page】
1. On the tenth day after entering the summer土用 period in June, cut around and remove about one sun of bark from the base of the new shoots. By doing this, the vigor of the new shoots will be maintained strongly, the vigor of the main stump will weaken, and fine roots will develop well.
1. The bent new shoots mentioned above should be cut off just before the buds emerge, during the period from late February to early March of the following spring. This is called "shumoku nae" (seedling). Plant these in a field that has been ridged and cultivated in rows, with fertilizer applied, spacing the seedlings five to six sun apart. Cover with soil and tamp down firmly, leaving about two sun of space from the soil surface so the roots don't move. Cut the new shoots low toward the southeast direction with a sickle, and when buds appear, among all the buds that emerge, cultivate only the bud that grows at the soil surface on the southeast side, and remove all the others. Even if the bud is poor, cultivate the southeast-facing bud.
【Illustration】
This is a second-year seedling
【Illustration】
Seedling tree　Southeast direction

【Left Page】
1. The soil for planting seedlings should be four shaku square, and hard soil is preferable throughout. Dig to a depth of about two shaku, creating what is called "ground boundary" around where the roots will be planted. Put horse manure at the bottom of the dug hole, add a handful of dry soil from above on top of it, arrange the seedling roots toward the south with thick roots wrapped around, and cover with soil. Fill the dug hole about eight-tenths full with soil, pull up the seedling slightly to the right, and add more soil. Hold the seedling firmly with both hands so it doesn't move, and tamp down with both feet. If the dug hole is too shallow, root spreading will be poor for cultivation and the roots may be damaged. If the hole is too deep, it is said to take many years. In the past, it is said they used to dig and plant at about four shaku depth. The method of digging ground and planting is as shown in the diagram. When planting, remove the thin fine roots of the seedling and cut the tips slightly. It is bad if the roots become tangled and messy in the hole. After planting, if there is drought, water should be poured.
【Illustration】
Ground surface　Hole　Underground　About two shaku　South direction　Ground surface