【Final page of Hossō Two-Volume Commentary】
【Right page, upper section】
Tathatā (suchness) is named the Dharma Body. Now these Dharma Body, Reward Body, and Transformation Body are called the Three Bodies. The Other-enjoyment Body is included in the Reward Body. Among pure lands, the most supreme pure land is the Self-enjoyment pure land. If we speak further of that pure land, it is the land of the Dharma Body. Vairocana is this Dharma Body. Rocana is this Reward Body. Śākyamuni Buddha is the Transformation Body. The manner of cultivation through the Five Stages is roughly like this. Although the duration of cultivation through three great incalculable eons is endless, before enlightenment this is gathered into a single moment. To think that three incalculable eons are necessarily long is because the long night of ignorance has not yet dawned, and the dream of firm attachment has not yet awakened. Once this delusion awakens, the three kalpas are immediately one thought-moment, and one thought-moment is immediately three kalpas. Why would one not cultivate? And why would one not attain? These matters may contain errors. Also, though my words are clumsy, I speak according to your inquiry in whatever form. The texts of sutras and treatises, and the explanations of patriarchs are all abbreviated.

Two-Volume Commentary, Lower Volume - End

【Left page, upper section】
Profound Principles Commentary
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ryōhen
According to my contemplation, Great Parinirvāṇa, Non-abiding Nirvāṇa, and the Great Compassionate Icchantika Vow are three without difference. The three gates of Consciousness-only etc. [marginal note: Consciousness-only, Prajñā, Tathatā], Three Natures, Three Non-natures, characteristics and names, Five Dharmas, causation, Four Contemplations, Four-fold Ultimate Reality, and other Mahāyāna exclusive dharma gates, the Three Meanings of the syllable A, and the Zen Mind of Bodhidharma - do not all these dharmas ultimately return to one meaning-gate? Why is this so? Great Parinirvāṇa has as its essence the perfect fulfillment of the three aspects of Dharma Body, Prajñā, and Liberation - Tathatā, Great Wisdom, and Great Compassion. Non-abiding Nirvāṇa means that Dharma-emptiness Tathatā, Great Compassion, and Prajñā each function as supporting wings while being constantly tranquil. The Great Compassionate Icchantika Vow means that knowing all dharmas are originally nirvāṇa, one does not abandon any sentient beings. Also, through the harmony of wisdom, compassion, and dharma-nature, this vow is established. If this were not so, this vow would be difficult to establish. Non-difference means that mind, Buddha, and sentient beings are of one taste without separation. Without dharma-nature, true oneness is difficult to achieve. Without great wisdom, becoming Buddha is difficult for all. Without great compassion, accomplishment is difficult for all beings. The three gates are: the Consciousness-only Great Compassion Gate, the Prajñā Great Wisdom Gate, and the Tathatā Dharma-nature Gate. Regarding the Three Natures: the emptiness of the imagined is the Prajñā Gate, the provisional nature of the dependent is the Great Compassion Gate, and the principle of the perfected is the Tathatā Gate. The Three Non-natures are identical with the Three Natures, so their meaning is easy to understand. However, the former expresses while the latter negates, so they are divided into two gates. Regarding characteristics and names: characteristics, names, subject and object, and what is expressed do not differ from any meaning-gate. Discrimination is conditioned dependent-nature and the realm of Great Compassion. Correct cognition is unconditioned

【Left page, lower section】
dependent-nature and the dharma gate of Great Wisdom. Tathatā is the dharma-nature gate, and there is nothing confusing about it. The Four Contemplations, causation, and Buddha-nature generally do not differ from any meaning-gate. The latter three are also the three gates of Great Compassion, Great Wisdom, and Tathatā. The Four Ultimate Realities correspond to the Four Contemplations and are also easy to understand. Other dharmas such as the One Vehicle and Non-duality can all be understood by analogy. Regarding the Three Meanings of the syllable A: people of the esoteric school say that emptiness, existence, and non-arising constitute the three meanings, corresponding to the Three Natures. The three meanings of wisdom, compassion, and suchness also correspondingly accord with principle, which can also be understood. Regarding Bodhidharma's Zen Mind: the Sixth Patriarch's words state: "Do not think of any good or evil. Naturally obtain entry into the pure mind-essence. Pellucidly constant and tranquil, with wonderful functions like the sands of the Ganges." This directly corresponds to the virtue of Non-abiding Nirvāṇa. The pure mind-essence is the inherently pure mind, the wonderful wisdom of dharma-nature. "Wonderful functions like Ganges sands" means that Great Compassion and Prajñā constantly provide supporting wings. Because it functions while constantly tranquil, it is also pellucid. Now, the deluded minds of ordinary beings function while grieving over tranquility, thus sinking into birth and death. The remainderless [nirvāṇa] of the Two Vehicles is tranquil but not functional, thus dwelling in nirvāṇa. The great path of bodhisattvas functions while being constantly tranquil, thus neither dwelling in birth and death nor dwelling in nirvāṇa. Therefore, extending to the limit of future time, they benefit and bring joy to sentient beings. Because they do not dwell in birth and death, the Four Wisdoms and Bodhi are clearly present without lack. This is the reason for "giving rise to that mind while the mind has no dwelling place." Countless wonderful excellent virtues like Ganges sands are all contained within this one virtue. Question: The Three Natures and Non-natures, Five Dharmas, Four Contemplations, Four Ultimate Realities, etc., broadly discuss all dharma gates in general. Great Nirvāṇa and others are the merits of the fruit stage, while the Icchantika Vow and others are the vows of the causal stage. These are separate gates - why mix them into one? This is probably extremely reckless. Who would believe and accept this? Answer: I do not fail to preserve the separate meanings of each. What I now contemplate is that the stage of awakening and realization of these dharma gates is not a separate stage. Simply