【Right Page - Upper Section】
【Boxed Heading】Method for Memorizing Tidal Times
Multiply the day's number by 4, divide by 10 to get the hour unit, start counting from 5 tsu (8 AM) in order, and any remainder should be understood as minutes of that hour. For example, if asking what time the tide is on the 13th day, first multiply 13 by 4 to get 52. Start counting from 5 tsu: 10 (5 tsu/8 AM), 20 (4 tsu/10 AM), 30 (9 tsu/12 PM), 40 (8 tsu/2 PM), 50 (7 tsu/4 PM). Thus, the 13th day has a tide at 7 tsu 2 bu (4:20 PM). From then, 4 hours later at night's 4 tsu 2 bu (2:20 AM) should be known as low tide. All other days follow this same pattern. However, if the morning tide is at 7 tsu 2 bu, the evening tide should also be understood as 7 tsu 2 bu.

【Boxed Heading】Year-round Weather Prediction Methods
○Observing sunrise: red color indicates rain, yellow indicates strong wind, blue indicates rain and wind, many clouds

【Left Page - Upper Section】
indicate wind, many clouds with dimness indicate rain, red sky indicates wind, yellow sky indicates rain or thunder.
○Observing sunset: many clouds indicate rain, scattered clouds indicate wind, clouds without roots indicate clear weather. Even if the sun sets among clouds, if the sunset is beautiful, it may not rain. After sunset, if the west is red and gradually fades, it will be clear; if red and quickly turns dark, it will rain. When the sun appears to set high, the weather will change.
○Wind and rain from the north indicate clear weather, east wind indicates rain. However, during the rainy season and midsummer period, even continuous rain will stop. Wind preceding clouds indicates rain, wind following clouds indicates clear weather.
○Clouds rising and disappearing indicate clear weather, scattered and flying clouds indicate strong wind, waterspouts indicate rain. When the sky is completely clear without clouds and blue, rain will fall within three days.

【Right Page - Lower Section - Illustration only】

【Left Page - Lower Section】
Early Cotton
　Ship Departure
　　Illustration