All Talkie
No.445
The Laughing Father
Perfect Sound Recording
Dainippon Ongasha (Motion Picture Company)
Shinko Cinema Studios
Joint Production
Adapted from "The Path of the Flesh"
Screenplay: Esu Takashi
Director: Matsuishi Osamu
Cinematography: Miki Shigeru
◇Cast◇
Nakagawa Bunzo………………Matsumoto Taisuke
Wife Michiko…………………Utagawa Yaeko
Eldest son Aio………………Toga Kazushi
Eldest daughter Motoe………Kanazawa Mitsuko
Second son Yoshio……………Suzuki Katsuhiko
Third son Yukio………………Kanazawa Itoo
Third daughter Yasue…………Takahashi Iruko
Seductress……………………Suzuki Sumiko
Bank President………………Kunishiro Daisuke
Bank Employee………………Wakaba Kaoru
Gang Leader…………………Hoshi Eifu
Adult Yukio……………………Ogawa Hidemaro
Adult Yasue……………………Tezuka Tomiko
Adult Motoe……………………Miyakawa Yoshiko
◇Synopsis◇
Nakagawa Bunzo, who has worked at Imperial Bank for over 20 years, is a strict accounting manager at work and a kind father of five beloved children at home. He was also the owner of a magnificent beard like Zhong Kui. While on a business trip to Kansai on important company business, he met an enchanting lady on the train, and the woman, moved by his large securities, skillfully approached Bunzo. Upon arriving in Kobe, he shaved off the Zhong Kui beard that had been with him in strictness for 20 years, became intoxicated in a pleasure quarter with the woman, and became a slave to carnal desire. The next morning, when he noticed the woman was gone from the hotel room, the precious government bonds had been lost. Bunzo rushed frantically to last night's bar, but was knocked down by a gang and carried to the railway tracks. However, he was saved from danger, and instead one of the gang members was run over and killed. Since that man was wearing Bunzo's belongings, the newspapers reported Nakagawa Bunzo's death, and society sympathized with his apparent death in service. He could no longer show his face, and for 15 years lived in the shadows, suffering. One night, when his eldest daughter Motoe's solo concert was held, there was his figure in the corner of the venue, secretly weeping with joy at his grown daughter's success. On Christmas night, in the falling snow, in front of the Nakagawa house, who would recognize that the beggar-like old man who bid a distant farewell to the happy family gathering and trudged away was Mr. Nakagawa Bunzo from 15 years ago...

Universal Pictures Super Special Production
The Fourth: College Life
Grand Automobile Race
Polo Match
Starring George Lewis
Dorothy Gulliver

Shinko Cinema Period Drama Department Special Production
Genroku Servant Chronicles - Complete Eight Volumes
Director…………Oshimoto Shichinosuke
Original Story and Screenplay……Ishikawa Seiichi
Cinematography…………Washida Makoto
◇Cast◇
Maehara Isuke………………Kawazu Seizaburo
Ohashi Koyuki………………Matsuura Chikue
Horibe Yahei……………Nakamura Masamichi
His adopted son Anbei………Fujinami Reisaburo
Wife Harue…………………Hiratsuka Yasuko
Sakuma Genban……………Arashi Ritoku
His wife……………………Nakamura Eiko
His daughter Mito…………Matsudaira Kuniko
Servant Tosuke………………Kawasaki Takeo
Ohashi Matagoro……………Katagiri Tsuneo
Brother Shotaro………………Kichojoji Hikaru
Oishi Kuranosuke……………Arashi Ritoku
Yoshida Sawaemon…………Funami Kuninosuke
Nakasuke Kansuke……………Komyoji Saburo
Hosokawa retainer Kamio Mimasaka……Mishiro Mitsuru
Room leader……………………Omaru Gan
News-sheet seller…………………Oshimoto Eizo
◇Synopsis◇
Otake Jubei, having heard from the old veteran Horibe Yahei of the Asano family about his adopted son Anbei's heroic tale of cutting down 18 men at Takada no Baba, was impressed by the brave and wise actions of the lowly servant Isuke who had killed the martial artist Ohashi Matagoro who had unlawfully cut down a messenger of the Asano family, and gave his only daughter in marriage to Isuke. Now calling himself Maehara, Isuke was devotedly serving his master's house, but in the third month of Genroku 14, the great incident of his lord Takumi-no-kami's blade-drawing in the palace occurred, and Maehara, whose newlywed dreams were cut short, had to rush to Ako. The house was abolished, the castle surrendered... Thus the revenge plot against Kira, conceived through the deep consideration of castle elder Oishi, was steadily being carried out. Maehara Isuke also went down to Edo as a spy to investigate the Kira residence, but on the way, he rescued Ohashi's daughter Koyuki and her brother Shotaro, who were searching for their father's killer Isuke, when they were in danger from highway bandits. However, when they learned each other's true identities, they were troubled by this strange fate. Isuke made a promise to be killed in front of the Asano residence the morning after achieving his heart's desire, and they parted. On December 14th, Genroku 15, the Ako ronin successfully avenged their lord. The next morning, on the way to Sengakuji Temple, Isuke sought the figures of the Ohashi siblings to fulfill his promise, but by this time, knowing of this loyalty and heroic deed, they had given up pointing their blade at their enemy and departed for the western provinces...