【Right page】
It was called "Onrusu Gonbetto" (Acting Deputy Administrator). The reason was that since the head priest (zasu) of Komyoin resided in Kamakura, Zazenin served as the acting deputy administrator to carry out the religious affairs of the entire mountain. In Oei 27 (1420), after the head priest Dai-Sojo Jigen resigned from temple affairs and the position of head priest of Komyoin was discontinued, Zazenin Shoyu was appointed as deputy administrator and governed the political affairs of the mountain, so it naturally came to be regarded as similar to the head priest position. From Oei 27 to Keicho 18 (1613), for approximately 194 years, he administered religious affairs, but in Keicho 18, during the time of Zazenin Shoson, there was a dispute with the mountain community, and Shoson retired. At this time, Master Tenkai of Nankōbō was summoned to Sunpu Castle and granted Nikko Mountain, ascending the mountain in the same year. However, since the main hall of Komyoin had been destroyed, Zazenin was used as lodging, and from this time gradually the entire mountain was restored. The remainder is recorded in the section on the old site of Komyoin.

During the Bunmei era (1469-1487), Imperial Prince Dōkō, quasi-empress of Shōgoin-no-miya, ascended the mountain and stayed at Zazenin.

【Left page】
Before this, in Kyōroku 3 (1530), December, there was a plot against Shōchōjuin-dono, the younger brother of Lord Nariuji of Kamakura Palace, but he secretly left Kamakura and moved to Nikko Mountain, where he allied with enemies and rallied the monk-soldiers, as recorded in the Ōzōshi. Also, according to the Tale of Yuki Battlefield, in Eikyō 10 (1438), July, when Lord Mochituji committed seppuku in Kamakura, his second and third sons, Prince Shunō and Prince Anō, were cleverly taken and spirited away by their wet nurse, who fled to Nikko Mountain in Shimotsuke Province and entrusted them deeply to the monk-soldiers. When Yuki Shichirō Ujitomo heard of this, he said: "Our ancestors have served the Right General's house, and since then, from Takauji onward, we have followed the Eastern Genji. Since they are masters we have pledged to serve, I shall raise them myself," and secretly welcomed them from Nikko Mountain to Yuki Castle.

Old Site of Komyoin - From the area around the current temporary shrine to the open land to the south of the bell-ringer's quarters was the territory of Komyoin, which held the head priest position of this mountain since ancient times. The founding of this mountain by Shōdō...