【Right page】
The saint opened this mountain in Tenpyō Jingo 2 (766), opened the various peaks and mountains the following year in Jingo Keiun 1 (767), established Chūzenji Temple in Enryaku 3 (784), and founded the shrine buildings of the Three Gongen Shrines in Daidō 3 (808). This is called the founding and establishment of this mountain. Later, in Kōnin 12 (821), Kōbō Daishi established the Nyotai Chūgū Shrine at Mount Takino'o, and afterwards, in Kashō 1 (848), Jigaku Daishi founded the Three Buddha Hall, Jōgyō Hall, Hokke Hall, Sannō Shrine, and others. What is called the main temple of this mountain in ancient times refers to Shihonryūji Temple being called the main temple. It was called this because Saint Shōdō first resided there. Thereafter, the head priest position was called Kōmyōin, which was also the name of the main temple. Since Kōnin 8 (817), when Priest Kyōmin first received an imperial edict for the head priest position of this mountain from Emperor Saga, the head priest position has continued unbroken. The title Kōmyōin began during the time of the 23rd head priest, Priest Bengaku (the sixth son of Fujiwara no Masaie of Ōkata Gorō in Hitachi Province, who served as guardian priest to Shogun Sanetomo, and during the Wada Rebellion, Bengaku went to the palace and distinguished himself with meritorious service; his brothers of the Ōkata clan also displayed military achievements, as recorded in the Azuma Kagami). In Ninji 1 (1240), he separately built temple buildings and received an imperial edict for the title Kōmyōin. This is said to be the beginning of the Kōmyōin head priest title. Since Bengaku,

【Left page】
members of imperial prince families or the Kamakura shogun family succeeded to Kōmyōin, with each receiving imperial appointment as head priest. Due to the devotion of the Hōjō regent family, they were granted land in Kasaigayatsu, Kamakura, where they built lodging temples and constantly resided in Kamakura. The religious affairs of this mountain were handled by Zazenin, as mentioned in the previous section. Also, the head priest of this mountain, Hōin Sonke, was a devotional priest of Kamakura Shogun Prince Munetaka, and Regent Hōjō Tokiyori's devotion was also deep. He concurrently managed the Southern Hall and frequently performed secret rituals at the palace, as recorded in the Azuma Kagami. In what is called the Kamakura Annual Events, when the head priest of Nikkōzan Shōchōjuin visited the palace, it was a ceremony of great courtesy. When visiting Kamakura, the caretaker duties were handled by Zazenin, with appropriate monks managing the religious affairs within the mountain. Therefore, it appears that the head priest of Nikkō Mountain was also called Shōchōjuin at that time. The Southern Hall refers to the Great Hall, with the temple name being Shōchōjuin. However, in Ōei 27 (1420), when the 36th head priest, Dai-Sōjō Jigen (the ninth son of Ichijō Regent and Minister of the Left Sanetsune), retired from temple affairs, the Kōmyōin head priest position was discontinued, and from this time Kōmyō...