【Right Page】
Even after being moved, until before the Meireki era, the old name "Kōmyōin" continued to be used. Also,
the honorary title "Rinnōji" was established in Meireki 1 (1655) when
Prince Morisumi Hōshin'nō of Honshōin went to Kyoto, and on the twenty-sixth day of the eleventh month received
an imperial decree from Retired Emperor Go-Mizunoo, from which time this honorary title came to be used.
During the Kan'ei years when the main temple buildings were constructed, using Daishi's own handwriting,
he drew plans for the main temple construction work, and added notes in red ink. I previously saw these
secretly treasured in the house of the master carpenter Kōra Chikuzen. There are plans for both this mountain and
Tōeizan. In recognition of Kōra's achievement as master builder who completed the construction,
[the Daishi] personally wrote down the oracles of the Three Shrines, and various other items bestowed are
stored in that house, so it is known that construction was completed at that time. The construction work of that time, the paintings in the guest halls, etc.
were clearly done by Kanō Tan'yū Hōin or Shume Naonobu and others. Among them,
there is what is known to the world as Naonobu's "frontal view of wild geese." On the twentieth day of the twelfth month of Jōkyō 1 (1684),

【Left Page】
in the great fire, all the main temple buildings were burned down, and the guest hall and study hall buildings were restored in the second year by moving the Ueno retirement
palace. It is said that this was the reconstruction.
When the Shogun family climbs the mountain, the main temple is set up as a temporary military headquarters. At that time,
the head priest uses Higashiyama Sakuramotoin as a temporary lodging, and
during the Shogun family's stay on the mountain, [the head priest] moves to that temple.
As a regular practice for the head priest's mountain visits: arriving on the mountain on April 15th and departing on May
21st; arriving on the mountain on September 10th and departing on the 21st of the same month; arriving on the mountain on December 29th
and departing on January 21st of the following year - this is the annual pattern.

Shingū Torii: Located in front of the Sanbutsudō, facing east. It is the
front view from the west of the Omiya Niō Gate area below. What is called Shingū Baba is this road. The inscription on the torii reads "Senior First Rank, First Class Merit,
Nikkō Daigongen" in two lines, written by the head priest of this mountain,
First Rank Prince Kan Shin'nō. Originally this torii was also made of wood, but in the Kansei era