【Right page】
peace was restored. The Emperor was deeply moved by the divine efficacy of our mountain from afar, and an imperial messenger came down to bestow upon Nikko Daigongen the court rank of Shoichii Kun'itto (Senior First Rank, First Class Merit). Later, when barbarian rebels in the northern provinces rose up again, Sakanoue no Tamuramaro was again granted the ritual sword and, upon his departure, General Tamura himself submitted a prayer petition to our shrine for the defeat of the court enemies and set out on campaign. The barbarian rebels were all pacified through divine assistance. General Tamura then greatly revered the divine virtue, offered saddled horses, bows and arrows, armor and other items at the shrine of the Gongen to express gratitude for the divine virtue, and upon returning to the capital, he made a detailed report of these matters to the throne. The Imperial Court was even more deeply moved by the divine virtue of our shrine and issued an imperial edict that one-third of the annual tribute from the five provinces of Musashi, Sagami, Hitachi, Kazusa, and Shimōsa should be permanently donated to Mount Nikko.

Also, during the reign of Emperor Takakura, in the second month of Genryaku 1, Udaijin no Suke Minamoto no Yoritomo petitioned our shrine for the punishment of the Taira clan, and before long he pursued the Taira clan to the western seas and

【Left page】
defeated them. The world became unified under the Genji, and moreover, [Yoritomo] was appointed as Sō-tsuibushi (General Constable) of Japan, taking control of the entire country, placing shugo (military governors) in the provinces and districts, and appointing jitō (stewards) to the estates. Since Japan thus became a warrior government for the first time, [Yoritomo declared] this was entirely due to Nikko's divine assistance, and donated the two villages of Kuno and Ōi in Shimotsuke Province as lamp oil funds for the Daigongen, and appointed all the jitō and gokenin (direct retainers) of one province to serve Nikko.

In Bunji 5, during the campaign against Yasuhira of Ōshū, [Yoritomo] again made vows to our shrine, and soon defeated [Yasuhira]. Lord Yoritomo's reverence was not shallow - he prepared sacred offerings, dedicated a sacred sword, and moreover, sent Hizen no Kami Tomoyuki as his messenger to designate five villages within Nasu Estate as annual hunting grounds for sacred offerings, and also donated the two villages of Morita and Hinata as funds for perpetual daily offerings, and as funds for Hokke Sanmai practices, donated fifteen chō of tax-exempt fields in Samugawa District of this province.

In Kenryaku 3, fifth month, during the Wada Rebellion, because Bengaku, the Bettō of Mount Nikko, joined the side of the Shogun's residence, he received gracious recognition, and as reward [was granted territory in] Kyūshū Tsukushi