【Right Page】
According to the Shoku Nihon Kōki (Later Chronicle of Japan Continued), in the twelfth month of Jōwa 3 (836), the rank of Shōgoi-ge (Junior Fifth Rank, Lower Grade) was granted to Futaara Shrine of Shimotsuke Province, which held Jūgoi-jō (Senior Fifth Rank, Upper Grade) and Fourth Class Merit.
In the fourth month of the same eighth year, Shōgoi-jō (Junior Fifth Rank, Upper Grade) was respectfully granted to Futaara Shrine of Shimotsuke Province, which held Shōgoi-ge (Junior Fifth Rank, Lower Grade) and Fourth Class Merit.
In the eighth month, twenty-eighth day of the same fifteenth year, Jūshi-ge (Junior Fourth Rank, Lower Grade) was granted.
According to the Montoku Jitsuroku, in the eleventh month of Ten'an 1 (857), one household of tribute was allocated to Futaara Shrine of Shimotsuke Province with Fourth Class Merit.
According to the Sandai Jitsuroku, on the twenty-seventh day of the first month of Jōgan 1 (859), Shōsanmi (Senior Third Rank) was granted to Futaara Shrine of Shimotsuke Province, which held Jūsanmi (Junior Third Rank) and Fourth Class Merit.
On the twenty-first day of the twelfth month of the same seventh year, Jūnii (Junior Second Rank) was granted.
On the twenty-eighth day of the second month of the same eleventh year, Shōnii (Senior Second Rank) was granted.

【Left Page】
Sacred Treasures: One Senobori sword (leather-wrapped scabbard), one Nene Kirimaru sword (leather-wrapped scabbard)
　One branch of coral tree, one biwa lute (inscribed "Tamasudare"), one crystal pagoda
　One suit of armor of the Oyama clan (gold kozane scales), three Kashiwa swords
Subsidiary Shrines: Kongō Hall, Jigaku Hall (this is the Goma Hall, enshrining a statue of Jigaku Daishi), Fudō Hall (enshrining the Thirty Guardian Deities), Bishamon Hall
　Sannō Shrine, Amida Hall, Daikokuten Hall, Eighteen Prince Shrines (others are omitted)
Regular Festival: Takes place on the first and second days of the third month. Depending on the year, various neighborhoods may present parade floats, kyōgen performances, or auxiliary festivals. During such times, from around the twenty-seventh or twenty-eighth day of the second month, parade floats and various theatrical performances are conducted with music and dancing, displaying all manner of skills as they are passed from neighborhood to neighborhood until the first day of the third month. At dawn on the second day, each neighborhood brings their parade floats to the front of Shingu worship hall, taking turns to display their arts. From Hatsuishi-machi, as an annual custom, servant performers (yakko) are presented. Young men from Hatsuishi-machi and Inari-machi take on this role, standing in two lines as blue and red yakko, with their faces, hands, feet, and clothing colors differentiated accordingly. Then the portable shrine proceeds to Takino...