【Right Page】
　He also said: This time he did not reach the mountain summit, nor did he attain enlightenment. Gradually reaching the peak, numerous peaks stood in a ring formation,
　and four lakes were deep blue. With rare flowers and unusual trees, it was hardly a human realm. His religious devotion, accomplished through firm vows, delighted the eyes and gladdened the heart.
　So he built a small hermitage in the southwest corner and performed penitential practices for another twenty-one days. Though his religious practice had explored the mountain region, he had not yet exhausted the winding curves of the lakes.
　In the summer of the third year, he built a small boat, floated it on the eastern lake, and thoroughly toured the western, southern, and northern lakes. At that
　excellent location, he built a temple complex called Jingū-ji. He resided there for four years. His religious practices and the spiritual realm became widely known together.
　Emperor Kanmu heard of this and by imperial decree appointed him as Kōzuke Lecturer. He also established the Kegon Hermitage in Tsuga District.
　In the second year of Daidō, there was a great drought throughout the province. The provincial governor ordered Dōshin to pray for rain. Dōshin ascended Mount Fudaraku and performed the rain ceremony ritual. Sweet rain fell quickly and all crops flourished.

Tomb of Saint Shōdō (Shōdōshōnin-no-haka)　This area is called Rifui-sho (Place of Departure from Fear). Perhaps because it is a cremation ground,
　there is a five-story pagoda about three feet high. The stone jeweled fence is about nine feet by one ken. Also, near the mountain there is a damaged stone statue of the six
　celestial beings. This was probably moved to the mountainside because it was originally placed in the tomb but became damaged.

【Left Page】　　Hakusan Shrine (Hakusan-no-yashiro)　Tenjin Shrine (Tenjin-no-yashiro)　Sutra Pagoda (Kyōtō)　Ten Kings Hall (Jūōdō)　Yin-Yang Stones (Inyōseki)
Birth Shrine (San-no-miya)　Located south of Kaizan Hall, facing east, six feet wide. The shrine has an attached worship hall, painted red with black doors, tarnished gold
　fittings, balustrades, raised floor construction, and hanging gong. Stone jeweled fences surround it, and there is a torii gate in front of the shrine. According to
　folk tradition, when pregnant women pray for safe delivery, they make shapes like shogi pieces and write "kyōsha" (lance piece) inside
　and offer them to the shrine altar, whereupon they give birth safely—this is considered miraculous, so many are offered
　and placed there. This too is a folk custom from some unknown time. The kyōsha (lance) probably relates to the idea of moving forward quickly.
　Also, south of this shrine, now surrounded by bamboo fencing extending to behind Dairaku-in,
　there is a vast, misty area. This was the burial ground for the entire mountain community until before the relocation
　of the deity, it is said. In ancient times, there were Shaka Hall and Ōjō-in in this area, which were called the old site of a small
　hermitage known as Rokugu-sho. This fact should be understood by examining together the sections on Myōdō-in and Jōkō-ji.
Handhold Stone (Tekake-ishi)　Refers to a large stone located near Inari River.
Rice-Serving Cedar (Iimori-sugi)　This cedar is an extremely old tree. All its branches and leaves droop to the ground. When viewed from afar,