【Right Page】
　The time was the first year of Keian《Year of the Earth Rat》, second day of the fourth month. Created by Kōkai, Head Priest of Mount Nikkō and Second Abbot of Bishamon Hall at Tōeizan

Sutra Repository (Kyōzō)　Standing alongside the bell tower, copper-roofed, painted vermillion, two ken by three ken, with worship hall extension, verandas attached, doors painted black, facing west, housing the complete
　sutras and internal and external scriptures
Local Tutelary Shrine (Jishu Jinja)　This is the Shōichii Inari Shrine. Located north of the worship hall
Worship Hall (Haiden)　With worship hall extension, eight-ridge construction, facing south-southeast, copper-roofed, entirely painted red, double rafters, five ken by three ken, front and rear
　doors painted black, hanging a temple bell gong. Surrounding verandas, five-level stairs on four sides, raised bamboo blinds, interior all hung with bamboo curtains.
　Round pillars painted vermillion, upper exterior tie beams wrapped in gold brocade throughout, bracket complexes entirely polychromed, with circular
　crests containing double horizontal bars in various places. These are said to be the Great Master's formal crests, and since he descended from the Miura clan,
　this is quite reasonable. The site of this worship hall is over ten ken square, with crushed stone laid on all four sides of the courtyard,
　and stone balustrades. From the stone steps of six or seven levels above, there are paved stones extending fourteen or fifteen ken to the front of the worship hall. Every year
　on the first day of the tenth month there are memorial evening debates, and the second day is the main memorial day when the entire mountain community officiates

【Left Page】
　The Lotus Eight Lectures are performed
　Stone Lanterns　Located on the left and right of the paved stones from the gate to the worship hall
　Lord of Kishū and Lord of Suifu each donated two pairs facing each other left and right. Next are those donated by Sakai Tadakatsu, these
　also two pairs facing each other. Next are those by Tōdō Takatsugu and Daigaku-no-kami, one pair each. Next is one donated by Matsudaira Masatsuna
　on the right side. Also on the left side are those by Akimoto Tomitomo and Ōta Sukemune, each one
　piece. The year inscriptions are from Shōhō first year and the same second year
Before the Mausoleum　A front altar table carved from stone with four legs, about four shaku high, three shaku long, one shaku wide, with
　flower vases about three shaku high on the left and right. These are also all made of stone. On the table is placed an incense burner lion.
　These are also all made of stone. Outside are two stone lanterns
Sacred Pagoda　Made of granite, about nine shaku high. Around the pagoda are installed stone statues of the Six Deva Kings, each about four shaku five
　or six sun tall. These are standing images of Bonten, Taishaku, Jikoku, Kōmoku, Zōchō, and Tamon. On its four
　sides, below the stone balustrades are high stone walls on four sides, about four shaku high, with stone balustrades above