【Right Page】
There are many mountains with names. Kinetsate Mountain, Tsukimi Mountain, and others are all places where winter peak ascetics perform ritual practices. Also, Hoshi-no-yado is part of this mountain range, and there are places also called Sōkō-nagi and Hōgyō-nagi.

This mountain is included among the eight scenic views of this area because of its beautiful autumn foliage.

Now, it is not a place where ancient trees grow luxuriantly in deep green, but rather a brushwood mountain of mixed trees. However, it occasionally produces clouds and mist, and when clouds form on this mountain, it invariably brings rain, which is said to be how it got its name. It is not necessarily about insects crying. Since insects swarm in the fields, calling a high mountain "nakimushi" (crying insect) is quite a rustic colloquialism - like how crying babies are sometimes called "nakimushi" in dialect when they cry at the slightest provocation. This mountain also produces clouds several times a day and often brings rain, so the local people, disliking the rain, would complain and compare the rain to tears, saying the "nakimushi" had started crying again, and eventually this became the mountain's name.

Matsutate Mountain: This is where winter peak ascetics plant pine trees on this mountain every year, called "On-kine-matsu" (honorable pestle pines). It is also

【Left Page】
known by another name, Horatate Mountain. Every year on February 28th, ascetics blow conch shells at this place. Then they plant three sacred pine trees. This is said to be a ritual practice for peace throughout the realm, and I have heard there are various secret traditions involved. When the ascetics' conch shells are heard, the monks at Fujimoto-in perform an ancient traditional ritual practice using thin green bamboo poles eight to nine shaku long, with three fans tied in a circular pattern at the top as if opened, and white hemp fibers hanging long from where the fans are attached. These are set up three at a time on both sides of the ditch where clear water flows in front of the stone torii. Since ancient times, townspeople would offer fans, bamboo, and hemp fibers to Fujimoto-in, but since those families died out, now the head of the small goods merchants in Hatsuishi-machi serves in this role. Therefore, it is also said that those pines are burned on Matsutate Mountain at dawn on March 1st. In ancient times, the sacred pine site was on the peak between Sōkō-nagi and the present pine site. For certain reasons, it was moved to the current mountaintop in medieval times.

The Eight Scenic Views of Nikko:
Ogura Dawn, Hatsuishi Cooking Smoke, Ganman Sudden Rain, Jakkō Waterfall, Daiya Autumn Moon