【Right Page】
Creating caves of precious jade and snow, accumulated white [snow] should cease boasting of Mount Fuji's peak

Myōdō-in (The temple grounds are now called Hara-machi, but in ancient times this area was called Tamozawa)
Its temporal name was Butsuryū-ji, and in Kan'ei 5 (1628), Great Monk Tenkai established it at Hotoke-iwadani.
The Shaka-dō now within the precincts had been at Nakayama since ancient times, but in Genna 7 (1621) it was moved from Nakayama to Hotoke-iwadani, and later in Kan'ei 17 (1640) it was moved to the present location together with Myōdō-in. From that time it was designated as the kōge-in (bodaijo - family temple) of the entire mountain, granted temple lands of 200 koku, and has 24 subsidiary temples. The principal deity enshrined is Amida.

Shaka-dō: Facing south, 5 ken by 4 men, painted red, located to the west of the temple. The principal image is Amida, with attendant figures of Monju and Fugen as wooden seated statues. Additionally there are three Amida images, said to be the work of Eshin. On the right side within the hall is an image of Jigen Daishi. This is installed as a portrait from when the great teacher was still alive, and enshrines a memorial tablet of Saint Shōdō.

Stone Lanterns: 2 bases, in front of the Shaka-dō. One is inscribed with Katō Samanosuke. Another has an inscription Stone-kawa

【Left Page】
Tononokami dedication.

Jigen Daishi entered nirvana at Tōei-zan on the 2nd day of the 10th month of Kan'ei 20 (1643), the sacred coffin was brought out on the 6th of the same month, entered the Zazen-in of this mountain on the 10th of the same month, and at dusk of the same day was moved and enshrined in the Shaka-dō of Myōdō-in. Religious services were held for seven days. After the mandala offerings and other ritual practices were completed, on the 17th of the same month, the entire body was interred in the stone cave of Daikoku-san.

Temple Bell: Cast in the 11th month of Keian 2 (1649). The inscription text is given to the left:
　Nikkō-zan Myōdō-in
　Shaka-dō Jigen Daishi Honored Presence Suffering-Relief Bell, One Mouth
　This hall was founded by Jigen Daishi and
　Is a sacred place where Tōshō-gū and Ryōbu unite... (abbreviated below)
　　Petitioner, Current Chief Priest, Third Generation Exoteric-Esoteric Position Holder, Dharma Seal Ten'ō respectfully records

Martyrdom Grave Inscriptions: 5 bases, to the west of the Shaka-dō. In total there are 3 sides, and these 5 bases constitute one side.