【Right Page】
It accumulates in layers like a cave, gradually deepening, and valley water flows into the rock crevices and freezes.
During the blazing heat of summer, ice is taken from here for enjoyment.
Mt. Toyama - This is an isolated mountain that rises straight up about two chō to the northeast after crossing the Inari River. Above the mid-slope, it is all steep rock faces, so there are places where one climbs holding onto chains. At the summit are Bishamonhall and a hermitage, all built in rock crevices. The mountaintop has a pointed peak, and around the hall several pine and fir trees grow thick between the rocks. Looking eastward, one can see as far as Mibu and Utsunomiya in the distant sky. The third day of the first month is the festival day when many people make pilgrimages. This place serves as an enclosure and observation platform when the Shogun makes his pilgrimage.
Kōun-ritsu-in - Located at the foot of Mt. Toyama. It belongs to the Tendai-ritsu sect. During the Kyōhō era, it was founded by the temple head, Prince Sūho-in-no-miya Jun-sangō Ippon Kōkan Hōshin-nō, with founding abbot Genmon Oshō. The temple grounds are shadowy and secluded with cedar trees, and there is a tower gate in the distance bearing a plaque reading "Monkunkaku" written by the Prince who serves as temple head. There is a sutra repository, and here too there is a plaque reading "Gakuhōzō." This is

【Left Page】
by Prince Kōkei Hōshin-nō's brush. The Buddha hall bears a plaque reading "Ikōden," written by Prince Jun-gō Hōshin-nō.
Hagigaki-men - This place was originally located by the Inari River and was called Hagigaki-machi, but it was washed away by floods during the Kanbun era. Afterward, people lived on the former farmland of the same town, so it is now called Hagigaki-men.
However, the local people have created an explanatory tale, mistakenly transmitting the meaning of "men" (face), saying that because an old broken mask fell from heaven, the place was named "Hankake-men" (half-broken mask), thus spreading folk tales. The Toyama Village mentioned in the village registry of the sacred domain lands is probably this place.
Imperial Tea Pavilion - East of Hagigaki-men. This is a villa belonging to the head priest's family. In spring one enjoys the spring mist of Ogura, in autumn one views the autumn leaves of the mountain ranges - it is a place of beautiful scenery. Perhaps it was established in imitation of Lord Kyōgoku's mountain villa at Ogura.
Urushi-zono (Lacquer Garden) - This refers to the area that continues from Mt. Ogura, crossing what is called Narusawa River, in the wilderness above. Lacquer trees were planted, but because it continues into wilderness, year after year wildfires