【Right Page】
When opened and examined, there was a talisman with forty-nine nail holes in the five rings (gorin). Because these were truly miraculous things, those who saw and heard were filled with wonder, and even those with heretical views immediately became deeply faithful and wished to receive this talisman and practice nembutsu. So the holy man copied the talisman that King Enma had bestowed, carved it on wooden blocks, and distributed it widely. Even in this degenerate latter age, that such wonders exist is a teaching for the negligent and shameless, but it seemed profound.

The thirteenth year of Bunmei, the year of Kanoto-Ushi, sixth month - Humbly recorded by disciple monk, Holy Man of Jakkōji Temple on Mount Nikkō

Jakkō Falls - Also called Nunobiki Falls. Height of about five to six jō, flowing down in two or three cascades. Water width of five to six shaku. This entire area has continuous rock formations, and being a cascade waterfall, there are no deep pools or ponds at the base of the falls. It rushes down the rock face like a steep descent.

Haguro Falls - Located far to the north of Nunobiki Falls. Because it is viewed from a distance, it is not clear, but this also has a water width of about four to five shaku; the height cannot be determined. It flows from the foot of the deep mountains called Mount Haguro, hence the name.

【Left Page】
　　Visiting Jakkōji Temple to View the Waterfall
Happening to seek ancient sites at Jakkōji Temple / The waterfall pierces stone, flowing without cease / A hundred shaku of natural white sash / One strip breaks through the boundary of luxuriant green pines / The rushing spring and remaining horses seem to spout jade / Flying spray splashes flowers like erecting a vase / I try scooping the remaining waves to quietly rinse my mouth / Travel sorrows washed away, naturally pure and cool

Mid-April of the third year of Kanbun Mizunoto-U　　　　　　　Inscribed by Shunsai Rinshi

Urami Falls - Also called Arasawa Falls. A little way from the Dainichi Hall of Kujira, there is a signpost on the right side. From this place, overcoming the treacherous mountain paths, one goes about twenty chō northwest to reach the summit of Mount Arasawa. From there, taking the path to the left, crossing sharp rocks, and looking at the mountain cliff on the right side, one crosses under rocks that seem as if dangerous stones might suddenly fall, and arrives at the vicinity of the falls. Here there is a stone statue of Arasawa Fudō with a hermitage hall beside it. Since this place is at the side of the falls, to view the front, one must go under the back of the falls and circle around to the other side to see it. Now, the falls' mouth has a rocky ledge protruding about one ken, from above which the cascade water rushes violently with a water width of six to seven shaku. The protruding rock...