【Right Page】
The white cranes did not startle at travelers going back and forth, so there were those who saw them up close, but recently no one sees them. Previously, a court musician at the shrine named Kazan told this story: Since his youth, wanting to see the white cranes, he would travel from Chuzenji to Yumoto once each year between spring and autumn. In the late Meiwa era and early An'ei period, he saw them in the middle of the meadows, their heads protruding above reeds that were about five or six feet tall. After that, though he passed through these fields every year, recently he has not seen even a trace of them. This is because people's hearts have become corrupt in recent times, and when they couldn't see the sacred birds, they would search for them by entering and searching through the reeds. The divine birds, frightened by this, likely hid deep within the distant reeds.

Nobata Lake: Located west of Mount Nantai, approximately ten cho wide and one ri long. When describing the breadth of lake waters, one should know that all measurements use the standard of twenty-five cho to one ri. The same applies below.

West Lake: Named so because it lies west of Senju Point. Also called Azami-tahira Lake.

【Left Page】
Approximately one ri by twenty cho. The Kibun text states "Looking west, there is also a small lake, totaling more than twenty qing."

Tade Lake: Located northwest of Mount Nantai. Named for the abundance of smartweed (tade) growing there. Approximately twenty cho wide.

Karigome Lake: Located behind Mount Nantai at the foot of Mount Taro. One theory states that in ancient times a poisonous dragon that harmed people lived in the mountains, so the divine spirits confined it here, hence the name. This name also exists at other sacred mountains and spiritual places.

Ma Lake (Demon Lake): Located between Oku-Shirane and Mae-Shirane peaks. The water is several fathoms deep right from the shore on all sides, and no one dares approach the edge of this lake out of fear. Hence it is named Ma Lake (Demon Lake). It is said not to be a large lake.

Buddha Lake: This lake faces the aforementioned Ma Lake, approximately three to four cho square. It produces Buddha relics (Buddhist sacred objects). The lake's shape resembles the sacred form of Amida Buddha beyond the mountains, hence the name. More details are given in the section on Mount Shirane.

Kinu Marsh: Although this is within the sacred domain, because it is deep in the mountains of Kuriyama Village in Shioya District, one goes to the lake...