【Right Page】
From Nikko town, they carry and transport rice, grains, vegetables, and other various goods on their backs.

Kawara-no-yu (River Hot Spring) 《Extremely hot. When lake water accumulates, it is hot; when dry, it is lukewarm》　Yakushi-no-yu (Medicine Buddha Hot Spring) 《First class. Good for eye diseases》
Uba-no-yu (Old Woman Hot Spring) 《Black and bitter》　　　　Taki-no-yu (Waterfall Hot Spring) 《Extremely cold》
Naka-no-yu (Middle Hot Spring) 《Hot》　　　　　　　　　　Sasa-no-yu (Bamboo Grass Hot Spring) 《Dispels moisture from cold and heat》
Gosho-no-yu (Imperial Palace Hot Spring) 《First class. Excellent for sword wounds》　Ara-yu (Wild Hot Spring) 《Hot water》
Jizai-yu (Freedom Hot Spring) 《Mild and clear. During floods when water is scarce, even cooking rice with this hot spring water produces no odor》

Yuno-taira: There are nine hot spring bathhouses. The annual opening and closing was recorded earlier. The year when these hot springs were first developed is unknown. The construction of the nine buildings each has a wide frontage. The terrain is generally flat, extending for about three to four towns, but since hot spring water emerges from the eastern mountainside, all the buildings are clustered along the eastern mountain area. Flat land continues to the northwest but is slightly lower; in ancient times, this area was probably also a hot spring lake. Even now, only reeds and pampas grass grow thickly there. From this place, there is a mountain path to Numata domain in Jōshū province.

【Left Page】
The details of that mountain path are recorded next.

Konsei Pass: Between Yuno-taira and the northwest, there is a small path in a ravine called Konsei-zawa. Following this steep and narrow road for more than one and a half ri leads to the pass. It is one ri to the Konsei shrine. From there, climbing another half ri reaches the pass. There is a small shrine called Konsei Gongen. The deity enshrined is unknown. What someone enshrined in ancient times was a gold-plated copper phallus as the sacred object. In medieval times, they also enshrined the root stump of an old tree that naturally formed the shape of male-female intercourse. It is said that prayers for various wishes are efficacious. This shrine is maintained by the hot spring inn operators. The ancient name of this pass was Komura Pass. The Wamyō-shō states that "木枝相交下陰" (tree branches crossing to create shade below) is called "komura." Through phonetic correspondence of the five sounds, it eventually became mistakenly called "kimura" pass. In these mountains, cistanche (nikujūyō) grows abundantly. The name of that grassland is also called "kimura-take" (kimura mushroom). This fungus is a medicinal product that effectively supports the kidney meridian, so someone enshrined a phallic object here, calling it Konsei, and transformed the ancient name komura...