【Right Page】
...is called.

Three Sacred Storehouses - Three buildings in azekura (log storehouse) style. Located to the right after entering through the Niō Gate. All are entirely
painted vermillion, with copper roofing, gilt imperial crests, and all other metalwork is gilt. Polychrome decoration of flowers, birds, grass and trees, with pillars wrapped in gold brocade. Each storehouse has three doors, with verandas and stairs in front. On the first sacred storehouse, above the outer nageshi beam under the gable, gray and white elephants are depicted in color. They appear as if alive.
Size is about five shaku each. These are said to be based on preliminary drawings by Kanō Tan'yū Hōin.

Imperial Stables - Located to the left after entering the Niō Gate. Three ken by five and a half ken, plain wood construction, copper roofing, with gilt
imperial crests, and all other metalwork gilt. Above the nageshi beams and in various other places are polychrome designs of monkeys with flowers and fruits.
Inside are horse tethering posts, and in front is a feeding trough on a platform constructed of wood. Cast from
Chinese bronze, about one shaku deep, one shaku five sun wide, about two shaku long, seven to eight bu thick, with gilt
imperial crests attached. Beside it is a seat for the horse official, with Kōrai-bordered tatami mats on a raised floor, and on one side
bamboo blinds are hung.

【Left Page】
Golden Pine Tree - Located beside the imperial stables. Actually what is called hon-maki (Japanese yew plum pine). Within
the stone jewel fence. This is said to be from seed transplanted by Kōbō Daishi from Mount Kōya. Circumference over one jō,
with drooping branches and leaves growing luxuriantly.

Imperial Guard Station - Adjacent to the imperial stables. Copper roofing, entirely painted red. Dōshin under the command of Nikkō group leaders serve guard duty.
People call this guard station the "Red Guard Station." It is two ken by three ken.

Sacred Ablution Water Basin - Located to the west of the guard station. Also called御手水屋 (sacred water house). The water basin stone is
eight shaku five sun long, about four shaku wide, about three shaku five sun high, made of mikage granite. From the basin bottom
water is arranged to constantly well up, naturally flowing out from all four sides of the water basin. This was
donated by the Nabeshima family. The covering building is about two ken by three and a half ken. The pillars are also
mikage granite, about seven sun square pillars, with three stone pillars erected at each corner of the four sides,
making twelve stone pillars in total. Both girders and crossbeams are mikage granite with lightning-shaped carvings.
The roof is Chinese gable style, with pillar caps, gable boards, roof ridges, etc. in gilt metalwork with arabesque patterns.