【Right Page】
Sorin Pagoda (Sorintō) - Located on the mountainside outside the sacred precincts of the shrine, toward the direction of Shingu Horse Ground. This is said to have been built in ancient times by Dengyō Daishi, beginning with Mount Hiei, at six locations in Japan:
　　Antō　　　Kōzuke　　　Located in Midono District, Kōzuke Province
　　Annan　　　Buzen　　　Located in Usa District, Buzen Province  
　　Ansai　　　Chikuzen　　　Location unknown
　　Anhoku　　　Shimotsuke　　　Located in Tsuga District, Shimotsuke Province
　　Anchū　　　Yamashiro　　　Located at Saitō-in of Mount Hiei
　　Ansō　　　Ōmi　　　Similarly at Tōtō-in
Jigen Daishi built this following the example of Mount Hiei, copying the inscription of Dengyō Daishi.
Initially it was built on Mount Oku-no-in in the 7th month of Kan'ei 20, but later in Keian 3 it was rebuilt at the present location. The total height from the foundation stone is 7 ken 2 shaku, with an additional root depth of 2 shaku 4 sun, base diameter of 3 shaku 1 sun, foundation stone size of 8 shaku square octagonal, seat stone 2 jō 1 shaku 7 sun.

【Left Page】
Around it, the supporting pillars are 1 jō 7 shaku 8 sun high, base diameter 1 shaku 8 sun 5 bu, with 24 sets of golden pendant ornaments and 24 golden bells. Below the gilded metalwork, the Tokugawa hollyhock crest is placed in gold. The enclosed area of laid stones is about 5 ken square, with a bronze pillar of the pagoda erected at its center. The supports are also bronze pillars with ornamental jewels at their tops. The diagram of the pagoda is as shown on the right.
Imperial Divine Title and Court Rank: On the 21st day of the 2nd month of Genwa 3 (1617), by imperial decree
　he was granted the title Tōshō Daigongen. On the 9th day of the 3rd month of the same year, he was posthumously awarded the rank of Shōichii.
Imperial Enshrinement: On the 15th day of the 3rd month of Genwa 3, regarding the enshrinement at Mount Nikkō, on the same day from Mount Kunō
　the divine spirit was reverently transported, and on the 4th day of the 4th month was enshrined at Zazen-in of Mount Nikkō. The details of these events
　are recorded in detail in the writings of Lord Mitsuhiro mentioned above, so they are
　omitted here. On the 8th day of the same month
　the divine spirit was enshrined in the mausoleum pagoda, and on the 14th day