【Right Page】
　　made pilgrimage to the shrine, and returned to Edo on the 21st.

　○According to the Razan Collection, in the summer of Kan'ei 5 (1628), year of the earth dragon, on the 13th day of the 4th month, the Great Minister of State (the Shogun) departed from Edo. On the 16th, he
　　ascended Mount Nikkō. This was the 13th anniversary memorial service for the Imperial Father and Divine Lord (Tokugawa Ieyasu). Prior to this, Lord Owari Vice-Minister Yoshinao, Lord Kii Vice-
　　Minister Yorinobu, and Lord Mito Kōmon Yorifusa had come to attend. They paid their respects together with the imperial messenger. On the 17th, the sacred palanquin
　　made a divine procession to the temporary shrine near Yamasuge Bridge. Two palanquins of Sannō and Matarani accompanied it. The Great Minister of State
　　sat in a temporary pavilion and observed this. On the 18th, he visited the mausoleum pagoda. On the 21st, he returned to Edo. The three lords accompanied him. On the 25th, the Great
　　Tree (Lord Iemitsu) again entered the mountain. The following day he visited the sacred shrine. The next day he again paid his respects at the divine shrine. On the 28th, the Great Tree left Nik-
　　kō. On the 1st day of the 5th month, he returned to Edo. The Razan Collection also states that in early summer of Kan'ei 13, the Nikkō shrine buildings were reconstructed. This year in
　　late spring, the Bakufu reported to the Imperial Court, which gave its consent. Thereupon, court nobles and palace attendants responded to the gracious invitation and departed the capital in mid-
　　late spring. Right Minister Fujiwara no Asomi Norihira (Takatsukasa), Former Interior Minister Fujiwara no Asomi Sanejō
　　(Nishisanjō), Provisional Great Counselor Fujiwara Sukemasa (Hino), Provisional Great Counselor Fujiwara Mitsuhiro (Karasumaru), New Great Coun-
　　selor Fujiwara Suetsugu (Yotsuji), New Great Counselor Fujiwara Kaneken (Hirohashi), Provisional Middle Counselor Fujiwara Narimitsu

【Left Page】
　　(Yanagiwara), Middle Counselor Fujiwara Nagayoshi (Takakura), Middle Counselor Fujiwara Masanobu (Asukai), Middle Counselor Fujiwara Mitsukata
　　(son of Mitsuhiro), Middle Counselor Fujiwara Tsuneatsu (Ōinomikado), Former Middle Counselor Fujiwara Ujinari (Minase). In the 13th year, 4th month,
　　on the day of kinoto-i being the 1st, passing kinoe-saru (10th day), at night the divine spirit was reverently moved to the new hall. The imperial messengers Fujiwara Mitsuhiro, Kaneken, Nagayoshi, Masa-
　　nobu, and Lord Toshisada were seated in court dress. Takakazu no Asomi supervised the proceedings. Okudaira Mimasaka-no-kami Tadamasa, Akimoto
　　Tajima-no-kami Yasutomo, and the samurai of Nasu District were commanded to provide security. On hinoe-inu (12th day), Imperial Messenger Lord Fujiwara Kimiakira, Sacred Offerings
　　Messenger Lord Sukemasa, Sword and Horse Presentation Messenger Lord Fujiwara Yasutane read and proclaimed the ritual prayers. Great Retired Emperor's Messenger Lord Fujiwara Mitsuhiro
　　presented the sword. Empress Dowager's Messenger Lord Fujiwara Kaneken offered two mirrors. On this day, the Bakufu visited Zōjō-ji temple and paid respects to
　　the spirit tablet of Lord Taitoku-in, as he was about to depart for Mount Nikkō. On tsuchinoto-i (13th day), the imperial banner had already departed. On tsuchinoe-ne
　　(14th day), he entered Koga Castle. On tsuchinoto-ushi (15th day), he arrived at Utsunomiya. On kanoe-tora (16th day), he left Utsunomiya, the route passing through Ōsawa.
　　Abe Tsushima-no-kami offered the midday meal. In the evening he lodged at Imaichi. Nyorai-ji temple was designated as the imperial residence. Lord Owari Yoshinao and Lord Ki-
　　i Yorinobu arrived at Imaichi from Ōkuwa village and paid their respects. On kanoto-u, early in the morning he ascended the mountain and entered the residence. A temporary structure was built on the
　　stone wall to the left of the road to serve as the Bakufu's seat. The right side of the road was made into a temporary pavilion for the monks. On kinoe-uma, the imperial palanquin departed from Ima-