【Right Page = P24】
Many people held it down, took its blood, stripped off the skin and cut it up, then boiled and roasted this as well. It seems that slaughtering live animals is considered the ultimate hospitality. Generally, this land has no industry to speak of, and they appear to be occupied day and night only with matters related to food. We stayed at this place for about three days, then were sent to a place called Sarutorименgo. Since the land route had many hills and slopes, and we were tired in our feet making it difficult to travel, they arranged to transport us by boat. After about three ri on the sea we reached shore, where crowds of men and women had gathered to see us - perhaps word had been sent ahead. Officials scolded them and they finally withdrew, allowing us to land. We entered a mansion-like place with white walls and stone foundations, but the gate was chained shut. Perhaps this was to prevent spectators from entering and causing injury - this seemed to be the reason based on the behavior of the guards. The house construction was like Sabuta-

【Left Page = P25】
n, with the same temporary huts, and there were about five hundred houses along the shore. The customs were much like those of Sabutan. The people, both men and women, had red mouths. This was from a fruit that grows in that land, about the size of a peach, called "Buwa." They remove the skin, cut and split it, add lime, wrap it in unfamiliar tree leaves, put it in their mouths, chew it up, and spit out the juice. Doing this makes their mouths feel refreshed and comfortable. In that land, when people visit, they first always offer Buwa, then tobacco. Using Buwa makes the mouth red. Tobacco is called leaf tobacco everywhere. During our stay, two cooks each were assigned to us, preparing meat from pigs, cattle and other animals, but since we could not eat it, we firmly requested that no killing be done for our sake, and if fish were available, we would like to use them for food. However, fish were in short supply and even normally there were not many