【Right Page = P8】
When rain began to fall, there was no way to protect against it in the great storm, and we had no leisure to let rainwater in. Day after day in this condition, we drifted at the mercy of the wind. On the twenty-third day of the tenth month, there was another great storm. I don't remember clearly from this period, but with the wind and waves, the ship seemed about to be torn apart at any moment. Reverse waves struck over the ship many times, and we fled to the stern, ran to the bow, with no strength to defend ourselves. Everyone was bewildered, crying and screaming. From when we first cut down the mast, two crocodiles called "Isohesama" seemed to be attached to our ship, but no one noticed them. When the tide rose offshore, we realized they were Isohesama. These are said to be messenger deities of Ise Grand Shrine, greatly revered by those who sail to Edo. When ships are in distress, they always rely on Isohesama and pray for safety. Though Isohesama was protecting our ship in this way, the wind and waves were

【Left Page = P9】
still strong with daily storms, and since they would not approach close to the ship, we gradually investigated thinking there must be some impure items loaded in the ship, but found no such things. Among the cargo were six long storage chests, which were baggage belonging to retainers, containing bedding, clothing and the like. During this time, we had gradually taken things out - the good parts we used to repair sails or made into rope, or inserted as reinforcement when the anchor lines wore through, so if we discarded the remaining portions now, it would cause problems later. However, since there were no other impure items, we thoroughly searched inside the long chests, opening them all completely to investigate. In one chest we found some horse equipment. We thought this must surely be the cause, so we took it out and threw it away. In the seas around Edo, anything related to horses is greatly detested, and because of this horse equipment, we believed such continuous great storms were occurring.