【Right Page = P16】
There were implements like ship planks at the water's edge, and what appeared to be cattle we had seen from the heights seemed to be from this boat, so there must surely be people here. We searched again into the mountains for about fourteen or fifteen chō, where we found a makeshift hut with seven strange men. When they spotted us, they were startled and, perhaps thinking we were pirates, took out bamboo spears and thrust them at us. We offered words of apology, but since our languages did not communicate, they first took up their bamboo spears. Then we put our hands together in prayer, whereupon they also put their hands together likewise. Their appearance was dark-skinned all over, tall in stature, with braided hair and naked except for loincloths made of cotton-like material and a single straw raincoat woven from banana fiber. When we inquired through gestures what business had brought them there, they pointed to fish and indicated through hand gestures that they had come to catch these. So we explained the circumstances of our shipwreck through hand gestures.

【Left Page = P17】
When we explained our situation, they gave us two or three things like tree roots and taro potatoes. They picked and brought us nuts from trees in the area, but since we had not eaten such things during this time, we declined. However, when one of them peeled off the skin and showed us how to eat them, all three of us ate them. They were shaped like unopened pinecones, long in form, red in outside color, but blue when peeled, and tasted extremely sweet like ripe persimmons. They were something we had never seen before, and there were many such trees on the mountain, with willow-like leaves. They also gave us liquor, but since there was no rice, it appeared to be made from sugar cane. The taste was extremely bad and quite different from Japanese sake. They also brought large quantities as if they had brought them specially. Since the remaining eleven men were lying exhausted in the mountains, we requested through hand gestures that they bring them as well, but unless we ourselves went, those people could not be identified.