【Continuation of Tabular Format】
【Left Column】
Pan Rong (Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of Personnel Bureau. Native of Longxi, Fujian.)
Cai Zhe (Bureau of Receptions official)

Shang Senui　Has not yet requested investiture

Jiajing 7th year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Sei:
Chen Kan (Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of Personnel Bureau. Native of Yin County, Zhejiang.)
Gao Cheng (Bureau of Receptions official. Native of Gu'an, Shuntian.)

Wanli 4th year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Ei:
Xiao Chongye (Left Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of Revenue Bureau. Yunnan registration, native of Shangyuan, Yingtian.)
Xie Jie (Bureau of Receptions official. Native of Changle, Fujian.)

Chongzhen 1st year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Hō:
Du Sance (Left Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of Revenue Department. Native of Dongping Prefecture, Shandong.)
Yang Lun (Director of Bureau of Receptions. Yunnan registration, native of Shangyuan.)

【Right Column】
Guan Rong (Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of War Bureau)
Han Wen (Bureau of Receptions official)

Chenghua 13th year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Shin:
Dong Min (Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of War Bureau)
Zhang Xiang (Vice Director of Bureau of Receptions)

Jiajing 41st year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Gen:
Guo Rulin (Left Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of Personnel Bureau. Native of Yongfeng, Jiangxi.)
Li Jichun (Bureau of Receptions official. Native of Qi County, Henan.)

Wanli 29th year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Nei:
Xia Ziyang (Right Secretariat Drafter-Advisor of War Bureau. Native of Wangshan, Jiangxi.)
Wang Shizhen (Bureau of Receptions official. Native of Sishui, Shandong.)

Shang Ken requested investiture but died before obtaining it. (During Prince Fu's time, he came to request investiture.)
(Chen Yanyi of Ritual Bureau Secretariat and Bureau of Receptions official Han Yuanxun were dispatched, but before they could depart, the dynasty fell.)

【End of Tabular Format】

In the 6th year of Shunzhi of our dynasty, Shang Shitsu, younger brother of Shang Ken, presented a memorial, and in the 10th year came to request investiture.
Emperor Shizu dispatched envoys, who departed in the 2nd year of Kangxi.

【Tabular Format】
【Left Column】
Kangxi 2nd year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Shitsu:
Zhang Xueli (Vice Administrative Official of War Bureau. Native of Liaoyang.)

【Right Column】
Kangxi 21st year, envoy to enfeoff Shang Tei:
Wang Ji (Compiler of Hanlin Academy. Native of Yizhen, Jiangnan.)