and handles matters of supplying small vegetables, etc. The fifth is the Banquet Management Office, which handles matters of the seven banquets. The sixth is the Correspondence Office, which handles matters of letters and documents coming and going. The seventh is the Price Assessment Office, which handles evaluating the rise and fall of commodity prices, and matters of purchasing and distribution. Each office dispatches one official (dafu), three red-capped attendants, and twenty other miscellaneous workers to manage one office. For their morning and evening service and running about, there are separately treasury officials and others who handle this.

The king daily supplies guests with auspicious spring water from in front of the palace. Every morning at dawn, they draw water and put it into green wooden containers, more than two shi in volume. They lock it with chains and have it run ten li to be delivered to the residence. Nine red-capped scholars take turns by day to escort the delivery.

Daily provisions include: five sheng of rice, four jin of noodles, four cups each of soy paste, soy sauce, vinegar, salt, vegetable oil, three jin of tofu, one bottle of distilled liquor, three jin each of fish and meat, two jin of mutton, four jin of dried fish, two chickens, ten eggs, two sea crabs, two watermelons, ten jin of winter melon, one jin of vegetables, four candles, ten jin of charcoal, and four bundles of firewood.

On formal reception days, they present: one pig and one sheep (live), two chickens, and one plate each of eggs, fish, sea snake, sea crabs, rocky fish, mantis shrimp, noodle strips, noodle flour, soy paste, garlic vinegar, black pepper, sugar cane, banana fruit (in winter replaced with oranges), baked cakes, and fine preserved fish, plus one jar of distilled liquor, one package of charcoal, and one bundle of candles. On new moon and full moon days, they add presentations of auspicious cakes, rice wine, silver wine, and yellow wine. Auspicious cakes are made from rice flour, shaped like thin pancakes. Rice wine is like white wine but somewhat lighter. Silver wine is distilled liquor. Yellow wine is brewed and cooked in the country; the wine color is dark and rich, with a slight oily quality.

Guards and sergeants receive daily: four sheng of rice, one cup each of soy sauce, vinegar, salt, vegetable oil, rice, and soy paste, pork