They praise "Long live the Emperor, peace throughout the realm, within and without." Next, they extol that the king together enjoys blessings. Now, during the auspicious Mid-Autumn Festival, the heavenly envoy has descended. This is truly a day when gods and humans rejoice together. Respectfully following precedent, they first intone divine songs. An elderly man with yellow hair performs a hundred prostrations, respectfully praising that the Emperor's benevolence and virtue are like heaven, and that the king's reign shall continue for a hundred generations like mountains and rivers. After the old man finishes singing, he bows and withdraws. Next, they have dozens of outstanding young relatives and retainers of court officials dress in colorful robes, and in successive groups they sing songs of great peace to provide for the banquet entertainment.

First there are six musicians who sing with voices like Buddhist chanting, without instruments. Next, one person wearing a mask of the God of Longevity appears on stage and harmonizes with them. He performs three prostrations, rubs his hands together, and begins dancing. After finishing the dance, he performs three more prostrations and stops.

Next there are fourteen musicians. They wear variously colored red and green robes. Their hat brims have six ridges and are pressed low over their heads. Some wear swallow-tail green headbands. They hold musical instruments: two three-stringed instruments, one ti-qin (note: using a three-stringed instrument with a bow attached above to draw across), the neck and body of the three-stringed instrument being about half a chi shorter than those in China. One flute, one small gong, two drums. They take the stage, arrange themselves in two rows front and back, kneel facing upward, raise their voices and sing in drawn-out tones. Where the curtain is raised, there are small children about thirteen or fourteen years old. Four of them wear red stockings and five-colored long robes. Without sashes, they open their collars and sway them about, wearing black leather hats on their heads. Red tasseled cords hang long down their chests. They spin and ascend, sometimes making gestures of looking around and sitting and rising. Taking the stage, they sit in a row facing the musicians. The musicians help remove their hats, wind up the red tassels and coil them on top of the hats, then hand them back. The children stand up holding their hats, stamp their feet to keep rhythm and dance. The musicians sing in drawn-out voices in accompaniment. This is called the first round of hat dance.

There are also four small children in palace costume, with cut-gold fan faces made into flower clusters. They have red scarves and purple foreheads, with gold on top