【Right Page】

Like a conjured city, it is not real nirvana. Therefore it is said to be absent.

Question: The treatise states: "In the Nirvana Sutra, the three aspects of Mahaprajñā, Dharma-body, and liberation are already considered complete fulfillment, called great nirvana. Therefore, this One Vehicle has the two truths as its substance." What does this mean?

Answer: This is the second citation of text from the Nirvana Sutra as evidence, concluding and establishing the meaning that the two truths are called the One Vehicle.

Question: Using this text, how is this proven?

Answer: Mahaprajñā refers to the wisdom that realizes (Mahā means "great"). Dharma-body refers to the true suchness that is realized. Liberation refers to the nirvana that is manifested. Prajñā is the truth of the path. Dharma-body and liberation are the truth of cessation. Possessing these two truths is called great parinirvana. That great nirvana is immediately the One Vehicle. Therefore it can establish the proof that the two truths are called the One Vehicle.

Question: The Abhidharma treatise states: "True suchness (basis of cessation), the noble path (what ceases), and non-arising of afflictions (nature of cessation) are called the truth of cessation." Therefore these three aspects are merely nirvana as the truth of cessation. Yet why use these three aspects of the truth of cessation as proof that the truth of the path is also called the One Vehicle?

Answer: The Abhidharma treatise's meaning is that the basis of cessation, what ceases, and the nature of cessation are combined and called the truth of cessation. The meaning is that the truth of the path that ceases returns to the basis of cessation and is combined to be called the truth of cessation. This calls great parinirvana the truth of cessation, which is the same as the Nirvana Sutra calling the perfect fulfillment of the three points great nirvana. Therefore it can establish proof that the two truths of cessation and path are called the One Vehicle. By challenging the Abhidharma treatise's text, it conversely establishes proof because it is the same as the Nirvana Sutra.

Question: If the One Vehicle has these two truths as its substance, why additionally present the previous three substances and five approaches?

Answer: The previous three substances abandon various texts to create categories, and in presenting substances there are naturally three substances. The next five approaches involve repeated detailed analysis within the previous three substances, having the sequence of five approaches. Now those three substances and five approaches are discriminated according to the Four Noble Truths approach,

【Lower Section】

immediately incorporating the two truths of cessation and path to make them the substance. This is the ultimate One Vehicle substance.

Why is discriminating according to the Four Noble Truths to present the One Vehicle substance considered the ultimate substance?

Answer: Though sacred teachings are countless and varied, they do not exceed the Four Noble Truths. Therefore presenting substance according to the Four Noble Truths is considered the ultimate meaning.

Question: Why present substance according to the truths of cessation and path without taking the truths of suffering and origination?

Answer: Suffering and origination are conditioned and are dharmas that should be known and eliminated. They are the cause and effect of cyclic existence. Therefore they cannot be the One Vehicle substance. This is why they are not taken. Cessation and path are unconditioned and are dharmas that should be realized and cultivated. They are the cause and effect of return to cessation. Therefore they constitute the One Vehicle substance.

Thus ends the first section.

Question: What is the meaning of the second section on explaining names?

Answer: Explaining the name "One Vehicle" is the meaning of this section. Therefore the treatise states: "Explaining the name means that 'vehicle' has the meaning of transportation. Therefore the Guangya states 'vehicle means to drive,' and the Zhou li states 'vehicle means to carry.' It transports practitioners to reach the other shore." This first explains the name "vehicle." Explaining "one" is as follows (the character "zhi" is probably "ye"). The other shore refers to bodhi and nirvana.

Question: The treatise states: "Therefore this sutra says 'riding this jeweled cart, going directly to the place of enlightenment.'" What does this mean?

Answer: This cites evidence to explain the meaning of vehicle. Since it says "riding this and going directly," the meaning of transportation is the meaning of vehicle. The meaning of the sutra text is as already recorded above.

Question: The treatise states: "The Mahāyānasaṃgraha also states: 'The six perfections and myriad practices are both vehicle and great; dharma-nature and true suchness are the great nature that is ridden.'" What does this mean?

Answer: This is also evidence. The meaning is that the six perfections and myriad practices are called Mahāyāna because they transport practitioners to reach the other shore. Dharma-nature and true suchness are called Mahāyāna because they are the nature of the vehicle. Therefore this text is cited as evidence that transportation is called vehicle.

Question: The Water Commentary states: "Question: Since the conditioned has movement and change, it can be called vehicle.

【Left Page】

The unconditioned lacks movement and change. How can it be called vehicle?" How should this be answered?

Answer: Next it states: "The six perfections and myriad practices are what is ridden. True suchness gives nature to what is ridden. Therefore it is also called Mahāyāna. Being the root of the vehicle, it is also called vehicle. What properly transports is immediately the conditioned. The conditioned depends on others. The unconditioned can also be known as vehicle. Like a boat (phenomena) depending on water (principle), water gains the name of transportation. Therefore both phenomena and principle can transport practitioners to reach the other shore. Transportation penetrates these two kinds."

Question: The treatise states: "Both phenomena and principle can transport practitioners, through self-transportation and transporting others, reaching the other shore. All are called vehicle." What does this mean?

Answer: This concludes citing evidence and establishes the meaning that transportation is called vehicle. Phenomena refers to the six perfections and myriad practices. Principle refers to dharma-nature and true suchness.

Question: The treatise states: "Question: Causal practices can transport themselves to reach fruition, so they can be called vehicle. Since Buddha fruition ceases self-transportation, it should not be the vehicle substance." How is this answered?

Answer: The treatise states: "The answer has five meanings."

Question: What are those five meanings?

Answer: The treatise states: "First, transportation is called vehicle. In the cause there is penetration of two transportations. Upon reaching fruition, transporting others is expanded. Through this it is also called vehicle" (the textual meaning is easy to understand).

"Second, the substance can penetrate two transportations. Both the capable substance are called vehicle. In fruition the substance has capability. Not being without it, it is also included in vehicle. Like calling cutting a knife. Having capability it is immediately included in knife. It is not necessary to actually be cutting; having capability is not non-knife. The Buddha fruition's virtue substance can perform two transportations. It is not necessary to manifest function before being called vehicle." The meaning is that on the Buddha fruition's virtue substance there is the capability of self-transportation. Though not self-transporting, it is still called vehicle. Like when cutting it is called knife, and when not cutting it is still called knife.

"Third, the Two Vehicles only self-transport the small and still

【Lower Section】

gain the name vehicle. How much more does Buddha extensively transport others. By what principle would it not be included in vehicle?" (The textual meaning is easy to understand).

"Fourth, principle and wisdom in the cause can perform dual transportation. Because the two functions are superior they gain the name vehicle. Principle and wisdom in fruition are accomplished through cultivating the cause. Being of the same category as the causal vehicle, they are also included in vehicle."

The Water Commentary states: "The meaning is that in fruition there is not only no self-transportation. Even if there were no transporting others, it would also be called vehicle. This is the same category as self-transportation in the cause. Therefore it is like afflictive seeds also being called afflictions."

"Fifth, the two transportations in the cause constantly advance. Because the functions are manifestly superior they gain the name vehicle. Self-transportation in fruition extends through future time, causing others to advance and gaining the designation of fruition."

The Water Commentary states: "Saying 'the two transportations in the cause constantly advance' means self-transportation and transporting others. Self-transportation also advances and transporting others also advances. Because the two transportations are uninterrupted, they are called 'constantly advancing.' Self-transportation in fruition extends through future time—this is self-benefit. Causing others to advance is also included in vehicle as benefiting others. Teaching and transforming others to achieve Buddhahood, therefore each causes others to advance. Namely, Mahaprajñā constantly illuminates the Dharma-body. The Vijñānavāda treatise states: 'This mental factor is free from all discrimination, its object and aspects are subtle and difficult to know, it does not forget, is not deluded about all objective aspects, its nature and characteristics are pure and free from all defilements, it is purely perfect virtue, supporting present seeds, capable of manifesting and generating body, land, and wisdom reflections, without interruption or cessation, extending to future time, like a great round mirror manifesting various object-conditions'" (this is text explaining the substance of the great mirror wisdom).

The meaning is that saying "Mahaprajñā constantly illuminates the Dharma-body" and the cited Vijñānavāda treatise text explain the meaning of self-transportation. The meaning of the treatise text should be examined in commentaries.

Question: Among these five meanings, what is correct or incorrect?

Answer: The treatise judges: "The first four meanings follow others incorrectly. The latter one