【Right Page】

A certain text records the following:
This was recorded and completed on the 19th day of the 7th month of Kanna 1. A collection by Shaku Shinkō.
Copying and proofreading completed on the 9th day of the 7th month of Enpō 3 (kinoto-u). Seikei (37 years old, 28th year of ordination)
Copying work completed with another's handwriting on [blank] day of the 2nd month of Kansei 2 (kanoe-inu). Gyōkei (19 years old, 8th year of ordination)
Proofreading completed on the 18th day of the 1st month of the same 3rd year (kanoto-i)

One Vehicle Private Records, Volume Three

Collection by Shaku Shinkō

Question: The treatise states: "Eighth, because the two vehicles attain the same intention as their own essence toward Buddha, and bodhisattvas of the same name also receive prophecies." What does this mean? Answer: This explains the eighth cause.

Question: What is the meaning of this eighth cause? Answer: Within this cause there are further two types. First is giving Buddha-prophecies to Śāriputra and others, enabling them to attain the intention that we are equal and non-dual with Buddha. Second is that at the Lotus assembly, there are also bodhisattvas with the same names as Śāriputra and others, who upon hearing Śāriputra and others receive Buddha-prophecies, enable those same-named bodhisattvas to attain the intention that they too receive Buddha-prophecies.

Question: The treatise states: "That is, at this assembly, Buddha causes the two vehicles to receive Buddha-prophecies, in order to enable them to gather and attain such intention that we are equal and non-dual with Buddha." What does this mean? Answer: This explains the first intention within this cause. The Compendium Treatise states: "The World-Honored One, at the Lotus assembly, causes various śrāvakas such as Śāriputra to receive Buddha-prophecies, in order to enable them to gather and attain such intention that we are equal and non-dual with Buddha."

The meaning is as follows: Buddha formerly only prophesied that bodhisattvas alone would become Buddha, never prophesying that śrāvakas could attain Buddha-fruit. Since śrāvakas and others doubted they would never become Buddha, Śāriputra deeply lamented losing the Tathāgata's immeasurable knowledge and vision. Now, on the day of proclaiming the Lotus Sūtra, he gives Śāriputra and others prophecies that they will become Buddha, in order to enable them to gather and attain the intention that we too will become Buddha and are now no different from Buddha.

【Left Page】

Therefore Śāriputra says: "Today I truly know I am a Buddha-son and have obtained a portion of the Buddha-dharma." This is precisely this meaning.

Question: The poor son parable is meant to counter the conceit of two-vehicle practitioners who claim "my vehicle has no difference from the Tathāgata vehicle." Why does this cause now enable two-vehicle practitioners to gather and attain the intention of no difference from Buddha? Answer: The Meaning Decision states: "There are two explanations. First, calculating that one's own small vehicle equals the Tathāgata, speaking like the poor son to counter this. The intention that 'I am equal to Buddha and should also attain this' is not something to be countered. Second, since determined-nature people will never become Buddha, they are only enabled to attain same-essence intention. Undetermined people should become Buddha, but calculating equality with Buddha obstructs turning their minds. Therefore countering is taught. Since what is aimed at differs, there is no contradiction."

Question: Which of these two explanations is superior? Answer: Both have their reasoning. However, observing the deep meaning, the first explanation is superior. The meaning is as follows: The poor son parable - hearing Buddha teach that the three vehicles sit together on one liberation seat, those seeking śrāvaka liberation grasp that the Tathāgata vehicle has no difference from my vehicle, exclusively seeking to attain śrāvaka liberation. To counter this supreme conceit, the parable of being like a poor son is taught to counter that conceit. This is the conceit of people who have not yet aspired to Mahāyāna. This present cause, for people who have aspired to Mahāyāna, gives prophecies of future Buddha-becoming, enabling them to gather and attain the intention that I am of the same seed-nature as Buddha, equal and non-dual. This intention is not something to be countered. Therefore the first explanation is superior.

Question: How about the latter explanation? Answer: It has some difficulty. The meaning is that the latter explanation's intention of enabling attainment of same-essence intention speaks only about determined-nature two-vehicle practitioners. Countering their conceit speaks about undetermined-nature people. However, seeing the treatise's meaning, this cause is not exclusively for determined-nature practitioners. Why make such a judgment?

Question: The treatise states: "Also at this assembly, there are bodhisattvas whose names are the same as those [śrāvakas], and through receiving prophecies..." What does this mean? Answer: This explains the second intention within this cause. The Compendium Treatise text is the same. Only the two characters "through receiving" mean obtaining the bestowal of this.

Question: What is this meaning? Answer: The Water Commentary states: "Buddha originally gives prophecy to Śāriputra to become Buddha. In the assembly there are minor bodhisattvas with the same name as Śāriputra. Seeing Śāriputra obtain Buddha's prophecy, those bodhisattvas of that type also generate prophetic intention-mind toward Buddha's person. This is also called attaining same intention. Also, among various śrāvakas there are those with the same name as Śāriputra. Seeing Buddha give prophecy to Śāriputra, those with the same name then wish Buddha to give prophecy to them, gathering and attaining same-essence non-dual intention toward Buddha's person."

Question: If so, are there bodhisattvas named Śāriputra and others among the bodhisattvas? Answer: According to treatises like this, it should be so. Therefore Buddha properly gives prophecies of future Buddha-becoming to the śrāvaka disciple Śāriputra, and also enables those same-named bodhisattvas to attain the intention that Buddha gives us prophecies of future Buddha-becoming.

Question: Among śrāvakas, are there also those named Śāriputra and others? Answer: The treatise only says there are same-named bodhisattvas, not saying there are śrāvakas. Therefore it should be said there are none. However, the Water Commentary says "Also among various śrāvakas there are those of the same name" - this is superfluous wording. It should not be believed and accepted.

Question: Generally speaking, how many types of Śāriputra are there? Answer: The Supreme Commentary, citing the Compendium Treatise text, says: "There are three types: first, emanation; second, determined-nature; third, undetermined-nature." According to this commentary's meaning, the Śāri[putra] who properly receives Buddha-prophecy...