He requested leave on the first day of the third month due to his assignment to Takato garrison duty, and departed on the second day.
He arrived in Edo on the fifth day of the same month.
1. On the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the same year, while he was away on garrison duty,
his wife sustained unexpected injuries. The circumstances could not be left unaddressed,
especially since there were suspects in mind whom he wished to investigate.
He petitioned for extended leave (eikyu no oitoma), and when the details were
heard, his request was granted and extended leave was
approved. He was to serve according to convenience and fulfill his intentions. Regarding
Nakayama Tsuneemon, who had previously absconded from the residence, as he was a disloyal
person guilty of serious crimes, an investigation was ordered.
Since notification had also been submitted to the government guard stations, once captured,
punishment would be decreed for this person who was subject to his lordship's judgment.
He should make every effort to apprehend the suspect upon sight and bring him to the residence.
However, if circumstances at the time made it unavoidable to kill him in the struggle,
since he was already a wanted person, notification had previously been submitted to
the three magistrate offices, and at such time,
it should be declared that he was a retainer of this household. Since his adoptive father's time,
you have been especially recognized for your faithful service,
so in due course you will be ordered to return with honor. Moreover,
as assistance for the dependents left behind, a stipend of five persons' worth was
granted.
1. On the twentieth day of the first month of the fourth year,정묘 (Teibo), by his lordship's will,
the order for return to service was issued.

Fifth Generation
Saji Kameemon
1. On the nineteenth day of the third month of Kyoho 8, Year of the Water Rabbit, he was
appointed from guard duty to personal attendance (goshoku tsutome).
1. On the sixth day of the tenth month of the same year, he was
relieved of personal attendance duties and ordered to return to regular guard duty.

Second Generation
Watanabe Sukeemon