【Right Page】
《Note: This describes the affairs of Unno Kotaro Yukiuji. The records in the Azuma Kagami are particularly detailed. Yukiuji was later appointed to the position of Saemon-no-jo. This is precisely the 22nd-generation ancestor of Izunokami Nobuyuki》
By the time of Kotaro Yukitaka, the 27th-generation descendant of Yukitsune, when he came to reside in Sanada-no-sho, he first began to call himself Sanada Danjodaibu. Yukitaka's father, Unno Sakyo-daibu Yukiyoshi, fought against Murakami Yoshikiyo, a resident of Sarashina in the same province, and was killed in battle. Yukitaka lost his territory and relied on Nagano Shinano-no-kami, staying at Minowa Castle in Kozuke Province. 《Note: A retainer of the Uesugi family》 Takeda Daizen-daifu Harunobu of Kai, intending to subjugate Shinano Province, first invited Yukitaka and had him return to his home province. Yukitaka was greatly pleased and thought that he must somehow avenge his father and demonstrate his loyalty to repay Takeda's kindness. In the winter of Tenbun 15, he deceived Murakami Yoshikiyo and

【Left Page】
drew five hundred samurai of his clan into his own castle and killed every last one of them. Murakami was finally destroyed by the Takeda, and Harunobu's subjugation of Shinano was due to Yukitaka's enormous contribution. 《Note: This is detailed in the Koyo Gunkan》 In the same 20th year, Harunobu became a monk and took the name Shingen. Yukitaka likewise became a monk and took the name Ittokusai, and after accumulating years, at age 62, he died on the 19th day of the 5th month of Tensho 2. His eldest son Genzaemon Nobutsuna 《Note: Said to be a commander of 200 horsemen》 and second son Hyobu Masateru 《Note: Also called Yukitsura, commander of 50 horsemen》 both died in battle at the Battle of Nagakute on the 21st day of the 5th month of Tensho 3. The third son was Awa-no-kami Masayuki, and the fourth son was Oki-no-kami Nobuyoshi. Izunokami Nobuyuki was the eldest son of this Awa-no-kami Masayuki. Masayuki was initially called Sanada Gengoro and served closely under the monk Harunobu, being one of the six close attendants