【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　14
　A. Work is stopped and people rest. (Tsuda)
　B. Wives go to their natal homes, others go to relatives, and those with nowhere to go are told "go into the bushes" - it was such a day of leisure and play. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　32　Nembutsu One Million Times　(16th day)　Former
　At Suzan-ji temple, the nembutsu one million times is performed on this day and on the 16th day of Obon. Households with recently deceased family members always visit, and since this is a day of leisure, many young and old make pilgrimages. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　33　Seventeenth Night　(17th day)
　A. Rice cakes are pounded and five sets are arranged on a single sacred cloth, sacred sake, lanterns or incense are offered, and on the night of the 17th the moon is worshipped, and on the morning of the 18th the sun is worshipped. This is to pray for abundant five grains and is similarly performed on May 9th. (Tsuda)
　B. Offering rice cakes equal to the number of months in the year are offered before the altar and in the garden to worship the moon. (Yoshida-kata)
　C. Offering rice cakes are presented and the moon is worshipped, but when the moon is not visible, worship is done on the 23rd or 26th. This is also done on May 9th. (Fukuoka)
　D. Rice cake pounding. (Ōsaki)
　E. Sacred sake is offered to the moon. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　　34　Twentieth Day New Year　(20th day)
　This day is considered the end of New Year, so the final ozoni soup is celebrated, and nijūnichi dango (twentieth day dumplings) - red bean dumplings - are eaten.
This event is also called hone-shōgatsu (bone New Year) and seems to still be popular in the Kansai region.
　Women opening and celebrating the kagami-mochi from their vanity mirrors on this day is probably done because the pronunciation of "nijūnichi" (twentieth) is similar to "hatsu-gao" (first face).
【Left page】
　A. The village headman gathered representatives to discuss that year's administration. (Takashi) [Item numbering is out of order]
　　　　　　　　　35　First Ebisu　(20th day)
　(See October Ebisu-kō)
　A. Called Nijūnichi Ebisu (Twentieth Day Ebisu), temple children and others played. (Tsuda)
　B. To pray for good harvest and household prosperity, sacred sake and vinegared dishes are offered to worship Ebisu god. (Isobe)
　C. Two meal trays are prepared for Ebisu god and offered with oranges. (Ōsaki)
　D. In the morning, farming households offer sacred sake, namasu, and gomoku rice to Ebisu-sama and celebrate within the family. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　36　Atago Pilgrimage　(24th day)　Former
　This is the festival of Atago Daigongen located on the mountainside of Akaiwa-san Akaiwa-ji temple, where lottery drawings were held until recent years. When someone drew the "hibuse" (fire prevention) amulet from the lottery, it was believed that person would be spared from fires for life, and they would call relatives to celebrate.
　　　　　　　　　37　First Tenjin　(25th day)
　This was quite popular during the temple school era, with many people visiting Tenjin shrine in Shinsen-machi to offer their New Year calligraphy, but it began to decline around the 10th year of Meiji and continues to this day.
　A. Called Tenjin-sama. (Tsuda)
　B. From the 25th until March 3rd, Tenjin dolls are sent from the wife's natal home to pray for children's happiness. (Isobe)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　15