【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　16
　　　　　　　　　38　Sea God Festival　(25th day)　Former
　Himachi is performed to worship the sea god and manjū are distributed to children. (Ōsaki)
　　　　　　　　　39　Sun Waiting (Himachi)
　Called "1-5-9" - on the 15th day of the 1st, 5th, and 9th months, rice is brought together and himachi is performed
　　　　　　　　　40　Manzai
　Since this region is said to be the birthplace of this manzai, it has a well-established reputation even in the Edo area as Mikawa Manzai. There are various theories about its origins, but it was initially performed at the Imperial Court and the Shogunate, and later came to be performed among the common people as well. It is said that the first person to perform at the Shogunate was from Kozakai, so this person was probably the beginning in this region. Even now, a small number of manzai performers remain in the Innai district of Kozakai town.
　　　　　　　　　41　Evil Spirit Exorcism
　Lion dance door-to-door visits come to announce the arrival of spring. In this vicinity, they come from Kozakai in Hōi County and Kumotani in Atsumi County, among others.
　　　　　　　　　42　Cold Season Pilgrimage　(From the beginning to the end of the cold season)
　When the cold season begins, cold season pilgrimage starts that very evening. Some wear only white robes and white headbands, ringing bells attached to their waists while making pilgrimages to shrines and temples, while others - Nichiren sect members chant the daimoku, and Daishi-kō members raise sacred songs as groups of men and women of all ages walk through the towns in cold season austerities. There were also considerable numbers of monks who would go around believers' homes chanting wasan and other songs without taking a whole night, in former times.
【Left page】
　　February
　　　　　　　　　43　Tsushima Festival　(2nd day)　Former
　A. The proxy pilgrims meet with the shrine attendants at Tsushima Shrine on New Year's Eve to receive sacred amulets and return home. A roof is thatched with cedar leaves and a shrine is built with four thick bamboo poles, where sacred amulets and about three gō of Adaka (Akada) - a Tsushima specialty confection - are offered. After a Shinto priest's prayers, the Adaka is thrown to the worshippers. (Tsuda)
　B. On January 16th (former calendar), two proxy pilgrims are sent from the village to Tsushima Shrine. The proxy pilgrims return by the night of himachi. (Takashi)
　C. Proxy pilgrims are sent, Tsushima-sama is worshipped, and himachi is performed. (Yoshida-kata)
　D. Called village proxy pilgrims, two people are sent as proxy pilgrims to Tsushima Shrine. Sacred sake is offered to pray for household safety. (Isobe)
　E. Proxy pilgrims are sent. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　44　Second Day Moxibustion　(2nd day)
　This day is said to be the day moxibustion was born, and it is said that applying moxa on this day has a hundred times the effectiveness. Performing this on August 2nd is called "later second day moxibustion."
　　　　　　　　　45　Setsubun (Bean Scattering)　(3rd or 4th day)
　Since the first appearance in literature is said to be in Tsurayuki's "Tosa Diary," this bean scattering event has been going on for about a thousand years
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　17