【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　28
　A. Seed rice is made into parched rice and scattered at the water inlet of the rice field while praying for good water flow. (Takashi)
　B. Parched rice is scattered at the water inlet while praying for good rice harvest and that the fields not be damaged. (Omura)
　C. Parched rice is scattered at the water inlet of the fields and offered for good harvest and that the water inlet not be damaged. (Shimoji)
　D. Rice seeds are sown and vegetable rice is cooked so that seedlings will grow lush and green, then offered together with parched rice at the water inlet. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　　69　Road Burning　(Mid to late month)
　Around this time, farming households burn withered grass before spring buds emerge to kill pest eggs.
【Left page】
　　April
　　　　　　　　　70　Opening Ceremony　(1st day)
　School entrance ceremonies and opening ceremonies are held.
　　　　　　　　　71　Emperor Jinmu Festival　(3rd day)
　This day marks the death of Emperor Jinmu. At the imperial palace, personal ceremonies are conducted at the Imperial Spirit Hall, and imperial messengers are dispatched to the northeastern mausoleum of Mount Unebi in Yamato Province to perform mausoleum rites. This ritual was first performed during the Man'en era of Emperor Kōmei and has continued as an annual custom since then. After the adoption of the new calendar in Meiji 6, the death date of March 11th according to the old calendar was converted to April 3rd, resulting in today's observance.
　On this day, many people visit the bronze statue of Emperor Jinmu located in the northern corner of the 18th Infantry Regiment parade ground. This bronze statue was originally enshrined in Higashi-hachi-machi as a memorial to the First Sino-Japanese War, cast by Okazaki Sessei, with its unveiling ceremony held on March 9, Meiji 32, and is nationally famous.
　　　　　　　　　72　Buddha Bathing Festival　(8th day)
　In our country, this is said to have originated when it was first performed at Gankō-ji Temple in Nara in the 14th year of Empress Suiko's reign, in the fourth month. Previously it was held on the 8th day of the old 4th month, but now it is almost entirely observed according to the new calendar. On this day at each temple,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　29