【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　30
Called "Hanamido" (flower halls), small halls with roofs thatched with various flowers have small statues of Buddha placed in their center for the Buddha Bathing Festival, and worshippers draw sweet tea to pour over the statue's head. On this day, children would each bring pots, bottles, and other containers to receive this sweet tea. Recently on this day, lively flower festivals are held by Buddhist associations.
　A. A hall is made with Chinese milk vetch and sweet tea is served for the Buddha bathing ceremony. (Tsuda)
　B. Temples construct small halls decorated with wildflowers for Buddha bathing and sweet tea service. (Ueda)
　C. Each household decorates with deutzia flowers and scatters rice bran around the house three times. (Osaki)
　D. Deutzia flowers are placed at the gate entrance. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　73　8th Day of the 4th Month　(8th day)　Old calendar
　Writing "The auspicious 8th day of the fourth month when gods subdue insects" and posting it upside down on the lower part of the pillar at the house entrance. This is a charm to prevent snakes from entering. On this day, the holly and laurel from Setsubun are replaced with deutzia flowers.
　　　　　　　　　74　Kosakai Festival (Wind Festival)　(October 11th)
　This day is the regular festival of Ashitearajin Shrine in Kosakai Town, with Shimoji Town, Shimogoi Town, and Urigō Town as parishioners. Bamboo dance floats appear, fireworks are launched, and the architectural fireworks displays are particularly magnificent.
　At stalls in the shrine grounds, Shōki masks and pinwheels are sold. It is said that hanging a Shōki mask in the house wards off disasters, and playing with pinwheels prevents summer epidemics.
【Left page】
　　　　　　　　　75　Divine Garment Festival　(14th day)　Old calendar
　This is a Shinto ritual offering divine garments to the Grand Shrine, said to have originated in ancient times in heaven. It has been continuously performed since Emperor Suinin's reign when he ordered the weaving of offering garments, but after being discontinued for a long time following the Ōnin War, it was revived in Genroku 12.
　At Shinmei Shrine in Minato Town, it was performed until around Meiji 7-8, and at that time it was quite a grand festival for all of Yoshida City. From around the 11th day, weaving and sewing were generally suspended, and young women selected from each town would dress up in their finest clothes, link hands together, and walk in procession while swinging their sleeves and singing:
　♪Divine garments, yoi na yoi yoi, swing, swing those six-foot sleeves, for without swinging sleeves we cannot dance.
　♪Divine garments, yoi na yoi yoi, the divine garment dancers fell from the bridge, for under the bridge we cannot dance.
　　　　　　　　　76　Tennō Festival　(29th day)
　This is the revered birthday of the current Emperor. On this day, His Majesty attends military reviews after ceremonies at the Kashikodokoro, Imperial Spirit Hall, and Shinden, receives congratulations upon return, and grants banquets to domestic and foreign envoys at Toyoakari Palace.
　This Tennō Festival has been observed since the sixth year of Hōki under Emperor Kōnin, was discontinued for a long period, then revived in the first year of Meiji and has continued as an annual custom through successive reigns.
　Locally, military reviews are conducted by resident army units at the 18th Infantry Regiment parade ground on this day.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　31