【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　34
　　May
　　　　　　　　　79　(Hachijū-hachiya - 88th Night)　(2nd or 3rd day)
　This is the standard day for rice seed preparation, being the 88th day from the beginning of spring, and it is said that spring frost ends on this night.
　In the past, well covers were placed because it was believed that poisonous cranes would descend into wells. Also, this day was designated for sowing rice seeds in seedbeds, and after sowing was completed, leftover rice seeds were roasted to make parched rice, which was offered to gods and Buddha and scattered at the entrance of seedbed ditches to pray for seedling growth. (Noyori・
　　　　Muro)
　　　　　　　　　80　Boys' Day (Tango)　(5th day)
　This event that began in China somehow reached our country, and was already being practiced during Emperor Shōmu's reign in the Nara period, and during the Heian and Tokugawa periods, it had become an extremely important ceremonial day. Although the five seasonal festivals system was abolished in the Meiji era, it is still actively practiced among the people along with the Doll Festival on March 3rd.
　When this festival approaches, families with boys set up warrior-picture banners and carp streamers outdoors, and display sitting room banners and May dolls in their compounds. On this day, every household inserts iris and mugwort at the eaves, makes kashiwa-mochi (oak leaf rice cakes), and prepares iris baths. Some people make headbands from iris, saying it cures headaches. At shrines, there are still places that give chimaki (bamboo leaf-wrapped rice dumplings) to visitors.
　Furthermore, flying kites called kerori, yatsuhana, and karamase during this festival is unique to this region. Also, for boys'
【Left page】
first festival, large kashiwa-mochi are distributed to relatives and acquaintances, and large kites, banners, carp streamers, and warrior dolls are presented as gifts. The proper ceremony begins with all family members sitting properly dressed, with the celebration sponsor (an elder person is asked to do this) and the child celebrating their first festival seated in the place of honor (in ordinary festivals, seating is by family rank). Everyone exchanges congratulations, prays for the child's military fortune, and iris sake is served. This iris sake is made by chopping the red parts of iris roots and adding them to sake. When everyone is finished, a meal of chimaki is served. This has now become kashiwa-mochi. After this is completed, a formal meal of two soups and five dishes is served for celebration, and the ceremony ends.
　　　　　　　　　81　Sixth Day Parched Rice (Kōsen)　(6th day)
　A. Parched rice and cut toto-grass are scattered around the house. (Osaki)
　B. Sanago (skin powder) from parched rice and toto-grass are cut and mixed, then scattered around the house while calling out "snakes and vipers, don't come out." (Fukuoka)
　C. Parched rice is made from new wheat, mixed with toto-grass seeds, put in a measuring box, and scattered around the compound while chanting "long worms, stay away." (Muro)
　　　　　　　　　82　Navy Memorial Day　(27th day)
　This day is a national memorial day when, during the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905, on May 27, 1905, our Combined Fleet intercepted the Russian Baltic Fleet in the Battle of the Sea of Japan, completely destroying it in one stroke and achieving an unprecedented great victory.
　　　　　　　　　83　O-Tora Gozen (Tiger Rain)　(28th day)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　35