【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　38
　　　　　　　　　89　Gion Festival　(15th day)　Old calendar
　On this day, it is generally said that Gion sharks appear.
　A. Grilled rice cakes are offered to the gods. (Fukuoka)
　B. Udon grilled rice cakes are made. (Osaki)
　C. Representatives from each hamlet's Tsushima-ko make pilgrimages to Tsushima Tenno Shrine. Grilled rice cakes are made to offer at Gion. Also on this day, unused remnants from seed harvesting of rapeseed and other crops are taken to the river and disposed of. (Noyori)
　D. On this day, when Gion sharks are present, going around the rice fields is forbidden, and laundry was not done if Gion sharks were in the washing tubs. Drowning victims before this day were said to have been taken by Gion sharks. On this day, grilled rice cakes are made with wheat flour, and udon is also eaten. (Muro)
　E. Grilled rice cakes are made. On this day, children's water play is stopped, as it is said that water spirits will emerge if one goes to rivers or ponds. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　90　Ring-Passing Ceremony (Summer Purification Festival)　(30th day)
　Also called the Summer Purification Festival, held at Susanoo Shrine in Honmachi. It is said that passing through the "chi-no-wa" (a ring made of miscanthus grass) in front of the worship hall prevents summer illnesses. The Omiyoshi Tenno, chanted as "Omiyoshi-sama no otachi yare dete ogame," departs from the shrine at midnight and is thrown into the Toyokawa River from Ohashi Bridge. People downstream in Yoshida would pick up these sacred tablets and worship Omiyoshi-sama. Now only the festival is celebrated.
　　　　　　　　　91　Great Purification　(30th day)
　The Great Purification is an extremely important Shinto ritual performed to purify and remove the sins and impurities of all people. It is held annually on the last days of June and December,
【Left page】
but it may also be performed temporarily during national disasters or epidemic outbreaks.
　Its origin dates back to the age of gods when Izanagi-no-mikoto removed his clothes and washed away the impurities of Yomi with water. It is said that this was established to be performed in June and December after Emperor Monmu's Taiho Code. This practice was temporarily discontinued due to the Onin War, was revived in June of Genroku 4 but did not become grand, and in June of Meiji 4 this old ceremony was restored and proclaimed to be practiced generally throughout the realm, continuing to the present day.
　　　　　　　　　92　Sabiraki　(Around the rainy season)
　A. A feast is prepared on the night before rice planting. (Osaki)
　B. The seven days from the summer solstice were called "nanoka-zakari" (seven-day peak), and the eighth day was called "yoka-sage," with rice planting beginning and finishing within several days, but nowadays it is delayed by about ten days. (Noyori)
　C. On the day rice planting is first performed, sacred sake is offered before the gods. (Isobe)
　D. A good day is chosen to begin planting seedlings, and a feast is held. (Fukuoka)
　E. Planting occurs from around July 1st to around the 7th. Schools hold rice-planting holidays. (Ushikawa)
　F. Called Sabiraki, a good day is chosen to begin planting. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　93　Gongerabo
　A. When rice planting is completed, in a ritual called Gongerabo, plows are arranged on new straw mats and ritual meals are offered. At the same time, small bundles of rice seedlings and ritual meals are offered to Ebisu-sama and Kojin-sama to pray for a good harvest. (Ushikawa, Shimojo)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　39