【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　40
　B. When rice planting is finished, two bundles of seedlings and sacred sake are offered to Ebisu-sama. (Shimoji)
　C. Rice planting is performed with Hagen at the center, and when planting is completed, a feast called Ato-hanaho (Gongenobo) is held. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　94　Agricultural Rest Day
　Generally, when rice planting is completed, people eat udon and rest during the agricultural rest day.
　A. When rice planting finished, during the agricultural rest day, udon was made and served everywhere in the past, but now this is not fixed practice. (Fukuoka)
　B. The school holds a mothers and sisters gathering. (Isobe)
　C. On this day, work is stopped and people play all day. Also, day-waiting ceremonies are held in each hamlet, and representatives from each Ise-ko make pilgrimages to Ise Grand Shrine.
　　　(Noyori, Osaki, Isobe)
　D. When wheat harvesting and rice planting are finished and the rainy season ends, agricultural rest is observed for two days. Udon is eaten on this day. This occurs around July 10th.
　　　(Ushikawa, Shimojo)
　　　　　　　　　95　Raising Ten Thousand Lanterns　(30th day)　Old calendar
　Also simply called "lanterns" or "Bon lanterns," from the first to the last day of the seventh month, lanterns are raised at each house for memorial services for newly deceased.
　A. At houses observing their first Bon, ten thousand lanterns lit during Bon month are erected by neighboring people. (Fukuoka, Isobe)
　B. At houses with newly deceased, relatives and group members gather to erect tall ten thousand lanterns. (Noyori)
　C. Members of the funeral group gather at houses observing first Bon to make tall ten thousand lanterns. The lanterns are made of boards, lit every evening, and suspended high on poles. Below
【Left page】
　　　on the altar shelf, water and incense are offered to the posthumous name. The host serves red rice to comfort the workers. (Ushikawa)
　D. On July 1st, houses with newly deceased make platforms of green bamboo to place memorial tablets, hang lanterns for memorial services, and float them away at month's end.
　　　(Yoshidagata)
　E. Only houses with newly deceased, from July 1st for one month, build platforms in front and hang ten thousand lanterns, lighting sacred flames. (Ueda)
　F. Relatives and neighbors gather at houses with newly deceased to erect them in the morning. Throughout July, lights are dedicated every night. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　41