【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　42
　　July
　　　　　　　　　96　Sengan-ji Temple Pilgrimage　(1st day)　Old calendar
　It is said that if one goes to Sengan-ji Temple at Mamizuka, one can meet the newly deceased, so families observing their first Bon make pilgrimages with relatives and family connections from night until morning.
　　　　　　　　　97　Sengen Pilgrimage　(1st day)　Old calendar
　They also go to Sengen Shrine at Mt. Takayama from night until morning. Many people combine this with the Sengan-ji Temple pilgrimage. They worship at Ashi-Sengen, Hara-Sengen, and Atama-Sengen.
　　　　　　　　　98　Hagen　(Hangesho)　(2nd or 3rd day)
　Farming families finish planting by this day. The eleventh day from the summer solstice.
　　　　　　　　　99　Tanabata Festival　(7th day)　Old calendar
　This is an event imported from China in ancient times, and according to sources like Kuji-kongen in our country, it appears to have begun in the seventh year of Tempyo-shoho. This festival ritual underwent changes according to the era, but after many transformations, in the Tokugawa period it was established as one of the five seasonal festivals and came to be celebrated by people of all social levels, with the period around Genroku said to be the most prosperous. However, in the Meiji era

【Left Page】
when the five seasonal festivals were abolished, it gradually declined to the present day, but still retains considerable traces. In this region too, it seems to have been quite popular during the temple school era, and at night many houses would hang plaques under the eaves and place lights in them, but this can hardly be seen now. Also, Tanabata songs are written on bamboo, tanzaku strips are tied, and first agricultural products are offered in worship. Previously, dew was collected from taro leaves and used to write songs on tanzaku. In urban areas, Tanabata bamboo is mainly floated down the Toyokawa River from bridges after nightfall.
　A. In the past, people gathered at temple schools or teachers' houses to celebrate. (Fukuoka)
　B. On the morning of the 8th, they are floated down the river. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　100　Plaque Festival　(8th day)　Old calendar
　On the festival day of Yakushi-sama in Shimoji-cho, plaques of paper cutouts and raised pictures are displayed at Yakushi Seko. In the past, plaques decorated for Tanabata were dedicated to Yakushi Hall the following day for the festival. (Shimoji)
　　　　　　　　101　Noh Festival　(7th and 8th days)
　This is the festival of Gongen-sama, Ankai Kumano Shrine in Uo-machi, where parishioners' Noh plays and kyogen are dedicated at the Noh theater in the shrine grounds. The costumes used are from the former feudal lord's collection, and among the Noh masks are said to be masterpieces from the mid-Muromachi period.
　　　　　　　　102　Forty-Six Thousand Days　(10th day)　Old calendar
　This corresponds to Kannon's day of merit, and it is said that making an early morning pilgrimage on this day brings merit equivalent to over a hundred years of pilgrimages.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　43