【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　48
　　　saying this. (Ushikawa, Shimojo)
　C. Temple visits are performed. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　111　Doyo Mochi (Rice Cakes for Doyo Period)　(Beginning of Doyo)
　It is said that pounding and eating rice cakes on the day when summer doyo begins prevents heat stroke, so red bean rice cakes have been eaten since ancient times. This is called doyo mochi.
　　　　　　　　112　Doyo Eel　(Day of the Ox in Doyo)
　It is said that eating eel on the day of the ox during summer doyo prevents summer illness.
　　　　　　　　113　Mushboshi (Insect Drying)　(Doyo Drying)
　Mushboshi is also called doyo-boshi, and involves airing out all the family's clothing, family treasures, and books in the sun and letting wind through them after doyo begins. Shrines and Buddhist temples allow people to view their treasures during this mushboshi period.
　　　　　　　　114　Epidemic Prevention
　　When epidemics spread during summer and other times, they would receive talismans from Tsushima, set up bamboo on both sides of roads at village boundaries, hang shimenawa ropes, and enshrine the talismans for protection. (Noyori)
【Left Page】
　　August
　　　　　　　　115　Hassaku　(1st day)　Old Calendar
　This first day was called "tanomu no iwai" (harvest prayer celebration) in ancient times and became a regular samurai annual event from the Kamakura period onward, but it transformed into "ta no mi no iwai" (rice harvest celebration) and became an important event in farming villages. During the Tokugawa period, since Ieyasu's entry into Edo castle fell on this day, it seems to have been designated as a solemn ceremonial day second only to New Year's Day.
　A. Pound millet rice cakes, cook red bean rice, and rest from work. (Tsuda, Isobe)
　B. Make millet flour rice. (Takashi, Noyori)
　C. Called "tanomo no tsuitachi," make millet flour rice. (Muro)
　These customs are gradually no longer practiced.
　D. Cook millet flour rice and offer it to the gods. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　116　Moon Viewing　(15th day)　Old Calendar
　This is the famous mid-autumn moon, and formal moon viewing is supposed to take place on this night, but during the former feudal period, moon viewing was held in the castle on this night, so common people came to observe it later on the 13th night of September.
　　　　　　　　117　Unka-okuri (Insect Sending)　(Insect Procession)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　49