【Right page】
The entire province was pacified. In the same 15th year (Tensho 15, 1587), he again sent military forces to Sado Province, subdued the rebellious parties, fought in Oku-Aizu, and captured the three districts of Shonai in Dewa Province. In the 17th year (Tensho 17, 1589), when Kagekatsu's wife moved to the Juraku mansion, the Kampaku (Hideyoshi) showed extraordinary joy. Kagekatsu immediately went to the capital and was appointed to the rank of Ju-ni-i (Junior Second Rank) Chunagon (Middle Counselor). His retainer Naoe Yamashiro-no-kami Kanetsugu was appointed to the Fourth Rank Jiju (Chamberlain) {{Marginal note: Kanetsugu was called Higuchi Yozaemon and was the son of one who served as lumber supervisor. When he was fourteen or fifteen years old, Kagekatsu loved his beautiful appearance and kept him close as a servant, showing deep affection. After he came of age, Kagekatsu wanted to make him a senior retainer of his house, but the clan retainers were not pleased to have him as an equal since he was originally the son of a person of low status. Since Naoe Yamato-no-kami, a senior retainer of the house, had no male heir, Kagekatsu immediately made Kanetsugu his son-in-law, had him take the name Naoe, gave him the title Yamashiro-no-kami, and ultimately made him the foremost retainer}} as recorded in the family genealogy. Fujita, Izumisawa, and Yasuda were granted the rank of Ju-shi-ge (Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade), and the number of other retainers who received court ranks reached eleven.

【Left page】
In the 18th year (Tensho 18, 1590), when the Hojo were attacked, Kagekatsu advanced down the Tosando route, captured castles here and there, and reached Odawara. After the Hojo were destroyed, he followed Kampaku-dono down to the northern provinces and conducted land surveys of Mutsu and Dewa together with Kaga no Chikuzen-no-kami Toshiie. When the Korean campaign began, he joined the Nagoya camp, crossed to Korea in the spring of Bunroku 2 (1593), and built the castle at Busan. In the 8th month of the same year, he returned to Japan and went to his home province. In the autumn of the 3rd year, he went to the capital and built Fushimi Castle. In Keicho 1 (1596), he was granted leave and returned to his domain. When the year changed, in the spring of the 2nd year, he went to the capital in response to a summons. He was granted the territory of Aizu in Mutsu and was transferred there {{Marginal note: 1.2 million koku}}. His retainer Naoe Yamashiro-no-kami received special orders and was granted Yonezawa {{Marginal note: 300,000 koku ○ At this time, the Taiko asked Kagekatsu, "What is the tax revenue from the provinces you now govern?"}}