【Right page】
{{Marginal note: "There would be approximately seven to eight hundred thousand koku," when he replied thus, [Hideyoshi said] "This is less than I thought. Then I shall grant you many more territories," and transferred him to the castle lands of Aizu worth 1.2 million koku. In reality, Kagekatsu was a hereditary lord, so it was natural that the people would feel attached to and think fondly of him. Also, since Sado Province, which he had governed, was a place where silver was produced, this was in order to seize that. Kagekatsu also perceived the real situation, but having no way to object, he moved there}} Also, what was said to Kagekatsu was: "The provinces and districts of the northern region are prone to despise imperial commands and there have been many who plot rebellion since ancient times. When Kagekatsu goes there, he should remain in the province for about a year and completely pacify those borders." With these words, he was granted leave. When the year changed, in the 8th month of the 3rd year, after the Taiko passed away, Kagekatsu claimed "there are instructions left by the late Taiko" and shut himself up in his province, constructed fortifications, and assembled troops. Moreover, bandits rose up in neighboring provinces making those borders unstable, and when these were pursued and interrogated, they all stated that they had received orders from Kagekatsu.

【Left page】
Since things were this way, thinking that disorder in the realm was near at hand, Tokugawa-dono sent envoys repeatedly to admonish him, but Kagekatsu never complied. When express messengers came from various provinces reporting that Kagekatsu's military action had already begun, [Tokugawa] said "Then we must swiftly suppress this," and in the autumn of Keicho 5 (1600), Tokugawa-dono set out toward the northern provinces. However, through Ishida Jibu-shoyu Mitsunari's machinations, with Hideyori as the nominal leader, military forces from Sanyo, Sanin, Nankai, and Saikai regions gathered in Osaka and attempted to attack Tokugawa-dono from behind. Tokugawa-dono, father and son, first halted the eastern armies, turned back toward the Shimotsuke road, and divided into two forces along the Tokaido and Tosando routes to advance westward. Kagekatsu's forces in Mutsu and Dewa