【Right Page】
《Note: are also greatly different, and also similar in detail, they should be examined together》Yoshisue maintained correspondence with Lord Oda from afar, with yearly exchanges never ceasing. After Lord Oda passed away, he continued to send envoys to the Toyotomi house unchanged from previous times. On the first day of the ninth month of Tenshō 15 (1587), he died at Akita castle. Sanesue succeeded his father《Note: taking the name Andō Tarō》.

In the autumn of the same eighteenth year, when the Kampaku made his descent to the northern provinces, [Sanesue] first entered into audience. The following nineteenth year, when Nanbu's retainer rebelled against his lord Kunohe, [Sanesue] responded to the call for military forces, rushed forth and besieged the castle. When the Korean campaign arose, he again responded to the call and led his military forces to rush to the Tsukushi encampment. At some point the Kampaku asked how much land Sanesue's domain comprised, and Sanesue, thinking who knows what, replied that it was merely

【Left Page】
about forty to fifty thousand koku in tax revenue. Whereupon [the Kampaku] declared that military service obligations should be in accordance with that tax assessment《Note: From this time Akita was called fifty thousand koku, though in reality it was said to be over two hundred thousand koku》.

In the autumn of Keichō 5 (1600), when Lord Tokugawa was to attack the Uesugi in the northern provinces, it was ordered that the people of the northern regions should join the army under Mogami Dewa-no-kami Yoshimitsu. Sanesue claimed that he himself was ill and sent only military forces《Note: He sent a retainer called Akita Hei-no-jō with 2,650 men》.

While this was happening, when they heard that war had also broken out in the capital region, people took nothing with them and all fled back to their respective provinces. After the realm had already been pacified, Dewa-no-kami Yoshimitsu reported that Sanesue had sided with Ishida and others. Soon Yoshimitsu had Sanesue summoned to the Kantō region for judgment.