【Right Page】
Jirō Tadayori succeeded Masakado and resided in Mutsu《Note: Tadayori was Masakado's cousin. However, it is doubtful that he succeeded Masakado's position.》
《Note: Didn't he rather succeed his uncle Yoshitoki?》His son Kazusa-no-suke Tsunetsune, and his son
Chiba-no-suke Tsunemasa's great-grandson Suke Tsunetane's second son took the name Sōma Jirō Morotsune
《Note: In the Kan'ei period, examining copies of genealogies submitted by both current Sōma houses, both families trace their origins to Sōma Jirō Morotsune》
《Note: However, what they transmit differs greatly. What is transmitted in the house of Daizen-no-suke Toshitane is as in the main text. What is transmitted in the house of Kojirō Sadatane is》
《Note: that Taira no Masakado had twelve sons, and when their father was executed, those who escaped execution were not few in the provinces of Chinzei and Bandō. Among Masakado's sons》
《Note: was one called Sōma Kojirō Masakuni. His son called Kotarō Fumikuni lived in Shida district of Hitachi Province, and his descendants took the name Shida. Fumikuni's fifth-generation descendant, Shida Kojirō Shigekuni, also》
《Note: moved to Sōma district, and from then on his descendants again took the name Sōma. Shigekuni's son Sōma Kojirō Tanetoki, and his son called Nakatsukasa-taisuke Tanetoki. Chiba-no-suke Tsunetane's》
《Note: son succeeded that house as Sōma Kojirō Morotsune - this appears to be him. The existence of father and son both called Tanetoki is strange. This must be a copying error in the documents I have seen. This should be》
《Note: inquired about with that family. Considering this, what was transmitted in Toshitane's house covers ten generations from Masakado to Morotsune. What is transmitted in Sadatane's house appears to be eleven generations}}

【Left Page】
{{Note: From Masakado's execution to Morotsune's time far exceeds two hundred years. To say there were only seven generations in this time is doubtful. Also, Toshitane's genealogy records that the period from Morotsune's}}
{{Note: son Yoshitane to later Tanetuna is uncertain. Sadatane's genealogy records thirty-eight generations from Emperor Kammu. If so, this}}
{{Note: genealogy appears detailed. Should we follow Sadatane's house's account for matters before Morotsune? However, looking at the New Compilation, Chiba Shirō-dayū Tsunenaga's eldest son was Sōma Gorō}}
{{Note: Tsuneharu. This was none other than Chiba-no-suke Tsunetane's uncle. If this is true, then since the Chiba house used the Sōma name before Morotsune, Toshitane's house's account may also have}}
{{Note: basis}}His son Kotarō Yoshitane's descendant Tanetuna came to rule Namekata district of Mutsu Province as well. By the time of Tanetuna's eighth-generation descendant Jibu-shōyū,
they had lost their original domain in Shimōsa district and ruled only Namekata district.
{{Note: Considering this, it is doubtful that from Tanetuna to Shigetane they ruled both Sōma and Namekata districts together. Also, Tanetuna's son Gorō Zaemon Tanemura was a person of the Einin period. Also, Tanemura's fifth-generation descendant Dewa-}}
{{Note: no-kami Chikatane was a person of the Kannō period. If so, during this time there should have been someone who served under the provincial governor of Ōshū, Kitabatake Gen Chūnagon Akiie-kyō, and achieved military merit. To omit such}}
{{Note: matters from the genealogy is most regrettable}}His grandson Daizen-dayū Moritane subjugated half-districts each of Uta and Shineha