【Right Page】
With a force of 8,000 men, he followed Hideyoshi toward Mino Province. Hideyoshi's campaigns consistently suffered setbacks, and he made peace with Kitabatake-dono (Oda Nobukatsu). When dawn broke in the third month of Tenshō 13 (1585), Hideyoshi became naidaijin (Minister of the Interior) and was promoted to the senior second court rank. On the 16th day of the fourth month of the same year, Nagahide cut his own belly and died at the age of 51 (According to the diary of Tamonin, he cut his belly on the 14th day of the fourth month of this year and died on the 16th. The record also refers to him as Koreyasu Echizen-no-kami. Contemporary records write thus because he was appointed Echizen-no-kami at this time. It is also recorded that he died in Echizen). This was because he had long been afflicted with a disease called "shakushū" and his life was about to end. Whatever kind of disease it might be, it was truly an enemy that would take his life. How could he die in vain without defeating that enemy? So saying, he cut open his belly and pulled out his intestines to look, and a strange monster-like thing emerged. Its head was like a stone turtle,

【Left Page】
its beak was sharp like a hawk's, and marks where a sword had struck appeared on its back. Nagahide took up his brush himself and wrote down the details of the matter, writing "Please arrange my affairs well after I am gone," and presented the sword with which he had cut his belly along with the accumulated parasite to the Minister (Hideyoshi). Hideyoshi was greatly shocked and grieved, took up his brush himself, and solemnly pledged "There shall be no deviation in granting the hereditary domain to your son." When Nagahide opened and read this reply, he said "Now I have nothing left to regret" and died (The reason Nagahide committed suicide was that this naifu [Hideyoshi] was a person who had been elevated from being a retainer of the late Minister-dono [Oda Nobunaga] to become a daimyo, so how could there be any cause for unease regarding the late lord's descendants for seven generations? Nagahide's mistaken allegiance in the past was for the sake of Sanhōshi-dono [Oda Hidenobu], but his participation in destroying Sanshichi-dono [Oda Nobutaka] was