【Right Page】
(That was indeed reasonable. Before long, he came to think nothing of Sanhōshi-dono either, and furthermore attempted to destroy Kitabatake-dono as well, finally taking control of all affairs of the realm himself, which was cause for regret. However, now this person's plans cannot possibly succeed within our power. To continue living in this world and be pointed at by all people would be shameful, so he died. It is also said that claiming he committed suicide due to illness was announced this way out of consideration for his descendants' future prosperity.) Nagashige was fifteen years old this year when he saw off his father. Thus in this month, Hideyoshi ordered Nagashige's forces to be mobilized to attack Sassa of Etchū (at this time Kuranonosuke Narimasa, later Mutsu-no-kami) who had sided with Nobukatsu. There had still been no proclamation about what would happen to his father's hereditary domain. Narita Yahachirō, one of the Niwa family's principal retainers, gathered the clan's samurai and said: "Indeed, our late lord received such deep favor from Oda-dono. Yet he was deceived by that lawless man Hideyoshi, and that house's control of the realm was

【Left Page】
stolen away - this must have been the greatest disgrace of his life. Moreover, how could a person who causes the loss of the princes of his greatly benevolent lord in various places think of friendship with retainers and consider granting great domains to this young person? What is hard to obtain is the right moment; what is easily lost is momentum. Since our house will likely perish anyway, while our strength has not yet scattered and dissipated, when he enters Etchū, we should raise righteous forces for Oda-dono's sake, attack from both sides with Sassa, destroy him, and cleanse our former lord's shame - I think this would surpass any Buddhist memorial service or offering. What do you all think?" Since this was an extremely righteous cause, Nagashige wondered what should be done about this matter.