【Right Page】
came and secluded himself near Shibaura, taking the name Gorō Zaemon-no-jō, and was closely summoned by the Shogun's house to become a companion for conversations about past and present. (He was called one of the "conversation attendants." ○ That Nagashige escaped punishment was not due to Middle Counselor Toshinaga's pleading. Long ago, when the Great Minister of State was still in his youth, he had spoken intimately with Nagashige and had deeply sworn that whatever might happen, he would never forget this bond. Someone secretly reported this matter to the Great Lord [retired shogun], so without making an issue of it, he let the matter pass. The person who reported this to the Great Lord was either Doi Ōi-no-kami Toshikatsu or Honda Sado-no-kami Masanobu.) In the same 15th year, on the 27th day of the 7th month, he received the manor of Kowatari in Hitachi Province from the Shogun's house (10,000 koku). He served the Shogun's house in the battles before and after Osaka. In Genna 5, his domain was increased (adding 10,000 koku, he held 20,000 koku). In the same

【Left Page】
8th year, he was granted Tanakura Castle in Mutsu Province and his domain was increased (adding 30,000 koku for a total of 50,000 koku). On the 10th day of the 2nd month of Kan'ei 4, his domain was doubled and he moved to Shirakawa Castle in the same province (100,000 koku). In the same 9th year, when the Left Minister [Shogun] received the imperial decree of generalship, he was promoted to Sangi [Middle Counselor], and on the 4th day of the intercalary 3rd month of the 14th year, he died at the age of 67. His son, Chamberlain Mitsushige (who appears to have received a character from the Left Minister's personal name), was initially Sakyō-no-taifu of junior fifth rank lower. After inheriting his father's house, on the last day of the 12th month of Kan'ei 19, he was promoted to junior fourth rank lower, and in the same 20th year, moved to Nihonmatsu Castle in the same province (holding 30,000 koku in addition to 100,000 koku). On the 27th day of the intercalary 12th month of Manji 1, he was made Chamberlain, and on the 7th day of the 4th month of Enpō 7, he retired and became a monk, taking the name Gyokuhō. His heir, Wakasa-no-kami