【Right Page】
received orders and executed Okada Nagato-no-kami. (According to one record, when Takehisa was young, he was asked by Mino-no-kami-go Saitō Chūe Tatsunaga to cut down two sons of Saitō Yamashiro-no-kami on the same pillow, and when the Kitabatake retainer Okada was executed, Takehisa also displayed his martial valor. While it is natural that he struck down Okada, how likely is it that he killed Yamashiro-no-kami's sons for Tatsunaga? Tatsunaga's downfall occurred in the 8th month of Eiroku 7. At this time Takehisa was twelve years old - how could Tatsunaga rely on such a young child? Moreover, we have not heard of Tatsunaga killing his own brothers. There was an incident where Yamashiro-no-kami's heir Uhyōe-tayū Yoshitatsu killed his two brothers Kihēji and Magoshirō. These stories may have been transmitted in error. This matter does not appear in that family's genealogy or family records either. There are many such erroneous transmissions in the world)

In this year, Hideyoshi raised an army and fought Lord Kitabatake repeatedly. In the same winter, when Nobuo and Hideyoshi made peace, Takehisa served as an envoy to arrange the matter, and as a reward he was granted Inuyama Castle in Owari Province (45,000 koku). After Nobuo was exiled, he served the Kanpaku. After the Taikō passed away, in the autumn of Keichō 4, through the arrangements of Asano Danjō-shōhitsu Nagamasa

【Left Page】
it was reported that Takehisa, together with Ōno Shurisuke Harumasa, plotted to assassinate Lord Tokugawa. Though he should have been punished with any severe penalty, Lord Tokugawa showed clemency: Nagamasa was confined to his province, while Takehisa and Harumasa were exiled and placed under the custody of daimyo (Hijikata under the Satake, Ōno under Lord Yūki). In the autumn of the same 5th year, armies rose simultaneously in east and west. Lord Tokugawa summoned even Takehisa to the Aizu campaign and sent him as an envoy to Kaga Province. This was because Chūnagon Toshinaga was connected through marriage ties and was close to Takehisa (they were said to be second cousins). After the Battle of Sekigahara ended, Takehisa came with Toshinaga to the Ōtsu camp for an audience. It was heard that rewards should be given for Takehisa's service as envoy, but