【Right Side】
Oral testimony of four men from Mutsu Province who drifted to foreign countries

When we drifted and arrived in foreign countries, we were sent back by Russian ships in the 9th month of the previous Year of the Rat. We were ordered to perform the踏絵 (fumi-e, stepping on Christian images), and were investigated to give truthful accounts of the cargo goods from our home province's departure, the circumstances of our drifting arrival, and the details of our stay in that foreign country.

Regarding this matter, thirteen years ago in the 11th month of the Year of the Ox, we were hired by ship captain Heibei off Ishinomaki in Oshika District, Oshu Province, to transport timber for Matsudaira Masachiyo (400 pieces of miscellaneous small timber) and about 1,100 koku of rice for sale to Edo. We loaded these onto the 800-koku capacity ship Wakamiya-maru owned by Heinojo of Yonezawa-ya in Ishinomaki. The offshore captain was Heibei, the helmsman was Sadayu from Samukaze-zawa beach in Miyagi District of the same province, and the sailors were

【Left Side】
Ginzaburo and Tamino-suke from the same place, Tatsuzō from Ishihama in the same district, Seizō, Hatsusaburō, Zenroku, and Ichigoro from Ishinomaki, Shigeji, Heikichi, Rōji, and Han from Kotake-hama in the same district, Mimino-suke from Ishinomaki, and we four, totaling sixteen crew members. We loaded anchor ropes (7 bundles), barrel ropes (5 bundles), fiber ropes (3 bundles), and hemp ropes (2 bundles). The ship captain received travel documents from Sendai officials. On the 27th of the same month, we departed from Ishinomaki beach, moored for the tide at a place called Azuma-na in the same province, departed from there on the 29th, and sailed about 50 ri offshore. Then southwest winds began to blow, waves frequently crashed into the ship, and the waves became so rough that they swept over the oars. On the 1st of the 12th month, the rudder was broken by the wind and the ship became dangerous, so the crew members cut off their topknots, made vows to gods and buddhas, and worked with all their might, but no land could be seen at all.