【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
Table of Contents
【Outside frame, lower right】
Two
【Main text blank】

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Hōen Gikyō (Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror) - Five Minds Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One

【Upper Section】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror, Volume One

Composed by Monk Senju
Forest of Meanings on the Five Minds

The text states: "From the five minds of sudden (sōtsu-i) and others to the five continuing-stream minds" - regarding establishing the number of minds, the various schools differ. The Sthavira masters establish nine mind-wheels, beginning from the life-continuum mind (bhavaṅga) and ending with the re-entering mind. This is explained in detail in the Mahāyāna-saṃgraha Volume 2 and Kuo's commentary. The Sautrāntika master Harivarman establishes four types of mind: consciousness, feeling, perception, and mental formations. According to his teaching, feeling and others are all distinctions of mind that arise in succession. Apart from mind, there are no separate feelings that arise together with mind. Now, following the Mahāyāna, only five minds are established. In Sanskrit it is called "citta," which is translated as "mind." Mind has various meanings, or the meaning of "collecting and arising." The nature-categories are manifold, collecting and giving rise to all dharmas, hence it is called mind. Following what is supreme - the eighth consciousness - and speaking generally of all consciousnesses, in the arising-stages of this mind, there are only five types. Neither nine nor four, hence called "five minds." The initial "sudden" (sōtsu-i) means "abrupt." This initial mind abruptly falls into the object-sphere, hence called "sudden falling." "Seeking" means thoughtful investigation. "Searching" means inferential investigation. In the sphere where the initial mind has fallen, thoughtful and inferential investigation is called the "seeking mind." "Decision" means determination. "Settling" means confirmation. Regarding the sphere that the second mind has investigated, making determination and confirmation is called the "decisive mind." "Defiled" means contaminated, namely unwholesome nature and covered-indeterminate. "Pure" means clean, namely wholesome nature and uncovered-indeterminate. After the third mind has achieved determination regarding the object-sphere, at this stage the defiled-pure nature finally becomes established, called the "defiled-pure mind."

【Lower Section】
"Equal" means uniform. "Flow" means category-stream. Because defilement and purity have already been established in the fourth mind, being drawn by that, now in this stage, whether good or defiled, the category-streams are uniform, called the "equal-flow mind." Flowing equal to the previous, it is called "equal-flow mind." One should know that the word "mind" also includes mental factors, because they necessarily correspond. Now following the primary and superior, hence it is called only "mind." If mind-king is called "mind," this is a direct designation. If mental factors are called "mind," they take their name from the superior.

The text "In Yogācāra Volume 1, body-consciousness is also thus" - this is from that treatise. "Good-unwholesome transformation" clarifies that good and evil are accomplished only through dependence on the power of mental attraction. Although the sudden arising of the five consciousnesses gives rise to mentation, the equal-flow of the five consciousnesses accomplishes good and evil only through dependence on mental power, hence called "good-unwholesome transformation." Therefore the treatise says "the first six consciousnesses mutually give rise to each other." "Like the arising of eye-consciousness, etc." provides analogical explanation for ear-consciousness and others.

The text "Through the initial three minds... actually includes the latter two" - the initial three minds have the same indeterminate nature, hence called "same nature-category." This is explained provisionally regarding neutral objects in the pre-transformation stage. If they are intense objects, they pervade all three natures. However, in interpreting this passage, the chapter-master has two explanations. The first explanation is this present text. The second, according to the Yogācāra commentary, says: "Explaining the initial three minds" means that when various minds arise, they mostly give rise to three, hence the latter two minds are indefinite. Only three are mentioned, but the words actually include the latter two. Master Kuo says: The first three are indeterminate, hence the "three" is mentioned. But the defiled-pure mind also has indeterminate aspects, being the same as the previous nature, hence it is omitted from explanation. This explanation is somewhat problematic. If the defiled-pure mind also has indeterminate aspects and is included in the previous three without separate explanation, then the decisive mind also has the same nature as the previous ones and should not be explained separately.