【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
Twelve
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Five Minds Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
Twelve

【Upper Section】
associates are only provisional. "The five minds in the concentrated state are all only direct perception" means that departing from scattered discrimination, they function as testimonial practice, therefore they are only direct perception. Question: Defiled-pure minds are explained in treatises as having discrimination - how can they all be called non-discriminative? Answer: The treatises speak about scattered minds, explaining according to particular meanings. If following general meanings, what prevents them from also being encompassed by direct perception?

The text "If in scattered states... reaching non-worldly object understanding" - "pervading inference and non-valid [cognition], etc." - this text is general. If speaking specifically, among the five, the first three - if matured mind and the three neutrals constitute the three minds, they are all inference because there is no inverted grasping. If minds conjoined with matured dharma-grasping constitute the three minds, this is encompassed by non-valid cognition because there is inversion. The two kinds of two minds all objectify the three times, arising through discrimination, not called direct perception. Within defiled-pure minds, the defiled aspect is only non-valid, the pure aspect is only inference. If neutral, they pervade inference and non-valid cognition. Master Hong says: The first three minds of independently scattered mentation, following whatever neutral [state], all objectify the past. Now this is not so. The textual meaning about objectifying worldly and non-worldly [objects] is rather obscure. Students should contemplate this.

The text "Yogācāra treatise explains... because mostly objectifying" - this reconciles contradictions. Question: If the five minds of independent arising universally objectify objects of the three times and non-worldly [realm], why does Yogācāra Volume 3 say "When mentation is spontaneously scattered, objectifying unfamiliar objects, there is no arising of desire, etc. At that time mentation is called sudden arising, only objectifying past objects"? Answer: In explaining this Yogācāra text, there are three Western explanations. First: sudden arising of independent arising, if in scattered states, only objectifies the past, because the treatise explains "only objectifying past objects." Second:

【Lower Section】
sudden arising of independent arising universally objectifies objects of the three times and non-worldly [realm]. "Only objectifying the past" belongs to the following sentence. Third: sudden arising of independent arising only objectifies the past - this meaning is the same as the first master, but explaining the treatise text differs slightly from the first. Details are as in Master Kuo's Compendium Treatise Commentary. The Compilation says: The present chapter master's explanatory principles are also difficult to understand. Since it speaks about post-five mentation, how is it called sudden arising? Also, post-five mentation is separately explained in the following text. If both texts concern post-five mentation, how is the former called sudden arising and the latter called seeking-decision? The former explanation only objectifies the past, the latter explanation only objectifies the present, etc. Now rescuing this, it says: The seeking and other minds of post-five mentation-consciousness, regarding objects already objectified previously, though not arising sudden arising, when new objects arrive, also have arising sudden arising. This sudden arising mind also objectifies the past because post-five mentation-consciousness has discrimination. This does not mean objectifying previous past objects and again arising sudden arising, therefore there is no contradiction. Question: If so, why does Yogācāra say "The mentation arising immediately after the five consciousnesses, either seeking or decision, only objectifies present [objects], etc."? Answer: Speaking about moments, it actually objectifies the past. Now speaking about present within one operation, therefore it explains objectifying the present, just as one lifetime is called present.

The text "Mentation conjoined with the five... because of clear apprehension" - this is the master [who holds] the three valid cognitions do not occur simultaneously. Contradictory functions regarding one object-matter cannot arise simultaneously, therefore they do not occur together. "Because of testimonial understanding" means the Logic Gate Treatise says "In the mental ground there is also departing from various discriminations, functioning only as testimonial practice." This clarifies that mentation simultaneously objectifying is also direct perception.

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
Thirteen
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Five Minds Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
Thirteen

【Upper Section】
"Five-conjoined [mentation] objectifying the eighteen realms, etc." contradicts Consciousness-Only saying "the five sense-faculties are obtained through inference." Excluding Buddha, concentrated minds, and eighth [consciousness] objects, the remainder are all obtained through inference. "Following the five present dusts, etc." means the objects of the five consciousnesses - the five dusts of the present.

The text "According to one interpretation, indefinite... reaching non-worldly objects" - this second interpretation belongs to the master [who holds] the three valid cognitions occur simultaneously. "Natures are not the same, etc." means among the five minds, if in the sudden arising stage, some have different natures, like hearing sounds in concentration, etc.; some have the same nature, like other scattered sudden arising, etc. If in the two stages of seeking, etc., they have the same neutral nature. The fourth and fifth stages both pervade the three natures. Now generally revealing this, therefore it says "natures are still not the same." Question: If defiled-pure minds become wholesome-unwholesome through self-discrimination, seeking-decision are also discriminative and should become wholesome-unwholesome. Answer: Though having discrimination, not yet decided regarding objects, they cannot perform beneficial-harmful actions. Therefore seeking mind is not called wholesome-unwholesome. It is not that upon first deciding one can immediately benefit-harm, therefore decision mind is not called wholesome-unwholesome. After deciding, through self-discrimination, able to perform benefit-harm, then called defiled-pure.

"Firmly grasping and inferring, etc." means inferential non-valid cognition. Casually objectifying a jar is also non-valid cognition, not necessarily firm grasping. Now speaking about the majority, in contrast to inferential meaning, it is merely called firm grasping.

The text "If objectifying one object... objectifying past objects" - saying "one-five" means among the five consciousnesses, appropriately taking one moment as a general name, therefore saying "one-five." Like calling one person by the name "six group monks" because they are of the same type. "Not conjoined with the five, etc." means post-five mentation objectifying momentary past, pervading inference and

【Lower Section】
non-valid cognition. This means arising mentation-consciousness in the stages of seeking, etc.

The text "Yogācāra treatise says... because arising from those objects" - this reconciles contradictions. Question: If sudden arising post-five and seeking, etc. mentation objectify the past, why does Yogācāra say "The seeking and decision of mentation-consciousness arising immediately after the five consciousnesses should only be explained as objectifying present objects, etc."? Therefore now reconciling it says "this calls [something] present when the matter is completed." Also, these two minds of seeking and decision arise from objectifying those past objects of the five consciousnesses' moments. However, the Compilation questions this reconciliation saying: If so, the three minds have meanings encompassing two paths. If speaking about moments, called objectifying the past; if speaking about completed matters, called objectifying the present. Since the meaning is indefinite, how can it say "only"? Now rescuing this, it says: The treatise saying "only objectifying the present" - "only" has three meanings. Now taking simple retention to explain "only objectifying." What is this meaning? If speaking about moments, called "only objectifying the past," this distinguishes continuous time. If speaking about completed matters, called "only objectifying the present," this distinguishes other present [moments]. Following matters there is distinction, therefore no hindrance.

The text "Defiled-pure are also thus... therefore the treatise explains partially" - "defiled-pure are also thus" means like those post-five seeking-decision, post-five mentation-consciousness defiled-pure are also thus. If speaking about moments, called objectifying the past; if speaking about completed matters, called objectifying the present. Therefore it says "defiled-pure are also thus." If so, why does the treatise explain the three minds but not explain defiled-pure? The first three have the same nature, therefore the treatise explains partially.

The text "Twelfth question... because not complete" - "revealing the answer's intent" means revealing that the stages of mind's arising are extremely