【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
Fourteen
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Five Minds Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
Fourteen

【Upper Section】
Having extremely many five [minds] is to prevent boundaries outside the mind. Having extremely few, namely one, means the three realms are mind-only, namely the fundamental consciousness. Speaking about the fundamental essence, it is only one; speaking about temporal divisions, it is only five, therefore there is no increase or decrease. The Compilation says: The Sthavira masters establishing nine is excessive increase, thus having other faults. Harivarman establishing four is excessive decrease, thus having the fault of insufficiency. To prevent the faults of increase and decrease of other schools, they establish only five minds - neither increasing nor decreasing.

The text "Question about these five minds... also pervading the uncontaminated" - "Some explain seeking and examination, etc." - Among [the view that] seeking and examination pervade the uncontaminated, there are two masters' explanations. First: seeking and examination, among the five dharmas, are only encompassed by discrimination and are only contaminated, because Volume 5 of the Great Treatise says "All seeking and examination are discrimination; there is discrimination that is not seeking and examination." The second master says: Because Abhidharma Volume 10 and Daśabhūmi Treatise Volume 1, etc. explain "correct contemplation is the cause of verbal expression," we know seeking pervades the uncontaminated. If seeking is thus, examination is also thus. Now saying "explained as not pervading the uncontaminated" corresponds to the first master's position. As Commentary Volume 7, Master Zhuang says, the five minds are only contaminated. That is, uncontaminated states are uniformly wholesome, having no principle of the three natures' transformation, therefore not explaining five minds. Now this is not so, therefore all five pervade [the uncontaminated]. The Yogācāra commentator, Bodhisattva Jiashengzi, says: Like the minds of Buddhas and bodhisattvas' supernatural powers, etc. arising spontaneously, sudden-arising mind objectifies objects of the three times; seeking-decision, etc. objectify previous similar objects, etc. From this we clearly know the five minds all pervade the uncontaminated.

The text "Question about pervading the three realms... according to appropriateness they can be conjoined" - "The various minds of the three realms distinguish consciousness-types" means

【Lower Section】
"according to appropriateness they can be conjoined" means: eye, ear, and body consciousness are in two realms and two grounds; nose and tongue consciousness are in one realm and one ground; the three consciousnesses of six, seven, and eight pervade the three realms and nine grounds. The various minds they possess can be conjoined according to appropriateness.

The text "Question: Why the summit... because of consciousness-only characteristics" - The answer's intent is: to understand the two emptinesses, these five minds are explained. "To make one understand the temporal divisions of mind" means revealing entry into personal emptiness. "Entering dharma-selflessness, etc." means revealing entry into dharma emptiness. What does this mean? To make one understand that the successive differences in the temporal divisions of mind's arising are not permanent and unified, therefore quickly entering the nature of pudgala-selflessness. Also wanting to make known that the objectified realms of successive minds all do not depart from mind, appearing only as aggregations upon mind, therefore quickly entering the nature of all dharmas' selflessness and consciousness-only.

The text "Question about explaining these five... like the five minds being just complete" - "Hearing one character completing the five minds, etc." means: According to Tang vernacular, when explaining the character "Buddha," the name-phrase is already complete and mental understanding is fully perfected. Therefore, though one character, it is explained as completing the five minds. The character "Dharma" is also thus. The remainder can be known by analogy.

The text "If explaining principle and phenomena... explaining completing the five minds" - "According to the many or few of the explained characters, etc." means: As previously explained, from the one character "Buddha" to the five characters "all dharmas," etc. - this constitutes many and few. The Compilation says: If when name-phrases are complete and mental understanding is perfect, the five minds are completed, then merely hearing half-names or half-phrases when mental understanding is not perfect - if at this time the five minds are not completed, what mind arises? The Compilation also decides for itself, saying: The five minds merely explain the temporal divisions of mind's arising; there is no need to labor over distinguishing their completion or deficiency. Therefore, if mind does not arise, that's that, but if it arises, it necessarily goes through all five stages, except when arising through forceful conditions' interference. Now rescuing this, it says: "Perfect" means

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
Fifteen
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Various Vehicles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
Fifteen

【Upper Section】
ultimate meaning. When understanding arises and reaches completion, it is called perfect. If when hearing half-names, etc., the name-phrase is not yet complete, how can the five minds be completed? When one matter reaches completion and mental understanding is perfect, then the five minds are completed. Therefore, during half-names, though mind arises following objects, it does not necessarily complete the five. Therefore distinguishing completion and deficiency is truly appropriate to deep principle.

The text "According to all such time... deeply most appropriate" - During the completion of one matter, it experiences many moments, therefore saying "all such time." "Following that mentation-consciousness, encompassed by those mental factors" - this text proves the seeking of the five consciousnesses is positional seeking, not substantial seeking. This can be known from the concluding text. "Appropriate" means reliable.

【Lower Section】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror, Volume One, Part Four

Written by Śramaṇa Shanzhu

Various Vehicles Compendium

Two: Merely according to explanations of śrāvakas, etc., because what is aimed at differs, there are contradictions.

The text "Moreover, from this assembly... obtaining prophecy and designation" - This generally uses distinct meanings to reveal the intent of explaining one vehicle. Vasubandhu's explanation says: There is another distinct meaning - among that assembly there are bodhisattvas with the same names as them who receive Buddha's prophecy. Through this intent of dharma-nature equality, therefore explaining one vehicle. Question: Among the two intentions, there are already three distinctions of Buddha, two vehicles, and bodhisattvas. Why is it not three intentions but only called obtaining two intentions? Answer: Master Zhou says: Self and other make two. Because two vehicles and bodhisattvas have equal meaning as "other." Now comparing self and other, it can be called two intentions. In principle, it could be called three.

The text "Nine transformative teachings thus... manifesting parinirvāṇa" - This clarifies the seventh expedient transformation intent. Vasubandhu and Asvabhāva generally say: To transform śrāvakas, etc., they manifest parinirvāṇa like them. Among the transformed śrāvakas, they do not distinguish between determinate and indeterminate [natures]. Mahāyāna-sūtrālaṃkāra and the old Compendium treatise concern only indeterminate-nature śrāvakas, causing them to abandon the lesser and enter the great vehicle. The Compilation says: The chapter master making no distinctions, saying all are "to draw those of indeterminate seed-nature to enter the great vehicle" is incorrect.