【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
Twenty-eight
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Various Vehicles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
Twenty-eight

【Upper Section】
The wheel of relying on good friends treats the difficulty of before and after Buddha, the wheel of personally generating correct vows treats the difficulty of worldly intelligence and eloquence, and the wheel of previously planting good roots treats the difficulty of incomplete faculties. Details are as in other places.

Question: "Vehicles are conveyance... not establishing Buddha vehicle" - The *Profound Commentary* states: "Causal practices can convey themselves to fruition, so they can be called vehicles. Buddha's fruition ceases self-conveyance, so it should not be the substance of vehicles." This [text] is the same as that.

Answer: "Both self and others... does not hinder establishing Buddha vehicle" - The first principle in the *Profound Commentary's* doctrinal establishment answers this: "Being called vehicle due to conveying and carrying. In the cause stage it penetrates conveyance, and upon reaching fruition it broadly conveys others. Due to this it is also called vehicle." This corresponds to that first principle. The other four principles have somewhat different intentions. One can know by investigating.

Question: "Why in some places... called independent awakening vehicle" - The meaning of this question is: why in some places is Buddha vehicle separately explained and also separately called bodhisattva vehicle? Among the two vehicles, why is it only called śrāvaka vehicle and not separately establishing the name independent awakening vehicle? Now based on the majority, tentatively following this question.

Answer: "With fruit characteristics... does not contradict" - The meaning of the answer is: using fruit in relation to cause, since awakening fruition alone is supreme, only Buddha vehicle is explained. Using cause in relation to fruit, the two conveyances are particularly supreme. To manifest broad conveyance, bodhisattva vehicle is explained. If so, since the two names are already complete, why need to separately explain the other two names? Therefore it explains: "Because practices etc. are broad, it is called Great Vehicle." As the sutra says: "Having compassion and bringing peace and happiness to immeasurable beings, benefiting humans and gods, liberating all, therefore called Great Vehicle." Because it blocks the other two, it is also called One Vehicle. The treatise explains this blocking saying: "There being no two vehicles means there is no substance of two nirvanas."

【Lower Section】
It manifests the actual two conveyances and blocks the expedient two fruits. Due to these two meanings, the other two names are explained. However, in the name "one vehicle," "one" has three meanings. First, it is called "one" due to distinguishing. In the past three was explained, now one is explained. It is not that three is separately distinguished; it is only that there are no two extremes. Second, it is called "one" due to breaking distinctions. Because it breaks their emotional clinging that there are two extreme fruits, it is explained as one. Third, it is called "one" due to gathering distinctions. It gathers that gradual awakeners' previously cultivated and attained teaching, principle, practice, and fruition in the two vehicles [were] great expedients. Now saying "blocking the other two" means distinguishing, therefore calling it one - naming it one is correct.

Question: "Since using fruit... should naturally be broadly explained" - The question's meaning is: since using fruit in relation to cause is called Buddha vehicle, it should also use fruit in relation to cause to be called Buddha repository. Why only call it bodhisattva repository and not call it Buddha repository? Also, in small vehicle, śrāvaka is cause and independent awakener is fruit - it should also use fruit in relation to call it independent awakener repository. If permitting this, both śrāvaka and independent awakener can obtain repository names. Saying "as in the Repository Chapter it should naturally be broadly explained" means in the various Repository chapters, answering with three principles, the second principle says: "In small vehicle, śrāvaka is cause and independent awakener is fruit. Taking the name from the lesser, it is not called independent awakener repository. In Great Vehicle, bodhisattva is cause and Tathāgata is fruit. Taking the designation from the lesser, it is not called Tathāgata repository." This present question corresponds to that meaning. One can know by investigating.

Question: "Teaching, principle, practice... are they the same or different" - The question's meaning is: when teaching, principle, practice, and fruition are the substance of one vehicle, in relation to the various vehicles, are they the same or different?

Answer: "One rain universally... no need to labor over fixed standards" - "Teaching same, faculties different, etc." means the three vehicles' taking of teaching

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
Twenty-nine
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Various Vehicles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
Twenty-nine

【Upper Section】
has differences of partial and universal, therefore called "teaching same, faculties different." The three vehicles' realization of principle has differences of complete and incomplete, therefore called "principle same, realization different." The three vehicles' cultivation of practice has differences of partial and complete, therefore called "practice same, cultivation different." The three vehicles' attainment of fruition has differences of initial and final, therefore called "fruition same, explanation different."

"The *Śrīmālā* gathers causes... the fruition of three carts" - "*Śrīmālā* gathers causes and gathers fruits, etc." means as that sutra says: "The six sense bases are correctly explained for Great Vehicle" - this is gathering causes. "The four cognitions of two vehicles are not for ultimate completion, called 'directed toward the nirvana realm'" - this is gathering fruits. *Śrīmālā* correctly explains one vehicle causes and fruits, therefore manifestly it gathers practice and fruition, secretly it gathers teaching and principle. *Lotus* correctly manifests past expedients and present reality, therefore manifestly it gathers teaching and principle to make them cultivation and realization, secretly gathering practice and fruition. Due to this, one vehicle based on reality universally gathers teaching, principle, practice, and fruition.

"Manifestly only teaching and practice... explained as same and different" - "Manifestly only teaching, practice, and fruition; secretly actually having four" - The *Profound Commentary* says: "However, in the *Lotus* it manifestly gathers teaching and principle, secretly gathering practice and fruition. One rain universally moistening gathers teaching. The ox cart and treasure location gather principle." Now in this chapter it says "manifestly only teaching, practice, and fruition." How does this contradict? Explaining: Within gathering principle it universally includes practice and fruition. That is, taking what is explained and calling it principle - not necessarily suchness. This treasure cart directly reaching the place of awakening is gathering practice. Setting up a conjured city in the middle and reaching the treasure location is gathering fruition. The principle that is explained

【Lower Section】
already penetrates practice and fruition, therefore saying "secretly actually having four." "Like the *Nirvana Sutra* explaining as same and different" - *Nirvana* gathers principle, practice, and fruition, therefore that sutra's thirty-second [fascicle] says: "All sentient beings equally have Buddha nature, all the same one vehicle, same one liberation, one cause one fruition, same one sweet dew, all shall attain permanence, bliss, self, and purity - this is called one taste." Explaining: "Equally having Buddha nature" is gathering principle. "One cause one fruition" is gathering practice and fruition. Manifestly only principle, practice, and fruition; secretly actually having four. When interpreting the meaning according to the text, *Nirvana's* one vehicle also has sameness and difference. Therefore it says "like the *Nirvana Sutra* explaining as same and different."

Copied in the fourth year of Eikyū, recopied in the second year of Tenji.