【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
Forty-four
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Two Truths Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
Forty-four

【Upper Section】
The three natures are precisely consciousness-only. Because apart from the three natures, there is no separate consciousness-only. The *Treatise* Volume 9 says: "Namely, consciousness-only nature has briefly two types: First, false, namely parikalpita (imagined nature). Second, real, namely pariniṣpanna (perfected nature). Again there are two types: First, conventional, namely paratantra (other-dependent nature). Second, ultimate, namely pariniṣpanna." Therefore know that the three natures are all called "consciousness-only." Conditioning this as object, etc.: All knowables have altogether three types. First, incomparable objects - these are the two truths and three natures, etc. The two truths are the common objects of the three vehicles. The principles of three natures, etc. are only bodhisattva objects. Second, incomparable practices - the explained śamatha-vipaśyanā and ten perfections, etc. Śamatha-vipaśyanā are the common practices of three vehicles. The practices of ten perfections, etc. are only bodhisattva practices. Third, incomparable fruits - these are wisdom-abandonment and three-body fruits. Wisdom-abandonment are the common fruits of three vehicles. Three bodies are only what bodhisattvas attain. Now saying "three natures, etc." refers to the first incomparable objects among the three incomparables. Therefore saying "conditioning this as object."

Regarding "First mundane... up to one true dharma-realm": Namely two emptinesses' suchness, etc. - If only saying "emptiness," then the two grasps are absent. If saying "emptiness-nature," using emptiness as gate, the emptiness-nature that is revealed is precisely tathatā. In Sanskrit, "śūnya" is just called emptiness. Saying "śūnyatā," therefore explains tathatā and calls it "emptiness-nature." Because translating "tā" this way has the meaning of nature. The fourth ultimate-ultimate truth means the non-established two emptinesses, selflessness, one true dharma-realm. Question: Two emptinesses and selflessness both aim at the established. Why also say "non-established two emptinesses selflessness"? Explanation: Raising expressions to grasp meaning. Therefore marking this. In principle, one should only say "non-established, abandoning expressions, discussing meaning, one true dharma-realm."

Regarding "What is awakened to and clung to... up to not being two-vehicle objects": This passage precisely reveals how bodhisattvas' two truths differ from the two

【Lower Section】
vehicles. What is awakened to and clung to, etc.: Bodhisattvas' awakening is precisely two emptinesses wisdom; what is clung to is precisely two clinging. Though dharma clinging is common, because it doesn't obstruct the two vehicles, it differs from them. The two vehicles' awakening is precisely personal emptiness wisdom; what is clung to is precisely two clinging. This is precisely delusion-awakening in opposition to reveal differences. Saying "what is realized and what is abandoned": Bodhisattvas' realization is precisely two emptinesses principle; what is abandoned is precisely two clinging and two obstructions. The two vehicles' realization is precisely personal emptiness principle; what is abandoned is personal clinging and affliction obstructions. This is precisely abandonment-realization in opposition to reveal differences. Saying "broad-narrow are also different": broad refers to bodhisattvas, narrow refers to two vehicles. When many treatises explain the second and third conventional, three categories and four truths as essential nature, this is explained based on the common objects of three vehicles. Because bodhisattvas also know two-vehicle objects. Other passages can be understood.

Regarding "Among two four-truths... because of inner realization": "Among two four-truths" means within bodhisattvas' two truths, conventional four and ultimate four are called "two four-truths." The intention of this passage is to explain the differences between established and non-established by comparing ultimate and conventional. Therefore, if distinguishing according to emptiness and existence: conventional four levels include both emptiness and existence. Ultimate four levels are only existence, not emptiness. Emptiness means non-existence. Parikalpita is only false clinging to having essence, but actually empty and non-existent. Therefore not ultimate. This is based on Dharmapāla's reasonable perfect-real school. If following Bhāvaviveka's ultimate-all-empty school, all dharmas can exist conventionally but are all empty ultimately. Therefore the four-level differences are not explained.

Regarding "Speaking of shallow-deep... penetrating two four-truths": Inferior principles are called "conventional truth," superior principles are called "ultimate truth." Therefore shallow-deep differ. Depending on persons, depending on dharmas, principles' shallow-deep, cognition-objects'

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
Forty-five
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Two Truths Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
Forty-five

【Upper Section】
coarse-subtle sequential differences exist. Therefore the two truths each have four levels. Question: Saying person-dharma each have two truths, do we not yet know that person two-truths and dharma two-truths each have four levels? Explanation: In this passage, regarding dharma two-truths, four-level differences are clarified. However, within person two-truths, ordinary-noble are contrasted to clarify two-pair differences, not explaining four levels. In principle they could exist, but the text is simply abbreviated.

Regarding "Depending on persons' shallow-deep... up to ultimate truth": These are all sūtra passages, namely from text thirteen. This contrasts ordinary-noble regarding coarse-subtle wisdom to explain person two-truths. "What transcendent persons know is called ultimate truth; what worldly people know is called conventional truth" - this is later text. "Conventional truth is precisely ultimate truth; having skillful means, according with sentient beings, explaining there are two truths" - this is earlier text. Now to establish meaning, conveniently quoting. Therefore not violating what sages gather and produce. "According with sentient beings, explaining there are two truths" generally clarifies the intention of explaining two truths. For sentient beings' realization and understanding, establishing names and characteristics provisionally, according with sentient beings, explaining there are two truths. "Like five aggregates combining, called so-and-so, etc." specifically reveals two truths' differential characteristics. If following sūtra text, there are eight "furthermore"s. This is also the first explaining differential characteristics regarding persons' differences. Like one illusion appearance - the magician knows it's non-existent, this metaphors seeing truth; ordinary people cling to reality, this metaphors seeing conventional. Therefore depending on persons, there is shallow-deep.

Regarding "Depending on dharmas' shallow-deep... should be extensively revealed": Tradition says persons' shallow-deep corresponds to previous delusion-awakening two truths; dharmas' shallow-deep corresponds to previously explained dharma-essence two truths. This explanation is difficult to understand. In the previous

【Lower Section】
explanations, which two truths are indicated when explaining delusion-awakening, etc.? If from seven sets, first is delusion-awakening two truths, latter six are dharma-essence two truths, in the above explanations, what is indicated for establishing correspondence?

Present explanation: Persons-dharmas' shallow-deep means principles' shallow-deep. Using cognition-objects' coarse-subtle to distinguish two differences. Principles' shallow-deep both penetrate persons and dharmas. Cognition-objects' coarse-subtle each have their unity. The reason for this: Generally discussing two truths penetrates both persons and dharmas. Based on cognition-objects' coarse-subtle, person two-truths are explained; regarding objects' coarse-subtle, dharma two-truths are explained. Extensive explanation of this meaning is like the *Immaculate Commentary*. "Should be extensively revealed in teaching inclusion below" means among seven sets, the first set repeatedly explains person two-truths; the latter six sets establish relative correspondence based on dharmas' superior-inferior. Now saying "dharmas' shallow-deep" is based on the latter six sets. Therefore indicating that text.

Regarding "Like five aggregate dharmas... because revealing tathatā": Below, the chapter master clarifies dharma two-truths regarding objects' coarse-subtle. Within this are two parts: first clarifying conventional four, then clarifying ultimate four. This is the first. Precisely on one dharma, there are complete ultimate-conventional differences. In Bhāvaviveka's one-dharma time, existence meaning is conventional, non-existence meaning is ultimate. Now temporarily raising five aggregates to know myriad dharmas are also thus. Question: Comparing three categories, four truths, etc., and explaining dharmas' shallow-deep - that meaning is reasonable. On one five-aggregates, there are no further coarse-subtle. How now say "On one dharma, there are complete ultimate-conventional"? Explanation: Though five aggregates' essence doesn't include coarse-subtle, four meanings are distinct with each having differences. Namely: names, things, principles, expressions as conventional four meanings; things, principles, expressions, meaning as ultimate four meanings. This is not without coarse-subtle shallow-deep.