【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
Sixty-two
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Two Truths Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
Sixty-two

【Upper Section】
This refers to clothing collar. The phonetic reading is also the character "jin" (襟). "Eryi" (而已) means "only." Du Yu says that "er" (而) is an auxiliary particle.
"Yun" (允) is pronounced hou min fan. It means to trust, to accomplish.

Regarding "How can one know... not called ultimate truth": The meaning of this question is: How can one know? Using the two-emptiness suchness revealed through designational gates such as "can be burned and cut," etc., when compared to the one-reality suchness that has "no burning and cutting," etc., namely the one-reality suchness is included in ultimate-ultimate meaning. "What is called ultimate truth is named true dharma," etc. means: Generally using seven meanings to explain the meaning of ultimate truth. First, true reality; second, non-inverted; third, non-false; fourth, called Mahāyāna; fifth, spoken by Buddha; sixth, one path of purity; seventh, having permanence, bliss, self, and eternity. Because of these meanings, it is called ultimate truth. This explains the first meaning.

"Good son, reality... because it is most excellent": This explains the latter six meanings. They can be known in sequence. Making the suchness without burning and cutting into truth refers to one-reality suchness. Truth means reality. Because it is only the inner realization of sages, it is called ultimate meaning.

"Mañjuśrī... having no distinctions": This is Mañjuśrī's challenge. Among the previous seven meanings, he challenges each condition in sequence. In this text, he first raises one challenge. The challenge states: If reality is taken as ultimate truth, then reality being Tathāgata, emptiness, and Buddha-nature - if these three are equally called ultimate truth, then these three dharmas would have no distinctions. This should be understood below.

"Buddha told Mañjuśrī... not truth, this is reality": This is the general answer. Among the Four Noble Truths, each has three levels. "Having suffering" refers to the phenomena of the Truth of Suffering. "Having truth" refers to the principle of suffering. "Having reality" refers to

【Lower Section】
the suchness as the nature of the Truth of Suffering. The remaining three truths should be understood analogously.

"Mañjuśrī... also like this": This involves repetition and explanation. Namely, explaining the meaning of the Four Noble Truths in sequence. In this text, suffering is first mentioned while the other three truths are abbreviated. "What is called suffering" is repetition. "Being the characteristic of impermanence" is explanation. Because of impermanence, there is suffering. "This is the characteristic of what can be eliminated" means: contaminated phenomena can be eliminated. Because the causal collections are eliminated, the fruits of suffering are eliminated accordingly. This is provisional characteristic within the conventional. Know it like conventional objects. This is called ultimate truth. "Tathāgata's nature" means: This ultimate truth, being Tathāgata's truth, is called Tathāgata-nature. This nature has no characteristic of oppression, therefore it is not suffering. Having no characteristic of transmigration, therefore it is not impermanent. Having no characteristic of eliminability, therefore it is not eliminable characteristics. Where characteristics are eliminated. This is called ultimate truth. "Emptiness and Buddha-nature are also like this" means this can be known by analogy. Because they are free from the three characteristics.

"This sūtra text's meaning... only included in reality": "Calling what is in bondage Buddha-nature," etc. means: One-reality suchness has three names according to position. First, what is in bondage is called Buddha-nature; second, what is in the fruit is called Tathāgata, also called Dharma-body; third, what pervades both positions is called emptiness. This is spoken from what reveals, not from essence-emptiness. Question: Is emptiness the same [as wisdom]? Is wisdom the same as "wisdom being emptiness"? Is emptiness different from wisdom? Explanation: Emptiness is the object of wisdom. The essence of emptiness is not wisdom. When wisdom knows that emptiness, it reveals this suchness. Now this sūtra's meaning, based on abandoning designations and discussing the essential meaning of one true dharma-realm, establishes these three names. Question: These three names are all designational gates. What is revealed depending on designation is the third ultimate. How can it now be said that Tathāgata, emptiness, and Buddha-nature are all the fourth ultimate? Explanation: Raising designation to grasp the essential meaning. If designation is not raised, how can wisdom arise? Now conversely discussing the essential meaning, therefore it is the fourth ultimate. This meaning should be contemplated. Question: Suffering, origin, cessation, path are the phenomena of the Four Noble Truths. Then, excluding cessation, the remaining three, being conditioned, can be called phenomena. Cessation-truth is unconditioned. How can it be called phenomenon? Explanation: Buddha's explanation of cessation-truth as being like a garden, like a forest, like the other shore, etc. - this is called the phenomenon of cessation. As explained in Abhidharmamahāvibhāṣā fascicle 77. "Truth being four principles" refers to the principles of cause and effect. "Four suchnesses" refers to the suchness of four natures.

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
Sixty-three
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】  
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Two Truths Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
Sixty-three

【Upper Section】
If designation is not raised, how can wisdom arise? Now conversely discussing the essential meaning, therefore it is the fourth ultimate. This meaning should be contemplated. Question: Suffering, origin, cessation, path are the phenomena of the Four Noble Truths. Then, excluding cessation, the remaining three, being conditioned, can be said to be called phenomena. Cessation-truth is unconditioned. How can it be called phenomenon? Explanation: Buddha's explanation of cessation-truth as being like a garden, like a forest, like the other shore, etc. - this is called the phenomenon of cessation. As explained in Abhidharmamahāvibhāṣā fascicle 77. "Truth being four principles" refers to the principles of cause and effect. "Four suchnesses" refers to the suchness of four natures.

"Also as previously... also having distinctions": The general meaning of this text is that the Four Noble Truths are established gates, while one reality is precisely non-established. Therefore Nirvāṇa explains "neither suffering nor truth," being only included in reality. To prove this meaning, various texts are now cited to explain the meaning of non-establishment. Yogācārabhūmi fascicle 64 and Yogācārabhūmi-śāstra fascicle 6 state: "Non-established reality" refers to the suchness true nature of all dharmas. Among the ultimate, the first three are the same as the latter three of conventional. Therefore they are not explained. Also, regarding the difference between distinction and non-distinction, it explains "ultimate being only one." Speaking truthfully, ultimate can also be four. In Vijñāpti-mātra-śāstra fascicle 9, the four ultimates are completely present. Showing superiority over conventional and also having distinctions. Therefore ultimate is also four. Extensively as explained there.

"Śrīmālā one truth... meaning refers to noble path": Śrīmālā-sūtra's intention is that among the Four Noble Truths, three are impermanent, one is permanent. Namely, based on the fourth ultimate, it explains the meaning of cessation-truth. Therefore that sūtra's One Truth chapter states: Cessation-truth is free from conditioned characteristics. What is free from conditioned characteristics is permanent. What is permanent is not false dharma. What is not false is truth. This permanent, this reliable. Therefore cessation-truth is ultimate meaning. Renwang's "two truths each included in their own names" means: If conventional, then included in worldly truth. If ultimate, then included in ultimate

【Lower Section】
meaning truth. "First, provisional conventional," etc. refers to Madhyāntavibhāga-śāstra fascicle 2 explaining that conventional and ultimate each have three types. Namely, among the three natures, the imagined nature originally has no essence and only has provisional names, called provisional conventional. Dependent nature, when the meaning of transmigration is superior, is called activity conventional. The third conventional, being what is clarified by the second conventional, is also called conventional, though its essence is also not real. "Meaning ultimate" means: the uncontaminated contemplative mind is called superior wisdom. Suchness being its object is called ultimate meaning. Meaning being the object, to distinguish from the latter two ultimate meanings, it is called meaning ultimate. Now saying "meaning" refers to benefit, being able to accord and benefit. This nirvāṇa's essence being superior fruit, it is established with the name superior. Also, being beneficial, it is also called meaning. "Activity ultimate" means: wisdom being conditioned, therefore called activity. Taking superior dharma as meaning, it is called ultimate meaning. Extensively as explained in that treatise and commentary.

"This section's conventional... easy to know": Below, the three ultimate and three conventional explained in Madhyāntavibhāga and other treatises are compared with the fourfold two truths explained here for mutual inclusion. "Provisional conventional" means: actually having no essential nature that can be called conventional. Only having its name. Provisionally called conventional. Included in the first conventional among the four conventional truths. The second essence is conditioned activity. The essence being exactly conventional, to distinguish from ultimate truth also being conventional, it is called activity. The old Madhyāntavibhāga calls it "grasping activity conventional." Being only conditioned dependent nature. Among the four conventional truths, the second and