【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred and forty
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred and forty

【Upper Section】
[This causes] thirst-touch to arise, then arousing drink-desire. The rest is as their explanation. In this text now, among the eleven touches, [it] indicates the initial four great [element] touches, hence saying "included in touch-base."

The five faculties and five sense-objects are all only obstructive, etc. "The five faculties and five sense-objects are all only obstructive, etc.": In the *Abhidharmakośa*, regarding the eighteen elements, when distinguishing through various approaches, there are generally twenty-two approaches total. In this text now, [it] briefly indicates two approaches. Saying "only obstructive" is the second approach of obstructive vs. non-obstructive. That treatise's second [fascicle] says: "Only the ten elements included in form-aggregate are obstructive. 'Obstructive' means the meaning of impediment. This again has three types, because obstacle-impediment, object-boundary, and objective-support are different." Explanation: Impediment has two types: first, obstacle-impediment; second, binding-impediment. If obstacle-obstructive, this is the impediment of obstacle-impediment. If the two obstructives of object-boundary and objective-support, this is the impediment of binding-impedment. Now saying "the five faculties and five sense-objects are all only obstructive" refers only to obstacle-obstructive. These ten forms are assembled from subtle atoms, mutually obstructing each other. Saying "only defiled" is the fifth approach of defiled vs. undefiled. Among the eighteen elements, the latter three are common to both; the remaining fifteen elements are only called defiled. [This is] because [they] are not included in the path-truth and unconditioned, like all afflictions. These ten forms now are included in ten elements among the fifteen elements, hence saying "only defiled." If dharma-base non-disclosure [forms], then [they] are included in the latter three elements, hence explaining [they] are common to undefiled. All non-disclosure forms are invisible and non-obstructive, hence saying "only non-obstructive inclusion." Dharmas (according to the *Samayabhedoparacanacakra*) sometimes exist and all have essence, hence saying "all really existent."

The Sautrāntika masters say subtle atoms are real while coarse forms are provisional, and there are non-disclosure forms. This fourth [section] describes the Sautrāntika school. This is precisely the fundamental Sautrāntika doctrine. "Subtle atoms are real, coarse forms are provisional, etc.": According to the Sautrāntika masters' intention, subtle

【Lower Section】
atoms, following eye, form, etc., are included in the ten bases. However, [they] are not provisional. [They] are not apprehended by eye-consciousness etc., [but] form combined forms to become objects for eye etc. Reasoning through principle, only mind-consciousness should apprehend [them] and should be included in dharma-base. [But we] follow the provisional through the real, including [them] in form etc. bases, because the provisional depends on these real dharmas for formation.

Question: Combined forms etc. are provisional, not real. How do [they] become conditions to generate the five consciousnesses? Explanation: *Vijñaptimātra Commentary* volume two says: "Like the Sautrāntika masters, what is formed through subtle atom combination is provisional and cannot serve as conditions to generate the five consciousnesses. Now when combining, each individual subtle atom has combined coarse characteristics and can each serve as conditions to generate the five consciousnesses, because [they] have real essence and can serve as conditions. However, the characteristics of individual subtle atoms are not apprehended by the five consciousnesses." "Non-disclosure provisionally established": The meaning is the same as Mahāyāna. "Dharma-base without form": Commentary volume two says: "In the *Nyāyānusāra*, [it] disputes with Sautrāntika, not calculating separate existence of form in dharma-base, hence not dharma-base inclusion." This text is also the same, hence saying "dharma-base without form." "Not permitting form-aggregate to have formless disclosure": If Sarvāstivāda establishes form-aggregate based only on eleven form-measures, namely the five faculties, five sense-objects, and non-disclosure forms. If Buddhajñāna masters do not establish separate existence of derived forms within form-aggregate. Now this Sautrāntika school does not establish non-disclosure forms existing in form-aggregate. If so, where are non-disclosure forms etc. included? Explanation: Since [it] already says "dharma-base without form," therefore we know non-disclosure is included in neither-form-nor-mind dissociated [factors].

The Prajñaptivāda school says that within aggregate-approach, essences are all real; within base-element approaches, [they] are all provisional; [they] are common to defiled and undefiled. This fifth [section] describes the Prajñaptivāda school. "Within aggregate-approach, essences are all real, etc.": Now this school says: "Within base-element approaches,

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred and forty-one
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One hundred and forty-one

【Upper Section】
because [they] depend on accumulation, conditions are also accumulation. Dharmas of accumulation are all provisional, hence essences are not truly real. Although [we] use provisional meanings of accumulation to explain aggregates, aggregate-essences are not provisional because [they] have no dependent-conditions. 'Dependence' means the five faculties, serving as consciousness-supports. Hence 'conditions' are the five sense-objects, what consciousness takes as objects. Therefore these faculties-objects, being in base-element approaches, explain essence-accumulation. If in aggregate-approach, [they] explain meaning-accumulation. Therefore all dharmas are both provisional and real.

The Ekavyāvahārika school says worldly and supramundane are all undefiled, not arising from inversion. This sixth and seventh [section] describes the Ekavyāvahārika and Lokottaravāda schools. These latter two schools mostly share Mahāsāṅghika doctrines, hence the *Samayabhedoparacanacakra* commentary says: "The three schools - Ekavyāvahārika, Lokottaravāda, and Kaukkuṭika - are narrated together with Mahāsāṅghika." They explain based on fundamental school identical doctrines. Now in this chapter, [it] indicates final school different doctrines, hence separately raising them. Extensively presenting their schools is as in the *Samayabhedoparacanacakra* commentary.

Now according to Mahāyāna, touch-base and dharma-base both have great elements, and derived forms exist in eleven bases. From here below, the third [section] describes Mahāyāna doctrine. "Touch-base and dharma-base both have great elements, etc.": Now according to Mahāyāna, in distinguishing essence-nature, [there are] combined six approaches. This is precisely the approach of distinguishing essence regarding the hundred dharmas. Question: Great element derived forms have two types: first, intimate same-location; second, distant dependent-reliance. Now saying "touch-base and dharma-base both have great elements" - according to what is this explained? Explanation: Great elements of touch-base commonly pervade both intimate and distant. Great elements of dharma-base are only distant, not intimate. Master Ji's *Yogācāra Commentary* says: "If according to real meaning, intimate derived meaning must be same-nature production, not different-nature. Must be same-category production, not different-category. Defiled-undefiled must be category-identical.

【Lower Section】
Must be same-realm production, not different-realm. Concentrated-scattered must be identical, not different producers. If provisionally explained production, distant mutual-dependence production, [there are] no restrictions according to [what is] appropriate." Also Dharma Master Fan's *Abhidharma Commentary* says: "If distantly mutually dependent, all forms are produced from great [elements]. If looking toward same-location without distant separation, then wheel-light separation, dharma-base forms, and various forms like five-six consciousness reflections are mostly not great-produced." Extensively citing texts and explanations are as in that commentary. Question: If concentration-result forms etc. are distantly great-produced, why does *Yogācārabhūmi* 54 say "dharma-base included superior concentration-result forms - know that these forms depend only on superior concentration, not depending on great elements etc."? Explanation: According to intimate mutual production, [it] says not depending. If distant mutual production, [they] also depend on great elements, hence no contradiction. Question: If concentration-result forms are distantly mutually dependent production, are [they] produced by supporting-body great elements or by original-object great elements? Explanation: *Yogācārabhūmi* 60 [says] "also through the power of great elements in objective original-objects, concentration-result forms arise," as extensively explained there. If produced by supporting-body great elements, within formless realm, since there are no supporting-bodies, those concentration-result forms depend on which great elements? *Pivotal Essentials* has text, as explained in the upper fascicle. Now saying "scattered-concentrated separately" means if real intimate production, within concentrated forms there are no separate great elements. Now according to distant production, hence within dharma-base superior concentration-results, [there] also are great elements, hence saying "scattered-concentrated separately." "Derived forms pervade eleven bases": The five faculties, five sense-objects, and dharma-base forms make eleven bases.

Great element derived forms [have] visible-invisible nature, obstructive-non-obstructive nature, defiled-undefiled nature, wholesome-neutral nature. This next indicates four approaches to distinguish essence.