【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred and forty-two
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred and forty-two

【Upper Section】
First, distinguishing essence according to the three natures of paratantra, etc. Second, distinguishing essence according to the five dharmas of characteristics, names, etc. Third, distinguishing essence regarding defiled and undefiled. Fourth, distinguishing essence based on the three natures of wholesome, etc. [This] should be understood according to the text. This is a brief indication. Among the five dharmas, [they are] included in the two dharmas of characteristics and correct cognition. Question: *Yogācārabhūmi* 72 says: "Question: Regarding these five things, how many are form? How many are mind? How many are mental factors? How many are dissociated from mind? How many are unconditioned? Answer: Characteristics pervade five types. Names are only mind. Dissociated factors, discrimination, and correct cognition pervade mind and mental factors. Thusness is only unconditioned." Great element derived forms are already form-dharmas. How can [we] now say "[they are] included in correct cognition among the five dharmas"? Explanation: Correct cognition has two [types]: first, only supramundane correct cognition; second, mundane and supramundane correct cognition. The first is fundamental essence; the latter is subsequent attainment. Within subsequent attainment cognition, there are two approaches: first, the perceiving-perceived approach; second, the expressing approach. If according to the first approach, great element derived forms are all included in perceived-aspects. Following perceived-aspects to perceiving-aspects, [they] are all included in perceiving-aspects. That is, within perceiving-aspects, there is also correct cognition, hence saying "included in correct cognition." Question: If so, the third discrimination also has perceiving-perceived [aspects]. Why not say "included in discrimination"? Explanation: Now opposing the two natures of paratantra and perfect accomplishment, [we] indicate two things: namely characteristics and correct cognition. That discrimination-thing only takes the mind and mental factors of the three realms. This is only paratantra, not pervading perfect accomplishment. Undefiled correct cognition pervades the two natures, hence independently indicated. Some say: Undefiled precepts etc. associated with correct cognition are produced by great elements. Now distinguishing retinue, explaining by following [primary factors], hence saying "included in correct cognition."

The text from "defiled great-produced" to "provisional nature pervades three" explains the four approaches indicated above. Defiled great-produced

【Lower Section】
means pervading both scattered and concentrated. Undefiled great-produced means only concentrated, not scattered, because undefiled mind is necessarily in concentration. "Defiled derived forms are only neutral nature" refers to inherently neutral. *Abhidharma-samuccaya* 4 says: "The complete eight elements and eight bases, and portions of remaining aggregates, elements, and bases are neutral. The eight elements are the five form-faculties and scent, taste, touch elements. The eight bases are likewise." Now these derived forms are included within the eight elements and eight bases, hence saying "only neutral nature." This judges their nature according to real nature. If according to provisional nature, [they] also pervade the three natures. The remaining text can be understood.

From "therefore *Yogācārabhūmi* 6" to "really only neutral," this cites text to prove the above statement that defiled derived forms are only neutral while provisional nature pervades three. However, examining *Yogācārabhūmi* 64, this text is completely absent. That fascicle begins: "By observing through five approaches what to take refuge in, [one] can take refuge: first, through bodily action purity; second, through verbal action purity, etc." Also below it says: "Furthermore, there are five types of conduct: first, bodily conduct; second, verbal conduct; third, mental conduct, etc." Explanation: "Bodily action purity, etc." indicates wholesome bodily actions and wholesome verbal actions. Reversing this reveals unwholesome bodily-verbal [actions]. Now this text saying "form-sound disclosure forms" has its intention here. [We] simply take the text's meaning to explain the doctrinal point, hence saying "form-sound disclosure forms provisionally pervade wholesome and unwholesome." If not so, this cited text would be extremely loose and contradictory. Also *Yogācārabhūmi* 54 says: "Question: The wholesome and unwholesome forms that are objects of eye and ear - by what causes do they achieve wholesome etc. natures and not other forms? Answer: Through preparatory intention and the three grades of intention, through these [one] can generate wholesome and unwholesome bodily-verbal disclosure actions." Master Ji's commentary

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred and forty-three
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One hundred and forty-three

【Upper Section】
says: "By being generated through three intentions, form and sound achieve wholesome-unwholesome disclosure. This is based on disclosing wholesome-unwholesome, not that their essence is wholesome-unwholesome. Other scents, tastes, etc. are not generated through these three intentions, therefore they do not achieve wholesome-unwholesome nature." What is cited here has the same meaning.

From "non-disclosure being already provisional" to "derived forms pervade provisional," this is the chapter compiler's text. "Non-disclosure being already provisional": If individual liberation non-disclosure [forms], [they are] provisionally established regarding intention-seeds. If concentration-path non-disclosure [forms], [they are] provisionally established regarding present intention. Hence saying "non-disclosure already provisional." The two types of individual liberation and concentration-path non-disclosure are uniformly only wholesome. If non-disciplinary non-disclosure [forms], [they are] only unwholesome nature. Hence saying "permitting pervading wholesome-unwholesome." "Great elements only real, derived forms pervade provisional": This is precisely the sixth approach of distinguishing essence regarding provisional-real. Great elements being only real - this meaning should be understood. Derived forms being provisional-real - this meaning is difficult to see, hence now citing text to clarify their differences. *Abhidharma-samuccaya* 1 says: "Derived forms are the five faculties of eye etc., form, sound, scent, taste, a portion of tangibles, and dharma-base included forms." Among these eleven bases, excluding the five faculties of eye etc., the remaining six types of forms each have provisional-real [aspects]. Forms have twenty-five, from blue form to space-one visible form. Among the twenty-five, the four of blue, yellow, red, white are really existent; the rest are all provisional. Sounds have eleven, from pleasant to non-sacred speech sounds. Among these, pleasant, unpleasant, and mutually opposing each have portions; caused non-received portions are provisional; the rest are all real. Scents have six types, from good scent to altered scent. These six are all real. There is no text saying scents also pervade provisional, hence [all real]. Tastes have twelve, from bitter taste to altered taste. There is no text explaining provisional, hence all really existent. Tangibles have twenty-

【Lower Section】
two, from smooth to firm. These derived tangibles are all provisionally existent. Dharma-base forms have five, from extremely subtle forms to sovereign-produced forms. Among these, the first four are only provisional. The fifth, concentration-result forms, pervade provisional-real. If forms practiced by concentrations with majestic virtue are real. If provisional-conceptual concentration forms of bodhisattvas, two-vehicle [practitioners], etc. are provisional. Among derived forms, provisional-real have differences, hence saying "derived forms pervade provisional." Extensively as explained in *Abhidharma* Commentary 1.

From "explaining names" to "named great elements," the two commentaries of Ji and Jing do not explain this text. Only Dharma Master Fan explains this text saying: This text first explains "great," then explains "element." Saying "their nature is great" means the three of essence, characteristics, and function just obtain the name of nature. That is, the four of earth etc. have real essence, broad formal characteristics, and great functional applications. Saying "serving as element for production" explains element-meaning. That is, [they] serve as causal elements for production etc. with the derived. "Element" pervades both manifest activity and latent dispositions. Hence the *Vijñaptimātra* treatise says: "The manifest is also called element. Or called the four great element-realms." Realm means causal meaning, nature meaning. Also element and realm are both nature meanings. Extensively as in that master's *Abhidharma* commentary doctrine.

From "great has four meanings" to "because functional applications are great," these four great meanings are all *Abhidharmakośa* text. Hence that treatise 1 says: "These four realms are also called great elements. Because [they are] the supporting nature of all other forms. Because [their] essence is vast and broad. Or because within assemblages where earth etc. are abundantly present, [their] formal characteristics are great. Or because [they] generate various great functional applications." Dharma Master Guang says: "Among these four meanings, other forms' support is the capable