【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred and fifty-two
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred and fifty-two

【Upper Section】
[Continuation from previous text] there is no contradiction.

From "Individual liberation precepts" to "how do [they] continue": The following questions and answers clarify the presence or absence of establishing causes among productive [causes]. This is the arising of the initial question. That is, regarding the productive great elements that produce manifest and non-manifest [forms], [one] asks about the presence or absence of establishing causes. Anciently [these were] called "active precepts and non-active precepts." Initially making the mind desire to receive, producing and activating the three karmas, with internal and external conditions complete, accomplishing this dharma is named "active precepts." After obtaining precepts, harboring them in oneself, once aroused they constantly appear, without further effort, [this is] named "non-active precepts." Active precepts are like using a staff to turn a wheel; non-active precepts are like abandoning the staff and the wheel turning by itself. Even during sleep, unconsciousness, etc., [they] constantly arise. If following Mahayana, upon present intention, provisionally establish manifest precepts; upon intention-seeds, establish non-manifest precepts. The meaning of this question is: all existent manifest and non-manifest precepts are established depending on intention. If precept-receivers constantly have good minds without other minds, then upon intention, provisionally establish manifest precepts; upon intention-seeds, establish non-manifest precepts. If sometimes [there are] evil minds, neutral minds, or again no mind, at that time since there are already no manifest karmas, with present intention's manifest karma as support, non-manifest [forms] then arise. If manifest karma is already abandoned, how do later non-manifest [forms] continue? Although depending on body's great elements that produce precepts, the produced precepts have no cause for continuity. Though the productive continues, the produced is interrupted. How can productive and produced necessarily share safety and danger?

From "Or explaining later times" to "hence not transforming": In the following answer, there are three masters' explanations. This first describes the first master's doctrine, corresponding to Master Tai's doctrine. This master's meaning is that at that

【Lower Section】
time there is a dependent body, existing on that body, establishing the name of manifest precepts. As the *Yogācārabhūmi* commentary describes this master's doctrine: when individual liberation non-manifest [precepts] later continue, since the support still exists, there are dependent body great [elements] to produce non-manifest [precepts]. Since [one] already establishes the name of manifest precepts regarding the dependent body, therefore manifest karma still does not transform. Through this, the aroused individual liberation non-manifest [precepts] also continuously arise. Hence there is no obstruction. If upper two realm concentration-path precepts, etc., also use lower realm other-body great element production, because desire realm dharmas are all what is prevented, as explained in the chapter below.

From "True meaning" to "should not have this cause": This is the second explanation, precisely the chapter compiler's correct doctrine. Aroused body and speech are intention's domain, hence named "domain." The seven non-[virtues] of body and mouth are what precepts prevent, hence named "what is prevented." Following domain and what is prevented, precepts are named form. Also following those great [elements], provisionally named produced. Production has two meanings: first, real intimate production, like co-substantial production, etc.; second, provisional remote production, like separated substantial production, etc. Now non-manifest precepts being named "produced" speaks regarding the remote. Otherwise, formless concentration-path concurrent precepts, etc. - the chapter compiler states principles to refute the previous master's doctrine. If [one] cannot obtain being named produced following domain and what is prevented, only taking dependent body great elements to be named produced, in the formless realm there is no dependent body. The productive great elements that produce that realm's concentration-path concurrent precepts should not have establishing causes. Through this [one] should know: dependent body great elements are not productive. Only using domain and what is prevented great elements as productive. Hence the *Vijñaptimātratā* says: "These are established depending on the increased stage of good and evil intention-seeds that emit excellent body and speech." This text precisely proves domain great element production. Also the *Prakaraṇāryavāca*

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred and fifty-three
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One hundred and fifty-three

【Upper Section】
says: "Various disciplinary forms, depending on non-manifesting dharmas, establish form-nature." This text precisely proves what is prevented great element production. If following this explanation, [it] deeply accords with various treatises. Hence saying "true meaning."

From "If so, what is prevented" to "should not have establishing cause": The previous master objects: If saying formless realm concentration-path concurrent precepts have no establishing cause because they lack support, then if the body is in lower realms obtaining formless concentration, if the body is born there entering formless concentration, those prevented desire realm transgressions and non-[virtues] have long since been severed and extinguished. How [can one] depend on prevented desire realm great elements to produce formless realm concentration-path concurrent precepts? Because there is nothing prevented, there are also no productive [causes]. Since there are no productive [causes], there should be no establishing cause.

From "Cannot prevent others" to "because of similar past existence": In addressing the objection below, [the text] first returns to refute the previous master. Superfluous - this is only that remote partial antidote; below correctly addresses the previous objection. The previous master says: formless concentration precepts, etc., remotely prevent other sentient beings' non-[virtues] in the desire realm, hence following what is prevented, [they] are said to be named form. Through this also following what is prevented great element production. Now refuting: [one] cannot prevent others and be named form, hence taking others' four great [elements] to produce one's own non-manifest [precepts]. This returns to refute the previous master's doctrinal explanation. "This is only that remote partial antidote, etc." correctly addresses the previous objection. According to the *Abhidharmasamuccaya*, etc., there are four antidotes: disgust-destruction, severance, sustaining, and remote partial. Disgust-destruction antidote means regarding conditioned contaminated activities, seeing many faults and afflictions, using activities like disease, like boils, etc., to disgust and destroy the five grasping aggregates. Severance antidote means preparatory path and uninterrupted path, because they can sever various afflictions. Sustaining antidote

【Lower Section】
means liberation path, because it sustains severance-attainment. Remote partial antidote means subsequent paths, because they cause previously severed afflictions to become further distant. Now formless concentration, regarding desire realm non-[virtues], among the four antidotes, [is] remote partial antidote. Through remote partial antidote power, causing those seeds that give rise to precept-violating afflictions to further decline and damage, remotely preventing one's own past evil precepts. Producing present form from past great [elements], named production through meaning, because of similar past existence.

From "Second concentration and above" to "should not be antidotes": Below is analogical explanation. Previously [the text] only clarified using formless concentration regarding desire realm non-[virtues] as remote partial antidote, but did not clarify form realm second meditation and above regarding desire realm non-[virtues] as also remote partial antidote. Hence analogically explaining "second concentration and above non-manifest [precepts] are all thus." In initial calm abiding's preparatory concentration, though treating nine grades of delusions, the able antidote also becomes nine grades, each having four kinds of antidotes. Only initial not-yet-attained regarding desire realm non-[virtues] is severance antidote, because separating from desire realm desires, either partially or completely, already able to damage and subdue seeds that give rise to precept-violating afflictions. The ninth liberation path, entering fundamental initial concentration, can be sustaining antidote. Above are all remote partial antidotes, hence saying "second concentration and above non-manifest [precepts] are all thus." This is analogical explanatory teaching. "Treatises explain preventing others, etc." again refutes the previous master. *Yogācārabhūmi* 53 says: "There are two kinds distantly separating from evil precepts, receiving protective supports, namely conscience and shame. If at other places and at one's own place, when manifesting transgressions..."