【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred seventy-four
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred seventy-four

【Upper Section】
"The five roots only have retribution and long-cultivation" etc. *Yogācāra* fifty-four says: "Also the various form roots should be known. They obtain flow-transformation through two kinds of flows. Because the various form roots, apart from the continuing flows of retribution and long-cultivation, have no separate equal-flow flow outside." [Above is treatise text] Explaining: Among the three kinds of flows, there is no third equal-flow flow. The equal-flow within retribution and long-cultivation is immediately included in retribution and long-cultivation. Having only two, hence saying "apart from these two, outside there is no separate equal-flow."

Question: Among the various form roots, that there is no original-nature equal-flow - this principle is reasonable. However, when striking and touching the various roots, there is already deterioration, so why is there no transformation equal-flow? Explanation: The chapter master's *Yogācāra Commentary* says: "This is not explained here, but can also be discussed. However, the original treatise's intention is to provisionally, in relation to original-nature equal-flow flow, only explain having two. Reasonably it can also be explained." [Above is commentary text]

Saying "this is explained according to the three categories having separate essences" - regarding equal-flow meaning, there is general and particular. Calling the same-category mutual arising of root-objects included in retribution and long-cultivation "equal-flow" - this is general, not particular. This is the first two equal-flows among the four kinds. If excluding retribution and long-cultivation forms, calling the same-category mutual arising of other existing forms "equal-flow" - this is particular, not general. This is the latter two equal-flows among the four kinds. The equal-flow among the present three categories only relies on the latter two. Now saying "the five roots only have retribution and long-cultivation, without separate equal-flow" speaks of particular equal-flow, not general equal-flow. Hence saying "this is explained according to the three categories having separate essences."

From "non-root various forms" to "because not retribution": The original treatise text says: "If forms not included in roots, should be known to possess three kinds of flows." [Above is treatise text] The chapter master's commentary says: "Possessing three categories means retribution, long-cultivation, and equal-flow. Flow-flow is immediately transformation equal-flow. There is also original-nature equal-flow. Here speaking generally. Should say internal supporting root-objects possess retribution and long-cultivation; those external objects only possess original-nature flow, without retribution and long-cultivation, because they are not internal body. Appropriate to explain thus." [Above is commentary text]

Master Jing says: "Forms included in non-roots possessing three kinds of flows means: form etc. five objects within sentient beings' bodies have retribution equal-flow, long-cultivation equal-flow, and original-nature equal-flow. Non-sentient five objects only have original-nature equal-flow. Reasonably, internal-external five objects also have transformation equal-flow. Because of indefiniteness, therefore not explained."

Master Fan says: "Forms not included in roots possessing three flows means generally raising forms not included in roots, collectively clarifying having three flows. Not necessarily each and every one possesses equal-flow, retribution, and long-cultivation. Like wholesome-unwholesome provisional body-speech karmas and external vessels etc., only equal-flow flow without other retribution etc. If external vessels etc. have definite long-cultivation, can also extend to long-cultivation. Or this explains sound-sphere; sounds are not retribution."

【Lower Section】
Some texts saying "not explaining sound-sphere" are erroneous. Fifty-four says: "Also in various sound-spheres, there is retribution but not sound." [Above is treatise text] Explaining: Now this text saying "among internal five objects, sound objects have retribution flow" - this explains sound-sphere, not explaining sound essence. Because sound essence is not retribution.

The chapter master's *Yogācāra Commentary* relating the Great Master's meaning says: "Because sound seeds have continuity, sound-sphere is retribution. Manifest activity is intermittent and ceases, hence not called retribution." Master Jing has two explanations. One explanation is identical to the Great Master's meaning. One says: "The seven locations' great elements felt from karma, the location able to emit sounds is called sound-sphere. This is retribution. Sound essence

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred seventy-five
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One hundred seventy-five

【Upper Section】
although arising in response to previous karma, because not continuing, is retribution-arising but not called retribution. This is not correct doctrine. The previous explanation is good." Now the commentator says: "Sphere means cause. Immediately the four great elements creating sound. These great elements are retribution. The produced sounds are not retribution. This corresponds to third-transmission sounds."

Sounds arising from roots differs from *Vibhāṣā*. Hence *Vibhāṣā* treatise one hundred eighteen says: "Sounds belong to third transmission. Meaning karma produces great elements, great elements produce sounds. Sounds belong to third [transmission]." [Above is treatise text] Now the commentator's intention: karma is first, four great elements second, roots third. Sounds immediately arise from third roots, hence saying "third-transmission sounds." Karma in relation to sounds is distant, not causal. Hence saying "sounds are not retribution."

Another explanation: Some texts saying "this does not explain sound-sphere" - this is also good. *Abhidharmakośa* second says: "Sounds have no retribution-arising." Master Guang's commentary says: "Meaning among the eighteen spheres, excluding sound-sphere, the remaining seventeen spheres' portions are retribution-arising." Hence knowing, not explaining is also good.

From "excluding dharma-source forms" to "also no retribution": Excluding dharma-source forms means among the above non-root various forms possessing three categories, only excluding dharma-source forms; remaining various non-root forms possess three categories. The reason being: within dharma-source forms there is no retribution flow. They only have long-cultivation and equal-flow. Regarding dharma-source, if provisional forms, only one long-cultivation. Excluding place extensive-pervasive, extending to two equal-flows: transformation and original-nature two equal-flows. If real forms, perhaps extending to place extensive-pervasive long-cultivation, but without retribution.

Saying "various forms apart from roots etc." - five objects have two: first internal, second external. If internal five objects, because intimately attached to roots, also have retribution. Like supporting root-objects within the dependent body etc.

【Lower Section】
If external five objects, because distantly apart from roots, immediately not retribution. Like various external vessels etc. outside the dependent body. Now designating external objects, hence saying "various forms apart from roots also have no retribution."

Question: Various forms apart from roots also having no retribution - is it only having long-cultivation without retribution, or not only lacking long-cultivation but also lacking retribution? Explanation: Both meanings are acceptable. If definite long-cultivation, external objects also have it but without retribution. If recompense long-cultivation, because absent in external objects.

The chapter master's *Yogācāra Commentary* says: "Those external objects only see original-nature flow, without retribution and long-cultivation, because not internal body." Now in this chapter, speaking of definite long-cultivation, hence only saying no retribution, not saying no long-cultivation. That *Yogācāra Commentary's* intention speaks of recompense long-cultivation, hence generally saying no retribution and long-cultivation. Hence no contradiction.

From "among previous forms" to "and two long-cultivations": Below this repeatedly explains how, as previously explained, form dharmas possess abundant or few flows. Saying "previous forms" collectively refers to four forms: first, five root forms; second, non-root forms; third, dharma-source forms; fourth, forms apart from roots. Among these four forms, those possessing three categories are internal supporting root-objects among non-root various forms. Possessing three categories, namely retribution, long-cultivation, and equal-flow.

Saying "two retributions" means karma-arising and continuing. "Two kinds of long-cultivation" means extensive-pervasive and flourishing. "Four kinds of equal-flow" means retribution equal-flow etc. four. "Without three categories" means among the four forms: five root forms, dharma-source forms, and external object forms. These three forms do not possess three categories. Sometimes possessing two categories, sometimes possessing one category. Because three categories are indefinite, saying "without three categories."