【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred eighty-four
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred eighty-four

【Upper Section】
If according to non-separation inclusion, there are seven things - namely this eye together with body, earth, form, fragrance, taste, and tangible. If according to realm inclusion, there are ten things - namely these seven thing-realms plus water, fire, and wind realms. Like eye, ear, nose, tongue, this should also be known. For body, the four of eye, etc. should be excluded. Why? Because they can be obtained independently, distant from those. Regarding external form, fragrance, taste, tangible - among their operational characteristics, excluding all faculties, all the rest should be known as before. Sound and sound-realm are not constantly present. If there is sound at this location, it should be known that this location further increases by that one. Sound-realm increases at all locations." [Above is treatise text]

Explanation: Now this text saying "eye, etc. increased makes seven, etc." refers to the fifth non-separation inclusion among the ten types of inclusion. Within this non-separation inclusion, there are not only seven things, but also eight, nine, ten things. However, in the treatise text, it provisionally indicates one type of seven things.

Question: Are the ten things in non-separation inclusion the same as or different from the ten things in realm inclusion?

Explanation: The ten things in non-separation inclusion refer only to manifest [phenomena]. The ten things in realm inclusion refer only to seeds. Hence there is a difference.

【Lower Section】
From "separated wheel light, etc." to "forming their quantity." Saying "separated wheel light, etc." equally includes separated-substance sound, solitary fragrances, and external vessel four objects, external vessel five objects. In what was explained above, explaining faculty-possessing aggregates and illustrating non-faculty-possessing aggregates by analogy, hence indicating the word "etc." to illustrate them by analogy. *Yogācārabhūmi* fifty-four says: "In separated wheel light, great elements, fragrances, etc. cannot all be obtained."

Explanation: This text explains there is no proximate creation. If there is distant creation, there are also great elements. Through this it should be known that separated-substance light, fragrance, and sound, etc. are created by the four great elements of the originating location. For example, like light, etc., taking fire element from the original wheel as condition, being drawn and produced from there, they become created by the great elements of the original location. Separated-substance [phenomena] should be known by analogy to this. All are created by great elements of the original location. Because the great elements of the original location have increase and decrease, the created light, etc. also have increase and decrease. Hence saying "following their correspondence, increasing the four great elements forms their quantity." External vessel objects, etc. can be known by analogy to this.

From "sixty-four explains" to "that dharma does not exist." Examining sixty-four, this text is completely absent. Only fifty-four contains this text. Hence that fascicle says: "Moreover, if in this form aggregate, the intrinsic characteristics of those great elements and created forms can be obtained, it should be known that those dharmas exist herein. If at this location, the intrinsic characteristics of those dharmas cannot be obtained at all, it should be known that those dharmas do not exist at this location. This is called the general establishment of existent and non-existent characteristics." [Above is treatise text] Now pointing to that. Hence it is known that "sixty-four" has an error in the character "six." This quotes text to generally prove the characteristics of increase and decrease of creating and created explained above.

From "not the same as other schools" to "all as explained there." This distinguishes other schools. If following Mahāyāna, what can be obtained in aggregates all exist according to correspondence. What cannot be obtained in aggregates - great elements and created [forms] are all absent. If following Hīnayāna Sarvāstivāda, etc., regarding the four great elements by nature, what cannot be obtained in aggregates all exist. For example, like stones, etc. - earth element increases predominantly, but the other three are not absent. The reason for this is that the nature of all atoms pervades all things.

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred eighty-five
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One hundred eighty-five

【Upper Section】
*Abhidharmamahāvibhāṣā* fascicle 127 says: "Question: Do these four great elements never separate at all times? Answer: Yes. How is this known? As the *Garbhāvakrānti Sūtra* explains, the Buddha told Ānanda: In the initial kalala, if there were earth-realm without water-realm, it should dry and scatter. That it does not scatter now is because it is gathered by water. If there were water-realm without earth-realm, it should flow and disperse. That it does not flow now is because it is sustained by earth. If there were earth-realm without fire-realm, it should become putrid and rot. That it does not rot now is because it is heated by fire. If there were the three realms without wind-realm, it should not grow. That it grows now is because it is moved by wind." [Above is treatise text]

*Yogācārabhūmi* fifty-four refutes this theory, saying: "If someone says that at this location, though the intrinsic characteristics of those dharmas cannot be obtained, they must exist, now that person should be asked: Are these unobtainable and obtainable things equal or unequal? Answer: If things are equal, since things are already equal, their being unobtainable is not reasonable. If they are unequal, is it according to this very quantity that things are said to be unequal, or according to power that they are said to be unequal? If according to this very quantity things are said to be unequal, then even partial intrinsic characteristics cannot be obtained, which is not reasonable. If according to power they are said to be unequal, then apart from those intrinsic characteristics, having other power cannot be obtained, hence it is not reasonable." [Above is treatise text] Now based on that text, expounding Mahāyāna doctrine, hence saying "not the same as other schools, etc." In fifty-four, regarding explaining form aggregates, though there are many questions and answers, within great elements and created [forms], there are eight questions and answers in total. Examining the treatise, this can be observed. Now pointing to that, hence saying "all extensive questions and answers are as explained there."

【Lower Section】
From "herein explaining characteristics" to "explained in fascicle three." "Herein explaining characteristics, etc." - *Yogācārabhūmi* fifty-four explains ten types of inclusion. First is realm inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included by their respective seeds. Second is characteristic inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included by their intrinsic and common characteristics. Third is type inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included pervading their own types. Fourth is phase inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included by phases of pleasant feelings, etc. Fifth is non-separation inclusion - all aggregates, etc., through individual dharmas and various assistants, including all aggregates, etc. Sixth is temporal inclusion - all aggregates, etc. in past, future, present each mutually including themselves. Seventh is directional inclusion - all aggregates, etc. operating in this direction or arising dependent on this, becoming inclusion of this direction. Eighth is complete inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included by the five, etc. Ninth is partial inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included by partial differences of each. Tenth is ultimate inclusion - all aggregates, etc. being included by suchness characteristics." [Above is treatise text]

Now saying "herein explaining characteristics" refers to the second characteristic inclusion. "If according to realm inclusion" refers to the first realm inclusion. In what was explained above regarding great elements and created forms being together or not together, if explaining according to characteristic inclusion, sometimes they exist, sometimes not. If explaining according to realm inclusion, they all exist according to correspondence. Hence *Yogācārabhūmi* third, in explaining the existence and non-existence of great elements and created [forms]: "If in this aggregate those characteristics can be obtained, those characteristics are said to exist. If they cannot be obtained, those characteristics are said to not exist. Sound in all form aggregates is said to exist because of realm. Characteristics are indefinite." [Above is treatise text]

Explanation: "Characteristics" means characteristic inclusion. "Realm" means realm inclusion. *Yogācārabhūmi* third, regarding the first realm inclusion, second characteristic inclusion, and fifth non-separation inclusion, explains the increase and decrease of great elements and created [forms].