<<Only when stipend donations began could we obtain full ceremony and return. In the jiawu mission, foreign ships engaged in resale trade numbered no less than ten-odd countries, and because their profits were already substantial, our people's gains were also abundant. In the xinyou mission, foreign ships engaged in resale trade were merely three or four countries, and because their profits were already small, our people's gains also decreased. In the jimao mission, the prohibition on foreign trade was relaxed, foreign ships did not arrive, profits were completely cut off, so our people's gains were extremely meager. This was the natural result of circumstances. Now, in the Kangxi 22nd year guihai mission, at this time the maritime prohibition was strictly enforced, foreign countries competed to purchase Chinese goods, and islands near Ryukyu such as Satsuma, Tokara Seven Islands and other places all came upon hearing the news, and their goods sold easily. Fujian people still tell of this today. Therefore, many sought service, and during this long period of peace, Ryukyu came annually to trade, and foreign countries possessed many Chinese goods. After this imperial ship arrived, not one foreign vessel from Tokara and other places came, the country was inherently poor, most goods did not sell, and the personnel were all in distress. By law, the profit-seeking of merchants and opportunists should be prohibited, and those serving should reduce their loads and equipment. This would both relieve the material difficulties of the small kingdom and eliminate the covetous thoughts of the many servants - perhaps both benefits could be achieved>>

[Diagram] Glass hourglass   Compass

　　Watches <<Method for determining watches>>
The distance traveled by ships at sea is all calculated by watches. Some say one hundred li makes one watch. Some say sixty li makes one watch. Some say dividing day and night makes ten watches. Now when asking ship bosuns, they all say the sixty li theory is closest.