[These mountains] are not Gumi but Hekibi Mountain, located to the northwest of the kingdom. Here we first realized that we had used the Mao compass bearing too much and the ship had drifted northeast. Without a northwest wind, we would not be able to raise the ship and enter the port of Naha. At midday we prayed to the gods, and suddenly the wind turned to Kun-Shen-Geng, then after a while turned again to Zi-Gui. The accompanying minister was greatly pleased, turned the compass bearing southeast, and pointed to a small mountain saying, "This is called Yomitan Mountain; from here we will turn and enter the port." At sunset the wind turned to Chou-Gen, blowing fiercely, using the Bing-Si compass bearing and also the Bing-Wu single Mao compass bearing. Four or five days before this, when no mountains were visible and the ship floated motionless, the water tanks were nearly exhausted and everyone was quite perplexed. We prayed to the gods and cast divination, which indicated: "On the 28th day mountains will be seen, on the 1st day we will reach port." And so on the 1st day of the 6th month, Mizunoe-Tora (壬寅), before sunrise we entered the port. In total we sailed the seas for seven days and eight nights.

《Marginal note: Ship No. 2 | Port compass record》

《Marginal note: Minister |》 Baoguang's analysis: The compass routes to Ryukyu that the officials advocate are all based on the "Compass Guide Expanded Meaning." The error lies in using the Mao compass bearing too much, always suffering from drifting north. According to the record of former envoy Wang Ji: "Many investiture ships drifted past the north of the mountains and then had to turn back." Examining the envoy records, nine out of ten... 《Marginal note: In the 11th year of Jiajing of the Ming, Chen Kan recorded that when the ship reached Hekibi Mountain, forty small | boats towed it for eight days before finally reaching Naha. In Jiajing》《Marginal note: 37th year, Guo Rulin recorded that having reached Gumi Mountain, the headman said "If we gain one day and night's | strength, though we won't immediately land, we can guarantee not going below Hekibi Mountain." Going below Heki-》《Marginal note: bi is something even the Ryukyu people take as a warning. In the 4th year of Wanli, Xiao Chongye recorded that on the | 1st day of the 6th month they passed Hekibi Mountain, staying close to the foot of the mountain; from here it's a two-day overland journey to the kingdom》《Marginal note: Towing the boat, they finally moored at Naha on the 5th day. In the 2nd year of Kangxi, Zhang Xueli recorded that the ship | reached the northern mountains of Ryukyu at the border with Japan, and the north wind pulled the ship south before finally reaching Na-》《Marginal note: ha |》 The only investiture ships that did not drift north were former Ming册使 Xia Ziyang and our dynasty's Wang Ji. Examining Xia's record, it says "passing through the ocean where plum blossoms bloom, past White Dog Islet..."