At the Genshan shrine, she withdrew as if there were limitations, and was enfeoffed as Imperial Consort Linghui Zhushun Jiaying Yinglie (Spiritually Benevolent, Assisting Compliance, Auspiciously Responsive, and Heroically Fierce). In the second year of Baoyou, she relieved drought and was enfeoffed as Imperial Consort Zhushun Jiaying Yinglie Xiezheng (Assisting Compliance, Auspiciously Responsive, Heroically Fierce, and Cooperatively Upright). In the third year, she was again enfeoffed as Imperial Consort Linghui Zhushun Jiaying Ciji (Spiritually Benevolent, Assisting Compliance, Auspiciously Responsive, and Compassionately Relieving). In the fourth year, she was enfeoffed as Imperial Consort Linghui Xiezheng Jiaying Ciji (Spiritually Benevolent, Cooperatively Upright, Auspiciously Responsive, and Compassionately Relieving). In this year, when the Zhejiang dike was completed, she was enfeoffed as Imperial Consort Linghui Xiezheng Jiaying Shanqing (Spiritually Benevolent, Cooperatively Upright, Auspiciously Responsive, and Virtuously Celebrating). In the fifth year, Professor Wang Li petitioned the court, and the goddess's father was enfeoffed as Marquis Jiqing, her mother as Lady Xianqing, and her elder sister and divine assistants all received imperial commands. In the third year of Jingding, she caused contrary winds to immobilize pirate ships so they could be captured, and was enfeoffed as Imperial Consort Linghui Xianji Jiaying Shanqing (Spiritually Benevolent, Manifestly Relieving, Auspiciously Responsive, and Virtuously Celebrating). 《Marginal note: The Song dynasty made four enfeoffments as Lady and ten additional enfeoffments as Imperial Consort, totaling fourteen enfeoffments》

In the eighteenth year of Zhiyuan under Yuan Emperor Shizu, because sea transport received divine protection, she was enfeoffed as Huguo Mingzhu Tianfei (Nation-Protecting, Clearly Manifest Heavenly Consort) 《Marginal note: The beginning of enfeoffment as Heavenly Consort》. She was further promoted to Xianyou. In the third year of Dade under Emperor Chengzong, because she manifested spiritual efficacy in grain transport, she was enfeoffed as Fusheng Bimin Mingzhu Tianfei (Assisting Sages, Protecting People, Clearly Manifest Heavenly Consort). Emperor Renzong additionally enfeoffed her as Huguo Bimin Guangji Mingzhu Tianfei (Nation-Protecting, People-Protecting, Widely Relieving, Clearly Manifest Heavenly Consort). In the second year of Tianli under Emperor Wenzong, he additionally enfeoffed her as Linggan Zhushun Fuhui Weilie 《Marginal note: A total of twenty characters》. The temple plaque reads Lingci 《Marginal note: The Yuan dynasty promoted her to Heavenly Consort with a total of five additional enfeoffments》. All these were because she repeatedly showed manifest divine responses during the dangers of sea transport.

Ming Emperor Taizu enfeoffed her as Zhaoxiao Chunzheng Fuji Ganying Shengfei (Filially Manifest, Purely Upright, Trustworthily Relieving, Responsively Sensing Sacred Consort). In the seventh year of Yongle under Emperor Chengzu, she was enfeoffed as Huguo Bimin Miaoling Zhaoying Hongren Puji Tianfei (Nation-Protecting, People-Protecting, Mysteriously Spiritual, Manifestly Responsive, Broadly Benevolent, Universally Relieving Heavenly Consort) 《Marginal note: This title continues to be used to this day》. Thereafter, dispatching officials to offer sacrifices became an annual custom. Emperor Zhuanglie enfeoffed her as Tianxian Shengmu Qingling Puhua Bixia Yuanjun (Heavenly Immortal Sacred Mother, Blue Spirit, Universally Transforming, Azure Cloud Primordial Lady), and further added Qingxian Puhua Ciying Bixia Yuanjun (Blue Virtuous, Universally Transforming, Compassionately Responsive, Azure Cloud Primordial Lady) 《Marginal note: The Ming dynasty made one enfeoffment as Sacred Consort, one change to Heavenly Consort, and two changes to Primordial Lady, totaling four enfeoffments》.

Our dynasty (Qing) continued the enfeoffment title from the seventh year of Yongle. In the nineteenth year of Kangxi, when Taiwan was recovered, the divine spirit manifested