【Upper section of the endpaper】
The smallpox deity - even the Chinese select auspicious days, hang red cloth above, copy the deity's position onto red paper, and write the child's name below. They select a clean room to build an altar, offer the three sacrificial meats (chicken, pork, and beef), perform purification ceremonies, and offer confections. There is one chapter of the Heart Sutra and various other mantras and prayers. This is abbreviated here. The way to write the deity's position is as follows.

【Lower section of the endpaper】
　　　　　　This Year's Benevolent Life/Master Supreme Virtue Honored Deity
　　　　　　Medicine King Assembly's Former Transmission Latter Teaching Generations of Divine Physicians
　　　　　　Left Assistant Civil Officials Sages
　　　　　　Pustule-moving Child Regulating Qi and Blood
　　　　Blue Mist Immortal Palace Supreme Sacred Smallpox-Governing Prime Deity
Imperial Decree Nine Heavens　　　　　　　　　　　　Incense Position　Male/Female Child [Certain Name]
　　　　Heavenly Empress Immortal Palace Most Compassionate Holy Mother Smallpox-Governing Lady
　　　　　　Seed-Spreading Lord Protecting Peace and Health
　　　　　　Right Assistant Military Ranks Divine Spirits
　　　　　　Smallpox Palace Flower-Scattering Misfortune-Breaking Calamity-Resolving Immortal Masters
　　　　　　Local Temple Shrine Responsive Deities

【Beginning of the preface - with red seals reading "Fujikawa Family Collection," "Kyoto Imperial University Library," and "Donated by Fujikawa Yu"】
Smallpox is a great calamity for children. Symptom changes occur within moments, and life and death are decided within an hour or two. It is difficult to distinguish between deficiency and excess conditions, and medicinal prescriptions are easily mistaken. Light symptoms become severe, and smallpox that should be survivable leads to death. Therefore, ancient physicians also said that in medical treatment, pediatrics is difficult, and among childhood diseases, smallpox is the most difficult. My family specializes in smallpox medicine. Therefore, I have read books on smallpox from hundreds of medical families and examined thousands of smallpox cases, gaining some understanding. I have also frequently witnessed severe smallpox cases approaching death.