March 5th
1. Since there was to be a Noh performance for the court nobles, I left home after six o'clock, dressed in noshi-me nagakamishimo formal attire, and went to the castle.
1. Regarding today's posting of notices bearing the names of Ando Tsushima-dono and myself as Takenoma seating magistrates, yesterday's duty personnel sent a letter for my information.
1. Concerning my duties as seating magistrate, I informed metsuke Shibata Sanzaemon that I would partake of the meal in the Nakanoma before the intermission.
1. When the senior councilors arrived at the castle, I went to my seat as usual.
1. Since Ando Tsushima-dono was ill today, Ogasawara Sagami served in his place, so I coordinated well with that person.
1. At the hour of the Monkey, I went around to Ohiroma and took my seat in Yonnoma.
   After the audience was completed, I crossed over to the board veranda as usual and took my seat.
1. Since Toda Echizen and Makino Suo were serving as seating magistrates for the White Study Room, I coordinated with them, and after Sambaso was completed, I crossed over to Nakanoma and partook of the meal.
1. During the intermission, when the foot-washing and broad covering were completed, I went over to the vicinity of Ohiroma, observed the senior councilors withdrawing, then went to Karinoma and sat as shown in the diagram. From there I went to Sagami, who informed me that he had just escorted Kii Chunagon-dono and Mito Saishō-dono.
1. Under his guidance, they returned to Takenoma, at which time I performed the reception as shown in the diagram. Soon after, wakadoshiyori Morikawa Kii-no-kami-dono took his seat as shown in the diagram.
1. The banquet began and when the meals were all served, the metsuke conveyed this to the dōbō, who paid his respects to Kii-no-kami-dono and withdrew to the inner quarters. Soon Shimotsuke-no-kami-dono and Dewa-no-kami-dono appeared in Takenoma, exchanged greetings, and immediately withdrew.
   Note: At that time there was no formal escort.
1. I observed the first serving bowls being brought out and withdrawn, then immediately Sagami and I together positioned ourselves within three feet of the threshold, sat as shown in the diagram, and as the senior person I suggested they dine leisurely. Then we returned to our original seats.
1. When the sake vessels were brought out and withdrawn, we went out two by two as initially, and I suggested they partake of the sake.
1. Okubo Kaga-no-kami-dono went over to Fuyōnoma, at which time Sagami paid his respects and immediately