Regarding the sea palace (Watatsumi-no-kami-no-miya) mentioned in the "Records of the Age of Gods" being this country, I have recorded this in detail in the geography section of my compiled work "Bansho Zatsukumi."
The native people living in the countryside of this country do not call it Ryukyu, but rather "Okino." This is probably the ancient name of the country, as appears in the "Chuzan Denshin Records."
The land is located 140 ri south of Satsuma Province, extending north to south for 60 ri and east to west for about 14 to 15 ri. In ancient times, the country was divided into three parts: the so-called Chuzan, Sannan, and Sanhoku. However, after Sho Hashi, the twelfth king of Chuzan in Great Ryukyu, conquered Sannan and Sanhoku, it became unified under Chuzan. There are thirty-six islands belonging to this country. Since maps appear in the "Sangoku Tsūran Zusetsu" and other various books, I will omit them here.

○The Beginning of Creation《marginal note: Supplementary｜》The Theory of Chinzei Hachiro Crossing to Demon Island
According to the "Chuzan Seikan," Ryukyu's ancestor is called Tenson-shi. In the beginning, one man and one woman naturally came into being and became husband and wife. This is called Amamiku. 《marginal note: In Churyo's opinion, this would be Tenno (Amamiko)｜Many ancient Japanese words remain in Ryukyu》They bore three sons and two daughters. The eldest son is called Tenson-shi and became the first king. The second son became the ancestor of feudal lords (daimyo), and the third son became the ancestor of commoners. The eldest daughter is called Kun-kun and the second daughter Shuku-shuku, and they became the guardian deities of the country. One became a heavenly deity and one became a sea deity. The descendants of Tenson-shi, twenty-five generations, maintained the realm for approximately 17,802 years before the line was severed. After this, the son of Chinzei Hachiro Tametomo, called Shunten, became king. 《marginal note: Shunten's｜son Shunba》