and so forth, if barrel fees have already been paid to the group where one previously attended, there is no need to pay double fees to the newly attending group, decided in the same manner as above.

[Red ink notation: Three Groups] Articles established by group consensus during the three-group assembly on the 8th day of the 2nd month of the same year
Article 1: Regarding a person who had been attending the West-Central Group seeking residence in the Eastern area and wishing to attend the Eastern Group, upon application from the Eastern Group, this person indeed attended the Eastern Group during this year's assembly. Therefore, it has been decided that when Eastern Group members seek residence in the West-Central area, they may likewise attend the West-Central Group.
However, regarding barrel fees for first attendance, lottery banquets, and field banquets, if they have already been paid to the residential group, there is no need to pay additionally to the attending group. Nevertheless, there are matters concerning ceremonial offerings that should be noted by the annual officials.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Articles established during the West-Central Group assembly on the 14th day of the 2nd month of the same year
Article 1: Not only on the 11th day but throughout the year thereafter, all necessary items for each occasion shall be recorded in detail in the accounting ledgers, with subtotals to be included.
Article 1: If first-time participants fail to attend, meal deliveries shall be sent hereafter.
Article 1: Those who serve as hosts for the elders must wear formal hemp garments even during nighttime.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Articles established by West-Central Group consensus during the New Year assembly beginning of the 8th year, year of the Rabbit
Article 1: Regarding the previous matter of meal deliveries - until now, meals were sent based on whether attendance was observed at the evening meal on the 11th day, but hereafter it was to be decided by examining attendance on the 10th day and sending on the 11th. However, this has been revised again, and it has been decided that meal deliveries shall be sent on the 10th day.
Article 1: There is one notice for the 11th day accounts, and while there were previously three evening meal notices, hereafter the main evening meal notice has been established as once only.
However, regarding accounting notices when prayer lectures are conducted, the library official