However, when shrine officials and fasting leaders do not attend, the offerings shall naturally be provided by the elders.

Article 1: It was previously established that one heir of those who hold the往来田 (ōrai-da) shall attend from age twenty without requesting exemption. Since ceremonies have been established annually on the 11th accounting day regardless of whether prayer lectures are held or not, attendance should definitely occur, but in recent years this has become lax. Hereafter, the above principles shall be observed, and heirs of往来田holders who are twenty years old shall definitely attend. This has been decided.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Articles established during the West-Central Group assembly at the lecture hall on the 6th day of the 2nd month of the 5th year of Genbun, Kanoe-Saru
Article 1: Regarding the retirement of West-Central Group young members, although it has been at age fifty-eight until now, since there are times when no one attends, hereafter retirement shall be at age sixty, by the accounting session on the 11th day of the 2nd month. This has been decided.
Article 1: When master carpenters and others attend the assembly for the first time, bringing gifts and such is hereafter strictly prohibited.

[Red ink notation: Three Groups] 《Marginal note: 6th year of Genbun》Article established during the Three Groups assembly at the lecture hall on the 3rd day of the 2nd month of the 1st year of Kanpō, Kanoto-Tori
Article 1: Regarding official names, permission was granted by the Three Groups, but if there are any issues at one shrine requiring a change to another name, this should be promptly reported to the annual officials. Changes made for personal reasons are strictly prohibited. Furthermore, when applying for court ranks, the above principles shall be announced each time.

[Red ink notation: West-Central Group] Article established during the West-Central Group assembly at the lecture hall on the 16th day of the 2nd month of the same year
Article 1: When first-time participants' field celebrations overlap, it is the same as when lottery celebrations overlap, so when they do overlap, sending meals would be appropriate. This has been decided.

[Red ink notation: Three Groups] Article established during the Three Groups assembly at the lecture hall on the 6th day of the 3rd month of the 2nd year, Mizunoe-Inu
Article 1: As previously recorded in the diary, when one shrine requests a change due to difficulties arising after the Three Groups had granted permission for a court title, the previous grant...