there was a formal exchange of greetings, so the three of us took our fans and performed the proper courtesies. We were to be conducted to the White Shoin, but when the Kōke families stood up at the wild duck cedar doors, we immediately opened the sliding doors above the great corridor from near the threshold of the Sakura-no-ma, proceeded through the wooden veranda, opened the corridor sliding doors of the Yanagi-no-ma (Willow Room) and entered inside. From the oriole cedar doors, we moved to the veranda side of the Teikan-no-ma (Imperial Mirror Room). Below the fourth tatami mat where horizontal tatami were placed from above, Aki-dono sat first, then myself next, then Iyo-no-kami, and we all took our seats facing toward the Teikan-no-ma with the sliding doors behind us.

1. The shichigosan ceremonial meal was served in sequence, then the council of elders came out for greetings, and after the sake stand was brought out, one of the senior councillors came out as an envoy. After various proceedings from earlier, sweets, soup, and sake cups were served in red-patterned bowls, and around the time the sake bottles were withdrawn, we opened the sliding doors as initially, proceeded through the wooden veranda to the Sakura-no-ma, and the three of us took our seats as before.

1. The Kōke families opened the doors from inside the wild duck cedar doors, the court nobles came out, and through the arrangements of the Kōke families, there was a formal exchange of greetings with the court nobles. As before, the three of us performed the proper courtesies, and since we were to withdraw through the great corridor, we followed afterward and moved to the vicinity of the southern veranda of the Yanagi-no-ma where we remained, then moved further to the wooden veranda to observe the Noh performance.

However, Aki-no-kami-dono proceeded directly to the Naka-no-ma (Middle Room) and while he was reporting that the banquet had concluded,

Today, being seating magistrates, we consulted with the inspector officials about the protocol of receiving a meal in the Naka-no-ma before the kyōgen performance began.
[Continued on next page]