【Right page】
Sei Hayakatsu wiped away his tears of regret and searched through the deep mud of that place, obtaining three sacred items: Yoshisada's attendant famous sword, a seven-layered nested mirror, and a battle surcoat. He carried these back to this place and enshrined them in a mausoleum, serving them morning and evening just as he had done during the lord's lifetime. Hayakatsu finally abandoned the way of bow and horse, refused to meet with people, and spent his remaining years in quiet meditation. However, the local people, longing for the lord's virtue, requested these three sacred items from Hayakatsu, sought out pure ground, buried them in the soil beneath the roots of a solitary pine, built a shrine, and revered it as Nitta Daimyōjin, making it the guardian deity of this place. After the opening of the country, ritual fields were reportedly granted to it.
《Marginal note: That solitary pine has now withered away》

The Taiheiki states: In the section on the Battle of Asuwa in Echizen Province, after the army scattered, Ujie Nakatsukasa-no-jō (whose name was Shigekuni) came before Owari-no-kami (whose name was Takatsune, who was holed up in Fujishima Castle in Echizen) and Shigekuni said, "I have struck down and taken the head of an enemy who seemed to be a member of Lord Nitta's clan. Since he did not give his name, I do not know his family name, but judging from his horse and armor...

【Left page】
...and seeing the corpses of his worthy warriors who had committed seppuku and died fighting, this was surely no ordinary foot soldier. This is the amulet that was hanging on that dead man's skin," and he presented the head, still unwashed of blood and with soil attached, along with a gold brocade amulet. Owari-no-kami examined this head carefully and said, "How strange! This resembles the face of Nitta Sachū-shō. If it is indeed he, there should be an arrow wound above his left eyebrow." He personally used a hair comb to push back the hair, washed away the blood and soil, and upon examination, there was indeed a scar above the left eyebrow. Growing ever more certain, he had the two swords at the waist brought over for examination. They were made of extended gold and silver - one had the characters "Onikiri" inlaid in silver on a gold scabbard, and the other had the characters "Onimaru" inscribed in gold on a silver scabbard. Both of these were treasured heirlooms of the Genji clan that had been passed down to Yoshisada's line, so even distant relatives...