【Right page】
Sasaki Myōjin Shrine: Located alongside the right side of the main hall within the precincts of Yōkō-ji Temple. This is the tutelary shrine of this area, with religious services conducted by Shūsan-ji Temple. The deity enshrined is said to be the same as Sasaki Myōjin of Ōmi Province. It is also said that the spirit of Takatsuna is enshrined in the subsidiary shrine. Takatsuna, having received orders from the Kamakura Right General (Minamoto no Yoritomo), served as magistrate for the construction of Sannō Shrine in this area of Kawasaki (this is the Sannō of Hori-no-uchi). Taking this connection, Mamiya Nobumori, longing for the divine virtue of his ancestral spirits, modeled after the main shrine in Gōshū (Ōmi) and established this shrine in this location. September 19th is observed as the festival day.

Former site of Shōfuku-ji Temple: Its ruined site is now unknown. However, in Nansō (Awa) Mōda District, in a place called Sakado Market to the east of Naraowa Village, there is a shrine called Sakado Myōjin. A temple bell hangs in front of this shrine. The inscription reads "Shōfuku-ji Temple, Kawasaki-shō, Bushū," dated the 8th day of the 2nd month of Kōchō 3, year of the Metal Boar, with the names of Great Patron Zenjō Bhikku Jūa and Iki-no-kami Yasatsuna among others. I suppose that during the turbulent times, it may have been seized as a battle bell and ended up in that location.

【Left page】
According to the Azuma Kagami: "Bun'ō 2, year of the Metal Rooster. In the 2nd month of this year there was a change of era name to Kōchō. On the 13th day of the 5th month, day of the Wood Dog, today during the daytime watch, at the Hiro Palace, Sasaki Iki-no-zenji Yasatsuna and Shibuya Tarō-uemon-no-jō Takeshige got into an argument." If this is so, then the Yasatsuna mentioned in the bell inscription must refer to the Iki-no-zenji recorded in the Azuma Kagami. This Yasatsuna was the nephew of Shirō Takatsuna and the second son of Nobitsuna.

Kannon Hall: Located at Isshin-san Sennen-ji Temple, a Pure Land sect temple to the left of the Ichiba Village highway. The image of the main deity, Thousand-armed Kannon, is said to be the work of Kanchō, measuring four sun in height, and is claimed to be the devotional Buddha statue of Murasaki Shikibu. During the Jōō era, an old woman lived alone near Ishiyama Kannon in Ōmi Province. One night, when a monk named Guzōbō Shōsai, traveling on pilgrimage to western provinces, stayed with this old woman, he cured her illness. In reward, she gave him this sacred image. Later, due to certain circumstances, it came to be enshrined at this temple. Many people visit on the 17th of each month. The plaque hanging in the main hall inscribed with "Isshin-san" was written by former Grand Priest Enzan Ungai.

Tsurumi River: The bridge spanning the highway is also called Tsurumi Bridge.