【Right page】
[The temple] belongs to the [Shingon] sect. The founding patriarch was Priest Shōkaku (a dharma descendant of Master Rigen). The principal image is Nyoirin Kannon, a seated statue one sun and eight bu tall, created by the Buddhist sculptor Kasuga.

According to the temple's founding legend, long ago Priest Shōkaku had a dream of a mysterious monk one night. This monk told him: "I am Nyoirin Kannon. Long ago, when the Buddhist sculptor Kasuga carved the Kannon of Hase in Yamato Province, he also carved my image to bring benefit to sentient beings in the latter age. However, I have been in the sea for a long time, and now I have drifted to Namamugi Bay at the mouth of the Tsurumi River in Musashi Province. This is a place where I have karmic connection. You should go to the Kantō region, establish a temple hall, and enshrine me there." Seeing this, he awoke from the dream. The priest found this strange, immediately prepared for travel, and went to Namamugi Bay. There, brilliant light shone forth, and the principal image appeared on Priest Shōkaku's palm, following the waves from the sea. At that time, the bodhisattva again spoke, saying "You should enshrine [me] on the mountain at the northwest corner of this land." Immediately, Priest Shōkaku climbed the present mountain, selected the site according to the Buddha's will, built a grass hut, and enshrined the present principal image.

【Left page】
This was on the 18th day of the 3rd month of the 1st year of Kanji (1087) (The site of the present hall is the ancient site where the principal image was originally enshrined, and the location has never been changed). Later, the lord of Inage, Inage Saburō Taira no Shigenari (the Inage area was his domain), grieved that he had no heir. He renovated the temple buildings and requested rice and money offerings from various people to serve as his annual stipend, worshipping the great bodhisattva morning and evening and serving just as if serving his lord. After three years, his wife became pregnant and gave birth to a son in the 11th month of the following year (this was Saemon Taira no Shigeyasu). Shigenari was overcome with joy and donated beautiful rice fields of 3,000 units and mountain forests extending one and a half ri in all directions. He named the mountain Koyasu and called the temple complex Uemoto. From then on, the bodhisattva's miraculous power became ever more manifest, and those who came to pray and worship came in an endless stream. Also, when Emperor Horikawa grieved that he had no imperial prince, Priest Shōei (a dharma successor of Shōkaku) reported the miraculous power of this principal image to the court. Accordingly, he had Former Grand Councilor Fujiwara no Michifusa visit this mountain for imperial prayers. After three years, the imperial consort became pregnant, and in the 5th month of the following year, a prince was born. This prince is the one respectfully called Emperor Toba.