【Right page】
continued《Marginal note: According to the Odawara-ki (Odawara Records), this mountain is precipitous on all four sides with high cliffs standing tall; to the south is the sea, to the north are deep rice fields. To the west, mountains continued, but the intervals were dug out as moats, and the Jizō hall of Heikaku-ji Temple, which continued to the mountain, was made into a stronghold》

Kichijōzan Keiun-ji Temple, also called Chisō-in. It is located about 1.5 chō west from the north end of Taki Bridge, on the right side of the Iida road. It belongs to the Jōdo sect and is affiliated with Chion-in in Kyoto. The principal image of Amida Nyorai is a standing statue about three shaku tall《Marginal note: creator unknown》. The founding abbot was Priest On'yo Seikan, and it was established in the 4th year of Bun'an (1447), year of the Metal Rabbit《Marginal note: According to the Jōdo Dentō Lineage Chart, Priest On'yo Seikan of Jōren-sha's clan is unknown, though some say he was from the Kōka Genji of Ōmi Province. He first became the second abbot of Hōgen-ji at Hashiba, then founded this temple. In the 1st year of Hōtoku he became the third abbot of Zōjō-ji, and one day during the Bunmei era, he manifested a fire chariot and rode away into the sky》《Marginal note: He left death poems and waka, and it is said he was an incarnation of Kannon. The matter of Priest On'yo riding a fire chariot is also detailed in the Shin Chōmon-shū》

The restorer was called Priest Ganko.

Tōgoku Kikō (Eastern Provinces Travel Record)《Marginal note: Soon arrived at Kanagawa. Here too, ordered by the lord of Kozukue Castle, lodging was arranged at Keiun-ji Temple. The head priest came out and said that today's banquet should not be in vain》

Unexpectedly I have seen this too - what creature's peach blossoms at today's spring lodging　　Sōboku
This only brings to mind the ancient tale of the Peach Blossom Spring　(abbreviated below)

【Left page】
《Marginal note: Considering this, in Sōboku's travel record it writes "Keiun." Later "un" was changed to "un" (different character). Also, Sōboku stayed at this temple on the 3rd day of the 3rd month of Tenbun 14 (1545)》

Garyūzan Unshō-in　Called Kentoku-ji Temple. Located 1 ri and 14-15 chō west from Taki Bridge, on the left side of the Nagatsu-ta highway in Kozukue village. It is a Sōtō Zen temple affiliated with Sekiun-in in Enshū. The principal image of Kokūzō Bosatsu is a wooden seated statue about 8 sun tall. This temple was founded by Kasahara Echizen-no-kami Nobutame, castellan of Kozukue《Marginal note: The temple memorial tablet records "Kentoku-in-den Unshō Dōkei Anju, 8th day of 6th month, 4th year of Meiō (1495), year of Wood Rabbit"》. The founding abbot was called Great Priest Kiun Eigaku《Marginal note: He passed away on the 15th day of 2nd month, 6th year of Taiei (1526), year of Fire Dog》. The three large characters "Garyūzan" on the main gate plaque were written by the monk Getsushū《Marginal note: According to Odawara-ki, on the 26th day of 7th month, 3rd year of Kōji (1557), Kasahara Echizen-no-kami, castellan of Kozukue in Musashi, died at Odawara. His posthumous name was Unshō Kei-kō Anju. He was a peerless master of both martial arts and accomplishments, and a loyal retainer of the late Sōun-ji-dono. Serving Nagatuna, his loyal service to Ujitsuna and Ujiyasu was countless. His son was Noto-no-kami. In this book, what is written as "Unshō Kei-kō" refers to Unshō Dōkei. Also, in the same book, under the entry about Shingen's campaign to Odawara in the 10th year of Eiroku, it says that at Kozukue, Kasahara Noto-no-kami was in residence during Nagatsuna's time, so father and son were both castellans of Kozukue for two generations. However, the 4th year of Meiō precedes the 3rd year of Kōji by approximately 63 years, and the year of Echizen-no-kami's death is quite different. This should be corrected another day》

Bell　《Marginal note: Located on the left side in front of the hall. The inscription was composed by the Ming priest Shin'etsu Zenji. The text is as follows》

All beings in the dharma realm, both sacred and ordinary, the three realms and six paths, all arise from human thoughts...

【Note: "Nanimono" (what creature) may be "kawamo" (river surface). In the National Archives Digital Archive's "Tōgoku Kikō," this poem reads "hakarazu ni / kore mo mishikana / kawatsura no / momo saku kyō no / haru no yadori wa"】