A Guide to the Great Fire

It was around the fourth hour of the night (around 10 PM) on December 25th of Bunsei 6 (1823) when a fire broke out near Kōjimachi 3-chōme. The northwest wind was strong at the time, and the fire spread to the middle of 4-chōme and 5-chōme, then the rear fire reached 1-chōme, completely burning Hirakawa-chō, Yamamoto-chō, the animal shops, and the entire Tenmangu shrine grounds. It consumed the Kishū lord's mansion, second-hand clothing stores, fish shops, Takemachi, and all the townhouses in this area.

The fire burned the residences of Saegusa Unpei, Tōyama Oribe, Oda Daizen, Suwa Gonzaemon, Hori Danshō, Shibata Sansaku, and Hori Koshirō. Within Akasaka Gate, it consumed the residences of Shidara Jinzaburō, the Torii family's middle mansion, Komai Chōgorō, Odakiri Tosa-no-kami, Akamatsu Saemon, and Takagi, along with many other samurai residences including those of Toda Iwasaburō, Ishitani Tetsunosuke, Tsubonai Taitō, Yashiro Mondo, Suwa Hizen-no-kami, and numerous other officials and their families.

At Tenjinbashi and surrounding areas, the fire consumed the residences of Nishino Rokuemon, Hirukawa Hikokurō, Sakabe Heisuke, and many others, including high-ranking officials such as Matsudaira Saheesuke, Asahina Yatarō, Naitō Yamashiro-no-kami, Kyōgoku Hida-no-kami, and the fire brigade headquarters. At this time, the wind grew even more fierce, and the fire spread to consume all the townhouses within the Sannō shrine grounds, burning the residences of Matsudaira Tsurutarō, Doi Awaji-no-kami, Okabe Mino-no-kami, Watanabe Etchū-no-kami, and Abe Settsu-no-kami.

Most temples, shrine priests, and shrine family residences were burned, but through the miraculous divine virtue of the gods, thankfully the main shrine building and torii gate remained standing - this was recognized as the blessing of the gods of our divine nation. The neighboring residences of Niwa Ukyō-dayū and Gotō Iga-no-kami were saved as the fire stopped at their rear quarters.

Setting that aside, later that same night around the ninth hour (past midnight), flying sparks ignited fires outside Akasaka Gate, spreading through Tamachi 1-chōme through 5-chōme, finally stopping at the front gate of Sagara Ōmi-no-kami's middle mansion.

Another section burned from front and rear Tenma-chō to the fire brigade quarters, facing Inoue Sadayū's residence. All the samurai residences in this area were consumed, including those in the dark valley area, Hitotsugi-chō, Shin-chō, and numerous temples including Daian-ji, Jōgen-ji, Jōdo-ji, Shōsen-ji, Matsudaira Aki-no-kami's mansion, and many other samurai residences. The fire stopped at this location as dawn broke.