(Continued from previous page) ...there is a Sengen Shrine.

○Ageo　Approximately 1 ri and 1 chō:
In Kubo village, there is a forest called Raiden-yama (Thunder-Lightning Mountain), within which stands a Raiden Shrine.

○Okegawa　Approximately 1 ri and 35 chō:
In Ueda village, there is a Yakushi-dō (hall dedicated to Yakushi Nyorai, the Medicine Buddha) and a Sengen Shrine. In Kamiya village, there is a rest stop called "Fujimi Chaya" (Fuji-viewing Teahouse), from which one can see Mt. Fuji, Mt. Asama, the mountains of Kai Province, Chichibu, Nikkō, Ikaho, and other scenic views. It is commonly known as "Rokkoku-mi" (Six-Province View), and the panoramic view is exceptionally fine.

○Kōnosu　Approximately 4 ri and 16 chō:
At the entrance to this post station, there are many doll makers who craft hina (traditional festival) dolls and toys. They sell papier-mâché hina dolls known as "Kōnosu Hina." Within the station area, there is Shōganji Temple, one of the eighteen danrin (centers of Buddhist learning) of the Jōdo sect. In Mita village, there is a Hachiman Shrine; this place is said to be the historic site associated with Mita no Gengo Tsuna, and the shrine is said to enshrine him as its deity. Fukiage village is an ai-no-shuku (intermediate rest stop between post stations), where salted sweetfish entrails (uruka) are a local specialty. Kuge Tanbo (the Kuge rice fields) is said to have been the residence of Kuge Jirō Naomitsu, the nephew-in-law of Kumagaya Jirō's aunt. From this area, shared ferry boats depart on the Arakawa River.

○Kumagaya　Approximately 2 ri and 28 chō:
This post station is constantly prosperous, as it is conveniently situated for the transportation of goods from Kōzuke (Jōshū) and Shinano Provinces. Renjō-zan Kumagaya-dera Temple is located beside the station. This temple stands on the historic site where the monk Kumagaya Naozane (Renjō) built his hermitage, and was later founded by the Venerable Banzui. The principal image, an Amida Buddha, is said to be the work of Eshin Sōzu (Genshin), and the temple possesses many treasured objects. The grave of Renjō-hōshi stands in the forest behind the main hall, inscribed with the date "Fourth day of the fifth month, first year of Jōgen, Year of the Hinoto-U (1207)." Behind the station, there is also a celebrated spring called "Hoshikawa." In recent years, pear orchards have been opened in Tōkata village.

○Fukaya　Approximately 2 ri and 29 chō:
Gyokuryu-zan Fusaiji Temple, Kami-Okabe... (continues on the next page)
</translation_ja>