(Continued from previous page)

...is located in the village. This place was in former times the domain of Okabe Rokuyata Tadazumi. Tadazumi revered Zen Master Eichō deeply and built this temple. Accordingly, wooden statues of Tadazumi and his wife are enshrined within the hall. Rokuyata's grave is in the forest, and the site of his former residence is also in the same village. The plain of Okabe is also known by the alternate name "Okamura."

○Honjō　Approximately 2 ri and 6 chō:
At Yōun-ji Temple in Kanakubo village, there are graves of Ōhata Nagato-no-kami Masahiro, Ōhata Shuri-no-daibu Hiromoto, Ōhata Daizenno-daibu Hirotada, Saitō Saemon-no-jō Morimitsu, Saitō Shikibu-no-shōyū Sadamitsu, Saitō Settsu-no-kami Morikawa, Kubo Yozaemon-no-jō Nobutoshi, his wife, the wife of Takeda Daizenno-daibu Harunobu (Shingen), the wife of Takeda Hyōgo-no-kami Nobuzane, and others. The Kanna River is crossed by ferry. Its source rises in the mountains of Kanra District in Jōshū (Kōzuke Province), and its lower reaches flow into the Karasu River. This river forms the boundary between Jōshū (present-day Gunma Prefecture) and Bushū (present-day Saitama Prefecture), with its eastern extent at Shide-gawara village in Kami District, Saitama Prefecture, and its western extent at the area of Shinmachi Station in Midorino District, Gunma Prefecture. This was once the site of ancient battlefields involving Uesugi Kiyokata, Takeda Shingen, Hōjō Ujiyasu, and Takigawa Kazumasu and others; the riverbank commands distant views of mountains in all directions and the scenery is exceptionally fine.

○Shinmachi　Approximately 1 ri and 26 chō:
Coal has been discovered in the vicinity and is being actively mined. This area is prosperous in sericulture and silk thread production.

○At this post station, on the [one character illegible due to blacking out] night of the seventh month of the lunar calendar, festival floats (goshi) are built, lanterns inscribed with place names and town names are hung as decorations, and men and women gather together to perform Bon Odori (Bon festival dancing). From this post station, there is a road to the Tomioka Silk Mill, a distance of six ri. At the back of the western entrance to the station, there is a waste-silk spinning mill, established in the ninth year of Meiji (1876). In Tateishi village, there is Ō... (continues on the next page)

[Marginal note:]
Kanasana Shrine — Festival: 29th day of the 9th month