[Upper section – Illustration]
Shinmachi Station
　Waste-silk Spinning Mill

[Lower section – Main text]
(Continued from previous page)

...there is a stone Kannon (Guanyin) image inscribed with the date "Eighteenth day of the third month, Kanoto-U [year], the eighteenth year of [the Ei era]." A temporary bridge has been erected over the Karasu River. The river's source rises in the mountains of Kawauramura village in Usui District and flows into the Tone River. Iwahana-machi is a post station situated between [Shinmachi and Takasaki]. Recently, the Army Ministry has constructed a munitions factory there. Within the precincts of the Kannon hall at that location, there is an ancient stone monument inscribed with "Third month, [day], third year of Gentoku."

○Kuragano　Approximately 1 ri and 8 chō:
The castle ruins where Kuragano Mikawa-no-kami and Kuragano Awaji-no-kami and others resided are located at the rear of the post station. The site of the mansion of Sano Chōja is beside Saikō-ji Temple in Sano village. The personal history of Sano Chōja is not clearly known. The site of the residence of Gen'zaemon Tsuneyo is in the same village, and a small shrine called "Tsuneyo-no-Miya" still remains there. The shrine of Lord Teika [Fujiwara no Teika] is in Sano Niifu village, but it is a shrine built by the hands of enthusiastic amateurs and is not worthy of serious consideration. The historic site of the Sano Funabashi (boat bridge) is in Sano village. The great hackberry tree to which the boats were moored when the Karasu River was crossed by a boat bridge in ancient times still stands today. There is a renowned Buddha image known as the "Funaki Kannon." The Sano Funabashi is a famous historic site whose poems of verse have been included in many imperially commissioned anthologies from the Man'yōshū onward down through successive generations.

○Takasaki　Approximately 2 ri and 24 chō:
There is a branch garrison of the Tokyo Garrison. There is a shrine to Minamoto Sanmi Yorimasa.