[Illustration]
Takasaki Town
"Akagiyama Sukedachi" – An ancient illustration of the festival

[Banner] "Divine Messenger (Shinshi)"

It is recorded in the *Hobōtei Sōki* that this festival died out during the Kyōhō era.

[Main text]

(In Takasaki,) there is a telegraph branch office, a permanent theater, and other such establishments. It is the most prosperous town on the Nakasendō, with a total of 4,948 households (survey of Meiji 13 [1880]). The main road from this post station toward Ikaho passes through the two stations of Kaneko and Shibukawa, which are also routes leading into Niigata Prefecture. In particular, the Shimizu Pass route had a new road opened from Meiji 13 onward, making the road level and easy to travel. It is said that within the precincts of the Konpira shrine at the station there is an ancient stone monument.

○ Kaneko　[Several characters illegible/redacted]　In this area, sericulture is so flourishing throughout that there are places where one can see almost nothing but mulberry trees and virtually no other vegetation.

○ Shibukawa　Approximately 2 ri and 6 chō:
There are the ruins of an old fortification in which Shibukawa Yoshiaki took refuge. Sweetfish (ayu) from the Tone River are a famous local product of this station, and their flavor surpasses that of fish from other places.

"Mikage-no-Matsu" (The Pine of the Imperial Shade): Located halfway along the Ikaho road, this pine was originally called "Ippon-matsu" (The Lone Pine). In the seventh month of Meiji 12 (1879), when the Empress Dowager made a royal visit to Ikaho, she rested (onodachi) beneath this pine tree. The nobleman Madenokōji Hirofusa, who attended in her retinue, composed the following poem on the spot:

"Beneath the shelter of the pine amid the grasses, / enduring for a thousand ages — / what remains is the shade of Your Majesty."

The text recording this history was composed by Kajitori, the Governor of Gunma Prefecture, and was carved into stone... (continues on the next page)