[Illustration]
"Mikage-no-Matsu" (The Pine of the Imperial Shade)
　Also known as "Onodachi-no-Matsu" (The Pine of the Royal Rest)

[Main text]
…a stone monument was erected at the base of the pine, the tree was renamed, and it came to be called "Mikage-no-Matsu" (The Pine of the Imperial Shade). This pine is an old and venerable tree, with lush green branches and foliage spread in abundance. Thanks to the honor bestowed by the imperial visit, its fame shall surely be passed down for thousands of generations to come.

○ Shortcut from Takasaki　○ Takasaki　3 ri　○ Kashiwagisawa　1.5 ri
At Minebayashi there is a roadside rest-stop teahouse (tateba-chaya). In the village of Yamakoda there is an ancient temple of the Shingon sect called Funao-zan Ryūtaku-ji. The road gradually climbs upward, and upon reaching the open highlands, one commands a sweeping view of Mount Akagi, the Tone River, and other scenery — the landscape being particularly beautiful.

○ Mizusawa　Just over 1 ri:
At Gotokuzan Suizawa-ji temple, the Kannon (Goddess of Mercy) designated as the 16th station of the Bandō Thirty-Three Kannon Pilgrimage is enshrined. According to the temple's founding legend (engi), this temple was once a great complex with more than three hundred sub-temples within its precincts. At the hamlet (aza) called "Dō-no-mae" in the same area, ancient foundation stones remain and old roof tiles bearing cloth impressions (nunome) have been found. Furthermore, from the bamboo grove in the hamlet called "Miya-no-mae," an ancient bronze sutra cylinder (kyōzutsu) was unearthed, and there is also a person who dug up a purple-copper (shidō) incense burner. Moreover, beside the Kannon Hall there is an ancient stone monument dated to the third year of Gangyō (879 CE), as well as a hexagonal revolving hall (untendō) enshrining six bronze statues of Jizō. The waterfall at Funao in the Utsubo-sawa valley in the same area reaches a height of… (continues on the next page)

[Marginal note]
This is the sato-miya (subsidiary shrine) of Kurogami Shrine.