Taro [Odo Ryutaro] was in charge. From the same month until October of Meiji 4 (1871), the Maebashi Domain administered the area. From the same month until Meiji 6 (1873), Prefectural Governor Kawase Hideji oversaw administration. From that year, it has come under the current Prefectural Governor, Kadori Motohiko.

○ The hot spring source of Ikaho flows up from numerous spots within approximately one hundred ken (approx. 180 meters) to the east of the Yumoto Sanja (Three Shrines of the Spring Source), and is channeled through pipes (樋) to the lodging houses. Notably, when withered plants are immersed in this mineral spring, they revive and turn green again within a short time. Furthermore, when river fish are raised in the hot spring water, they grow fatter than those raised in ordinary water. These two phenomena have not been heard of at any other hot spring.

○ From early May to mid-June by the solar calendar, the hototogisu (little cuckoo, known here as the "Jihi-shin bird") sings both day and night. Also, the kajika frog (commonly called "koma-gaeru") inhabits the streams of Yuzawa, and its voice is exceedingly beautiful.

○ In the Yuzawa stream, there is soil containing soda (sodium carbonate), and when this soil is dissolved and used for washing, it is remarkably effective at removing oil and grime from hair.

○ The "榛原 (harinohara/haribara) of Ikaho-ro no Sohi" mentioned in the Yakumo Misho, the Man'yoshu, and other classical texts refers to the government-owned meadowland of 53 cho, 9 tan, and 2 se (approximately 53 hectares) stretching from the foot of Futatsu-dake to the area of Nishizawa. It is a place of great antiquity and scenic renown.

○ It appears that in ancient times, inkstone (硯石) was quarried here, as evidenced by a place name "Suzuriishi" in the Kabutsu area. Fossilized wood (petrified wood) still emerges from the ground at the hot spring source area today.

○ Local products: ○ Turned woodwork (lathe crafts) ○ Yubana-zome (hot spring flower-dyed) cotton cloth warms the skin and is the finest article for preventing cold. ○ Newly manufactured Ikaho onkjaku (warming stones) ○ Ika— (continues on next page)