【Right page】
There is one such work. This was created following the model of the Chinese "Xiaoxue" (Elementary Learning). At the end of this book, matters concerning Shinto shrines are recorded. This may be because this man favored the Way of the Gods.

"Onna Shōgaku" (Elementary Learning for Women) was created by a person of the Uhō family. It presents the righteous way for women, showing it to his daughter, and was committed to print.

"Onna Daigaku" (Great Learning for Women) was created by Kaibara Ekiken of Chikuzen, whose given name was Atsunobu. "Yamato Zokukun" (Japanese Popular Instructions) was also created by Ekiken. Volumes one and two are called "Igaku" (For Learning). Volumes three and four are called "Shinjutsu" (Mental Arts). Volume five explains clothing and language, volumes six and seven contain "kyūkō" (personal cultivation), and volume eight explains social interaction.

"Gojōkun" (Instructions on the Five Constants), "Dōjikun" (Instructions for Children), and "Kadōkun" (Instructions on Family Way) were all created by Kaibara Ekiken.

"Yamato Jogun" (Japanese Instructions for Women) was created by Banryōshi of Kumamoto in Higo, a person named Izawa Masahide.

【Left page】
"Jogun Misago-gusa" (Women's Instructions: Osprey Grass) was also created by Izawa Masahide. The preface to this work was written by Suga, the daughter of the Izawa family.

"Jogun Okina-gusa" (Women's Instructions: Old Man Grass) was created by a person named Takeda Shun'an Sadanao of Chikuzen.

Works like "Onna Jitsugo-kyō" (True Word Teaching for Women), "Onna Dōji-kyō" (Children's Teaching for Women), and "Onna Imagawa" (Imagawa for Women) are generally by those unfamiliar with the way of literature, but they seem not bad for teaching young women.

　　　The Twenty-One Imperial Anthologies

The Twenty-One Imperial Anthologies refers to collections of Japanese poetry (waka). The "Man'yōshū" is a book of ancient poems, selected by Minister of the Left Tachibana no Moroe during the reign of the Nara emperor, but it is not included among these. The Twenty-One Imperial Anthologies begin with the "Kokin Wakashū" in twenty volumes 《marginal note: Ki no Tsurayuki, Ki no Tomonori, Ōshikōchi no Mitsune, Mibu no Tadamine》