[Right page]
After that, one should read collections of poetry, whatever they may be, about a hundred times.
By continuing to read in this manner, one will generally become able to compose poetry,
as someone has said.

For books to consult regarding the methods of composing poetry and poetic conventions, there are: "Yakumo Misho" 《Imperial compilation by Emperor Juntoku》, "Waka Yoi" 《Commentary by the Nijo family》, "Eika Taigai" 《By Teika》, "Yakumo Kuden" 《By Tameie》, "Etsumoku-sho" 《By Mototoshi》, "Kinrai Futei-sho" 《By Go-Joenji》, "Waka Teikin-sho" 《By Teika》, "Chidai-sho" 《Commentary by the Asukai family》, "Sanken Hiketsu" 《By Tameie》, "Shinsen Zuino" 《By Kinto》, "Gumon Kenchu" 《Questions by Go-Joenji, annotations by Ton'a》, "Jitei-ki" 《Discussions by Hosokawa Genji, recorded by Mitsuhiro》, "Seiai-sho" 《By Ton'a》, "Yusai Kikigaki" 《By Hosokawa Genji》, "Karin Ryozai" 《By Kaneyoshi》, "Shogaku Wakashiki" 《By Chohaku》, and such. One should study these carefully to understand the heart of poetry.

Tales and Storybooks

Books called tales (monogatari) and storybooks (soshi) seem to have been created as material for composing prose in Japanese script.

[Left page]
Therefore, when one reads through the various volumes, the elegant and touching nature of the language is incomparably beautiful and deeply moving. Among these, books such as "The Tale of Genji," "Sagoromo," "The Tales of Ise," "The Tales of Yamato," "The Tale of Flowering Fortunes," "The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter," "The Tale of the Hollow Tree," "The Pillow Book," "The Kagero Diary," and "Essays in Idleness" are all considered masterpieces of prose from ancient times.

"The Tale of Genji" is said to consist of sixty chapters, but the actual number of books is fifty-four chapters. The language is so refined that it is difficult for ordinary people to read, so there are many annotated editions. These include "Genji Monogatari-sho" 《author unknown》, "Kogetsu-sho" 《by Kitamura Kigin》, "Joha-sho" 《transmitted from Shomyoin-den》, "Myojo-sho" 《by Nishisanjo Sanko-in》, "Ben'in-sho" 《by Ikkado》, "Komoku" 《by Sai Dochi》, "Kyoen" 《by Matsunaga Teitoku》, "Bansui Ichiro" 《by Noto Eikan, a disciple's disciple of Sogi》, "Kakai-sho" 《by Yotsuji Sadaijin》, "Binko Nyu-so" 《by Nakain Yasoku-ken》, and such commentaries are excellent. Those fifty-four chapters are: