【Right page】
Narashiba (Oak Grass), Suma, Akashi, Mugwort, Hazy, New Pillow, Shifting Fragrance, Nakatsu, Thin Clouds, Wrinkled, Offering, Double Chrysanthemum, Floating Island, Winter Field, Flower-Scattering Village, Winter, Morning Glory Flower, Year's End, River Waves, Bridge Princess, Chrysanthemum, Tanabata (Star Festival), Channel Marker, Willow, Mikasa, Chinese Mahogany, Matsudo, Field Shrine, Plucking, Tatsuta, May Rain, Small Island, Indian Summer, First Wild Goose, Bamboo Snow, Deep Mountain.

Among the many varieties of famous incenses, I have selected the particularly excellent ones and recorded over fifty of them here.

Incense Blending Methods
According to the book "Incense Blending Methods" written in the calligraphy of Emperor Go-Komatsu, there are various methods for blending incense, but six types are commonly blended: Plum Blossom, Black Method, Chamberlain,

【Left page】
Chrysanthemum Flower, Fallen Leaves, and Lotus Leaf. People of old blended all of these according to the seasons, but this is not much seen in today's world. In spring there is Plum Blossom, which corresponds to the fragrance of plum blossoms. In autumn there is Fallen Leaves, which has the refreshingly cool fragrance of the time when autumn leaves scatter. In winter there is Chrysanthemum Flower, which is no different from the fragrance of chrysanthemum flowers. In Lord Ono-no-miya's blending method, it is recorded as the fragrance of longevity and long life. Black Method has a deep fragrance during the depths of winter's cold. Chamberlain is likened to times when the autumn wind is desolate and the heart is melancholy. However, in today's world, only Black Method is blended, because the incense ingredients are few and the fragrance is superior.

Plum Blossom consists of: First, aloeswood eight ryō two bu. Second, zhan tang one bu three shu. Third, shell incense three ryō one bu. Fourth, cloves two ryō two bu. Fifth, sandalwood two bu three shu. Sixth, sweet pine one bu. Seventh, frankincense one bu. Eighth, musk two bu.