The reason why variolation does not cause a second occurrence need not be mentioned, so I will omit it here.

When people go to the trouble of having their children variolated to escape great calamity, there are evil people who say things like "someone caught smallpox a second time in such-and-such place" and "there was someone who died young from variolation in that place," speaking as if it were true and causing the parents to doubt. If there are such rumors, since it is for the sake of one's child, one should exert all effort (with all one's might) to thoroughly investigate and examine them. They are certainly false stories. However, since incompetent doctors who recklessly perform variolation without knowing how to distinguish between genuine and fake vaccines do cause failures regularly, selecting the right doctor is of primary importance when it comes to variolation.

　　On Not Blaming Other Diseases on Variolation

If other diseases arise around the time of variolation or afterward, people inevitably assume that variolation caused them, leading the parents to greatly regret their decision and even resent those who recommended it. This is ultimately because their doubts about variolation never leave them. Since all diseases can arise at any time unpredictably, there is no guarantee that diseases will not occur whether during or outside of variolation. To blame all of these on variolation is extremely unreasonable. When one properly understands the principles of variolation, such doubts do not arise.

　　On Not Leaving All Matters of Variolation to Laypeople's Speculation

Children should receive variolation from forty days after birth onward. From around six or seven months until teething, it is better not to do it if possible. Also, one should know that regardless of hot or cold weather, without avoiding wind, rain, frost, or snow, and needless to say, without regard to auspicious or inauspicious days. However, people in the world rely merely on laypeople's speculation...

[Marginal note at top]
This does not mean it absolutely cannot be done during teething