【Continuation of Yōgaku-ji Temple】
This is the temple of Ki-shi, with Bunshitsu Oshō as the founding priest. 《Yōgaku is the Buddhist name of the Mukai clan》The priest was a Dharma disciple of Hakushitsu Oshō of Kentō-ji Temple in Misaki, Sagami Province. 《Kentō-ji Temple is also said to be a temple established through donations from the feudal lord Mukai clan》

Statue of Shaka Nyorai Emerging from the Mountain《A standing statue about three shaku tall, an extremely fine work. According to the temple records, it was carved by a person named Tsubouchi Ōsumi Masakatsu at the request of Bunshitsu Oshō of this temple》

Tomb of the Second Generation Hanabusa Itchō《Located within the temple's pagoda area, the gravestone inscription reads "Kikugai Dōrin Shinji, Genbun 2nd year, Ding-si, intercalary 11th month, 12th day." His common name was Chōhachi and his given name was Nobukatsu》

Eijuzan Kaifuku-ji Temple　Located on the right side of the middle section of Teramachi-dōri in the same area. It is a Zen temple of the Ōbaku sect and one of the two head temples (fure-gashira) in Edo. Founded in the first year of Manji (1658), the founding priest was Zen Master Ingen, and the restorer was Dokuhon Oshō. The principal Buddha is Shaka Nyorai, with statues of Kashō, Anan, and the Sixteen Arhats placed on the left and right. There is also a portrait of the founding priest, Zen Master Ingen.

【Illustration 1】
Daitoku Hōden
Buddha Hall《The plaque hangs on the double roof and is written by the founding priest Zen Master Ingen》

【Illustration 2】
Mujin-tō (Inexhaustible Light)
《The plaque hanging above the principal Buddha, written by the same hand as above》

【Illustration 3】
Myōsō zuihatsu banjō gyokki chōgenzu
Jimon kōkai senshū fukukai jin raichō
Couplet《Hanging on the left and right pillars of the principal Buddha, written by the same hand》

【Illustration 4】
Kongō myōdō ryū zen bandai
Zensatsu chūkō hōrai shin senshū
Couplet《Hanging on the same front pillars, written by the seventh-generation priest Taishū Oshō of this temple》

【Illustration 5】
Tennō-den
King of Heaven Hall《Houses a statue of Kuan-ti inside. The plaque hangs on the eaves of the second floor》

【Illustration 6】
Gokoku shūmin fū takaku shite butsu wo uruwoshi
Gōma seiho wo tori motte uchū wo yasunzu
Couplet《Hanging on the left and right pillars, written by Taihō》

【Illustration 7】
Bell Tower
《The inscription on the bell was composed by Zen Master Ingen. The text is as follows》

[Bell inscription in classical Chinese describing the temple's great bell, its history through fires and reconstruction, composed by the founding master Ingen at age 81]

Nine-Story Pagoda《Located beside the pond in the temple grounds, it is a stone pagoda about one jō tall. According to tradition, it belonged to Takeda Shingen. Long ago, someone from the Tsuchiya clan possessed it, but it was later moved and erected at this temple》