【Illustration】
Bashō-an (Bashō's Hermitage)

　The old pond—
　　　a frog
　　jumps
　　　in,

　the sound
　　　of water

　　Tōsei (Bashō)

【Main Text】
(In the past, it was located south of the shrine grounds, in what is now the land of the Inoue family's domain residence.) Every year on the 13th days of the first and ninth months, there are traditional festivals. These are called busha (archery ceremonies). According to tradition, long ago a village headman named Fukagawa Hachirōemon, who pioneered this area, invited the kami of both Grand Shrines of Ise to his residential land and had the founding priest Shūjun Hōin of Senyōji Temple serve them. This place is said to be the former site of the Fukagawa family residence.

(Additionally, the records of Senyōji Temple contain facts about the establishment of Fukagawa. According to the summary, the land of Fukagawa was originally a vast wilderness, and at that time there lived a person from Settsu Province who called himself Fukagawa Hachirōemon. In the first year of Keichō (1596), when Tokugawa Ieyasu first came to this land, he asked this Hachirōemon about the place name. Since it was desolate, sprawling land with no other inhabitants besides this Hachirōemon, he replied that there was no place name. Thereupon came the strict command that he should pioneer this land and use the characters of his surname "Fukagawa" as the place name, which is how the name Fukagawa originated. This Hachirōemon's descendants lived in this area for several generations serving as village headmen, but during the Hōreki era (1751-1764), due to certain circumstances, the family line was discontinued. However, since Senyōji Temple was Hachirōemon's family temple, the graves of the Fukagawa family from successive generations still remain. The farmland called Hachirōemon Shinden to the east of Sunamura Shinden in the same area is also named after this person's development. Today, the local people colloquially call that area Yonjūchō-mura as a place name.

Incidentally, in the pond of this Senyōji Temple there are lotus flowers with double red petals. Because the flower shape resembles peonies, many people come to enjoy them during blooming season. Since these flowers first bloomed in late summer of Kansei 10 (1798), this has continued every year until now and should be considered a remarkable sight.)

Mantokusan Mirokuji Temple: Located about two chō away from the same place, at the north end of Miroku Bridge. It is a Shingon Shingi sect temple head and one of the four temples of Edo. The principal deity is Yakushi Nyorai (commonly called Kawakami Yakushi; its origins are unknown as records have been lost). The restorer and founder is called Priest Yūban. The inscription "Mirokuji" on the main gate was written by Setsugetsu-dō of Korea. This temple was originally located in Yanagihara but suffered a fire in Tenna 2 (1682).