According to tradition, in the spring of Meireki 3, year of the Fire Rooster (January 18th and 19th), approximately 108,000 people died in the Great Fire of Edo. At that time, by shogunal command, this land was selected, and the burned corpses were buried in a plot of land about 60 steps square, with a large burial mound built on top, called the "Muen-zuka" (Mound for the Unclaimed Dead). To pray for the souls of the deceased, Kiya Dai-osho, the 23rd abbot of Zojoji Temple, was ordered to establish a Buddhist temple. This is the current temple (Ekoin). (It was formerly called Shoshuzan Muen-ji. Details of the Meireki Great Fire can be found in a booklet called "Musashi Kagami.") Monks from various sects were gathered to recite 1,000 volumes of sutras in front of the mound for seven days, holding a great Buddhist memorial service. However, since there was no resident priest, Shin'yo Jishin, a priest from Chion-ji Temple in Koishikawa who was well-known during the Doko era, was moved to this temple and became the second abbot, called the founding priest. Therefore, this priest built temple buildings on top of the mound and made it a hall for continuous nembutsu chanting to eternally help the souls of the dead find peace. (Incidentally, Priest Shin'yo was skilled at creating Buddhist statues, resembling the sculptures of Priest Eshin Sozu. All the Buddhist statues enshrined at this temple are said to be sculptures by this priest.)

Tenneizan Gohyaku Dairakan Zenji Temple - Located in Honjo Itsume, south of Tate River, this is a Obaku sect Zen temple and the foremost famous temple east of the river. The founding priest was Zen Master Tetsugen, and the restorer was Priest Sosen, and also

【Illustration】
The lotus flowers that bloom at the edge of the pond at Sarue Senyoji Temple are double-petaled red flowers whose shape resembles peonies, making them a rare and wonderful sight. Since they first bloomed in late summer of Kansei 9, they have continued to do so every year until now.