The features of the Buddhist statues are mysteriously antique, and their dignified bearing whether seated or standing is so majestic that they appear alive. Their skillful craftsmanship is beyond what ordinary people can achieve. They make worshippers feel as if the assembly at Vulture Peak has not yet dispersed. In the same eighth year, summer of the fifth month of Kinoto-I (though the bell inscription says the seventh month), the petition reached the government, and they were granted 1,500 tan of temple grounds, as well as the temple name "Tennōzan Rakanji." Accordingly, they temporarily constructed temple buildings and relocated the Buddhist statues. In the eighth month of the same year, Zen Master Kōsen of the Ōbaku sect happened to be traveling east, so they welcomed him as the officiating priest for the eye-opening ceremony. They also made their former master, Zen Master Tetsugen, the founding abbot, out of respect for their origins. At that time, the temple also became a branch temple of Mount Ōbaku. Zen Master Shōun already had plans for constructing the temple complex at that time, but the proper time had not yet come. In Hōei 7 (1710), Kōno-Tora year, he once fell ill and did not recover for over a month, finally passing away peacefully on the 11th day of the 7th month of autumn that year. He was sixty-three years old at the time. (42 years since ordination)

[Illustration]
Names of the Five Hundred Great Arhats

First Group:
Ājñāta-kauṇḍinya, Aniruddha, Yuxian Wugou
Subhadra, Kāludāyin, Wenshan Deguo
Candana-garbha-rāja, Shichuang Wugou, Gavāṃpati
Yintuo Dehui

Eleventh Group:
Kāṇa-gyāna, Vasu-bandhu, Fajie Sile
Uruvilvā, Buddha-mitta, Nadī-kāśyapa
Nāyana Dengmu, Buddha-nandī, Madhyāntika
Nanda Duohua

Twenty-first Group:
Upagupta, Saṃgha-yaśas, Jiaoshuo Changzhu
Nanna Hexiu, Dharma-bala, Gayā-kāśyapa
Dingguo Deye, Zhuangyan Wuyou, Yichi Yinyuan
Kāṇa-deva

Thirty-first Group:
Poye Shentong, Jianchi Sanzi, A-nu-ruddha
Kumāralāta, Dulong Guiyi, Tongsheng Jishou
Piluo Chanzi, Fasuomiduo, Shetiśuna
Sengfa Yeshe

Forty-first Group:
Beimi Shijian, Xianhua Tiji, Yanguang Dingli
Gayāśana, Shadi Bichu, Pojia Tiba
Jiekong Wugou, Futu Miduo, Funa Yeshe
Gaye Tianyan

Fifty-first Group:
Buzhe Shijian, Jiekong Diyi, Luodu Wujin
Jingang Pomo, Yuanhu Shijian, Wuyou Chanding
Wuzuo Huishan, Shijie Huishan, Zhantan Dexiang
Jinshan Jueyi