[Continuation of Gohyaku Rakan Zen Temple]
In the year Kinoe-Tatsu, twelfth month, the Shogun first visited this temple, and thereafter in the fifteenth year, first month, he attended the evening service. The following year in the twelfth month, the head priest Zōsen conducted the ceremony in the abbot's quarters. In the same nineteenth year Kinoe-Tora, thirty se of land was granted, and in the twentieth year Kinoto-U, a new hall was built within the precincts. From that time forward, whenever falconry took place in this area, the Shogun would invariably stop by this temple. On the first day of each month, Kannon repentance rituals are performed, and on the fifteenth day there is recitation of the Great Wisdom Sutra. When the seventh month arrives, evening feeding of hungry ghosts is performed daily, and on the 16th, 21st, 25th, and last day of the month, monks and laypeople particularly gather in crowds. Since Master Zōsen's time, the head priests of this temple have made it their religious practice to go begging daily through the streets of great Edo, regardless of wind, rain, cold, or heat.

Dazaifu Tenmangū Located in Kameido Village, hence also called Kameido Tenmangū.
The temple administrator is called Tengenzan Higashi-anrakuji Seibyōin, and it is served by the Ōtorii family as administrative officer and head priest. 《The temple administrator of this shrine is included in the bakufu's linked verse gatherings, and every year on the eleventh day of the first month, goes to Edo Castle to perform a hundred-verse linked poem session》 The temporary shrine is located south of this shrine, in the fourth district of Kita-Matsushiro-chō on Tatekawa Street. 《It is modeled after Enoki Temple in Chikuzen Province, has a Yakushi Hall, and on the twenty-fourth day of the eighth month during festivals, the portable shrine is transferred to this place》

Main Shrine Deity: Tenman Daijizaiten-shin Side shrines: 《Ame-no-hohi-no-mikoto, Haji-no-sukune》 Three seats
Red Plum Hall 《Located to the front right of the main shrine, it is a sapling of the flying plum tree transplanted from Dazaifu in Chikuzen》 Old Pine Hall 《Similarly arranged to the left, enshrining the spirit of Hōshōbō Son'i Sōjō from Kitano in the capital》
《Since he was Kan-shin's teacher, he is worshipped here. The day of the Rabbit is the festival day, and particularly on the first Rabbit day of the New Year, worshippers gather in crowds》 Hanazono Shrine 《Located to the right of the purification pond, enshrining Kan-shin's northern direction and fourteen child deities as side shrines》 Tongū Myōjin 《Located in the same place. Long ago when Kan-shin was exiled to Tsukushi, he arrived at Enoki Temple in that province in the evening but had no lodging. When he sought a humble house, the old man of the house heartlessly said that lodging could not be provided to an exiled person, but the old woman of the house was compassionate and laid fresh straw mats above the door to receive him, offering rice with koji served on pine needles. When he said "sincerity is wrapped in pine needles," this expressed that proverb. Tongū refers to that old woman. The old man is bound with rope, and behind both stand two demons, one blue and one red》 Hyōsube Shrine 《Located in the same place, said to enshrine a kappa that Kan-shin encountered. Considered a deity of water protection》 Linked Verse House 《Located west of the pond, linked verse gatherings are held at this place》

《On the twelfth day of the second month of Enpō 5 (Hinoto-Mi), when the Shogun stopped by this linked verse house during falconry in this area, it is said that even during the Kyōhō period, repairs were ordered by the government》

Urashiro Linked Verse Gathering 《Held at the linked verse house on the second day of the New Year》 Young Greens Divine Offering 《On the seventh day, having prepared rice cakes with young greens this morning as offerings, from New Year's Day until this day, every morning the head priest and shrine attendants offer divine food》 Rapeseed Ritual 《On the twenty-fifth day of the second month, being the anniversary of Kan-shin's death, on the twenty-fourth day there is an all-night linked verse gathering, and at noon on the twenty-fifth day, before the altar, the shrine attendants [offer] plum [continues]》