《Title: Barbarian Trading Post Paintings》

【My Personal Opinion on This Book】
There is an inscription of provenance on the final page 23 image titled "Garden Tending and Flower Loving Picture" of this book.
It reads:
　Calendar year one thousand seven hundred ninety-seven, November eleventh, written at Dejima
　　Attached sundial　　Gijsbert Hemmij

When converting the Western calendar to the Japanese calendar, this corresponds to the twenty-third day of the ninth month of Kansei 9 (1797). When searching for the author online, Gijsbert Hemmij (1747-1798) comes up as a hit. This appears to be a posthumous work created just before his death. Additionally, each page contains a paper strip labeled "author," and this person is likely the creator.

Information about this person is outlined on an explanatory plaque at the Tennenji Temple cemetery that still remains in Kakegawa-juku, as follows:

"Grave of Gijsbert Hemmij
　During the Edo period when Japan practiced national isolation, Dejima in Nagasaki served as a gateway for trade with Holland and China. At the Dutch trading post on Dejima, from Kan'ei 10 (1633), once every year, and from Kansei 2 (1790), once every four years, they would have an audience with the shogun at Edo Castle, present tribute, and express gratitude for trade and commerce permissions. Gijsbert Hemmij was also a member of such diplomatic missions.
　Hemmij's party of over seventy people departed Nagasaki at the beginning of Kansei 10 (1798) and had an audience with the 11th shogun Ienari in April. Then, while returning to Nagasaki after departing Edo in May, they lodged at the Kakegawa Renjaku honjin of Hayashi Kitazaemon on June 5th. His long-standing illness worsened at this location, and he died on June 8th, being buried at Tennenji Temple. He was fifty-one years old.
　This grave is in the shape of an inverted kamaboko-type stone monument, with its origins written in Dutch on the surface. The surface has already weathered and become illegible. The grave inscription has been re-carved onto a memorial monument, with a translation also provided.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kakegawa City　　　"

Furthermore, Hemmij's position was as the top trading post director (Kapitan) of the Dutch trading post on Dejima in Nagasaki, and he was assigned to Japan in Kansei 5 (1793), serving for six years until his death by illness in Kakegawa-juku.