「Right Volume」
Item: One official vessel　Archer　One boat attendant, fifteen oarsmen
Attached note
　I say: With five small fast boats
　they repelled [the enemy], and because of the large cannons
　firing without pause,
　and coming around to the front,
　forgetting that ammunition had been loaded,
　double-loading likely occurred.
　Ikuzaemon's regret.
　This is for the instruction
　of future generations.
Main text
Thus Jishima rowed out to the offing, and looking far out at the Chinese ship, since tonight was the night of July 14th, the Chinese ship also had many lanterns lit and appeared lively, so the location of the Chinese ship was clearly visible. Since it was a summer night, from around the hour of the Boar (9-11 PM) they quietly approached without making any sound with their oars, and by around the height of the hour of the Ox (1-3 AM) they had rowed up to the Chinese ship. Since it was a moonlit night, there was no need to wait for daylight to attack, but if they all attacked at once in the middle of the night there might be friendly fire incidents which would be troublesome, so they decided on rotating attacks, lining up in a great formation and rowing around and around, with each vessel firing two shots at a time.

「Left Volume」
They attacked while rowing around, and the Chinese were startled by the unexpected gunfire in the middle of the night, panicking with great commotion inside their ship. At this point, Ōta Bunkurō tried to fire but the ignition failed, so his assistant Tanaka Muraemon approached, added priming powder, took the match cord and had him fire, but again the ignition failed, so Bunkurō could not fire. Muraemon fired one shot and rowed through together with the others. Everyone rowed around brightly and attacked. Ōta regretfully thought about his gun not firing, so he stuck the muzzle on the deck, transferred the ammunition, and loaded additional gunpowder. Since there were seven cannon boats, at a good moment Ōta tried to fire again, but when rowing around to fire, it failed to ignite as before, so Tanaka said: