【Upper right】
Kanto
Great Fire and
　Great
　Earthquake
【Upper left】
Relief huts at three locations:
Asakusa Hirokoji
Fukagawa Umibe Daikucho
Outside Saiwai-bashi Omitsuke
【Lower section】
When the harmony of heaven and earth is disturbed, negative energy fills the underground and erupts all at once - on land this is called an earthquake, and on the sea it is called a tsunami. When it occurs in the mountains, caves collapse and such - all are caused by unfavorable wind and rain, and are fearsome great disasters. On the night of the second day of the tenth month of winter in the second year of Ansei (1855), around four o'clock, a great earthquake struck the Kanto region, instantly collapsing houses and taking lives like candles flickering before the wind. First, among the burned areas in Edo, Senju Kozukahara burned completely, most of Senju post town collapsed, Sanya Bridge collapsed entirely, and dozens of houses near Imado Bridge burned. All five districts of Shin-Yoshiwara burned completely with an enormous number of deaths. Ta-cho 1st and 2nd districts, Yamakawa-cho, Asakusa Takemon, Kita-Umamichi, Shoden-yokocho, the three theater districts, temples in Kita-tani and Naka-tani, and about half a block from Minami-Umamichi to Hanakawado burned. Yama-no-yado-cho and Shoden-cho collapsed. Sensoji Temple was safe but the thunder god of Kaminarimon shook loose. Hirokoji and the tree-lined area completely collapsed. Fire broke out from the middle of Komagata-cho, burning through Suwa-cho, Kurofune-cho, and stopping at Oumaya riverbank. Okura-mae, Kaya-cho area, Tomisaka-cho, and Morishita area suffered major damage, while Higashi-mon ruins were safe. Near Kikuya Bridge, Shinstera-cho and Shinbori burned partially. From Daion-ji to Minowa and Kanasugi area collapsed, and Sakamoto's 3rd district burned. Yamazaki-cho Higashi-saka and the street in front of Kotoku-ji had many collapses. Also, many died within Yamamoto Nitayu's estate and all houses collapsed. Other temples suffered extensive major damage. ○ Yanaka, Misaki, Sendagi, and Komagome had few collapses. Most of Nezu Monzen collapsed. From Ike-no-hata Kaya-cho 2nd district boundary toward Inari shrine, fire spread, burning all of the 1st district and stopping at the gate. Kiridoshi slope bottom suffered major collapse. In Naka-cho, one side had many collapses while both sides had few. Osukiya-cho suffered major collapse. From the middle of Hirokoji east side to Ito Matsusakaya corner, and from Ueno-cho to Choja-cho area burned. From near Okachi-cho to Shamisen-bori and Nanamagari, daimyo residences and group estates collapsed, though not severely. From Onaritori to Myojin-shita had much damage, while outer Kanda townhouses had few collapses. Yushima Tenjin had few collapses but Monzen-cho had many. Tsumagoicho didn't collapse at all and Inari shrine was safe. Hongo plateau had little damage. From Sujichigai gate to Nihonbashi street, both left and right sides of Kanda east and west had many collapses. In Ogawa-cho, the Hongo residence, Matsudaira Kii-no-kami, Itakura, and Toda residences burned. Outside Sakakibara residence burned. Inside Kanda bridge, Sakai Ugaku-no-kami and the residence opposite, Tatsuno-kuchi corner Morikawa Dewa-no-kami, and at the lower mouth, Yashiro-su riverbank Uemura Tajima-no-kami, Inshu residence, fire brigade estates, etc. Inside Wadakura gate, Matsudaira Higo-no-kami and Matsudaira Shimosa-no-kami burned. The neighborhood collapsed, and elsewhere in Marunouchi, various daimyo residences had many collapses. Nabeshima's upper residence burned completely. Inside Yamashita gate, Abe residence completely collapsed, and from there inside Saiwai bridge, Matsudaira Kai-no-kami, Ito, and Kamei residences all burned. Satsuma's costume estate collapsed. In the alley area, most noble houses collapsed, with Kuroda's watchtower remaining. Nagata-cho Sanken-ya and Koji-cho area had few collapses. Yotsuya, Ichigaya, Ushigome, Kohinata, Koishikawa, and Bancho areas all had much damage. Akasaka, Aoyama, Azabu, Shibuya, Shirogane, Shinagawa, and Takanawa Daicho all had few collapses. Akabane, Mita, Iikura, and Nishi-no-kubo had many collapses. Zojoji Temple was safe. ○ In North Honjo, Matsudaira Suwo-no-kami in Naka-no-go burned. This area had major collapses with fires breaking out in various places. Banba-cho and Benten-koji area burned. Other temples had much damage. Houses on Hoon-ji bridge burned. Two places in Kameido burned. Along Tatekawa street, from Kiryu-cho, Midori-cho, to Mitsume and Hana-cho burned. From Ofunagura-mae-cho to Kuroe-cho, Na-gawa-cho, Rokken-bori, Morishita-cho, stopping at Takahashi. At the lower mouth, from Fukagawa Aioi-cho to Kuroe-cho, Oshima-cho, Hamaguri-cho, Eitai-ji Monzen-cho, stopping at Hachiman shrine torii. Also, Otome bridge opposite corner Okawa-bata burned slightly. Throughout Honjo and Fukagawa, the earthquake was strong with enormous damage. ○ From Nihonbashi south, east-west main street and riverbank street all suffered major collapse, with Minami-Tenma-cho two places, 3rd district left and right riverbank, burning to Kyobashi river street. Ginza-cho Sanjukken-bori and Owari-cho area loosened slightly. Opposite Shinbashi at Tsukiji, Kobiki-cho, Sakurada, Kubo-cho, and Atago-shita had many collapses. Shibaguchi street had few, Rogatsu-cho collapsed, Shibai-cho burned. Shinmei-cho and Mishima-cho had major collapses with many injured. Shinmei shrine was safe. All waterfront estates were damaged. Naka-monzen, Kata-monzen, Hamamatsu-cho, Kanasugi, and Honshiba area had few collapses. Tamachi, Okido, and Shinagawa post town had no particular collapses. From the following 3rd to the 7th day, there were small tremors daily but nothing particularly troublesome, gradually becoming calm. Relief was provided to the common people, with relief huts established at three locations. There was no one who did not express gratitude for this benevolent national grace. How grateful this was. However, there were thirty-two locations where fires broke out, but the burned areas are as shown in the diagram. Fire prevention!