[Marginal note: If so, then the ninth year of Tenshō would have been when he was twenty-two years old]

In the third month of Tenshō 10 (1582), when Kanmuri Castle in Bitchū Province was taken, he was the first to enter the castle. In the sixth month of the same year, at the Battle of Yamazaki, he led the charge. In the first month of Tenshō 11, at Kameyama Castle, he took the head of a worthy enemy. [Marginal note: This was someone called Ōmi Shinroku] In the fifth month, at the Battle of Shizugatake, he led the charge as one of ten horsemen and brought back a head. [Marginal note: He obtained the head of Toha Hayato] Thus he made his name known throughout the realm. [Marginal note: At this time he was granted an additional fief of 3,000 koku]

In the autumn of Tenshō 13 (1585), when Hideyoshi became Kampaku (Imperial Regent), Kiyomasa was granted court rank and appointed as Kazue-no-kami (Master of Accounts).

Then in the intercalary fifth month of Tenshō 16 (1588), after Sassa Mutsu-no-kami Narimasa, the governor of Higo, was removed from his domain, the province was divided between Kazue-no-kami Kiyomasa and Konishi Settsu-no-kami Yukinaga. [Marginal note: Each received 200,000 koku] Kiyomasa entered Kumamoto Castle. In the winter of that year, he attacked and destroyed all the castles in Iki and Amakusa where the local lords had barricaded themselves, thus pacifying the entire province.

Among Kiyomasa's many military exploits throughout his life, most notable was when the Taikō attacked Korea at the beginning of the Bunroku era. Together with men from Fukushima and Sagara, he invaded Hamgyeong Province. Kiyomasa's forces advanced even further and captured the Northern Route Military Commissioner Han Geukseong. [Marginal note: The military governor commonly referred to is this Han Geukseong] He penetrated even deeper into the northern route before withdrawing. [Marginal note: The commonly told story of entering Jurchen territory refers to this time] He also captured the two princes Imhae and Sunhwa at Hoeryeong, and while stationed at Anbyeon Prefecture, he subdued twenty-two counties of Hamgyeong and was said to be ready to invade Pyeongan Province as well. This caused great distress to the Korean court and ministers, and great fear among the Ming generals and soldiers. [Marginal note: At this time, Feng Zhonglü of the Ming came as an envoy to Kiyomasa's camp]

At this point, the peace negotiations between Japan and Ming...