1. We arrived on May 12th of the Rabbit year. The customs and circumstances of the people are similar to other places. The governance system here is also the same. This is also the place where the ship of Kōtayū from Ise Shirako drifted ashore. We heard that Captain Kōtayū and his sailors had been in this land for three years. On the following 13th, we departed this place for Kamchatka, heading in the northeast direction, a distance of over 1,300 ri.

1. Kamchatka
We did not put our ship to shore at this place. The distance from this place to Ohoutsuka is over 1,200 ri.

1. Ohoutsuka - Under Russian control with a Russian official residing there
1. On [blank] day of June in the Rabbit year, our ship arrived at a small river. This river serves as a port where goods from various countries are loaded onto ships. There are about 300 houses, built with timber. This was the first time we saw houses built with wood since coming to Russia. The house construction is like a diagram, with timber assembled in a crisscross pattern to form houses. All four sides are the same. Thick timber is laid on top, with soil placed about two feet thick, and then roof framing is built and covered with thick boards. The wood used is only pine and cherry. Cherry trees do not bloom because it is a cold country. The rain shutters are thick boards about three inches thick. The sliding doors are made of glass. For food, they use barley and wheat in small quantities. Bowls are made by hollowing out joined wood, and trays serve as dining tables. We stayed at this place for ten months and departed on April 4th of the Dragon year. From here we traveled overland for over 1,000 ri, with no human habitation along this entire route. We fifteen people were assigned one guide, with thirty horses carrying food supplies. We all rode on horseback and camped outdoors at night. After traveling about 700-800 ri, about ten of the horses died. With great difficulty, we managed to cover the 1,000 ri journey and arrived at Yatskoutsuka.

1. Yatskoutsuka - This place is also under Russian control with a Russian official residing there