About twenty water buckets were loaded, and two of these large men easily and freely moved the water buckets around and loaded them onto the ship. However, to prevent these large men from approaching the ship, large stone firearms (muskets) were fired at them, and they were not allowed aboard the ship. After taking water, we departed in the year of the Rat. From here we headed to Kamchatka.

1. Kamchatka
This place is under Russian rule, with a magistrate residing there. They said that barley and wheat are sent from Russia, and there was some available. Otherwise, they eat fish and animals. From this land to Matsumae, the sea route is said to be good with strong currents. It was said that it takes about twenty days to reach Hakodate in Matsumae.

We stayed at this place for about thirty days, and on September 6th of the year of the Rat, after thirty days at sea, our ship arrived at Nagasaki. The ocean crossing from Kamchatka to Nagasaki apparently passed by the offshore waters of Mount Kinkazan. Among the eighty-one people aboard that Russian ship were carpenters, sawyers, blacksmiths, doctors, people knowledgeable in astronomy and geography, and various other specialists to ensure there would be no inconvenience. We heard that if one sails considerably westward from this place, one can reach various provinces of Japan, and they whispered among themselves that "those who board Japanese ships are nowhere near comparable."

As we gradually sailed along and mountains came into view, the Russians asked us, "Are those Japanese mountains, or mountains of what country?" When we replied, "Having been in foreign countries for many years, we have forgotten the shapes of mountains, and since these are truly unfamiliar mountains, we don't know," they laughed heartily, saying, "You don't even know the mountains of your own country!" When we asked, "What country's mountains are these?" they said, "These are mountains of Satsuma Province." From there, we approached closer to the mountains and sailed around toward Nagasaki, but not knowing the way to Nagasaki, we wandered around the entrance for a day and night. Then a small boat rowed out from Nagasaki asking, "What ship is this?" So we came forward and explained the circumstances of our drifting and that we had been sent from Russia.