◇◇This Week's Program◇◇

Life Line ABC

This film has been re-shot with revisions to the original work and a complete cast change, according to the intentions of the original author and producers.

Serialized in women's magazine, exclusively filmed by Kamata Studio
Original work by Hosoda Tamiki, 1932 distinguished Japanese literary figure

Scenario: Murakami Tokusaburo    Camera: Kuwahara Takashi
Director: Shimazu Yasujiro       Lyrics: Sato Hachiro

(Complete Cast)
Kawauchi Kie................Tanaka Kinuyo
Fujieda.....................Tsukuba Yukiko
Nishikura Miyuki............Nishikura Miyuki
Moeko.......................Kawasaki Hiroko
Fueko.......................Izumi Hiroko
Baron Sakurai...............Iwata Sukichi
Takiyama Hansaku............Fujino Hideo
Mikiharu....................Yamauchi Hikaru
Shingo Senkichi.............Egawa Ureo
Yoshikura...................Arai Jun

-Synopsis-
Widow Kawauchi Yasuno settled her late husband's estate and came to Tokyo with her two intelligent daughters, Fujieda and Kie. They temporarily stayed at the house of Yasuno's brother-in-law Yoshikura. Fujieda found work as a clerk at the Marunouchi branch office of Takiyama Spinning Company, where Yoshikura worked as personnel manager. During their journey to Tokyo, Fujieda had secretly fallen in love with Mikiharu, the eldest son of the Takiyama Spinning Company president, whom she met by chance in a car crossing the mountains. The two quickly hit it off and eventually pledged to marry. Mother Yasuno became an insurance solicitor, and younger sister Kie decided to work at the same Kameido factory as uncle Yoshikura. The three moved to an apartment. Meanwhile, Mikiharu's mother visited Baron Sakurai, a financial magnate, and arranged a marriage between Mikiharu and the baron's daughter Moeko, who had long harbored feelings for him. This marriage was also intended to save Takiyama Spinning from economic crisis. Thus began days of anguish for the two lovers. One day, Mikiharu obtained his father's permission and disappeared with Fujieda. Meanwhile, younger sister Kie was invited to attend a labor union meeting led by factory worker Umetsu Sosuke, and since then awakened to class consciousness and became drawn to Umetsu's mysterious charm. Mikiharu's father Hansaku, knowing his son's feelings, once tacitly approved of the marriage to Fujieda, but to save the company and the livelihood of four thousand employees, he had to realize the marriage to Moeko. Hansaku visited the young couple and pleaded for the marriage to Moeko, revealing his anguish. However, Mikiharu refused. A few days later, Fujieda visited Hansaku and told him "I will be traveling for a while" before disappearing. Tears of gratitude shone in Hansaku's eyes. (Continued below)

Shochiku Kyoto Shimogamo Special Production Period Comedy

Original work: Komatsu Haruhiko
Screenplay and direction: Nikawa Buntaro
Camera: Kataoka Kiyoshi

Yaji-Kita Beauty Disturbance Chronicle

・Cast・
Sundries merchant: Koizumi Kasuke
Yaji-san: Hayashi Chojiro
Kita-san: Takada Kokichi
Kimono shop daughter: Inoue Hisae
Teahouse poster girl: Uranami Sumako
Female thief Otsuta: Yanagi Sakuko
Carpenter's daughter: Iizuka Toshiko
Medicine peddler's daughter: Kawakami Kimie

-Synopsis-
Yaji and Kita meet a mute girl's mother and are mistaken for traveling actors. Fearing the displeasure of the village moneylender, they end up performing as female impersonators.
The mother, infatuated with Yaji, removes her own wig and lends it to him. However, when their shoddy performance is exposed, the two flee from the theater still in costume.
The mother who had her wig stolen was shocked. Shortly after their escape, they reach Arai inn. That night, they are stripped of all their costumes by the highway robber Otsuta's seductive methods. The two, through the kindness of a sundries shop owner they just met, go to Takada castle town and become his apprentices.
They are introduced to the master carpenter of the castle, and as they are about to start their business in earnest, Yaji-san is taken by his master to the mansion of chief retainer Oguri Mimasaku, while Kita-hachi goes to the master carpenter's house.

Manchuria March
(Theme song from Shochiku Kamata special production film "Manchuria March")

Solo: Tokuyama Ren
Accompaniment: Japan Victor Orchestra

A
1. In the past Russo-Japanese war / Where brave warriors' bones are buried
   Look up at the loyalty tower / Colored red with crimson blood
   Bathed in sunset, high in sky / Rising over thousand-mile wilderness

2. Bitter cold minus thirty degrees / Guns and swords and cannon barrels
   When even horses' hooves freeze / Beware, enemy shadows approach
   Winter gear feels so heavy / Looking at each other's faces

3. Firmly wear the iron helmet / Quickly dig the rifle pit
   Our regiment flag fluttering / In the sky we look up to, Rising Sun
   Silver wings gleaming bomber / Carrier pigeons rising from gunfire

B
1. Battle ended, in the camp / Under brilliantly shining stars
   Drawing yellow muddy water / Steam rising from mess kit cooking
   In the warmth, feeling amulets / Talking of how the homeland fares

2. Unforgotten comrade's face / Before his lock of hair now opening
   Caramels from comfort bags / Do you know this offering heart?
   Backpack pillow through the night / Sleepless morning's great blizzard

3. For peace in East Asia / Even if we give our lives
   What is there to regret? Japan's / Lifeline lies here
   With eighty million compatriots / Together we'll protect Manchuria

...Victor Records recording (52134) recording number

◇Clear distinction between men's and women's seating◇