Revised in Ansei 2nd Year
Great Japan from the Age of Gods　　《Box: Sale Prohibited》
Chronicle of Earthquakes
Naniwa　Published by Bunreidō

This year, on the 2nd day of the 10th month of Ansei 2nd year, at the hour of nintei (around 10 PM), there was an unprecedented great earthquake. Warehouses and houses were completely damaged, and there were many injuries among people and livestock, so that regardless of social status, high or low, everyone lost their composure and there was no one who was not terrified. However, it is mysterious and truly sacred that nine out of ten famous shrines and temples remained unharmed. How can we not revere this? How can we not respect it?

In the "Ainōshō" (14 volumes), methods for determining the auspiciousness or inauspiciousness of earthquakes are recorded. According to this, the 2nd day of the 10th month corresponds to the Kyoshuku constellation of the 28 lunar mansions, and the time was the hour of the Boar. According to Buddhist teachings, an earthquake on this day at this time is called "Taishaku-yuri" (Indra's movement), and its sign indicates "peace under heaven, abundant five grains, good fortune for the emperor, ministers receiving blessings, and peace for all people." There are four types of earthquakes: Kajin-yuri (fire god movement), Ryūjin-yuri (dragon god movement), and Konshichō-yuri (Garuda movement), as described in the "Daichido-ron" (Treatise on the Great Perfection of Wisdom). All except Taishaku-yuri are evil omens. The actions of the great catfish would also be a type of Konshichō-yuri.

In any case, this is truly an auspicious world reform. This small booklet excerpts and selects earthquakes from ancient times from various historical texts, showing that there have been dozens of earthquakes far greater than the current one, yet the world has not declined but has prospered even more, demonstrating that the peace of our Ashihara-no-nakatsu-kuni (Japan) is eternal like heaven and earth. This was compiled to inform people of this fact.

Recorded by Anonymous