**Chronicle of Earthquakes**

Long ago, in the Age of the Gods, when Hayasusanoo-no-Mikoto was about to depart for the Nether Land (Ne-no-kuni) and ascended to Takamagahara (the Plain of High Heaven) to bid farewell to Amaterasu-Ōmikami, all the mountains and rivers shook and the entire land trembled.
[Kojiki, Volume One] This should be considered the very beginning of earthquakes.

[Emperor Ingyō] 5th year, 7th month, 14th day: Earthquake.
[Empress Suiko] 7th year, 4th month, 27th day: The earth moved and all buildings were destroyed. Orders were thereupon issued throughout the land to enshrine the god of earthquakes.

[Empress Kōgyoku] 1st year, 10th month, 8th day: Earthquake and rain. The following day, another earthquake; that night, earthquake with wind. On the 24th day, in the middle of the night, an earthquake occurred.
[Emperor Tenmu] 4th year, 11th month: Great earthquake. ◯ Same reign, 6th year, 6th month, 14th day: Great earthquake. ◯ Same reign, 7th year, 12th month: Tsukushi Province (modern Kyushu) was struck by a great earthquake; fissures in the earth were two jō wide and over three thousand jō long, and many houses in the villages collapsed. At this time, a farmer's house that stood on a hill was shaken and transported to another location, yet the house itself remained completely intact and unbroken; the inhabitants did not realize their house had moved until the following morning, when they were greatly astonished.
The above from [Nihon Shoki]. ◯ Same reign, 11th year, 8th month, 12th day: Great earthquake. On the 17th day, another earthquake. [Ruijū Kokushi]
◯ Same reign, 13th year, 10th month, 14th day, Hour of the Boar (approx. 10 p.m.): A great earthquake. Mountains collapsed, river waters surged up, and the destruction of government offices, private homes, and temples and shrines throughout the provinces was beyond counting. Many people and livestock were killed or injured. The hot springs of Iyo Province (modern Ehime Prefecture) were buried, and over 500,000 kō of fields in Tosa Province (modern Kōchi Prefecture) — one kō being 100 se, equivalent to over 500,000 chō — became submerged under the sea. ◯ Same reign, 14th year, 12th month, 10th day: Earthquake originating from the west. The above from [Nihon Shoki].

[Emperor Monmu] [Taihō] 1st year, 3rd month, 24th day: Earthquake in Tanba Province (modern northern Kyoto Prefecture area) lasting three days.
[Empress Genmei] [Reiki] 1st year, 5th month, 25th day: An earthquake in Tōtōmi Province (modern western Shizuoka Prefecture) caused a landslide that blocked the Aratama River; after several tens of days the water burst out, submerging over 170 villages across three districts — Fuchi, Chōge, and Iwata — and damaging rice seedlings. The following day, the 26th, an earthquake in Mikawa Province (modern eastern Aichi Prefecture) caused 47 government storehouses and many private homes to collapse.

[Emperor Shōmu] [Tenpyō] 6th year, 4th month, 7th day: A great earthquake. Many private homes throughout the provinces collapsed, and numerous people were crushed to death; landslides, blocked rivers, and ground fissures were beyond counting. Same year, 9th month, 24th day: Great earthquake. ◯ Same reign, 16th year, 5th month (continued on next page)