The palace compounds and various government offices collapsed and fell, and a great many residences in the capital were destroyed. The Eight Ministries compound, Burakuin, Tōji, Saiji, Gokurakuji, Kiyomizudera, Engakuji and others toppled over. This was called an unprecedented earthquake. The Emperor and Empress set up curtains in the imperial garden as their temporary residence. At Kiyomizudera, fifty monks and laypeople were crushed to death. On the following 19th day, there were fourteen tremors, and the rear office of the Left Gate Guards, corridors of Horikawa-in, the western pavilion of Kan-in, and three buildings of the Ministry of Popular Affairs collapsed. When the Emperor had several hundred carpenters repair Horikawa Minister of the Left Kaneke's residence for an imperial visit, the earthen walls on all four sides suddenly collapsed, killing over thirty carpenters, of whom eighteen were dug out. Child attendants of sutra-chanting monks were crushed to death. The Lotus Hall on the south side of Sōfukuji collapsed into the valley bottom, and the temple-keeper monk Senshō died. The bell tower toppled over. At Miroku Hall, large stones fell and destroyed the northwest corner. Also, at Ōmi Kokubun-ji, the main gate collapsed and the Niō statues were broken, over thirty buildings of the provincial government office toppled, and the great Buddha statue at Sekidera broke and was lost from the waist up. On the 20th there were eleven tremors, on the 21st thirteen, on the 22nd twelve, on the 23rd ten, on the 26th eight, on the 29th five, on the last day of the month eight, on the 11th of the 7th month six, and on the 12th four earthquakes occurred. Due to this disaster, the era name was changed from Ten'en (4th year) to Jōgen (pardoning criminals and other customary measures were taken). However, aftershocks still did not cease - on the 14th there were two tremors, on the 18th and 20th there were major tremors, on the 21st three times, and until the 23rd there was continuous shaking. On the 23rd of the 9th month of the same year, the earth shook greatly again with tremendous noise. On the 11th of the 10th month, sacred treasures were offered to various shrines and imperial prayers were conducted. The above from "Nihon Kiryaku" and "Fusō Ryakki." In the 2nd year, on the 4th of the 2nd month at the mi hour there was an earthquake. On the 9th at mi time the earth shook greatly. Emperor Kazan, Jōkan 2nd year, 8th of 11th month, the earth shook greatly. Emperor Ichijō, Shōryaku 5th year, 24th of 10th month, same as before, with imperial divination. Emperor Sanjō, Chōwa 4th year, 6th of 11th month, the earth shook greatly. The above from "Nihon Kiryaku." Emperor Go-Ichijō, Chian 2nd year, same as before. Manju 1st year, 11th of 3rd month, inu hour earthquake, on the 18th at u hour there was another tremor. "Fusō Ryakki" same 2nd year, 12th month, earthquake and heavy snow. Same 4th year, 2nd of 3rd month, saru time, great earthquake. Chōgen 5th year, 5th of 3rd month, strange phenomena of heavenly changes and earthquakes.