In order to dispel these calamities, measures such as a great amnesty throughout the realm were implemented. The above is from the "Nihon Kiryaku" (the dates of earthquakes have not yet been verified).

During the reign of Emperor Go-Suzaku, on the 8th day of the 9th month of Chōkyū 1 (1040), at the hour of the Tiger, there was a great earthquake. On the 1st day of the 11th month of the same year, at night, a similar earthquake occurred. On the 20th day of the 7th month of the 2nd year, at the hour of the Ox, there was also a similar earthquake.

During the reign of Emperor Go-Reizei, on the 18th day of the 6th month of Kōhei 3 (1060), there was a similar earthquake with audible rumbling sounds. On the 6th day of the 5th month of the 4th year, at the hour of the Ox, there was an earthquake, and flocks of crows cried out in alarm. On the 7th day, at the hour of the Snake, it shook again. On the 8th day, there was an amnesty (pardoning criminals and bestowing gifts upon the elderly). This was due to the earthquake.

On the 7th day of the 5th month of Jiryaku 1 (1065), the earth shook greatly.

During the reign of Emperor Go-Sanjō, on the 20th day of the 10th month of Enkyū 2 (1070), at midnight, an earthquake occurred. Houses and earthen walls throughout the capital collapsed in various places, and the great bell of Tōdaiji Temple fell due to the tremors. Pagodas at temples in various provinces were also damaged. On the 23rd day of the same month, tremors occurred from time to time.

During the reign of Emperor Horikawa, on the 7th day of the 8th month of Kanji 5 (1091), at the hour of the Monkey, there was a great earthquake. The Gundari statue (a sixteen-foot-tall Buddha image) in the Five Great Halls of Hōjōji Temple was toppled by the shaking, the finial of the nine-story pagoda tilted, the principal images and ornaments of the Golden Hall and Lecture Hall were damaged, and the Jōgyō Hall was severely damaged. Also, the treasure hall of Zaō at Mount Kinpusen in Yamato Province was damaged by the shaking. It was said to be unprecedented in ancient and modern times. On the 10th day of the 11th month of the 6th year, at the hour of the Dog, the earth shook greatly, and dogs gathered and barked in alarm.

On the 14th day of the 2nd month of the 7th year, at the hour of the Sheep, the earth shook greatly, and both monks and laypeople, all afraid, went down to the courtyards. The above is from "Fusō Ryakki."

On the 17th day of the 12th month of Kahō 3 (1096), the era name was changed to "Eichō." This was due to celestial anomalies and earthquakes. On the 21st day of the 11th month of Eichō 2, it was changed to "Jōtoku." This was due to celestial anomalies, earthquakes, and floods. On the 28th day of the 8th month of Jōtoku 3, it was changed to "Kōwa." This was due to earthquakes and epidemics. The above is from "Kōdaiki" (the exact dates of the latter two changes are still unclear).

During the reign of Emperor Go-Toba, on the 9th day of the 7th month of Bunji 1 (1185), at the hour of the Horse, there was a great earthquake in Kyoto. Buddhist halls including Tokuchōjuin, Renge'ōin, and Saishōkōin collapsed, the ridge beam of Kan'in Palace broke, and buildings below the kitchen collapsed slightly. However, the mansion of Kurō Hōgan Minamoto no Yoshitsune at Rokujō Muromachi did not collapse or tilt at all, which was considered remarkable. Not a single hall or pagoda in various places remained intact, and some people were crushed to death. The aftershocks of the earthquake continued for some time, with twenty to thirty alarming tremors occurring regularly, with no day passing without shaking. After ten or twenty days, they gradually became less frequent, and after about three months, they subsided. From "Azuma Kagami" and "Hōjōki."

During the reign of Emperor Juntoku, on the 21st day of the 5th month of Kenpō 1 (1213), there was a great earthquake in Kamakura, and halls and shrines were damaged and collapsed. On the 21st day of the 8th month of the 3rd year, at the hour of the Snake, at Sagi...