There was an earthquake at the hour of the sheep (1-3 PM) when people gathered at the western samurai quarters of Kamakura Palace. On the 22nd, when military commanders performed divination, they said there would be grave changes, so [the shogun] entered the house of the Governor of Sagami. On September 6th at the hour of the ox (1-3 AM), there was a great earthquake, and on the 8th at the hour of the tiger (3-5 AM), it shook greatly again. On the 11th at the hour of the tiger it was the same, and there were also small tremors. It shook on the 13th, 14th, and 16th. On the 17th it shook three times, and on the 21st prayers were offered with 36,000 Shinto rituals. The earthquake ritual by親職 was conducted by Nobunori as magistrate.

《Emperor Shijo》《Bunryaku》2nd year, 4th month, 13th day at the hour of the horse (11 AM-1 PM), same on the 28th at the hour of the sheep, and 29th at the same hour there were earthquakes. On the 8th there was an imperial edict regarding prayer rituals and virtuous government.

《Ninji》2nd year, 2nd month, 7th day at the hour of the snake (9-11 AM), there was a great earthquake. The elders said that during the Kenryaku years there was a great shaking like this one. 《Marginal note: referring to the 1st year of Kenpo》This was perhaps an omen of the rebellion of Wada Saemon-no-jo Yoshimori, they said. On the same day there were small tremors twice at the hour of the horse and the hour of the rat (11 PM-1 AM), and on the 8th at the hour of the snake it shook again. Recent tremors occurred five times. 《Azuma Kagami》

《Emperor Go-Fukakusa》《Kencho》6th year, intercalary 5th month, 11th and 19th days, there were great earthquakes. 《Konenndai Ryakki》

《Shoka》1st year, 8th month, 23rd day, there was a great earthquake in Kamakura with sound. Not a single shrine or temple building remained intact, mountains collapsed, houses fell, earthen walls were completely damaged, the ground cracked and water gushed out. Particularly around Geba Bridge, blue flames were said to burn out from where the ground had split. On September 4th, light rain fell and there was an earthquake at the hour of the monkey (3-5 PM). After last month's great earthquake, it had not stopped until today.

《Emperor Fushimi》《Einin》1st year, 4th month, 13th day at the hour of the tiger, there was a great earthquake. Mountains collapsed, houses overturned, and the number of deaths was unknown. Starting with Kamakura Daihiji Temple's Joroku Hall, buildings collapsed and were buried. Jufukuji and Engakuji fell but did not burn. Collapses everywhere were countless. Deaths: 21,024 people. 《Hojo-ki》

《Emperor Go-Fushimi》《Shoan》1st year, 4th month, 25th day, there was a great earthquake. In Settsu Province, the golden hall of Shitennoji Temple collapsed, and the hall of Nanzenji Temple in eastern Kyoto fell. Over 10,000 deaths in the five home provinces. 《Honcho Nendaiki》

《Emperor Hanazono》《Bunpo》1st year, from the 1st month onward, there were continuous great earthquakes in Kyoto. The pagoda of Toji Temple was shaken down, Kiyomizu Temple caught fire, and the image of General Tamura was also burned and lost. 《Hojo-ki》

《Emperor Go-Daigo》《Shochu》1st year, 11th month, there was a great earthquake. Chikubu Island in Omi collapsed and half of it sank into the lake. 《Honcho Nendaiki》

Genko 1st year, 7th month, 3rd day, there was a great earthquake.