December 29th, same as above (Gōun-zu). 2nd year of Meiō, October, same as above (Zoku-shiryaku). 3rd year, May 7th, same as above (Gōun-zu). 4th year, August 15th, the Great Buddha of Kamakura was damaged by earthquake. 7th year, June 11th, great earthquake throughout the land. Above from Honchō Nendaiki. Same year, August 19th, the earth shook greatly. This month there were frequent tremors, and the seas of Ise, Kii, and Mikawa overflowed (Wachō Kyōki, Tenshō Nendaiki). Under Emperor Go-Kashiwabara, 7th year of Eishō, August 7th, great earthquake that would not stop. The stone torii plaque at Tennōji fell, temples and pagodas in the five home provinces were destroyed, and many people died (Honchō Nendaiki). On the 8th, the earth shook greatly, and on the 28th, the sea of Tōtōmi overflowed, submerging land that became sea. This is the present-day Imagire crossing (Zoku-shiryaku). 9th year, June, great earthquake (Gōun-zu). 11th year, April 8th, same as above. Under Emperor Go-Nara, 2nd year of Kōji, February, the earth shook greatly. 3rd year, July, same as above (Kugyō Bunin). Under Emperor Ōgimachi, 13th year of Tenshō, November 19th {marginal note: Gōun-zu records it as the 29th}, the capital shook greatly and did not stop for over a hundred days (Zoku-shiryaku). Under Emperor Go-Yōzei, 17th year of Tenshō, February, the two provinces of Suruga and Tōtōmi shook greatly and destroyed people's houses (Butoku Taisei).

1st year of Keichō, intercalary 7th month, 12th day, great earthquake caused the earth to crack and water to spring forth. Castle grounds and private houses in Kyoto and Fushimi collapsed and were destroyed, with countless deaths. The Great Buddha Hall collapsed and the Buddha statue was also destroyed. The Taikō went to see this and, facing the Buddha, angrily declared: "Buddha statues are enshrined for the peace and tranquility of the nation. Yet you could not stop this great earthquake and have caused suffering to all people. You could not even preserve yourself and have been shattered and broken - how pathetic! What benefit is there in this?" He drew his bow and shot arrows at it. Then he had the Buddha from Zenkōji Temple in Shinano Province brought and placed in the Buddha hall {marginal note: later this statue was returned and a separate golden Buddha was made}. Also, most of the court ladies nearby were crushed to death, and since there were no immediate replacements, several hundred courtesans from Kyoto, Fushimi, Osaka, Sakai and other places were summoned to serve as court ladies (Toyotomi-fu). Under Emperor Go-Mizunoo, 19th year of Keichō, October 25th, great earthquake (Gōun-zu). 4th year of Kan'ei, January 11th, 5th year, same as above (Honchō Nendaiki). Under Emperor Meishō, 10th year of Kan'ei, January 20th, same as above. In Sagami Province at Odawara, people and horses died.