Countless people died. During the reign of Emperor Go-Kōmyō, in the 4th year of Shōhō (1647), on the 13th day of the 5th month, a great earthquake struck Edo and damaged daimyo residences. According to certain records, in the 1st year of Keian (1648) on the 22nd day of the 4th month, there was a great earthquake and the slopes of Mount Hakone in Sagami Province collapsed. According to the Gōun-zu, on the 5th day of the 2nd month of the same 2nd year, there was a great earthquake in the Matsuyama-Uwajima area of Iyo Province. Stone walls in the castle collapsed and many private houses were damaged. On the 20th day of the 6th month, the same occurred in Edo, where daimyo residences and private houses collapsed, and many people died. On the night of the 23rd day of the 3rd month of the same 3rd year, there was a great earthquake in the Kantō region. The above from certain records. During the reign of Emperor Go-Sai, in the 2nd year of Kanbun (1662) on the 1st day of the 5th month, there was a great earthquake. The stone bridge at Gojō in Kyoto collapsed, mountains in Kutuki Valley in Ōmi Province collapsed, and private houses were completely buried. Many people of all social ranks died. In the 11th month of the same year, mountains in Ōsumi Province collapsed and the sea became land. Aftershocks occurred frequently and continued until the end of the year. According to the Honchō Nendaiki and Jishin-kō, on the 25th day of the 7th month of the same 3rd year, there was a great earthquake in Ezo Matsumae. On the 6th day of the 12th month of the same year, the same occurred in Kyoto, lasting from the hour of the dog to the hour of the ox. Nijō Castle and various places throughout the capital were damaged. On the 27th day of the 12th month of the same 4th year, there was a great earthquake in the Takada domain of Echigo Province. Private houses collapsed and there were many deaths. (The Honchō Nendaiki records this as the 5th year.) According to certain records, during the reign of Emperor Reigen, in the 3rd year of Tennā (1683) on the 22nd day of the 5th month, there was a great earthquake and the Futarasan shrine was damaged. According to the Honchō Nendaiki, during the reign of Emperor Higashiyama, in the 16th year of Genroku (1703) on the 22nd day of the 11th month at the hour of the ox, there was a great earthquake in Edo. Both samurai and merchant quarters were damaged. In Sagami Province, Odawara shook more violently than other regions, private houses collapsed, Mount Hakone collapsed blocking roads, and fires broke out simultaneously in various places, killing many people. Those who fled to the seashore died in the tsunami. In the 3rd year of Hōei (1706) on the 15th day of the 9th month, there was a great earthquake. The above from certain records. On the 4th day of the 10th month of the same 4th year at the hour of the sheep, there was a great earthquake along the Tōkaidō. The ground split and there was a tsunami at the seashore, killing many people. In the 11th month of the same year, Mount Fuji erupted and Mount Hōei appeared. According to certain records and the Wakan Sansai Zue, during the reign of Emperor Nakamikado, from the 20th day of the 11th month to the 12th month of the 8th year of Kyōhō (1723), there was a great earthquake in Kyushu. On the 25th day of the 9th month of the same 10th year, there was a great earthquake in Nagasaki, with more than eighty tremors day and night. According to certain records, during the reign of Emperor Momozono, in the 1st year of Hōreki (1751) on the 29th day of the 2nd month, there was a great earthquake and various temples and buildings were shaken and damaged.