The aftershocks continued until the 6th and 7th months before stopping. On April 25th of the same year, a great earthquake occurred in Takada, Echigo Province. From the hour of the rooster to the hour of the ox, there were more than 30 tremors, mountains collapsed, houses fell, and the death toll was said to be approximately 16,300 people. ○ On the last day of the 7th month of the 6th year, there was a great earthquake in Omi Province.

[Empress Go-Sakuramachi] [Meiwa] On January 28th of the 3rd year, during heavy snow in the Tsugaru and Aomori areas of Oshu, a great earthquake occurred, and many people suffered damage from a great fire. ○ On May 2nd of the 8th year, there was an earthquake in Edo, and on June 2nd of the same year, a great earthquake in Edo.

[Emperor Kokaku] [Tenmei] On July 14th of the 2nd year at the hour of the ox, there was a similar earthquake in Edo. On the 15th, it shook greatly again, causing houses to collapse. Until the next morning, it shook 15 or 16 times. At this time, it was particularly severe in Odawara, Sagami Province, where the stone walls of Hakone Mountain and Odawara Castle collapsed, and there was extensive damage to private houses. ○ On February 2nd of the 3rd year at the hour of the ox, there was a great earthquake in Edo.

[Kansei] In the intercalary 2nd month of the 4th year, a mountain erupted in the Shimabara domain of Hizen Province, hot springs gushed forth, and many people died. The entire province shook and the light from the fire illuminated other provinces.

[Kyowa] On November 15th of the 3rd year, Sado Province was shaken by a great earthquake that continued until June of the following year. The above.

[Bunka] In the 1st year, there was an earthquake in Dewa Province, the mountain of Kisakata collapsed and the ground sank, damaging a scenic spot rare in the realm. From February 21st to 24th of the 6th year, there was rumbling in the mountains of Azumi District, Matsumoto domain, Shinshu. On the evening of the 24th, the ground cracked and split over an area of more than 500 ken north to south and more than 900 ken east to west, rocks were dislodged and collapsed, and 4 villages including Nakatani village with 6 branch settlements, 27 houses, and rice fields all sank, but there were no casualties among people or horses. ○ On New Year's Day of the 7th year, there was a great earthquake in Sado Province that continued for consecutive days. ○ On November 4th of the 9th year, there was a great earthquake in Edo and neighboring provinces. The Kanagawa and Hodogaya areas were particularly severely affected, with houses breaking and collapsing.

[Emperor Ninko] [Bunsei] On June 12th of the 2nd year, there was a great earthquake in Kyoto and the Ise-Mino region. ○ From the 16th to 19th of the intercalary 1st month of the 5th year, there were more than 150 great earthquakes in Oshu and Ezo territory. ○ In the autumn of the 9th year, there were several earthquakes in Edo. ○ On November 12th of the 11th year