In Echigo Province around Nagaoka and Sanjo, house collapses were extremely numerous, constituting a great earthquake that extended to the Imamachi area.
The above from "Aru-ki" (A Certain Record). On the 7th day of the 7th month of Tempo 1 (1830), at the hour of the Monkey, there was a great earthquake in Kyoto. Nijo Castle and the houses and storehouses of both high and low rank were destroyed and overturned in great numbers, with countless casualties. On the 18th of the same month, flooding caused damage in various places, the corridor of Kiyomizu Temple collapsed with fatalities. Earthquake aftershocks occurred frequently, and there were also fires, but everything completely subsided by late 8th month.

On the 24th day of the 3rd month of Koka 4 (1847), from the hour of the Dog to the hour of the Boar, there was a great earthquake throughout six districts of Shinano Province (Azumi, Sarashina, Minochi, Hanishina, Chiisagata, Takai) around Matsushiro, Ueda, Iiyama, and Zenkoji Temple. Mountains collapsed, burying great rivers, with many house collapses and casualties among people and horses. On the 13th day of the 4th month, there was flooding.

On the 2nd day of the 2nd month of Kaei 6 (1853), there was a great earthquake in [?]tahara in Sagami Province. On the night of the 14th day of the 6th month of Ansei 1 (1854), the Kamigata region including Suruga, Totomi, Mikawa, Ise, Iga, Settsu, Harima provinces, and all of Shikoku experienced great earthquakes, with aftershocks in other provinces as well. The following year, there were tsunamis in Sagami Province, and similarly in Settsu Province in the 5th month. The above from "Shuki" (Personal Notes).

The above omits ordinary earthquakes from the record; even among great earthquakes, there are likely not few that have been missed.

On the night of the 2nd day of the 10th month of Ansei 2, year of the Wood Rabbit (1855), at the first part of the hour of the Boar, there was an earthquake, and fires immediately began breaking out in over thirty locations. On the morning of the 3rd, both [earthquake and fire] subsided, but thereafter earthquakes continued to shake slightly day by day until around the 20th of the same month. The locations were:

① From Nihonbashi northward: Muromachi, Honsen-cho, Odawara-cho, Hon-cho, Ishi-cho, Hon-gin-cho, O-temma-cho area, Hatago-cho, Horitome-cho, Kobune-cho, Kotsuna-cho area suffered major damage, with storehouses collapsing and houses being crushed and tilting. In this area, 133 houses were destroyed, 23 storehouses collapsed, and many died from being crushed.

② Around Kotemma-cho and Bakuro-cho, though there was nothing particularly notable, storehouses were severely damaged. The District Magistrate's residence was unharmed. Similarly, around Kanda Kamei-cho, Hashimoto-cho, and Toshima-cho the shaking was gentle, while around Yokoyama-cho and Ryogoku houses tilted. Around Tomizawa-cho, Tadokoro-cho, Ningyo-cho street, Sakai-cho, Jinzaemon-cho, Osaka-cho, Kakigara-cho, Matsushima-cho, and Sumiyoshi-cho there was major destruction. From there, at Hama-cho riverside, Lord Mizuno Dewa-no-kami's residence burned down, as did those of Lord Tsugaru Etchu-no-kami, Lord Ando Nagato-no-kami, Lord Akimoto Tajima-no-kami, and others.