【Right folio】

(Continued from previous page) ...shook. Sixty-three houses and five structures collapsed, and sixty storehouses (dozō) collapsed.

⑤ In the same area, there was much collapse from Minami-Tenmachō onward, and furthermore, a fire broke out in Nishi-Nakatōri and Minami-Daiku-machi, burning all the way to the edge of Kyōbashi. To the west, Minami-Kajimachi and Gorōbēmachi burned down, while Tatamimachi survived partially. To the east, the fire stopped at the riverbank of Gusokumachi, Yanagimachi, Suzukimachi, Tokiwamachi, Matsukawamachi (one side), Sumimachi, and Hon-Zaimokumachi. Seventy-one buildings collapsed, twenty-eight storehouses collapsed, and the number of burned-down storehouses beyond that was incalculable.

⑥ South Kyōbashi, Shin-Ryōgaemachi, Shirauo-yashiki, Kinroku-machi, Mizutanimachi, Yumimachi, Shin-Sakanamachi, outside Sukiyabashi Gate, the riverside road, Owarimachi, Takekawamachi, Izumomachi, Minami-Nabemachi, Yamashitamachi, Hakkenmachi, Kagamachi area, Kobikimachi, and the Shiodome area suffered no particular damage. Eleven buildings collapsed and twenty-two storehouses collapsed.

⑦ Minami-Hatchōbori and Ōtomimachi suffered major damage. Tsukiji, Odawaramachi, Kami-Yanagiwara-machi, and the Umikawagishi area also...

【Left folio】

...suffered major damage. The main hall of Nishi Hongan-ji Temple sustained no damage, but many structures within the temple grounds collapsed. From there, the areas of Teppōzu, Akashimachi, Hon-Minatochō, and Funamatsumachi suffered major damage. The residence of Lord Matsudaira Awaji-no-kami was burned down. In general, many of the samurai residences (o-buke-kata) in this area collapsed. Teppōzu Inari Shrine sustained no damage, and Tsukudajima suffered no particular damage. In the areas of Reigan-jima, Higashi-Minatochō, Shirogane-machi, Nagasakimachi, and Kawaguchimachi, there was much collapse. Similarly, one side of Minatobashi-dōri and Shio-machi burned. From there, Minami-Shimbori, Hanchō, Hamacho, and Ōkawabata-machi burned down. The residence of Lord Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami survived. The same area of Kita-Shimbori and Hakozakimachi suffered major damage. From Reigan-bashi bridge, the samurai group residences (o-kumi-yashiki) in the areas of Omote-Kayabachō, Ura-Kayabachō, and Sakamotomachi sustained no damage, and Yakushidō Hall was unharmed. The areas of Kamejimamachi, Hibiyamachi, and Hon-Hatchōbori were heavily damaged. One hundred and eighty-six houses collapsed and thirty-nine storehouses collapsed.

⑧ From Shinjuku and Minami-Shibaguchi, the areas of Romitsukimachi, Gensukemachi, and the residences of Lord Sendai and Lord Wakizaka suffered no particular damage. Likewise, Shibaimachi burned for one chō (approximately 109 meters). Udagawamachi, Shinmeimachi, and Mishimamachi all collapsed greatly. In the areas of Hamamatsumachi, Shin-Tsunamachi, Nakamonzen, and Katamonzen, there was much collapse, and the main hall of Zōjō-ji Temple... (continues on next page)