【Right folio】

(Continued from previous page) ...suffered no particular damage, but the temple structures within the grounds were damaged. Shiba Shinmei Shrine was unharmed. Seiryō-ji Temple at the foot of Mount Atago, along with other temples in the area, suffered damage. Atago Shrine was unharmed. Among the samurai residences, those of Lord Matsudaira Oki-no-kami, Lord Yonezu, Lord Sendai, Lord Akita, and Lord Tamura, along with others, all sustained damage. Likewise, the Kiridōshi and Iikuramachi areas were damaged, while Shinmei-gū Shrine was unharmed. The areas of Nagaimachi, Nishi-no-Kubo, and Yotsutsuji also suffered damage. The area in front of Tentoku-ji Temple, Fukidemachi, Shin-Shitaya-machi, and the residences of Lord Sengoku Oki-no-kami and Lord Matsudaira Ukon-shōgen and others were damaged. Likewise, Shiomizaka and the residence of Lord Matsudaira Yamato-no-kami suffered damage. Outside Toranomon Gate, the residence of Lord Kyōgoku was damaged, but Kotohira-gū Shrine suffered no particular damage. The areas of Kubomachi and Bizenmachi were greatly damaged. The residences of Lord Hotta, Lord Mōri, Lord Hitoyanagi, and Lord Mizoguchi were all greatly damaged. Kanefusamachi suffered minor fire damage. The areas outside Saikibashi Gate, around Dobashi, and Futabamachi sustained only mild damage, and Karasumon Inari Shrine was unharmed. Four hundred and ninety-four houses collapsed, eighty-three storehouses collapsed, and many people died.

【Left folio】

⑨ From the 1st to 4th block of the south side of Kanasugi-bashi, Hon-Shibamachi, Tamachi, Takanawa, and Senkyū-ji Temple along with other temples in the area sustained damage. Shinagawa-juku (Shinagawa post town) also suffered damage. From the south 4th block onward, there was major damage. Tōkai-ji Temple, Kaian-ji Temple, and others were also damaged. The areas of Shirogane-daimachi, Nihon-enoki, and Mita were also damaged. Kasuga Myōjin Shrine was unharmed. Matsumotomachi, Akabane, and the residence of Lord Arima also suffered damage. In the area of Azabu, the areas of Ryūdo-machi, the residence of Lord Kubo, Tamachi, and Motomura-machi were also damaged. Azabu Zenpuku-ji Temple sustained only mild damage. However, the areas of Imaigaya-machi and Ichibēmachi suffered major damage. From there toward the Aoyama area, many houses collapsed — one hundred and fifty houses collapsed and fourteen storehouses collapsed.

⑩ Inside Wadakura Gate, the watch-post (miharibasho) burned down. The residences of Lord Matsudaira Higo-no-kami (Aizu domain), Lord Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami, and Lord Naitō and others burned down. Outside Babasaki Gate, the residences of Lord Endō and Lord Matsudaira Sagami-no-kami were partially burned, and the fire-brigade estate (o-hikeshi yashiki) was burned down. Inside Sukiyabashi Gate, there was much collapse, and among the residences burned in the spreading fire were those of Lord Nagai Tōtōmi-no-kami and Lord Honda Nakatsukasa-no-tayū... (continues on next page)