【Right folio】

(Continued from previous page) ...was burned down. The guardhouse at Hibiya Gate was burned. The residences of Lord Matsudaira Tosa-no-kami and Lord Doi Ōi-no-kami were greatly damaged. Outside the same gate, the residence of Lord Matsudaira Hizen-no-kami burned down, and the residence of Lord Matsudaira Daizen-no-tayū sustained minor fire damage inside the gate. The residences of Lord Arima Bingo-no-kami and Lord Nanbu Mino-no-kami burned. On the opposite side, the front row tenement (omote nagaya) of the Satsuma domain's costume/ceremonial-robe estate (o-shōzoku yashiki) suffered minor fire damage. Inside Saikibashi Gate, one middle row tenement (naka nagaya) belonging to Yanagisawa Tokinosuke, Lord Itō, and Lord Kamei burned down, coming to a halt with only minor damage at the residence of Lord Hōjō Mino-no-kami. Inside Yamashita Gate, the residence of Lord Abe Harima-no-kami suffered total collapse. From there, at the corner of Tatsunokuchi, the residence of Lord Morikawa burned. In front of Ōte, the residence of Lord Sakai Uta-no-kami burned, though the main front gate survived. The facing estate also burned. Overall, both the areas inside Tokiwabashi and inside Kandabashi suffered major damage. In the area of Sotosaku­rada (Kasumigaseki), the Hiroshima domain (Geishū-sama) suffered no particular damage, Lord Kuroda's residence sustained minor damage, and the residence of Lord Ii Kamon-no-kami suffered no particular damage. The heavily built row tenements (katakago no o-nagaya) of the other lords mostly collapsed. [In] Nagata-

【Left folio】

machi, the residences of Lord Ōmura, Lord Hosokawa, Lord Watanabe, and Lord Niwa Sakyō-no-tayū, along with the estates of the hatamoto (bannermen) in this vicinity, were also damaged. Sannō Shrine was unharmed. Inside Akasaka Gate, the residences of Lord Matsudaira Dewa-no-kami, Lord Doi Ōkuma-no-kami, and Lord Okabe Mino-no-kami and others sustained damage.

⑪ North of Imagawabashi, the areas of Kanda Kajimachi, Nabemachi-dōri, Shin-Ishimachi, and Sudamachi saw much collapse. The areas along Otamagaike-dōri, Shirakabemachi, and Koyanagimachi sustained only mild damage, while West Kanda had minor collapse. In Ogawamachi, along Omote Sarugaku-machi-dōri, the residences of Lord Inaba and Lord Tsuchiya were greatly damaged, and the residence of Lord Toda was burned, though the main front gate and row tenements survived. Additionally, one house belonging to Nakarai Izumo-no-kami burned. Furthermore, the front and rear of Jimbo-kōji alley burned, and the designated fire-brigade estate (jō o-hikeshi yashiki) also burned. The residence of Lord Sakakibara was about half burned, as was the facing residence of Lord Honda Buzen-no-kami. From there, the residence of Lord Toda Kaga-no-kami burned. Along Kijibashi-dōri, the residences of Lord Hongō and Lord Matsudaira Buzen-no-kami burned, and separately, the rear quarters of the residences of Lord Isshiki Tango-no-kami and Isshiki Kuninosauke suffered minor fire damage. It should be noted that throughout this entire area, the earthquake was extremely strong and the scale of collapse was tremendous. [At] Koishikawa Gate... (continues on next page)