【Right folio】

(Continued from previous page) ...inside [Koishikawa Gate], the residence of Lord Matsudaira Suruga-no-kami burned. In the nearby group residences (kumi-yashiki), the residences of Lord Katō, Lord Ōhara, Lord Watanabe, and Lord Fuyuki burned. The residences of Lord Honma, Lord Ōmori, Lord Chūjō, and Lord Kurokawa were about half burned, and the fire stopped there. Even the houses in this area that escaped the fire were largely collapsed. West of Koishikawa Gate, damage was minimal. Iidamachi, Manaitabashi, and the area around Kudanzaka saw minor collapse. After carefully inspecting the lanes and alleys of Banchō, no particular damage was found there. A total of 180 houses and 24 buildings collapsed, along with 63 storehouses (dozō); the number of storehouses lost to fire is unknown.

⑫ In the area of Sakumamachi in Soto-Kanda, along with Aioimachi, Matsunagamachi, and Izumibashi-dōri, the areas around the residences of Lord Tōdō Izumi-no-kami and Lord Tōdō Sado-no-kami sustained minor damage. From there, the residences of Lord Sō Tsushima-no-kami and Lord Ikoma Tonomo-no-kami, along Samisenbori the residence of Lord Satake Ukyō-no-tayū, Lord Tachibana Sakon-no-shōgen, and along Okachimachi-dōri the residence of Lord Katō Tōtōmi-no-kami and others sustained damage. Furthermore, the areas of Hatagomachi and Kanazawamachi in Soto-Kanda sustained considerable damage, and all three chō of Kanda Nakamachi suffered major damage. From there—

【Left folio】

—in the Yushima area, the Sacred Hall (Seido, the Shogunal Academy) suffered no particular damage, and Kanda Myōjin Shrine was unharmed. The Hongō area suffered only mild damage. Tsumakoi Inari Shrine suffered no particular damage, Yushima Tenjin Shrine sustained damage, and the area around Kiritōshi saw nothing of particular note. In this area, 67 buildings collapsed and 6 storehouses were destroyed.

⑬ Kanda Myōjin-shita, Dōbōmachi, and Odaidokomachi suffered major damage. The substitute-land districts (daichi) of Hiranagamachi, Yanagiwara, Iwaimachi, and Hanabusachō likewise suffered major damage. From there along the western side of the Onari-dō (the Shogun's ceremonial road), the residences of Lord Matsudaira Iga-no-kami, Lord Kuroda Buzen-no-kami, and Lord Ōzeki Shinano-no-kami and others burned; the residence of Lord Ishikawa Tonomo-no-kami was about half burned. Across the road, the residence of Lord Ogasawara Sakyō-no-tayū suffered major damage. In Ueno, the areas of Daimonchō, Kurumazakachō, Chōjamachi 1-chōme and 2-chōme, and the substitute-land district of Shitayamachi 2-chōme burned, with the fire stopping at one side of Naka-Okachimachi. Furthermore, a fire broke out from around the middle of the eastern side of Ueno Hirokōji, burning Kita-Daimonchō, Moto-Kuromon-chō, and Uenomachi 1-chōme and 2-chōme. Ichijō-in and Tokudaiji were burned down. Dōbōmachi, Shin-Kuromon-chō, and the Ueno retainers' residences (o-kerai yashiki) also burned. On the Onari-dō, the northeastern corner of the residence of Lord Inoue Chikugo-no-kami suffered minor fire damage, while the rest suffered total collapse. As for Sanmaibashi Yokochō... (continues on next page)