【Right folio】

The residences of [the lords] Suzuki, Ishikawa, Sakamaki, Fukui, and Yamazaki burned, with the fires stopping at the residence of Yoshida in the side street of Uenocho 1-chōme. The main halls of Tōei-zan (Kan'ei-ji) suffered no particular damage, though the temple lodgings (shukubō) within the precincts were slightly damaged. The Benzaiten shrine within Shinobazu Pond suffered major damage. The Ikenohata Nakachō area suffered minor damage, while Osukiya-machi was completely destroyed. Most of the residences along Tenjin-shita-dōri collapsed. In Kayachō, both 1-chōme and 2-chōme collapsed and then burned entirely. The hillside areas survived, though many houses there had collapsed. From there, the area along Ueno Yamashita-dōri suffered damage, while the area in front of Kōtoku-ji showed no particular problems. Shitaya Inari and Yanagi no Inari shrines were damaged. Since this area as a whole contains many temples, the damage was extensive. Abegawa-chō suffered comparatively little damage. Furthermore, a fire broke out from the west of Kikuya-bashi in Shintora-machi and burned approximately half a block on both sides. Also, in front of Sanjūsangendō, the area enclosed by the fencing (yarai) of Yamamoto Jintayū collapsed and caught fire, with only the interior of the enclosure burning. The Yasaki Inari shrine in the same area survived. This entire vicinity suffered total collapse. There was also much collapse around the gates of Kaizen-ji, Gokuraku-ji, Tōmyō-ji, and Genkū-ji.

【Left folio】

The adjoining land (soèchi) of the Eastern Monzeki suffered major damage. The area in front of Banzui-in was damaged. There was much collapse in the areas of Yamabushi-chō and Yamazaki-chō, while Shin-Sakamoto-chō was completely destroyed. The Iriya area suffered major damage. Shitaya Sakamoto-chō 2-chōme and 3-chōme were burned. The 4th block (4-chōme) of the same suffered major damage. Ono Teruzaki Myōjin shrine suffered slight damage. There was much collapse in the Negishi area. Kanasugichō 4-chō in the same area suffered total collapse, with many people crushed to death. Mishima Shrine and the Hiyoke Kannon suffered major damage. Ryūsen-ji-machi in the same area suffered total collapse. Ryūsen-ji, Daion-ji, Saitoku-ji, Washi Daimyōjin, and other temples and shrines shook tremendously. Furthermore, from Minowa Shinmachi to the area in front of Tennō, there was much collapse. Kozukahara and Nakamura-chō burned, with all the inns (hatagoya) destroyed by fire. From there, the Hashido riverside area and the posting station of Senju suffered great damage — 1,721 buildings collapsed, 198 earthen-walled storehouses (dozō) collapsed, and many deaths occurred.

⑭ [Outside the Koishikawa Gate]: The residence of the Lord of Mito (Mito-sama) — the area across from the Hyakken Nagaya row-houses burned in scattered patches. There was much collapse in the areas of Saizaka-chō and Mito-chō nearby. The area in front of Dentsu-in suffered slight damage. The areas of Hakusan, Sugamo, and Komagome suffered relatively little damage, while Dangozaka-shita, Yanaka, and Misakichō suffered total collapse.