【Right folio】

Chaya-machi (in the same area) suffered no particular damage. The five-story pagoda of Tennō-ji had its finial ring (kurin) broken off and sank more than three shaku into the ground. The area of Nezu and Miyanaga-chō suffered total collapse both inside and outside the main gate. The Nippori and Tabata areas suffered damage. The Otowa area suffered slight damage, while Gokoku-in and Mejiro Fudō suffered no particular damage. Collapsed buildings: 743; collapsed earthen storehouses: 19.

⑮ [Outside Ushigome Gate]: The areas of Ageba and Kagurazaka suffered major damage. Kaitai-chō and Sakana-chō in the same area suffered damage. Ichigaya Tamachi and Motomura-chō suffered major damage. The Kōjimachi area suffered damage, and Hirakawa Tenmangū shrine suffered major damage. Outside the Yotsuya Gate, the areas of Tenma-chō and Shio-chō suffered damage, and the Manen-toyo (permanent water conduit) of the Edo waterworks collapsed and was damaged. There was much collapse around Samegabashi, and there was much collapse in Akasaka, Omoteuradenmachō, and Tamachi. Collapsed buildings: 367; collapsed earthen storehouses: 39.

⑯ [Ryōgoku Bridge]: East Honjo, Motomachi, the area in front of Ekō-in, Tachikawa, and Aio-chō suffered major damage. A fire broke out from 1-chōme of Midori-chō in the same area and burned through to 2-chōme. The 3-chōme suffered collapse only, while the 4th

【Left folio】

and 5th blocks (4-chōme, 5-chōme), and Hana-machi suffered slight burning before the fires stopped. On the opposite bank (Muko Kashi), there was much collapse from Hayashi-machi 1-chōme through to 5-chōme. Tokuemon-chō 1-chōme and 2-chōme burned. The 3-chōme suffered much collapse, and all three blocks of Kikukawa-chō suffered much collapse. The area near Ōgi-bashi and Fukagawa Nishi-machi burned for approximately half a block. Kayaba-chō in the same area suffered damage. Irie-chō and Shimizu-chō suffered total collapse. Yoshida-chō and Yoshioka-chō suffered major damage. In general, most of the samurai residences in this area suffered much collapse. Collapsed buildings: 109 houses, 83 structures; collapsed earthen storehouses: 79; many deaths.

⑰ [East of the Great Bridge (Ōhashi)]: A fire broke out in front of the Fukagawa御船蔵(government boat storage) and spread into Yanagawa-chō, burning the Hagami Gongen shrine. The guards of the boat storage facility also burned. Dainichi Yokochō, and the residences of Sugano, Inoue, and Makino all burned. Only the fire-watch tower of Lord Kinoshita Zushō survived. Approximately half of the government rice granary survived. The Rokkenborimei Shinmei-gū shrine suffered no damage. In another area, from Naka-Morishita, the area south toward Morishita Motomachi burned. Furthermore, a fire broke out in the Tokiwa-chō area, causing slight burning of the residence of Lord Inoue. From there, the fire spread from Tokiwa-chō 1-chōme through 2-chōme, stopping at the residence of Lord Furuta.