【Right folio】

In general, there was massive collapse throughout this area. From there, the area around the Onagi River suffered major damage. There was much collapse from Umibe Daiku-machi to the Kiyosumi-chō area. The warehouse estate (kura-yashiki) of the Lord of Sendai suffered damage. Isezaki-chō 1-chōme and 2-chōme burned. Nishi-Hirano-chō, Tomihisa-chō, and Sankaku-yashiki — all of these areas were completely destroyed. The various temples along Tera-machi-dōri suffered major damage. Reigan-ji, Jōshin-ji, and Unkō-in among others suffered major damage. The areas of Shōgaku-ji bridge road, Isshiki-chō, and Mannen-chō were completely destroyed. The area around Enma-dō bridge and Tsunauchiba sagged slightly. Saga-chō suffered great collapse. The fire spread through Aikawa-chō, Kumai-chō, Nakajima-chō, and as far as Ōshima-chō. Along Tomiyoshi-chō road and Kitagawa-chō, only three houses remained near Hachiman-bashi. Hamaguri-chō was only partially spared; Kuroe-chō and Sannen-ji burned. The fire stopped at the area from the gate-front of Eitai-ji and Yamamoto-chō to the edge of Gatakuri-bashi. In another outbreak, the fire burned in Wagura, destroying the proxy districts (daichi) of Kita-Honjo and Saga-chō. Eitai-ji and the Hachiman-gū shrine were unharmed, though there was damage within the shrine precincts. The Sanjūsangen-dō in the same area suffered major damage. Kiba suffered damage, and the Susaki Benten shrine was unharmed. From there, the Sunamura area suffered major damage. Collapsed buildings: 4,903; collapsed earthen storehouses: 785.

【Left folio】

⑱ [Kita-Honjo]: Kita-Honjo Omote-chō suffered total collapse. Honkyū-ji and Asahi Shinmei-gū suffered damage. Saishō-ji, Jissō-ji, and Chōken-ji among others suffered major damage. Haraniwa-chō, Arai-chō, Bamba-chō, and Myōgen-ji suffered major damage. Ishihara-chō burned for approximately half a block. The general area suffered total collapse with many deaths. Across Azuma-bashi bridge, the residences of Lord Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami and Lord Hosokawa Noto-no-kami suffered major damage. Take-chō and Nakanogō Motomachi suffered major damage, and Hachiken-chō in the same area suffered total collapse. The samurai group residences (kumiyashiki) in Matsukura-chō and Ishihara Shin-chō were damaged. The area of Oshiage and Dote-dōri beyond Narihira-bashi suffered major damage. Daiunji and Saikyō-ji suffered major damage. There was much collapse in the areas of Reizan-ji and Hōon-ji, and the north side of the eastern end of Hōon-ji bridge suffered slight burning. About ten houses near the Honjo Itsutsu-me ferry crossing burned. Kameido Tenmangū suffered no particular damage. Two locations in Kameido-chō were burned. Kōzō-ji, Chōju-ji, the residence of Lord Tsugaru Etchū-no-kami, Ryūgan-ji, Yanagishima Hōshō-ji, and Myōken-gū among others suffered major damage. Koume-mura and Kawara-chō were burned. Near Makura-bashi in the same area, the ground subsided by approximately four shaku. Mimeguri Inari, Ushi-no-Gozen, and Kōfuku-ji among others suffered major damage. Chōmei-ji, Renge-ji, and Mokubō-ji among others suffered much collapse. Throughout the area, the embankments of the Sumida River cracked and split, with mud spouting forth from the ground.