Carrying an inkstone box and following, made rounds from the elder Tsuneyoshi's residence going leftward, completed in about half an hour.
However, the late Katsukiyo died last October, his son Matsuju-dayū is in heavy mourning, and his second son Fudemitsu-dayū is three years old this year. The second son is in musuku-shō (no mourning for children) and does not require provisional mourning dress, so this was recorded in the guard captain's diary. Also, Tsūho's son Tsūwakamaru-dayū (in heavy mourning) is three years old this year; although his mother died last year and he is the eldest son, when the mother dies while the father is still living, it is musuku-shō, and according to precedent does not require formal mourning dress, so this was also recorded in the guard captain's diary.

7th day, Tsuchinoto-Ushi, clear: At the imperial household, there was to be participation by the outer secretary at the White Horse Festival at Waka-gosho (at that time Chūnagon/Chūjō), but due to festivities, non-attendance was reported at the last moment. ○The family elder Tsunenori and others accompanied for New Year shrine visits. ○A list of ten people who are three years old this year was submitted from the administrator to the scribe.

9th day, Kanoto-U, cloudy: The family head was on duty, with Tsunesen serving as substitute. Morning and evening food offerings were presented as usual, with preparations, formal congratulations, and重名, this being Tsunesen's first time in a senior role. Today Seiyo began his first shift, with prior notice given, and the meal arrangements for entering duty followed recent precedent.

10th day, Mizunoe-Tatsu, clear: From around the middle of the hour of the Snake, wrote five sheets of posting notices for the guard captain, finishing at the hour of the Monkey. However, this year elder Higo-no-suke Kisue took the administrator's table, and tenth elder Bizen-no-kami Kiyomasa served as deputy, completing arrangements up to the fourteenth person. After dark, wearing purified robes and carrying lighted lamps, brought posting notices from the five districts and glue preparations to the retreat quarters, knocked at the southern entrance of the next room, and announced the purpose of bringing posting notices to the administrator guard captain. After a short time, the two head officials (Yasuyuki and Kakuho) came out carrying hand candles, and as usual posted them in order from the pillar in the western part of the hall, northward with north facing up. (Leg supports had been prepared beforehand by various officials) After completion, entered through the eastern entrance of the retreat quarters, completed the ceremony, received the sacred mirror of Yora Shrine, and withdrew.

11th day, Mizunoto-Mi, clear: Early morning, prepared glue paper, writing set, etc. for the administrator, serving concurrently as substitute for the eighth group Tatsaaki, and attended the hall meal service as usual. This was the second continuation. Completed and withdrew.

12th day, Kinoe-Uma, clear: New Year rounds by the Buddhist quarters of the imperial household.

13th day, Kinoto-Hitsuji, clear: Imperial household retainer Okamoto Uemon-no-jō was granted an increase of one koku, fellow retainer Sakamoto Minbu was granted an increase of two koku, and close attendant Tange Hayato was granted provisions for two people.

14th day, Hinoe-Saru, clear: Tsunesen's administrative rice stipend for this year, five to of rice worth 3,560 mon in cash, yesterday...