The meeting concluded with a drink, and everyone dispersed at the hour of the cock.

24th day, ren-wu, rain. For the first anniversary of Lady Teigan-in of the household (the late Mandokoro no kata, daughter of Lord Hosokawa), today non-time meals were provided to all members of the inner household (this was primarily an inner quarters matter). ○The Aoi ceremonial rice distribution was received today as in previous years.

25th day, kui-mi, rain. For the same first anniversary, two envoys (both chamberlains) from Lord Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami and Lord Hosokawa Sakyō-no-daifu came and were granted audience with both lords, receiving non-time meals and one piece of silver each.
○For the same occasion, two attendants of the Ōmandokoro no kata, three attendants of Lady Teigan-in, one physician, three elderly ladies, and caretakers were summoned and given non-time meals.

26th day, kō-shin, clear. For the vigil night of the same first anniversary, the Great Lord made a pilgrimage to Tōfukuji Temple, and as usual for temple attendance, one senior retainer, one chamberlain, two close attendants, one blue-robed samurai, etc. participated. They wore hunting robes and Kyoto ceremonial dress.

27th day, otsu-tori, clear. For the actual anniversary day, the Young Lord made a pilgrimage to Tōfukuji Temple, and those who attended the temple numbered the same as yesterday: Senior Retainer Ankei Ason, Genjo Myōkyō, Sennaga, Kōginjiō, etc.
For the same occasion, two envoys from Lord Hosokawa, three attendants of Lady Teigan-in, one physician, one inspector, one caretaker, and three elderly ladies (one head lady, [unclear character] last year) attended the temple gate over the past days. However, the men each wore informal dress with noshi-me long formal wear.

28th day, hei-shin, rain this morning, clearing from the hour of the dragon with occasional light rain. Today was the distribution of Aoi ceremonial money. After deducting various expenses and mountain cutting fees, each person received 1,782 mon. ○Third son Miyūtarō had been running a fever since the night of the 26th, and today it was determined to be smallpox. Therefore, prayers to the gods were performed.

Third month, long month

3rd day, kō-in, clear. For the auspicious festival of Jōshi, ceremonial sake was provided at the household gate as usual, and the girls of the household held the Doll Festival as customary.

11th day, bo-jutsu, clear. For Miyūtarō's smallpox, today ceremonial sake and hot water were distributed to various places for sending off the gods, and the distribution of red rice was completed.

13th day, kō-shi, rain. As usual, the Aoi messengers Yoshihisa and Katsukiyo departed for the Kantō region this morning.

16th day, kui-shin, clear. Second son Ojichiyō had been running a fever since the 13th, and today it was determined to be smallpox. Therefore, prayers to the gods were performed.
○Uncle Tsunaoka-ō has been ill since spring, and now a growth has appeared beside his right ear, causing unbearable [pain/discomfort]...