I visited the temple.

28th day, Kanoto-Ushi, clear - From Seo Jibei, as memorial offerings for the late lay priest Kisai, arrived today: one box of fine salt for my father, one tan of Kumejima cloth (cotton fabric) for my mother, one box with a pair of Fukuma pots for me, and one tan of Kumejima cloth (same as above) for Misao.

29th day, Mizunoe-Tora, clear - Since Tsuchiyama Awaji-no-kami has been unwell for several days past, I visited him to inquire after his health. Similarly, Suruga-no-kami is also suffering from the same condition, so I went to visit him as well.

9th Month (small month)

2nd day, Kinoto-Mi, clear - I requested Teisei to serve as substitute for my father's duty shift.

3rd day, Hinoe-Uma, clear - For the 8th meeting of the Sansha lecture, I gathered at the lecture hall after lunch. Ujihiko was absent due to illness.

4th day, Hinoto-Hitsuji, clear - Today I received word that Tsuchiyama Awaji-no-kami passed away yesterday on the 3rd. Since he was my mother's nephew by marriage, following the prescribed mourning dress regulations, from today I will wear provisional half-mourning for one and a half days and half-mourning for four days.

5th day, Tsuchinoe-Saru, rain - I went to the Tsuchiyama residence both to offer condolences and express my grief, but since there had not yet been a public announcement, I offered my private condolences and returned. ○ I requested Teisei to substitute for the shrine duty.

6th day, Tsuchinoto-Tori, clear, rain in the afternoon - From early morning, as usual annually, I and Kawase went to inspect Kuga village in the shogun's domain, serving as substitutes for magistrate Sakamoto. Before dawn, laborers came from Lower Kuga village to the shogun's residence, and we each took palanquins, arriving at the residence of village headman Hachirōbei of Lower Kuga village in the morning hours. In the afternoon, we inspected the rice fields and two peasant house constructions. We lodged at the Tamura headman's residence.

7th day, Kanoe-Inu, clear - From early morning all day, we inspected the rice fields of Lower Kuga village. We lodged at the same headman's residence.

8th day, Kanoto-I, clear - From early morning we went to Upper Kuga village and inspected the domain's rice fields all day. We each lodged at the residence of the village headman Sōemon. However, the gifts from both villages to the officials followed the yearly custom. Today we also inspected two peasant house constructions in the same village.