shall not make such requests. For future evidence, therefore as stated above.
Yamamoto Sakyō (seal)
Okamoto Shinano-no-suke (seal)
Second month
Adoptive mother
Omasa■

Third month, major

3rd day, Ren-Yin, clear: Due to the auspicious festival of Jōshi (Double Third), I conducted morning shrine worship. ○ Regarding the daily worship rotation at Kifune, I requested Teikiyo to serve as proxy. ○ The noble household bestowed celebratory gifts and ceremonial sake as in previous years.

6th day, Yi-Si, clear: Hail fell at the Wei hour. As the 9th session of the three-group lecture was being held, I assembled at the lecture hall in the afternoon. It concluded before the Shen hour.

8th day, Ding-Wei, cloudy: Light rain in the afternoon. Regarding the Major Counselor's felicitation at the young prince's residence of the noble household on the coming 10th day, today there was a rehearsal ceremony, and the courtiers in official positions each attended the palace. ○ After lunch there was a general assembly of senior and junior members. The subject matter concerned the request made by Tō-shi at the general assembly on August 24th of last Hai year to be exempted from mounted attendance at horse racing events, which was submitted to the imperial household and granted as requested. Furthermore, there was a speech from the Naoichi group stating that at the horse inspection on May 1st last year, Mitsutune's son Tsunekazu, age 16 and without court rank, wore purple hakama while mounted. While there are precedents for unranked persons to ride horses since ancient times, there is no precedent for wearing purple hakama, so henceforth unranked persons should be prohibited from wearing purple hakama when mounted - this proposal was deemed reasonable and approved.

10th day, Ji-You, clear: The Major Counselor's felicitation at the young prince's residence of the noble household and immediate assumption of position. The attending retinue consisted of Middle Captain Nakayama, Right Hyōe-no-suke Ikeziri, and Karasumaru■ - three persons. Six outriders (one 4th rank, four 5th rank, one 6th rank), ten guards and miscellaneous officials, etc. Among the 5th rank outriders, two from the Kujō house were in attendance. Additionally there were two carriage attendants and twelve commoner servants. Today I assisted with coordination duties and escort arrangements...