The beach reeds of Ise, even calling one kan as one shime, has to do with the local pronunciation and the harmony of the five tones. Please make good judgment and select accordingly. However, the items recorded below are not things that will completely cure after eating once or twice according to the symptoms. I only record what can be of help.

い　Ibose (a type of fish). Sweet and warm. Good for spinal curvature in children up to seven years old.
Ishimochi (croaker fish). Sweet and neutral. Opens the stomach and dissolves accumulated food, so it removes intestinal blockages, benefits digestion, and is good for sudden diarrhea.
Iruka (dolphin). Sweet and warm. Strengthens muscle and skin.
Itoyori (golden threadfin bream). Sweet and neutral. Salted overnight and grilled, just the meat, in fragrant miso soup, can be used for sick people without causing distress.
Isuka (crossbill). The taste is quite bad. Good for goiter and tumors.
Itadori (Japanese knotweed). Sweet and neutral. Promotes menstrual flow. Expels stagnant blood after childbirth. Good for burns. Not to be used during pregnancy.

ろ　Rosui (dew water). Sweet and mild. Take dew from flowers and apply to dry tongue. Apply to face to improve luster.
Royō (reed leaves). Grind very old rice into powder and knead it, wrap in well-colored leaves to make chimaki (rice dumplings). Use this to make pills. Also eating it makes hair grow long.
Rokon (reed root). Make into charcoal powder, ten monme, with one monme of Korean ginseng, powder and mix with sesame oil, apply daily to grow hair.

は　Kaiman nikumochi (sea eel meat). Can be used for sick people without causing distress. Gains qi. However, hamo (pike conger) should not be used.
Hashibami (hazelnut). Sour and warm. Benefits qi and strengthens the intestines and stomach.

に　Ninjin (carrot). Sweet and neutral. According to Shizhen's writings, it moves qi downward, thus benefits the chest, diaphragm, intestines and stomach, and promotes appetite. However, should not be used when stools are soft.
Fushi (turban shell). Sweet and neutral. Good for eye pain, gastric and chest pain, and hernia. However, should not be used for seriously ill patients.

ほ　Boke (Japanese quince). Sour and warm. Good for numbness from dampness, beriberi, and muscle cramps with vomiting and diarrhea from cholera.