wo　Ottosei (fur seal). Sweet and greatly warm. Good for cold essence causing lower back pain and weakness, frequent urination, and impotence.

wa　Wasabi (Japanese horseradish). Pungent and warm. Opens stagnant qi, promotes sweating, expels wind, and dispels cold qi. Good for hernia. Removes toxins from fish and birds.
Wakame (sea mustard). Sweet and salty. Good for women's vaginal discharge, nocturnal emission, and diarrhea.

ka　Kashū (Polygonum multiflorum). The white-colored is female and sweet. The yellow is male and bitter, neutralizes toxins of various medicines. Removes cough from heat and strengthens the intestines and stomach.
Kawauso (otter). Sweet and salty. Removes toxins from cold wind and water. Its gallbladder is good for consumption.
Kaki (oyster). Sweet and warm. When grilled and eaten, makes the skin fine. When boiled and eaten, supplements deficiency. Also resolves phlegm toxins and post-alcohol heat.
Katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes). Sweet and slightly warm. Circulates qi, supplements the intestines and stomach, and strengthens muscles and bones.
Kaitsuburi (little grebe). Sweet and neutral. Sobers up alcohol and is good for hemorrhoids.

Kamo (wild duck). Sweet and cool. Calms the stomach and aids digestion. According to Nikka, kills parasitic worms and is good for edema and chronic sores. However, should not be eaten with wood ear mushrooms.
Karasu (crow). Sour, astringent, and neutral. Kills parasites and is good for dysentery. Found in Kayū Honzō. Good for five exhaustions, seven injuries, hemoptysis, and cough.

yo　Yokuinin (Job's tears). Sweet and slightly cold. Good for numbness from wind-dampness, or when muscles and bones are stiff and cannot stretch. According to Baishi Hō, good for lung congestion, cough, pus and blood, and also shortness of breath.
Yomena (Kalimeris indica). Sweet, bitter, and neutral. Promotes urination and is good for five types of strangury and dysentery. Good for all swellings, phlegm toxins causing itching and pain.

ta　Taitō kome (indica rice). Slightly sweet and warm. Benefits qi, warms the interior, harmonizes and nourishes the spleen and stomach. Removes dampness, therefore stops diarrhea from dampness.
Daikon (Japanese radish). The leaves are warm and harmonize the interior peacefully. The root removes phlegm accumulation and makes people...