makes people fat. Resolves noodle toxins and expels pathogenic qi from wind-heat. However, if sick people eat too much, the abdomen swells slightly. For healthy people, it supplements insufficiency of middle qi, aids digestion, and removes fishy odors. However, generally daikon radish produces seven varieties from various places. The above refers to winter daikon. Nevertheless, it is good to be cautious for half an hour before and after eating rehmannia and honey.
Furthermore, when held raw in the mouth, it helps escape the difficulty of being choked by smoke. Therefore, during fires, it is good to store even dried daikon. Moreover, fresh squeezed juice removes blood stains from objects.

Daidai (bitter orange). Sour and cold. According to Shiryō, removes nausea from wind qi. Good for scrofula. Neutralizes toxins from fish and crabs.

Tanpopo (dandelion). Sweet and slightly bitter. Because it resolves food toxins, it disperses stagnant qi and transforms heat toxins. Removes pathogenic qi from the stomach and benefits phlegm obstruction. Good for edema. However, eating too much is not preferred.

Tabirako (nipplewort). Sweet, slightly bitter, and cold. Opens bound qi and benefits the intestines and stomach.

Taka (hawk). I do not yet know its taste. Good for wild fox evil spirits.

Tanago (bitterling fish). Sweet and neutral. Benefits the spleen and stomach.

Tako (octopus). Sweet and sour. When cooked with soy sauce and sake, does not harm the spleen and stomach. Good for hemorrhoid diseases. Also obtains qi and blood.

re　Renkon (lotus root). Sweet and neutral. The skin has a slightly astringent nature. Disperses heat, thirst, and blood stagnation. Good for alcohol toxins.

so　Soramame (broad beans). Sweet and slightly cold. The skin harms the spleen and stomach. Also not preferred for children. The meat is good for phlegm.

tsu　Shiroshi-gaki (dried persimmons). Sweet and neutral. According to Mōsetsu's writings, supplements deficiency from consumptive fatigue and is good for spleen and stomach qi.
Tsurumurasaki (Malabar spinach). Sour and cold. Disperses heat and benefits the large and small intestines.

ne　Nezumi (mouse). Sweet and hot. Good for tympanites, edema, night blindness, and childhood malnutrition diseases.

na　Natamame (sword bean). When dried, sweet and neutral. Benefits the intestines and stomach, therefore stops hiccups. Benefits the kidneys and supplements original qi, thus good for phlegm. Raw ones are particularly not preferred.

Nazuna (shepherd's purse). Slightly bitter and bland. Benefits the liver and harmonizes the interior, therefore clarifies the eyes.

Namazu (catfish). Sweet and warm. According to Sukyō's writings, opens urination and is good for edema. Treats malaria.