However, this fish with eyes, whiskers, red back, and no chin has great toxicity. It is good to select carefully.

Nayoshi (ray). Opens the stomach, benefits the five organs, and fattens the flesh.

ra　Rakkasei (peanuts). Sweet, fragrant, and slightly spicy. Moistens the lungs and extends the spleen. Eat roasted.

Rōsetsusui (preserved snow water). Sweet and cold. If snow is stored as-is in jars, it lasts several months. Good as medicinal water for thirst during cold damage fevers and epidemic diseases. Also removes powder toxins when used as cosmetic water.

mu　Mufuyu (a medicinal plant). Bitter and neutral. When pickled in sugar, eliminates phlegm and stops thirst. Good for lung organ diseases.

u　Uruchi-mai (non-glutinous rice). Sweet and neutral. Benefits vital essence and harmonizes the stomach. Strengthens skin, flesh, tendons, and bones.
In Shizhen's writings, it says this opens the vessels of qi and blood and harmonizes the five organs. However, upon consideration, new rice and roasted rice are very bad for patients, children, people with weak spleen and stomach, and generally people without bodily vigor. For people without bodily vigor and patients, if they eat Echigo and Kaga rice well, they will have the aforementioned effects.

Since this is a matter of three times daily and the primary means of human life continuation, it is good to examine carefully and treat it as precious. Chinese rice has an extremely good taste. However, when overeaten, it stagnates in the spleen and stomach and causes food stagnation syndrome. For healthy people who work vigorously, this is not troublesome. Especially since rice is an unparalleled precious substance among the three countries, from China and India to barbarian countries, they greatly praise Japanese rice. Moreover, in remote areas, they sometimes decoct this at the end stage and use it to cure diseases. Not knowing such meanings and complaining of insufficiency toward food shows ignorance of divine favor. Such people will surely not achieve prosperity and many ruin the family fortune received from their ancestors.
This is gratefully the food taught and provided by Amaterasu Ōmikami. While receiving this benevolence and continuing one's life, selfishly pursuing only other paths is unreasonable. Because it goes against principle, no matter how much one prays, there will be no benefit.