Jellyfish (kurage). Salty and warm in nature. Those from the western provinces are good. Beneficial for women's fatigue-related damage, blood stasis, vaginal discharge, and wind-dampness phlegm toxicity in children.

Daylily (kwanzau). Sweet and cool in nature. Treats red and difficult urination. Removes body heat and aids digestion.

Wild chives (yagai). Slightly pungent, bitter, and malodorous. During epidemics, eating a little daily prevents contracting the disease that day.

Mutton (yauniku). Sweet and hot in nature. Benefits blood and qi, strengthens yang energy, and opens the stomach.

Pine mushrooms (matsutake). Sweet and neutral in nature. Good for red and difficult urination and postpartum abdominal pain. However, old mushrooms are highly intoxicating. Tofu is good for neutralizing their toxicity. Early pine mushrooms or those out of season should not be used. Even with good mushrooms, only the broth should be used for sick people.

Buckwheat flour. Good for constipation. However, if bowels are already moving, do not use. Also good when applied to smallpox and burns.

Raspberry (fukubonshi). Sweet and neutral in nature. Supplements deficiency, strengthens yin, and moistens the skin.

Grapes (budou). Sweet and neutral in nature. Beneficial for numbness in muscles and bones due to dampness. Dried grapes from Koshu province can be stored for several months, are extremely sweet, and when used as cosmetic water, spread well and produce luster. According to Kenken's writings, they remove water from the intestines and stomach and are good for numbness.

Butterbur (fuki). Bitter, slightly pungent, and warm in nature. Beneficial for cough with qi counterflow, phlegm asthma, throat numbness, and convulsions.

Owl (fukurou). Sweet and warm in nature. The taste is very subtle and harmless. Also has no particular effect.

Wheat gluten (fu). Sweet and cool in nature. Relaxes the interior, benefits qi, resolves heat, and is beneficial for consumption. However, rather than fancy wheat gluten, plain wheat gluten cooked with thinly shaved Tosa bonito flakes and light soy sauce is better.

Burdock (gobou). Sweet and cool in nature. Those with reddish skin and good texture growing from red soil are considered best. Otherwise, abdominal distension may occur. Expels water from cold damage, seasonal qi, and wind swelling, and reduces swelling. Particularly effective when just the seeds are swallowed to open milk ducts.

Ice (koori). That formed during the cold season is good; sweet and cold in nature. For severe cold damage with yang toxicity, place one piece at the point called Danchu between the breasts. When swallowed, it resolves alcohol toxicity.

Kelp (konbu). Salty and neutral in nature. Breaks up water swelling, goiter tumors, and all blood-qi stagnation. Also for chronic qi and chest...