Sake lees. Sweet and pungent. Removes cold qi, greatly warms the interior, aids digestion, and neutralizes the toxins of vegetables.

Monkey. Sour and neutral. However, unlike human flesh, it does not multiply in the mouth. Good for chronic malaria and miasmatic malaria. In Shizhen's book, it is said to be good for miasmatic epidemics.

Heron. Sweet, neutral, and salty. In Wang Ying's book, it is said to supplement the deficient and emaciated spleen and stop spontaneous sweating and night sweats.

Needlefish. Sweet and neutral. Good for accumulated heat in the intestines and stomach, supplements liver and kidneys, strengthens sinews and bones, and is good for epidemic diseases.

Cowpea. Sweet, salty, and neutral. In Shizhen's book, it is said to benefit the interior, augment qi, regulate kidneys and stomach, and is good for wasting-thirst, vomiting and counterflow, and diarrhea.

Rapids water. Drawing with the current - used for medicines for constipation and also for emetic medicines. Drawing against the current - used to decoct medicines that stop diarrhea.

Kumquat. The flesh is not very good. The peel is good. Sweet and neutral. Moves qi downward and relieves chest congestion. Stops thirst and sobers up alcohol intoxication.

Chrysanthemum flower. Sweet and bitter. Slightly pungent. When steeped in hot water, it becomes sweet and mild. Yellow color is good. Other colors are bad. Good for headaches from various wind-evil, eye pain, and all heat conditions of the upper body.

Yuzu citron. Sour and cold. Aids digestion and neutralizes alcohol toxicity. Good for loss of appetite during pregnancy.

Myoga ginger. Sweet and slightly warm. Opens depression, promotes appetite, and removes diseases caused by pathogenic qi.

Sea moss (miru). Sweet, salty, and cold. In Zangqi's book, it is said to be good for edema. However, considering this, it is not good for people with weak spleen and stomach.

Miso. Sweet and salty. Neutralizes the toxins of various fish, harmonizes the intestines and stomach, and supplements deficiencies. However, very thick miso conversely dries the spleen, stomach, and throat. For sick people, thin miso soup is good. Raw miso governs obstruction. Goto - thin miso soup nourishes the spleen.

Wren. Sweet and warm. Good for phlegm obstruction. Also stimulates sexual function. However, it is not good for sick people.

White adzuki beans. Sweet and neutral. Regulates the interior, assists the pulses of the twelve meridians, and warms the intestines and stomach.

Perilla. Slightly pungent and warm. Supplements the interior, good for heart and abdominal distension and fullness, sudden turmoil with muscle cramps. Neutralizes fish toxicity.