【Right】
(The four ingredients are decocted with Fukuryukan water.) There are also symptoms requiring Goshuyuto (Evodia Decoction), so it should be selected appropriately. According to the transmission of an old physician, for severe diarrhea and agitation, a decoction of three ingredients - loquat seed, white atractylodes, and poria - is used with good results. Loquat seed has quite a few applications. For those who suffer from distressing anxiety and agitation in the heart after vomiting and diarrhea, Oren-gedoku-to (Coptis Toxin-Resolving Decoction) (four ingredients: coptis, scutellaria, gardenia, phellodendron) lightly decocted shows immediate effect. However, those who instantly develop vomiting, diarrhea, and agitation, and those whose agitation becomes increasingly severe even after vomiting and diarrhea stop, will die before the medicine can take effect. This is truly a terrifying severity. There is also another type that develops agitation without vomiting or diarrhea. This is like the dry cholera type of cholera, being a severe epidemic toxin. One should quickly use Soma-to (Racing Horse Decoction) (twenty apricot kernels and five croton seeds wrapped in silk, crushed, and extracted with hot water). This medicine will induce vomiting and diarrhea. Afterward, medicines should be administered according to the symptoms. Also, severe muscle

【Left】
spasms (commonly called leg cramps), causing the patient to writhe in agony, occur. Mokuchu-to should be used (chaenomeles, evodia, a little salt added and decocted with water. This formula was originally for beriberi, but in the "Eisei Kaho" it is named Shihenkin and used effectively for cholera with muscle spasms). Externally, cloth soaked in salt water should be applied as a steam treatment. There are also cases where the limbs become rigid causing severe pain. Tokaku-joki-to (Peach Kernel Qi-Regulating Decoction) and aconite are effective. For these three types, bloodletting from the shoulder, arms, or legs is also beneficial. During this time, a good physician should be summoned to discuss treatment methods. I am now writing only emergency treatment methods for immediate rescue. Since this condition is a type of hot malignant epidemic qi, the use of ginseng and aconite as in cholera is prohibited. Western opium and such are even more so (According to physician Kasado Josetsu from Nagasaki, when this condition spread after measles in the intercalary year of the Dog, there were many heat patterns and very few cold patterns. Therefore, physicians trained in Western medicine all failed when using opium). There is one technique among the common people of this region: for those with thirst, forcing them to drink cold water or bathing them in cold water often results in complete recovery (this makes the signs of heat reversal increasingly clear). Some physicians in the world are confused by cold extremities and loss of pulse and fear using gypsum, but