【Right】
This shows they do not understand what heat reversal is, which is truly pitiable and laughable to the extreme. There are also those who consider it the same disease as "bai" from Echizen Province, but "bai" is sha-disease (cholera morbus), and its symptoms are all described in "Manyū Zakki" (Rambling Travel Notes). Violent diarrhea differs from sha and should not be treated by mixing them together. This is also mentioned here for the sake of distinction.

Kakkon-to, Goreisan, Oren-to, Shōkyō-shashin-to, Chikuyō-sekko-to, Byakko-to, Daisaiko-to, Chōi-jōki-to, Tōkaku-jōki-to

The above nine prescriptions appear in the "Treatise on Cold Damage" and are widely known by people of the world. Therefore, I do not record them separately. When using them, one should quickly have them compounded at a pharmacy and take them.

There are various preventive medicines for this disease in the world, but they show no particular effectiveness. On the contrary, those who regularly take pungent aromatic or drying agents find it difficult for symptomatic medicines to be

【Left】
effective when disease strikes. Moreover, those who externally apply mustard poultices, vesicants, etc., and internally take ginseng, aconite, and opium are truly at the extreme of foolishness. Simply to ward off evil influences, one should take Sugoukō-en (Styrax Pills), and when heat is severe, take Goreisan, and otherwise focus primarily on health maintenance. I now record one or two points below:

One should moderate intoxication and overeating. Also, one should not endure hunger and thirst. ○ One should not frequently brave heat and travel by boat or palanquin. ○ One should not rely on robust health to frequently engage in labor or heavy work, as this damages stomach function and makes one susceptible to infection. ○ One should not travel far in the late night or early dawn exposed to wind and dew. ○ One should not frequently engage in sexual relations, damaging the lower origin. ○ One should not drink rainwater. ○ One should not get soaked in misty rain. ○ One should not lie naked in windy places after drinking or bathing. ○ One should not eat fruits and various cold foods