"Your betrothed, Ōboshi Rikiya, even though he is now a masterless samurai, has exceptional character and appearance - everything is fortunate for my daughter. Since ancient times, it is said that a chaste woman does not serve two households. Even if separated from her husband, she must never remarry. That would be the same sin as an adulterous husband. Never neglect your service to your husband, not even for a moment. Also, be filial to the Yuranosuke couple. You husband and wife should live harmoniously together, and even if troubles arise, do not become jealous and risk being divorced. Also, do not hide from me anything that causes me worry. If anything inconvenient happens to you, inform me immediately."

I have firmly engraved these words of my father's teaching in my heart. Now that I have been divorced by them, how can I return and cause my father distress? No matter what excuse I might have, apart from the Ōboshi family, I absolutely cannot marry into any other household. I will single-mindedly maintain the resolve of a chaste woman."

Upon hearing this, [the mother] could not bear it and, at her wit's end, thinking "it would be better to die," quickly drew her sword from its sheath.

Seeing this, Konami cried out, "Madam, what are you doing!" and reached out to stop her. Being restrained, she raised her head and said, "What do you mean, what am I doing? Following exactly the teaching you spoke of, I want to quickly arrange your marriage and see the faces of the man and woman who gave birth to and raised you - this is indeed the natural way of parents. Just when I should be rejoicing, before you have even become a bride, you are divorced by your mother-in-law. How can I return with you and tell this story? Even if he refuses to accept it, there is no helping it, but moreover, you are not my natural child. I fear your father will think that I, being a stepmother, handled the matter carelessly. How can I face his father in this world? Daughter, after I die, please make excuses to his father for me."

Hearing this, Konami said, "Madam, why do you say such things? Since I have already been divorced, I should rightfully die. To live and cause you worry, and make my father suffer - such an unfilial daughter should only..."