Unable to bear it any longer, at that moment someone called out loudly at the gate: "Kagokawa Honzō presents his head! Please accept it!"

Just then, the person who had been playing the flute outside the gate removed his face-covering hat and slowly walked toward the inner area. When the mother and daughter saw this, they were startled and asked: "Father, why have you come here in such attire? What do you intend to do?"

Honzō said: "You are making a noisy commotion. First be quiet and listen to the whole story from beginning to end. I came here secretly without letting you know because I already understood the situation. Let's set aside that talk for now. This lady is Yuranosuke's wife, Lady Ōishi. I thought you would surely have such a wish, so without telling the women of the house, I was directly exploring the situation at the gate, and indeed, just as I expected, you are demanding my head. This is a matter of a samurai maintaining righteousness. How could you deal with this matter? As I see it, that Yuranosuke has no intention whatsoever of avenging his lord, but is entirely absorbed in pleasure-seeking and lost in wine and women. Who doesn't know of his foolishness? He's a peerless fool in all the land. Originally, when a toad lays eggs, they become toads - things resemble their kind. Looking at his son Rikiya, he's a fool no less than Yuranosuke. Surely one fool's dull blade cannot cut off Honzō's head. Stop this nonsense!"

He lifted his foot and trampled the stand, crushing it to pieces, saying: "Even if you dream of becoming a parent, I refuse to become a son-in-law. I have never seen such a strange woman until now."

Ōishi said: "You speak rudely and insultingly, but look at my family's humble rusty sword. Witness the skill in my hands. Though I am unworthy, I am a member of Yuranosuke's household. I'll cross swords with you, the enemy I have long hoped to face."

He pulled up the hem of his garment and, quicker than taking it down, removed a spear from its rack and thrust forward. When Tonaose and her daughter saw this situation, they cried out in distress and tried to intervene, saying "Don't be hasty! Please wait a moment!"