The debate covered many points. "We must show them your iron-like steadfast heart and resolve. Although we know we shouldn't do such things, we were compelled to plan committing great crimes out of necessity - this is fearsome, and please forgive our rudeness.

As the old saying goes, among flowers the cherry, among men the samurai. Yet even samurai cannot match your temperament. Even if one had the courage to kill generals and charge into an army of a million, it would be difficult not to be moved in heart. We learn from your righteous spirit - when we attack our enemies, whether they hide in rocky caves or conceal themselves in iron fortresses, there will be no error in our actions.

We never imagined that a townsman could possess such character. If we members of the league do not respect you, we would likely receive divine punishment for abandoning the great debt we owe to the war god. It's only regrettable that in this peaceful age, the wise live in hiding. If our late lord were alive, he would appoint you as commander and have you govern a district - then naturally he could judge and understand clearly.

The people gathered here, from Ōhashi Bungo to Yazama Jūtarō, Kodera, Takamatsu, Horio, Katayama and others - all knelt and bowed their heads, performing three prostrations and deeply lowering their heads to apologize for their offense, seeing this as miraculous medicine to open their blind eyes."

Gihei said: "Please don't trouble yourselves over me. Generally speaking, if people don't associate with each other, how can they know the truth or falsehood in each other's hearts? It's natural for those not familiar with me to have doubts. I am originally from a humble family, and since undertaking official business for the domain lord, my household has prospered.

When I previously heard of the harm that befell Lord Enya, I clenched my fists and gritted my teeth in resentment. Relying on your trust, I focused entirely on procuring and preparing weapons, joining my efforts with yours. What I most lament is being born and raised in the merchant quarter. If I could receive even a small stipend, I would have gladly accompanied you in this earnest request, heating tea and water to serve you all, but I cannot even serve as your attendant. This makes me feel all the more that the merchant class is base and lowly.

Looking at it this way, those who wear two swords and receive stipends have great authority and prestige. Therefore they can risk their lives to repay grievances."