Thinking of it as a final parting in death, there was no longer any sentiment left. Having seen his usual manly spirit, she grew even more sorrowful and said, "Still remaining here as before would cause trouble for the master. When I return to my family home, I must remarry.

This body of mine may be parting forever tonight. If only his child could wake up and see my face just once."

Gihei said, "It's like mixing food for a cat - the same sort of talk. Later it will only cause him more suffering. Moreover, tonight there are distinguished guests, so don't make a fuss and go home."

Kasshōno said, "Will you not let me see him in this way?"

Gihei said, "You don't understand reason. You only think of what's before your eyes and don't consider future suffering." He forcibly roused her, drove her away along with the divorce papers, threw her out the gate and said, "If you truly love the child, apologize to your father and wait several months to a year until spring comes, then there might be room for discussion. If not, then I will part from you forever hereafter."

Having said this, he closed the gate and went inside.

Kasshōno said outside the gate, "If my father would support me, why would I suffer such anguish? How terribly heartless this is! Not only am I divorced by a man without any feeling, but he won't even let me see that child. Though it's completely unreasonable, if I don't see him once more, I can never give up. Please, master, show a little compassion and open the gate to let me see at least the child's sleeping face."

Clasping her hands in supplication, she gave voice to her grievances and wailed loudly for a time, then suddenly came to her senses and said, "If I were to see his face halfway like this, he would only keep crying 'Mama' without stopping, cling to me and refuse to let go even unto death. I too could not bear to part from him. Now returning home to force me into remarriage, I cannot go back to how things were. My life will not last until tomorrow."

So saying, she put her ear to the gate, pressed herself earnestly to the ground and listened intently. If there were the child's voice, perhaps he would let me see his face, she thought as she peered about, but there was no sound or movement. With no recourse available, she steeled herself to give up and was about to leave when just then—