Zuishu Atami Hot Spring Spa - Fresh hot water daily (with separate baths for men and women, plus clove bath exclusively for women, same as regular bath)

◯One week: 20 sen　　◯Single entry: 1 sen　　◯Clove bath (women): 8 rin
◯Daily entry: 3 sen　　◯Drinking spring water: 5 rin

At Atami Hot Springs, many people cure their ailments with just a few days of bathing. In the summer of Meiji 7 (1874), due to the beneficial effects of this spring, a chemical analysis was conducted, confirming it to be a neutral saline spring, as detailed in Professor Nakajima's "Hot Spring Study." I would like to list some of its therapeutic effects below and encourage everyone to bathe here.

Empirically Proven Main Treatments:
◯Rheumatism　◯Symptoms from wind, cold, and dampness　◯Muscle and bone pain　◯Hernia　◯Tapeworms　◯Scrofula　◯Paralysis　◯Hemiplegia　◯Frozen shoulder conditions　◯Diseases from skin deterioration　◯Cough, phlegm, fluid retention, hot flashes, dizziness, depression, night sweats, constipation　◯Syphilis　◯Bone pain　◯Syphilitic sores　◯Small skin eruptions　◯Women's uterine diseases　◯Those who cannot bear children may conceive after bathing　◯Vaginal discharge　◯Irregular bleeding and leucorrhea　◯Menstrual irregularities　◯All blood-related disorders

Those suffering from the above symptoms will benefit from bathing in this hot spring. Primarily, it circulates qi and blood, aids digestion, promotes blood circulation, and makes one healthy and vigorous - truly a famous therapeutic hot spring.

Bathing Method　　　　　　Drinking the spring water is also highly beneficial
The standard practice is 2-3 times per day. However, extremely hot water is harmful. Lukewarm water is best. After bathing, wipe with a dry cloth, dress quickly, and avoid exposure to wind.

Izu Province, Kamo District　　　Imai Shinzaemon
Atami Station　　　　　　　　　Suzuki Hanjiro
Hot Spring Director　　　　　　Fujiya Kiemon

Previously, we operated a legitimate hot spring business in Edobashi Nishiki-cho, but due to recent reforms, we have relocated to the address below. Thanks to your support, we have completed construction and humbly request your continued patronage.

Nihonbashi Minami-hakuya-cho, No. 13
Opening June 1st　　　　　　　Atamiann Nishimura Tadasu

【Left margin box】
Atami Original Hot Water: 50 sen per barrel　Sales office
Atami Hot Spring Study: Small book, 5 sen　Analysis chart (single sheet): 5 sen