【Right Page Header】
There is no case where it does not take root.

○About "grass tethering" {{Side note: Grass tethering means tethering horses without rope, a secret art of horsemanship}}
When you want to tether, chant this song:
　West, east, north, and south, drawing out the pegs,
　The horse standing in the center remains still
When you want to release:
　West, east, north, and south, drawing out the pegs,
　The horse standing in the center is released
Chant like this. It is wondrous.

○Charm to not lose at competitive games
Take chopsticks from funeral rice offerings without people knowing, carve them into a square shape and write:
　　TONROKUMONHA
Write and mark like this, always carry in your pocket. Winning at various competitions is wondrous.

【Left Page Header】
○Method to correct speech dialect
Use one ingredient of cuckoo's charcoal with tea.

○Method to remove various evil curses
Cut branches of peach tree that extend southeast, make them into nails and drive them into the ground on all four sides of the house. Also hang peach branches or boards at the gate entrance. This will ward off all demons and spirits. Also good to take peach fruits that remain on the tree without falling until the eleventh month and hang them inside the house.

○Charm to exorcise curses and break evil magic
Take blood from a white dog and apply it to entrances in all four directions to ward off evil spirits. Also, if you pour it on someone who practices evil magic...

【Right Page Main Text】
...feed it to people who haven't had smallpox. It will be very mild.

○Method to prevent scarring from the same
After all the smallpox pustules have fully erupted, take egg white from duck eggs and apply it all over the face without missing any spots. As it dries it will fall off bit by bit, leaving no scars at all, and after some days the complexion becomes like jade.

○Method to bring out sluggish eruptions mixed with grass-like matter
Chop one matsutake mushroom stem, roast it slightly in a parching pan, powder it, shake it out in hot water and use. It comes out immediately in a wondrous way.

○Method to heal smallpox scars
Ground face powder {{10 monme}}, snake bone {{3 monme}}, haraya {{2 monme}}, kudzu powder【marginal note: "1 bu" next to "powder"】
Grind the above into fine powder, mix with squeezed daikon radish juice, and apply with a summer hair

【Left Page Main Text】
brush to the depressed areas. The healing is wondrous.

○Medicine to treat facial acne
Powder litharge and mix with women's breast milk, apply to the face every night before sleep, wash off the next morning. After three, four, or five times it will surely heal.

○Medicine to treat rotting flesh on the human body
Mix locust {{charcoal powder}} and calomel {{a little}}, form pills about the depth of the hole, insert into the rotted area, cover with paper and apply three or four moxibustion treatments on top.

○Method to heal shark skin condition
Add one sho of sake to bathing water and wash continuously for twenty-one days. The skin texture will improve and shark skin will completely heal.

○Medicine to sober up from alcohol intoxication