【Right Page Header】
If used as construction timber, lightning will not strike. It is commonly called "kawarahisa tree."
Another method:
On the fifth day of the fifth month at the hour of the horse, take mugwort and duckweed, dry them in shade, and burn them when thunder roars.

○Method to make people wealthy and noble
In the twelfth month, take a pig's ear and hang it above the beam. That house will surely become wealthy.

○Charm to prevent forgetfulness
On the fifth day of the fifth month, put a soft-shell turtle's claw inside the collar of clothing. Memory will improve.

○Method to prevent heavy sleepers from sleeping
Burn a horse's skull to ash and take one spoonful three times a day, then

【Left Page Header】
you will not sleep. Taking it once at night is also good. Also, if you use a horse's skull as a pillow, you will not oversleep.

○Method to help insomniacs sleep
Put something called "muscate oil" that comes from Holland into sake and drink it before bed. You will sleep comfortably.

○Method to ward off epidemics and plagues
On New Year's Day or the 15th, throw twenty red beans and seven hemp seeds into a well. People who drink this water will not suffer from epidemic diseases. Another method:
Carry copper in your pocket and keep it on your body, and epidemic diseases will not spread to you. Also, boil vinegar and

【Right Page Main Text】
Use the above three ingredients by decocting them as usual. Another method:
1. Swallow mole crickets raw and wash them down with sake. Also, grinding mole crickets into paste and placing them in the navel is also wondrous.

○Medicine for muscle qi
1. Grind black Japanese pepper seeds into fine powder and apply to painful areas. Very useful while traveling. Drinking with hot water is also good.

○Medicine for chest blockage
Dry indigo dye from dyers in shade and use as powder. Also, take three go of balsam seeds, roast them until yellow, make into powder, and drink three monme at a time with good sake. Wonderfully improves appetite. Another method:
1. Make powder from shade-dried Japanese giant salamander and add to miso soup

【Left Page Main Text】
When eating this, rice will naturally pass through (be digested).

○Method to revive those who died from lightning shock
1. Collect many earthworms, grind them up, and rub them on the soles of the feet - they will revive well. Also,
1. Grind raw crucian carp and apply to areas affected by fire energy. This is a miraculous medicine.

[Illustration]