【Right Page Header】
"Shikou shikou, ga gen jo mou jo gen myou" (Purple Duke, Purple Duke, I restore your blindness, you restore sight)
If I do this every day, it will be cured miraculously.

○Charm for fish bones stuck in the throat
Cover the head of the person with a bone stuck in their throat with a casting net. It will come out immediately, which is miraculous. Also, drinking sugar water is good.

Another method: Put freshly drawn water in a new tea bowl and recite this incantation:
"Kinjou daijou touryuu junsui nyo nanpou katei ritsuryou choku"
Recite this incantation seven times in one breath, blow the recited energy into the tea bowl seven times, then drink that water. The bone coming out is extremely miraculous.

【Left Page Header】
【Illustration】

【Right Page Main Text】
Generally, it is good to pound garlic roots and soak them in water for use. When vomiting doesn't stop, put glutinous rice in water, grind it, and drink the juice. When the throat is dry, decoct reed leaves for use. Rice water is also good. When diarrhea doesn't stop, decoct mugwort leaves thickly in water for use. Also, kneading mustard with water and applying it to the navel is good. Also, grinding smartweed leaves and drinking the juice is miraculous. Besides these, lotus root, pickled plums, peach leaves, dried ginger, salt - all have miraculous effects. Also, when taking one garlic clove or one peppercorn daily, there is absolutely no worry of cholera. Do not doubt this.

【Left Page Main Text】
Experienced Moxibustion Treatment Methods, Part Three

Human life is sustained by the existence of two things: qi and blood. Therefore, in daily health maintenance, assisting yang qi and circulating qi and blood smoothly should be the first priority. When qi becomes blocked and blood stagnates, yang qi becomes insufficient, blood also fails to generate accordingly, and eventually becomes disease. Nothing surpasses moxibustion treatment for circulating these. Therefore, even people without disease should occasionally perform moxibustion treatment without neglect, and when qi and blood flow smoothly, food digests and blood does not stagnate, hence there is no disease and qi is always satisfied. This is the primary method of health maintenance, so moxibustion treatment must be performed.