【Right Page Header】
Brief Explanation of the Middle and Lower Sections of the Calendar

○About the Twelve Guests of the Middle Section
Tatsu, Nozoku, Mitsu, Taira, Sadan, Toru, Yaburu, Ayau, Naru, Osan, Hiraku, Tozu - these are called the Twelve Guests. Each has its principles of good and bad fortune. Generally, they are as described below. "Guest" means the spirit that comes from outside and lodges on that particular day.

○Tatsu (Build) is the day when heaven begins to form
It is very auspicious for beginning things such as sowing seeds, worshipping gods, erecting pillars, building houses, holding wedding ceremonies, and departing on journeys. However, one must not disturb the earth.

○Nozoku (Remove) is the day when earth begins to form
It is good for digging wells and traveling roads. If one builds temples, disturbs earth, or begins conjugal relations, death will surely follow.

【Left Page Header】
○Mitsu (Full) is the day when people begin to form
It is good for worshipping gods, building houses, moving residence, and beginning conjugal relations. It is also good for disturbing earth and sowing seeds.

○Taira (Level) is the day when the Four Heavenly Kings begin to form
It is good for worshipping gods but bad for Buddhist ceremonies. It is good for sowing seeds, traveling, weddings, etc.

○Sadan (Establish) is the day when the five grains begin to form
It is bad for worshipping gods and building houses, but it is a very auspicious day for sowing seeds, weddings, traveling, disturbing earth, and digging wells.

○Toru (Take) is the day when heavenly fortune begins to form
Using it for worshipping gods, sowing seeds, and weddings brings good fortune and maintains safety for 130 years. It is very good for house building and well digging.

【Right Page Main Text】
Therefore, among those acupoint treatments that are effective and easy for even amateurs to apply, I list the following to assist in treating ailments in ordinary households.

○Method for Locating the Four Flowers Moxibustion Points
This moxibustion opens qi, treats phlegm, supplements deficiency, and benefits the kidneys, so it has miraculous effects on consumption cough, qi depression, and deficiency syndromes.
The location method: Connect straw stalks or paper strips, hang them from above the daitsui bone (the first large bone of the spine at the base of the neck), bring them down to the front, and cut both ends at the kyūbi (pit of the stomach, the hollow below the chest). Then place the center of this straw stalk at the ketsukō (center between the two bones below the throat), wrap it around to the back, and temporarily mark with ink the center of the back where the straw ends. Separately, measure the width of the mouth according to the shape of the lips, and place its center horizontally at the previously marked point.

【Left Page Main Text】
【Illustration】