【Right Page Header】
Therefore, it is mostly rainy weather. There are six periods in a year, totaling seventy-two days. There are proverbs like "sunshine entering hassen" and "rain of hassen," meaning if there is rain on the day hassen begins, the weather will likely be fair during hassen, but if the weather is good when hassen begins, it will rain during hassen. Also, if it rains on the second day of hassen, it becomes extremely prolonged rain.

○Doyo (Earth Days)
Doyo occurs in all four seasons. It begins on the thirteenth day from the seasonal divisions of the third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth months, and ends after eighteen days. This totals seventy-two days per year. The day after doyo is when the four seasonal beginnings (Risshun, Rikka, Risshū, Rittō) start. There are interval days: in spring - Mi, Uma, Tori; in summer - U, Tatsu, Saru; in autumn - Hitsuji, Tori, I; in winter - Tora, U, Mi. Moving earth should be avoided on these days.

【Left Page Header】
However, interval days are not problematic.

○Jippō-gure (Ten Direction Gloom)
Jippō-gure is when the ten stems and twelve branches mutually overcome each other, being the reverse of hassen. For example, entering Kinoe-Saru: Kinoe is wood, Saru is metal, so metal overcomes wood. Others should be understood similarly. It governs cloudy conditions for ten days.

○Sanpuku (Three Submissions)
The third Kanoe day after mid-fifth month is called Shofu (first submission). The fourth Kanoe is called Chūfu (middle submission), and the first Kanoe after Risshū is called Mappu (final submission). Because the fire of Taishō overcomes the metal of Kanoe (fire overcomes metal), it is called "submission." Departing on journeys on these days is very bad. This day should not be used for any affairs.

○Eighty-Eight Nights
The eighty-eighth day from Risshun. Generally, this

【Right Page Main Text】
(This is called the knee eye) Mark temporarily at the center of this place, then apply the right measurement downward and lower it to the three-sun position. This is the Sanri acupoint. The efficacy of this moxibustion is well known to people, being good for all ascending qi diseases, leg ailments, and myriad diseases.

(Popular belief says Sanri moxibustion is where you place the web of your thumb on the kneecap and where the middle finger touches below, or some say it's where you set up a pipe against the shin bone and push upward until it stops at the outer side of that bone, which is the Sanri point. This explanation is not far off. However, such methods are too rough and difficult to determine accurately, so the right method above must be used. If the moxibustion point is wrong despite careful application, it's labor without benefit. When you bend your toes back, there's a depression at the ankle where you can feel a pulse. When you press Sanri firmly and test, if there's no pulse at this spot, know that it's the correct Sanri point.)

○Zekkotsu (Severed Bone)
As described above, take the measurement from the crease of the knee hollow to the tip of the outer ankle, exclude the ankle, and measure three sun upward from the upper edge of the ankle to where there's a bone fissure, and apply in front of it. For chest and abdominal distension

【Left Page Main Text】
【Illustration】
fullness, stomach heat with loss of appetite, beriberi, muscle and bone spasms and pain, consumptive fatigue, hiccups, neck stiffness, hemorrhoids, rectal bleeding, difficulty with urination and defecation, stroke, weakness and dysfunction of hands and feet, etc.

○Chūkan (Central Epigastrium)
In the center of the xiphoid process there is such a bone, called the bifurcated bone. Take the measurement from there to the center of the navel and divide this into eight