【Right Page Header】
【Illustration】
That night there will be wind and rain
○Even if there are clouds in the southeast in the morning, if there are no clouds in the northwest, there will be no rain. In the evening too, if you look northwest and there are no clouds, there will be no rain.
Even if wind blows above and opens the clouds, if there are wind and clouds below, it will rain again.
○Even if there are clouds both morning and evening, if they gradually separate into fragments and become distinct, it will be clear.

【Left Page Header】
○When purple clouds rise in the west in the morning, it will clear soon.
○After the rainy season, when white clouds rise high like peaks and like cotton, it is a sign that the rain has stopped.
○White clouds that go high from west to east and look like cotton are called "sugai." They appear in clear weather in all four seasons. It's better not to include these clouds in weather predictions. Even though it's said that rain falls with autumn west winds, these clouds are unrelated.
○When red clouds are in all directions after sunset illuminating the sky, there will be drought.
○When the sky color is yellow, there will be wind; when white and thin, wind and rain. When the weather hangs low and dark, it will rain within three days.
○When the northwest is red and the air is clear, tomorrow

【Right Page Main Text】
When something enters the ear, cut a bowstring, put glue on the small end, insert it and extract the object. If there is no bowstring, use twisted cord, putting glue on the cut end to extract it. Also, blowing strongly with a bamboo tube works well.
　○Medicine for pus discharge from the ear
Dried alum (1 monme), red lead (5 bu) - make into powder and blow into the ear. Good for swelling and pain too. For bleeding, powder dragon bone and blow it in.
　○Medicine for burns
Crush fresh juniper and apply its juice. It works wonderfully. Also crush leaves of nandina and apply with water chestnut juice. Another method:
Dissolve white sugar in water and apply it all over the burn,

【Left Page Main Text】
wrap it well with cloth or paper, and it will heal overnight. Another method:
Grind fresh persimmon tannin with ink and apply it. It immediately stops the stinging pain and heals without leaving scars. Also, char knotweed leaves to black ash and mix with ink or tannin to apply - it works wonderfully.
Also, when there are severe burns and pain from hot water or oil, powder gypsum, mix with vinegar and apply. When there is discharge, sprinkle it on directly.
Also, when burns become sore-like with discharge, burn willow bark to ash and apply it. Insect droppings from bamboo are also good. Also drink soybean broth - it heals quickly without leaving scars.
　○Medicine for dysentery
Take the yolk of a boiled egg and add 3 parts ginger