【Right Page Header】
○When the first day of the month is clear, there will be many clear days in that month. When it rains on the first day, it will be cloudy with rain throughout the month. When rain continues from before the first day, it is light rain.
When the first three days of every month are clear, it will remain clear for a long time. When the 15th day is clear, it won't rain for a long time. When there are black clouds under the crescent moon that break horizontally, it will rain the next day. When there is no rain on the last day of the month, there will surely be wind and rain at the beginning of next month.
○The day after entering Hassen period, it often rains. This is commonly called "Hassen no ushi-buri" (ox rain of Hassen). During the Jippō-gure period, the weather is necessarily cloudy and bad.
○When thunder rumbles offshore at sea, north wind will surely blow. Sometimes thunder offshore makes the weather better. When it thunders after rain, it will

【Left Page Header】
clear up. When it thunders after clearing, it will rain.
○There is a grass called Chifū-sō (wind-knowing grass). Its Japanese name is also called "chikara-gusa" (strength grass) or "kaze-gusa" (wind grass). It resembles miscanthus. By observing the presence or absence of its nodes, one can know whether there will be strong winds that year. If there is one node, strong wind will blow once that year. If there are two, it will blow twice. If there are three, it will blow three times. If at the base, it will blow in spring. If in the middle, it will blow in summer and autumn. When at the tip, there will be strong wind in winter.
○When chickens roost late, it means rain. When dogs scratch the ground and sleep on ashes, it means rain. When dogs chew green grass, it means clear weather. When cats eat green grass, it means rain. When dragonflies suddenly fly in disorder, it means rain. When storks fly in circles, it means wind and rain. When snakes climb trees, floods will come. All things have such omens, but I omit them as they are numerous.

【Right Page Main Text】
Powder the above finely, wash the affected area well, also wash thoroughly with hot water mixed with white powder, then apply.
　○Method to revive people who died from choking on smoke
For people who died from choking on smoke, put daikon radish juice in their mouth. They will be revived.
　○Medicine for milk production
Char bee's nest black and mix with sweet sake, use after meals.
Also, combine one gō of greater burdock seeds from Iyo with two gō of white sugar, roast to a fragrant color, make into fine powder and use with plain hot water after meals.
　○Medicine to treat carbuncles, boils, and all kinds of swellings
Fresh achyranthes leaves, holly leaves
Mix these two ingredients in equal parts, grind well in a mortar, dissolve with vinegar and

【Left Page Main Text】
apply. This is truly wonderful. I believe this method surpasses all kinds of plasters by far. Do not think lightly of it just because the medicine is easy to obtain.
　○Fumigating medicine for cuts
White sesame - grind this one ingredient well in a mortar, knead with thunderball oil. Wrap this in silk and place over fire, cover with a paper bag with holes, and expose the wound to the smoke coming through these holes to fumigate. The pain stops immediately and heals quickly. This is an extremely secret wonderful method.
　○Medicine for cuts
Take Chinese chives on the fifth day of the fifth month, mix the squeezed juice with powdered old lime, knead together like mochi