【Right page】
Fungi (kin) Mushrooms (shin) Take or Kinoko

This section illustrates types of fungi (mushrooms) that commonly grow on trees, bamboo, mountains, fields, and wetlands. What is presented here is only about one-tenth of the total, and their number cannot be exhausted. Depending on the country and climate, even when names are the same, their shapes and colors differ. Their tastes are also similarly varied. What should be feared here are poisonous mushrooms. Since some have the same shape and color as edible ones but contain poison, one should properly have village elders from mountains and fields select which are toxic and non-toxic.

The Jikkai (Collected Explanations) also explains methods for distinguishing poisonous substances. What has been said both in ancient and modern times includes: those that glow at night, those that grow in the morning and wither in the evening, those that change shape or disappear when exposed to sunlight, those growing on poisonous trees, those growing in foul soil, those with bitter taste, those with pungent taste, those with joints in the stem, those whose stems do not split, those without gills on the underside, those with unusual shapes, and others that change color - these harm people. They should be selected for food use. Those growing from early summer to early autumn are mostly poisonous, while those growing from mid-autumn to spring have fewer toxic varieties. However, one should still avoid poisonous trees.

1. Method for detoxifying after eating poisonous mushrooms: According to Zōki and Shichin, taking earth juice (chishō) and consuming one cup is very effective. The method for obtaining earth juice is to first dig yellow earth to a depth of three feet, add several shō of clear water, stir to make it turbid, then take the clear portion. Also, according to Zōki, pounding raw winter melon, extracting its juice, and consuming one cup is

【Left page】
also good. The Kōwa Shinpu states that finely chopping five sen of birch bark, decocting it in water, and frequently taking this will cure the condition. Kaba refers to birch trees. They are most abundant throughout Shinshū. Local people use this bark to make torches. Also, finely chopping five sen of cherry bark, decocting it in water, and frequently taking it is wonderful. Also, decocting five sen of purple eggplant seeds or eggplant in water and taking it is good. Also, mixing bitter tea and white alum in fresh water and swallowing it will invariably provide immediate relief. Mix old wall earth with hot water, let it settle, cool it, and drink. Also, decocting five sen of fresh lotus leaves and taking it, or pounding them soft, extracting the juice and taking it is very good. Also, powdering tea buds and taking them with fresh drawn water. Late tea is also said to be good. Besides these, various books contain detoxification methods, but they are omitted here.

1. Among the fungi types presented before and after this section that I have personally observed, illustrations found in the Shin'yō Kinpu and Nikkō Kinpu, and illustrations found in the Kinshi. This work called Kinshi is from Mashima-shi's collection. The books cited in this Kinshi include Kanko, Shobutsu Ruisan, Sanbutsu Shasei, Kinhin, Mōkin-zu, Kuri-shi's works, and others. Additionally, there are items copied from obtaining Kusumoto-shi's collection of illustrations. Besides these, there should be illustrations from various other families, but since they could not be obtained, they could not be copied. I await future scholars to supplement this remainder. Book names are recorded for the illustrations; those without records are items I obtained myself.