【Right Page】
Yanagitake (Willow mushroom)

　Figure recorded in
　Mōkin-zu (Illustrations of Fuzzy Fungi)

【Right center】
Yanagitake

　Figure recorded in
　Kanko

【Left upper】
Yanagitake

　Figure recorded in
　Kinshi (Fungal History)

【Left Page】
Fūshin (Maple Mushroom) 《Interlinear note: Collected Explanations》

　According to Ei's explanation, they "grow on rotten maple wood," and the taste is extremely fragrant and delicious, "making them the finest quality." However,
　fungi that grow under aromatic wood types and maple resin "are poisonous," and eating them "makes people laugh uncontrollably," while di-
　shō (earthen broth) "neutralizes this effect." There is something commonly called warai-take (laughing mushroom), also known as mai-take,
　whose form resembles ordinary fungi and is mostly white in color. If one "mistakenly" eats this, they laugh
　uncontrollably as if mad and "climb" up to the tops of tall trees. This thing is said by common people to grow on momiji
　(Japanese maple) because "kaede" (maple) is read as "kaede" in Japanese training reading, and commonly called "momiji," which
　is likely the origin. Whether fungi growing on Japanese momiji are poisonous or non-poisonous is not clear. True
　maple trees came from "China" less than a hundred years ago, so there are no large
　trees old enough to produce fungi. Therefore, we have not yet seen the non-poisonous fungi mentioned in Ei's explanation. Upon further
　consideration, the "maple wood" mentioned by Ei is probably a miswritten character referring to a different plant.
　The Kōwa Shinfu states that laughing mushrooms, also called dancing fungi, sometimes grow in various damp, shaded places.
　Their shape resembles huo-take but smaller, their color is mostly ivory white, and their texture is extremely light and hollow. If mistakenly
　eaten, they immediately cause dry laughter and abnormal behavior. The Go Shinfu also
　states that those "growing on maple trees" are "called laughing mushrooms," and "eating them" "makes people laugh uncontrollably."