【Right Page】
Momiji-take (Japanese Maple Mushroom)

This is a figure recorded in the Kinshi (Fungal History). The same book states that those growing on Japanese maple trees also make people laugh uncontrollably. Furthermore, considering that since ancient times, momiji has been regarded as equivalent to maple, modern specialists in herbalism all consider this to be incorrect. However, since the fungi that grow in these places make people laugh, just like those growing on maple trees, one can understand that they are of the same family as maple.

【Left Page】
Gōshin (Shiitake) 《Collected Explanations》　shiitake　hirushimeji《The Nikkō Kinfu notes that it dries immediately when sun-dried, hence the name》
　　　　hirutake《Shimotsuke Province》　yukikinoko《Banshū Province》　morohakinoko《same as above》

According to the Honchō Shokukan, they are abundant in the western coastal and northern mountain provinces, and also plentiful in the mountain regions of Kii, Ise, Mikawa, Tōtōmi, Suruga, and Kai provinces. Shiitake grow on chinquapin trees and on the roots of old trees. Alternatively, they grow when dead trees that have lost their vital energy receive moisture from rain and dew. Their shape resembles shimeji mushrooms with round caps, short and thick stems, growing in the third and fourth months. They are sweet, crispy, and fragrant, superior to shimeji mushrooms. To cultivate shiitake, oak trees, chinquapins, castanopsis, and sorrel trees are cut to two or three shaku in the ninth month, the bark is scored with a knife, and they are submerged in water. After a year has passed, they are removed in the seventh month and leaned against something in the shade, whereupon mushrooms grow. These are called raw shiitake. The Guangdong Xinyu calls them house mushrooms, and dried ones are called dried oak mushrooms in Riku Yō's Shukuen Zasuki. In Ōshū they are called tsubu-shiitake. The Yamato Honzō states: "Shiitake that grow on beech trees have the same appearance but are poisonous and may kill people. They should not be eaten. In recent times, some people have died from eating raw shiitake. No one knows the reason. Probably they ate ones growing on beech trees. One should be selective. Tree mushrooms and such seem to be either beneficial or poisonous depending on the tree."