【Right page】
Shōshin (Pine mushroom) - Matsutake, Pine ear "Tōi Hōkan", Pine flower fungus "Honkyō Hōgen"

In "Yamato Honzō," it states that "Shōshin grows in the 9th and 10th months, has the best flavor, and is first among mushrooms." This is indeed true. The products of Yamashiro Province are particularly good and very abundant. It is said they only grow on female pine trees. In the western provinces, there are many male pines, so matsutake are few and poria mushrooms are many. Also, in the capital region there are many female pines, so matsutake are abundant and poria are few. "Honchō Shokkan" states: "They are most abundant in the various mountains around the capital, being large and fragrant. The products of Kitayama are considered superior. Products from the five home provinces, Tango, Ōmi, Ise, Kii, and Harima also rank next to these. The western maritime provinces also have many, and the eastern provinces also have many, but their fragrance and flavor do not match those of the capital region." Below the roots are whiskers, or sometimes they form nests. Commonly called "matsutake vines." When these are harvested and cultivated, it is said that even land where they don't grow can produce them. The products of Inari Mountain in Yamashiro have large form and superior flavor. The "reclining Buddha" variety that grows in Saga has thick stems that coil underground and emerge diagonally above ground. The color is white, the fragrance strong, and the taste delicious. Also, what is called "utsura-take" has scale-like spotted patterns like pine bark, resembling quail feathers. What is called "torafu" has red and white spots like tiger stripes. Products from Matsunoo are red in color and hard. Products from Tamba have slightly black cap colors. Products from Kawagoe in Musashi have yellow-brown caps and small form.

【Left page】
In "Shinyō Kinfu," there are two types of matsutake: one grows under pine trees, one grows under hemlock trees. Those from hemlock have reduced fragrance and flavor. These are called "toga-matsutake." In "Kinshi," Master said: "To hate things that are similar but not genuine is because they disturb the truth." In Awata Mountain north of the capital and in Yasumura in Ōmi Province, there is saru-matsu, also called saru-take. The caps are all red in color and completely resemble matsutake but have no fragrance. When people mistakenly eat these, they often suffer from the poison, vomiting blood and dying.

【Lower right】
Matsutake

Drawing recorded in 
"Kinshi"