The Great Perfection of Wisdom Sutra, Volume 194
First Section, Chapter on the Difficult to Believe and Understand, Part 34-13, Translated by Tripitaka Master Xuanzang by Imperial Decree

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the bodily element, and the purity of the bodily element is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the bodily element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the tactile element, body-consciousness element, and bodily contact, as well as all feelings that arise from bodily contact as condition. The purity of the tactile element up to all feelings that arise from bodily contact as condition is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the tactile element up to all feelings that arise from bodily contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the mental element, and the purity of the mental element is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the mental element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the dharma element, mental consciousness element, and mental contact, as well as all feelings that arise from mental contact as condition. The purity of the dharma element up to all feelings that arise from mental contact as condition is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the dharma element up to all feelings that arise from mental contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the earth element, and the purity of the earth element is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the earth element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the water, fire, wind, space, and consciousness elements, and the purity of the water, fire, wind, space, and consciousness elements is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the water, fire, wind, space, and consciousness elements are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of ignorance, and the purity of ignorance is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of ignorance are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of formations, consciousness, name-and-form, six sense bases, contact, feeling, craving, grasping, becoming, birth, old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, grief, and distress. The purity of formations up to old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, grief, and distress is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of formations up to old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, grief, and distress are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the perfection of giving, and the purity of the perfection of giving is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the perfection of giving are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the perfections of ethics, patience, energy, meditation, and wisdom, and the purity of ethics up to the perfection of wisdom is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of ethics up to the perfection of wisdom are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of internal emptiness, and the purity of internal emptiness is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of internal emptiness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of external emptiness, internal-external emptiness, emptiness of emptiness, great emptiness, ultimate emptiness, conditioned emptiness, unconditioned emptiness, ultimate emptiness, limitless emptiness, scattered emptiness, unchanging emptiness, natural emptiness, self-characteristic emptiness, common characteristic emptiness, emptiness of all dharmas, unobtainable emptiness, emptiness of no-nature, emptiness of self-nature, and emptiness of the no-nature of self-nature. The purity of external emptiness up to emptiness of the no-nature of self-nature is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of external emptiness up to emptiness of the no-nature of self-nature are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of suchness, and the purity of suchness is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of suchness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the dharma realm, dharma nature, non-falsity, immutability, equality, freedom from arising, dharma determination, dharma abiding, true limit, space realm, and inconceivable realm. The purity of the dharma realm up to the inconceivable realm is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the dharma realm up to the inconceivable realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the noble truth of suffering, and the purity of the noble truth of suffering is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the noble truth of suffering are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the noble truths of arising, cessation, and the path, and the purity of the noble truths of arising, cessation, and the path is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the noble truths of arising, cessation, and the path are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

[The last three lines are duplicated in the next frame]