[The first two lines are duplicated from the previous frame]
are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the fruit of stream-entry, and the purity of the fruit of stream-entry is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the fruit of stream-entry are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the agent is the purity of the fruits of once-returner, non-returner, and arhat, and the purity of the fruits of once-returner, non-returner, and arhat is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the fruits of once-returner, non-returner, and arhat are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of pratyeka-buddha enlightenment, and the purity of pratyeka-buddha enlightenment is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of pratyeka-buddha enlightenment are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of all bodhisattva-mahāsattva practices, and the purity of all bodhisattva-mahāsattva practices is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of all bodhisattva-mahāsattva practices are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the agent is the purity of the unsurpassed perfect enlightenment of all buddhas, and the purity of the unsurpassed perfect enlightenment of all buddhas is the purity of the agent. Why? Because this purity of the agent and the purity of the unsurpassed perfect enlightenment of all buddhas are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Furthermore, Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of form, and the purity of form is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of form are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of sensation, perception, formations, and consciousness, and the purity of sensation, perception, formations, and consciousness is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of sensation, perception, formations, and consciousness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the eye-base, and the purity of the eye-base is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the eye-base are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the ear-, nose-, tongue-, body-, and mind-bases, and the purity of the ear-, nose-, tongue-, body-, and mind-bases is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the ear-, nose-, tongue-, body-, and mind-bases are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the form-base, and the purity of the form-base is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the form-base are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the sound-, smell-, taste-, touch-, and dharma-bases, and the purity of the sound-, smell-, taste-, touch-, and dharma-bases is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the sound-, smell-, taste-, touch-, and dharma-bases are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the eye-element, and the purity of the eye-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the eye-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the form-element, eye-consciousness element, eye-contact, and the sensations arising from eye-contact as condition, and the purity of the form-element up to the sensations arising from eye-contact as condition is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the form-element up to the sensations arising from eye-contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the ear-element, and the purity of the ear-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the ear-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the sound-element, ear-consciousness element, ear-contact, and the sensations arising from ear-contact as condition, and the purity of the sound-element up to the sensations arising from ear-contact as condition is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the sound-element up to the sensations arising from ear-contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the nose-element, and the purity of the nose-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the nose-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the smell-element, nose-consciousness element, nose-contact, and the sensations arising from nose-contact as condition, and the purity of the smell-element up to the sensations arising from nose-contact as condition is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the smell-element up to the sensations arising from nose-contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the tongue-element, and the purity of the tongue-element is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the tongue-element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the taste-element, tongue-consciousness element, tongue-contact, and the sensations arising from tongue-contact as condition, and the purity of the taste-element up to the sensations arising from tongue-contact as condition is

[The last two lines are duplicated in the next frame]