[The first two lines are duplicated from the previous frame]
are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the fruit of stream-entry, and the purity of the fruit of stream-entry is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the fruit of stream-entry are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the recipient is the purity of the fruits of once-returner, non-returner, and arhat, and the purity of the fruits of once-returner, non-returner, and arhat is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the fruits of once-returner, non-returner, and arhat are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of solitary awakening, and the purity of solitary awakening is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of solitary awakening are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the practices of all bodhisattva-mahāsattvas, and the purity of the practices of all bodhisattva-mahāsattvas is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the practices of all bodhisattva-mahāsattvas are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the recipient is the purity of the unsurpassed perfect awakening of all buddhas, and the purity of the unsurpassed perfect awakening of all buddhas is the purity of the recipient. Why? Because this purity of the recipient and the purity of the unsurpassed perfect awakening of all buddhas are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Furthermore, Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of form, and the purity of form is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of form are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of feeling, perception, formations, and consciousness, and the purity of feeling, perception, formations, and consciousness is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of feeling, perception, formations, and consciousness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the eye base, and the purity of the eye base is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the eye base are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind bases, and the purity of the ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind bases is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind bases are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the form base, and the purity of the form base is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the form base are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the sound, smell, taste, touch, and dharma bases, and the purity of the sound, smell, taste, touch, and dharma bases is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the sound, smell, taste, touch, and dharma bases are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the eye realm, and the purity of the eye realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the eye realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the form realm, eye-consciousness realm, eye contact, and the feelings arising from eye contact as condition, and the purity of the form realm up to the feelings arising from eye contact as condition is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the form realm up to the feelings arising from eye contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the ear realm, and the purity of the ear realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the ear realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the sound realm, ear-consciousness realm, ear contact, and the feelings arising from ear contact as condition, and the purity of the sound realm up to the feelings arising from ear contact as condition is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the sound realm up to the feelings arising from ear contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the nose realm, and the purity of the nose realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the nose realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the smell realm, nose-consciousness realm, nose contact, and the feelings arising from nose contact as condition, and the purity of the smell realm up to the feelings arising from nose contact as condition is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the smell realm up to the feelings arising from nose contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the tongue realm, and the purity of the tongue realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the tongue realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the taste realm, tongue-consciousness realm, tongue contact, and the feelings arising from tongue contact as condition, and the purity of the taste realm up to the feelings arising from tongue contact as condition is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the taste realm up to the feelings arising from tongue contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

[The last two lines are duplicated in the next frame]