[The first two lines are duplicated from the previous frame]
separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the body realm, and the purity of the body realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the body realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the touch realm, body-consciousness realm, body contact, and the feelings arising from body contact as condition, and the purity of the touch realm up to the feelings arising from body contact as condition is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the touch realm up to the feelings arising from body contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the mind realm, and the purity of the mind realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the mind realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the dharma realm, mind-consciousness realm, mind contact, and the feelings arising from mind contact as condition, and the purity of the dharma realm up to the feelings arising from mind contact as condition is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the dharma realm up to the feelings arising from mind contact as condition are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the earth element, and the purity of the earth element is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the earth element are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the water, fire, wind, space, and consciousness elements, and the purity of the water, fire, wind, space, and consciousness elements is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the water, fire, wind, space, and consciousness elements are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of ignorance, and the purity of ignorance is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of ignorance are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of formations, consciousness, name-and-form, six bases, contact, feeling, craving, clinging, becoming, birth, aging-and-death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, depression, and distress, and the purity of formations up to aging-and-death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, depression, and distress is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of formations up to aging-and-death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering, depression, and distress are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the perfection of giving, and the purity of the perfection of giving is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the perfection of giving are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the perfections of morality, patience, vigor, meditation, and wisdom, and the purity of the perfections of morality up to wisdom is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the perfections of morality up to wisdom are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of internal emptiness, and the purity of internal emptiness is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of internal emptiness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of external emptiness, internal-external emptiness, emptiness of emptiness, great emptiness, ultimate emptiness, conditioned emptiness, unconditioned emptiness, ultimate emptiness, endless emptiness, scattered emptiness, unchanging emptiness, natural emptiness, emptiness of own characteristics, emptiness of common characteristics, emptiness of all phenomena, unobtainable emptiness, emptiness of non-existence, emptiness of inherent nature, and emptiness of the non-existence of inherent nature, and the purity of external emptiness up to the emptiness of the non-existence of inherent nature is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of external emptiness up to the emptiness of the non-existence of inherent nature are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of suchness, and the purity of suchness is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of suchness are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the dharma realm, dharma nature, non-falseness, immutability, equality, birthlessness, dharma-determination, dharma-abiding, reality-limit, space realm, and inconceivable realm, and the purity of the dharma realm up to the inconceivable realm is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the dharma realm up to the inconceivable realm are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the noble truth of suffering, and the purity of the noble truth of suffering is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the noble truth of suffering are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is the purity of the noble truths of origination, cessation, and the path, and the purity of the noble truths of origination, cessation, and the path is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the noble truths of origination, cessation, and the path are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected.

Subhuti, the purity of the knower is the purity of the four meditations, and the purity of the four meditations is the purity of the knower. Why? Because this purity of the knower and the purity of the four meditations are not two, not divided into two parts, not separate, and not disconnected. The purity of the knower is

[The last four lines are duplicated in the next frame]