【Right Page】
Care should be taken to prevent evening sunlight from shining in. Silkworms exposed to heat and humidity are said to develop a disease called "suki." During this period, the worms eat mulberry leaves well, soon reaching "seme-kuwa" (intensive feeding), and when "yasume-kuwa" (resting from feeding) is observed, one should not be negligent and should feed them mulberry leaves many times. The molting and awakening now occurs only in this "niwa" (third instar). There is no need to cover with nets. When more than half of the silkworms have awakened, one should quickly provide resting mulberry. From this point, one should particularly select high-quality mulberry leaves to give them. Silkworms that have eaten plenty of good mulberry will have thick cocoons and high-quality silk

【Left Page】
content. At this time, one should particularly strictly provide mulberry leaves and later sprinkle them thickly.
　A poem says: "In the garden rest, avoid rain and dampness, make it thin, do not cease the mulberry, be startled by the summer heat"
Also, here is a secret technique. During extremely hot weather, since silkworms are accustomed to green mulberry leaves and always rest on green leaves, one should sprinkle leaves many times for them to eat. In this way, in years when it is so warm and strong that even humans feel restless, silkworms surprisingly grow quickly and make cocoons early.
If mulberry is insufficient at this time, the cocoons will be small, the skin thin, and the silk content poor. From when the silkworms awaken in the garden stage until they pupate and make cocoons, they eat mulberry approximately twenty to twenty-three or twenty-four times.
However, there will be some variation in timing depending on temperature conditions and the thickness of mulberry provision.
　　　Various regions have methods for preventing cocoon formation
Now all the silkworms pupate, becoming transparent like crystal, and one searches for places where they hide to make cocoons. This is called (in eastern provinces "hikiru," in central provinces "sugaku"). Various methods exist in different regions for preventing cocoon formation

【Right Page Illustration】
Illustration of transporting cut mulberry leaves in the Kanto region