○This time, by His Lordship's will, as he wishes to seek scholars who purely practice Zhu Xi Confucianism, and as it has been heard that you have long had the desire to pursue studies abroad, you are ordered to travel to the Kamigata region for your own training as well, make thorough inquiries, and report if you find anyone suitable. For this purpose, fifteen ryō of gold is granted as financial assistance.
　May 21st

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

○This time, a large artillery battery is to be established at Dorobara Shimbo-ura Kagari-yama, so those stationed at the Mikuni port new guard station are also ordered to be mindful and vigilant. Of course, the same orders have been given to the Shimbo-ura officials and others, so this should be communicated accordingly.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shimoryō District Magistrate

○For the same reason as above, some of the officials of the same port are ordered to make periodic rounds and remain vigilant. Of course, all the port residents should be informed to be mindful as well. Also, since the same instructions have been given to those stationed at the Mikuni port new guard station, they should be informed to keep this in mind and be notified accordingly.
　June 11th

　　　　　　　　　　　Instructors and teachers
　　　　　　　　　　　However, for those stationed in Edo who face obstacles, senior members will serve as representatives

○Although the members of the household naturally attend to literary and martial arts without negligence, recently there have been strict orders from the authorities regarding coastal defense, so His Lordship considers this no easy burden and has issued instructions this spring that both literary and martial arts should be pursued with even greater diligence. Since the training and advancement of disciples has long been entrusted to each of you, you are ordered to take even greater care in their development and training. However, given the current circumstances that continue, training equipment and such may naturally not be as one would wish, so for the next two or three years, the items listed separately are provided as assistance. Further details will be explained by the Inspector.

　Separate list:
One brush　　　　　　　　　　　　Ihara Genbē
One ink stick　　　　　　　　　　Akashi Jinzaemon  
One inkstone
　However, regarding quantities, consult with Amagata Magohachi of the financial department
　The above items are granted

One bamboo sword　　500 pieces　　　　Wanibuchi Saburōbē
One leather guard　　5 sets　　　　　　　each　Takahata Jinzaemon
One pair of gloves　　2 fingers