(Continued from the previous page) ...producing a differential angle (saкaku), which is what is called the "atmospheric refraction" (mōkisa). As shown in the diagram, let the line Ko-Ka (子甲‐子) represent the ground surface, and the lines Chū-Chū (丑‐丑), Tora-Tora (寅‐寅), and U-U (卯‐卯) represent the various layers of the atmosphere. A person stands at Ka (甲), and Saru (申) represents a star located outside the atmosphere. If there were no atmospheric refraction, the direction of the line of sight when the person observes the star would be a straight line from Saru (申) to Ka (甲). However, according to the principles of optics, the ray of light from Saru (申) to Ka (甲), upon encountering the atmospheric surface at Tei (丁), must necessarily curve downward, proceeding from Tei (丁) toward Hei (丙). Since the upper atmosphere is extremely thin, the curvature is also extremely slight. But as one gradually descends and the atmosphere gradually thickens, the curvature also gradually increases. Therefore, the light ray from Saru (申) to Ka (甲) transforms into the curved line Saru‐Tei‐Hei‐Otsu‐Ka (申‐丁‐丙‐乙‐甲). The point at which it meets the ground surface is not Ka (甲) but rather ‐Ka (a point displaced from Ka). This means that if there were no atmosphere in the sky, the light of the star at Saru (申) should reach Ka (甲), but because the star's rays are bent by the atmosphere, they arrive instead at ‐Ka. The following passage states: "There is separately a ray from Saru (申) to Ko (子); without atmospheric refraction it should have struck the ground at Ko (子), but due to the atmosphere it transforms into the curved line Saru‐Tei‐Hei‐Otsu‐Ka (申‐丁‐丙‐乙‐甲)." This also means, just as before, that the ray from Saru (申), which should have traveled in a straight line to Ko (子), is bent by the atmosphere and arrives instead at Ka (甲). The passage that follows then states: "Therefore, the human eye cannot see the star along the straight line from Ka (甲) to Saru (申), but sees it along the curved line Ka‐Otsu‐Hei‐Tei‐Saru (甲‐乙‐丙‐丁‐申)."

This is saying that the human eye does not view starlight in a perfectly straight line (massugu), but that the line of sight also traces a curved arc (magariyuku). The next passage further states: "According to the principles of optics, the direction in which a light ray enters the eye is the very direction in which the eye perceives the object. Therefore, when a person observes a star, it does not appear in the direction of Ka‐to‐Saru (甲申), but rather in the direction of Ka‐to‐‐Saru (甲‐申)." This means that, just as the light rays from the star curve as they enter the human eye, our own line of sight also proceeds along a curved path; thus a star that is actually at Saru (申) appears to be located at ‐Saru (申), as if it were at a different position. The work *Rikugō Sōdan* (六合叢談), Volume 2, folio 17, also states: "The direction in which light enters the eye is the very direction in which one sees the star or moon. Therefore, whenever one looks at a star, there is always a differential angle (saкaku)." Now, drawing upon all these principles, even the light rays of the sun shining down upon the surface above the separate Wind Wheel (beppūrin) will likewise be bent by the atmosphere, forming a curved arc as they travel, and thus, as if being laid down upon the earth, they are able to reach the land of the Southern Continent (Nanshu/Jambudvīpa). Moreover, if there were only a single atmospheric layer, the arc would naturally be gentle; however, with varying thicknesses and multiple layers…

(The text continues on the next page.)