That light is generated in the direction (the sun) faces, and the direction away from it is darkness — this is accepted doctrine. According to Western theory, the sun revolves vertically and sets toward the west; therefore, the illuminated portion of the crescent moon faces west, which accords well with direct observation. However, in Buddhist doctrine, the sun is said to set for the Southern Continent (Jambudvīpa) when it reaches the center of the Western Continent; therefore, the sun sets at due west of Mount Sumeru, not at due west of the Southern Continent. From the Southern Continent, in either case, it should be in the northwestern corner. If that is so, then the illuminated side of the crescent moon should also face northwest by reason.

Earlier, there was the argument that the separate wind-wheel (別風輪) refracts lines of sight; however, in Buddhist doctrine, the distance of the sun and moon from the earth is set equally at 40,000 yojanas for both. Since their heights are equal, there should be no reason for the line of sight to curve in the case of the crescent moon. If that is so, can it not be said that calling Buddhist doctrine "false" is itself not an unfounded statement?

In response: There is indeed an explanation for this. Among the twelve divisions (dvādaśāṅga) of the Buddhist canon, there is the section on the "material world" (器世間, bhājana-loka), which explains astronomy, geography, yin-yang, and calendrical calculations; however, what has not yet been transmitted (to Japan) is as discussed in the *Rekishō-hen* (Treatise on Astronomical Phenomena). [Those passages in the sutras and treatises that speak of astronomy do so because their discussion happens to touch upon these matters, or because they are responses to questions posed at a particular time; they were never intended as teachings meant to reveal the science of stars and calendars. Whether their explanations are primary or incidental should be understood by careful reflection.] That the rising and setting of the sun and moon are described as occurring at the center of the eastern and western continents also has its own slight inaccuracies. [This is discussed under the Ninth Difficulty in the previous volume.] That the height of Mount Sumeru is described as 80,000 yojanas is also, it seems, actually 84,000 yojanas. [This is discussed under the Twelfth Difficulty.] That the height of the sun and moon is described as 40,000 yojanas also has its actual discrepancy. There are three ways to explain this. First, the *Zōhōzō-kyō* (Miscellaneous Treasure Treasury Sūtra) states: "In summer, the sun travels along the upper path; the road is far and its movement is slow. The sun..."