[Right page]
Jiroizaemon showed extraordinary compassion and care. As the years passed, he provided appropriate capital and established Kichibe as a branch family in Nakamachi in the winter before last. However, on the 13th of last month, Kichibe fled with his wife and children. At that time, his adoptive father had been suffering from illness for years, and was particularly gravely ill at that moment. Kichibe forgot the great debt of gratitude from his childhood and abandoned his adoptive father in his grave illness to run away from home—truly disgraceful conduct. We immediately sent people out in all directions to search for him, but could not determine his whereabouts. After the Bon festival, we heard that he was staying at the house of the widow of Ogiya Shūzō in Shiojiri post station. Furthermore, when we gradually investigated after his flight, we found that he had committed very disgraceful acts, and moreover had substantial improper debts, which shocked not only myself but all our relatives. Therefore, several relatives went to Shiojiri post station to bring him back immediately and reform his ways through earnest persuasion, but he stubbornly insisted on his position. Also, whatever arrangement he had made with the widow of Ogiya Shūzō, he had deposited his belongings there and together they made unlawful

[Left page]
arguments. Moreover, a person at the same inn named Yamatoya Yadonosuke also supported him and made unreasonable abusive remarks, so our negotiations could not reach a satisfactory resolution, causing us great distress. Though it is presumptuous, we humbly request that you summon the aforementioned two persons and order them to return Kichibe along with his wife, children, and belongings. Other matters we shall explain orally.

If you would graciously grant our request as stated above with your compassion, we would consider it entirely an act of your benevolence and be most grateful. The above.

Naitō Suruga-no-kami territory
Shinshū Ina District Takatō Nakamachi
Kaei 2, year of the metal rooster, 8th month　　　Jiroizaemon
Matsumoto domain　　　　　　Town official accompanying
Government office　　　　　　Kanbei

We wish to petition the Matsumoto domain government office as stated above, so we humbly request that you provide us with a letter of introduction. The above.

8th month of the rooster year　　　　Hirose Jiroizaemon