【Right Side】

(Continuation from previous page — conclusion of the petition by Kumatarō of Shimizumachi to surrender his water duty [mizuyaku] registration as a roofer)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shimizumachi
Kaei 4, Year of the Boar [1851], Sixth Month　　Petitioner: Kumatarō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Representative: Gihei
　　　　To the Honorable Magistrate's Office

The above petition was submitted on the same day in the same manner. On the twenty-seventh day of the Seventh Month, we received a directive to appear at the Office of Public Works (Ofushinkata Yakusho) with one's seal. This was duly communicated to the town representative of Shimizumachi.

---

　　　Respectfully, a petition submitted in the form of a verbal statement

My apprentice Kikusaburō has been serving his water duty (mizuyaku) and working as a blacksmith; however, as he has fallen ill, I humbly petition that he be granted an exemption from his water duty registration (mizuyaku fuda).

Should Your Honor, in your great benevolence, grant this petition as requested, we would be most deeply grateful. Respectfully submitted.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hokomochimachi
Kaei 4, Year of the Boar [1851], Seventh Month　　Petitioner: Rokubei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Representative: Jūsaburō
　　　　To the Honorable Magistrate's Office

The above was submitted on the fifth day of the Seventh Month and was duly approved.

---

【Left Side】

　　　Respectfully, a petition submitted in the form of a verbal statement

On the night of the twenty-first day of the Fifth Month, an abandoned baby girl was found at my residence. On the following twenty-second day, I duly reported the matter to the authorities and have been caring for the child. However, as I have no milk [to nurse the infant], I have been in great difficulty. Fortunately, a relative named Chōzō, residing in Matsushima-juku, has a nursing woman available. I therefore wish to obtain a written acknowledgment of custody and temporarily entrust the child to said Chōzō for care and upbringing. I hereby humbly petition for permission to do so.

Should Your Honor, in your great benevolence, grant this petition as requested, we would be most deeply grateful. Respectfully submitted.

Kaei 4, Year of the Boar [1851], Seventh Month　　Nakamachi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Petitioner: Matahei
　　　　To the Honorable Magistrate's Office　　Town Representative: Kanshirō

The above petition was submitted on the twenty-fifth day through the intermediary of Shimizu Heisaku. It was immediately approved, and the matter was communicated to the town representative of Nakamachi.