【Right Page】

　　□shi (a name cited in Honzō Wamyō, possibly a Shu regional name)　Hekija-ō (辟邪翁, "Evil-Warding Elder") <<Tenki Benran>>
　　Sōen (挿莚) <<Meibutsu Hōgen>>　Yaku-shuyu (薬茱萸, "Medicinal Evodia") <<Seiji Tsū>>

　There are two varieties: one of Chinese origin (kanshu) and one of Japanese origin (wasan), with the Japanese variety being of superior quality. The Japanese variety is produced from Umezu Village in Kyoto, as stated by Mr. Tamura. It is also said to be found on Mt. Asama in Shinano Province and on Mt. Fuji in Suruga Province. The tree grows to over one jō (approx. 3 meters) in height; the bark is bluish-brown with many nodes. The leaves resemble those of the lacquer tree (urushi), with seven or nine leaflets growing in opposite pairs on each stem, arranged in opposite pairs on the branches and trunk. In summer, small yellow-white flowers bloom in clusters at the tips of the branches, resembling the flowers of Sichuan pepper (shokushō) but somewhat coarser. The fruits ripen in the eighth and ninth months. They resemble Qin pepper (shinshō) in shape with a concave center, but are larger; the taste is pungent and the aroma is intense. They are suitable for medicinal use. Li Shizhen states that "the variety with smaller grains is superior for medicinal use," and this is indeed that variety. This plant sends up suckers (hikobae) from the roots wherever they reach, so it can be propagated by division. The Chinese variety is the same in this regard.

【Left Page】

A separate variety:
　This is a Chinese variety that arrived during the Kyōhō era (1716–1736). Its branches and trunk are larger and stouter than the Japanese variety. The leaves resemble those of the large-leafed Fraxinus (shinpi/ash tree), being thick and soft, with five or seven leaflets growing in opposite pairs on each stem. In summer, yellow-white flowers bloom in dense clusters at the tips of the branches, resembling yuzu blossoms but smaller. The fruits ripen in the tenth month and are red in color. They resemble Sichuan pepper (shokushō) with a concave center, and occasionally have black seeds resembling pepper seeds (shōmoku). Although this is a Chinese variety, it is of inferior quality. The odor is stronger than the Japanese variety, and it is difficult to consume without first passing it through hot water. Sū Sòng cites a view that "the variety with larger grains is called shokusuyu (食茱萸, food evodia)," but it is likely not true shokusuyu but rather refers to this Chinese variety.