They crossed to Akasaka and took up battle formation, attacking Lord Chō, but since the castle did not fall, they returned to Echigo. They sent an envoy for secret negotiations to Lord Yusa. Because Lord Yusa sided with them, Nanao castle fell on the second attack. Lord Chō's ancestors all committed suicide at the beach of Fuchū. However, the fourth son Jōan was serving as a hostage to Lord Nobunaga and was residing in Azuchi in Ōmi Province, so his life was spared. When Nobunaga heard of Kenshin's rebellion, he appointed Hashiba Chikuzen-no-kami as general with ten thousand men. Thirteen scouts were sent ahead, and with Jōan's guidance, they proceeded down to Kurabe Beach in Kaga Province. The Nanao forces, hearing this, brought the severed head of Lord Chō to the bank of Ōno River in Kaga Province to signal the castle's fall, and displayed it at Unmon. Therefore, thirteen scouts from within the forces saw this and reported to Lord Chikuzen: "As this concerns our ancestor, Jōan shall go first." What Jōan heard was: "This is not a sign of loyal retainers. It appears to be a sign of defeat in battle tactics. The day is already drawing to a close. Shall we take lodging?" They lodged at a village about ten chō upstream from Miyakoshi. Everyone went up for night duty. Jōan held back a little and went up after the night duty was over. He stated: "The corpses are those of my parents and brothers. I believe the fall of Nanao to be true. I wished to report this earlier, but thinking it would disturb the bannermen, I have refrained until now. Tomorrow I believe you will return to the capital from here. However, I will conceal my ancestors' corpses and follow behind you." Lord Chikuzen replied: "The Chō house has been known for generations as a family of martial valor, and indeed Jōan's present attitude is consistent with this." Then they quickly returned to the capital. Kaneshin took control of Nanao and appointed Naoe Yamato-no-kami as castle administrator. However, since it was recently fallen territory, there was some reservation, so he ordered a temporary residence to be built at the peak of Sekidōzan's fifty thousand lights, where he should reside. Kurume Sansuke was assigned as his guard. After staying one night at Daigūbō, he returned to Echigo. However, Yamato-no-kami fell ill for seventeen days and died. When Sansuke carried his corpse back to Echigo, [Kenshin] thought it inexcusable that no reports were made during his illness, and ordered Sansuke to commit seppuku. After that, Arisaka Bitchū became the Nanao castle administrator.