This is called the Battle of Hishiwaki no Wakeme. However, it was on the 6th day of the 5th month.

1. The ancestors of Lord Dainagon are understood to have been great lords of the western provinces. At one time, they resided in a place called Maeda in Owari Province. At that time, his name was Matazaemon-sama, and his clan was the Sugawara clan. There are details about this, but since the matter would be lengthy, I will not elaborate. At Azuchi, he served under Lord Nobunaga's banner and held one hundred koku. Later, in the Fuchu district of Echizen Province, which was worth 100,000 koku, three men - Lord Hori Kyūtarō, Lord Fuwa Kisaburō, and Matazaemon-sama - each received grants of over 33,000 koku.

His family temple is Hōeiji temple in Takase village, about eighteen chō west of the Shirakido River. Now, Hōeiji temple in your province is located at that checkpoint site. After that, when he entered this province, he selected the site of a temple called Daieji about four chō west of Iiyama and ordered construction, but since there was no pond water, he returned to Sugawara. At this place, he stationed his horses. From there, he entered Nanao main castle, but then withdrew to Echigo.

1. Among those retainers, Lord Nukui and Lord Miyake wanted to return to this province, so they prepared about three hundred men in three boats, landed at Mera in Etchū, and appealed to Hannyain temple on Mt. Sekidō. They immediately agreed, rang the shell bells, and gathered at a religious place called Manzan Shūto Danka. Hannyain said that since Lord Nukui and Lord Miyake each wished to return to their provinces, there was a plot of rebellion against Lord Dainagon, and it should be handled individually. The temple community pondered this, but since Hannyain insisted strongly, they reluctantly agreed to the religious path. Various matters extended for about fourteen or fifteen days, during which Lord Dainagon reported to Lord Nobunaga, so forces from the four provinces of Echizen, Kaga, Noto, and Etchū were mobilized. At Mt. Sekidō, there appeared to be about ten thousand common soldiers. Nukui and Miyake had about three hundred men. In addition to this, there was consultation about reinforcement by eight thousand men under an ikki leader named Jōjō from Echigo. Hannyain was quickly dispatched to establish an outpost at Arayama. What is called Arayama was formerly known by the old name Asagadake mountain. It was an old castle constructed as an outpost during Lord Kaneshin's era. The commanders of Mt. Sekidō were Hannyain, Hōzōin-bō, and Manzōin - these three men - plus Lord Nukui and Lord Miyake, totaling five people, with about five hundred common soldiers who took position at Arayama. Then, from both Echizen and Kaga provinces...