The reinforcement troops pressed their attack. Among them, Lord Chōnyoan's assault was assigned to Hodaka Pond and Eboshi Ishiguchi. Lord Sakuma Genba's assault was assigned to Idahara, Sanpōgatake, and Mitsuoguchi. Before long, they besieged the castle fortifications in three layers and attacked. From the hour of the Dragon (around 8 AM) to the late hour of the Sheep (around 3 PM) on that day, they fought, and everyone in the castle was killed. However, Hannyain's exploits were remarkable - he struck down over ten mounted warriors and cut down over seventy common soldiers, as we heard. At the hour of the Monkey (around 4 PM), since there were no allies left, Hannyain prepared to commit suicide and, facing the enemy, declared: "On the battlefield I am Musashibō Benkei, now I am the demon Hannyain of Mount Sekidō. Please transmit this reputation to posterity. Since I have no allies remaining, I request assistance with seppuku from the enemy side." Then he cut his belly. The heads of these three monks, plus Nukui and Miyake - five heads total - were displayed on the ridge of Ōshiba Pass, about one chō uphill. After attacking Mount Sekidō for one night and one day of fighting, it finally fell. This occurred on the 28th day of the 7th month of Tenshō 10, the year of Mizunoe-Uma (1582). From that year until the current Manji 3rd year, it has been seventy-nine years. For thirteen years after the withdrawal in that third year, it remained an abandoned temple site. For Ōmiya-bō, a monk called Shikishima Daitōnan was appointed. Later, on the 9th day of the 7th month of Keichō 2 (1597), reconstruction at Higashiyama was ordered. The above concludes the account.

This scroll was copied from an old book in the domain lord's library. Although this document is a record from Manji 3rd year and is indeed an ancient record of the Battle of Mount Sekidō, it contains many errors and should be used for reference with careful selection.

Meiji 3rd year, 9th month, 11th day - Kakien, Ki Yoshimi