Around noon, the Yatone (矢刀祢) brothers finally arrived — two of them — and prepared the offerings (御料, goryō). Around the hour of Yatsu (approximately 2 p.m.), they endeavored to perform their duties of attendance (参勤). There were three rounds of announcement (案内), but only one was conducted: they first proceeded to the inner sanctum (内陣) with the sacred offerings, returned to the Niédono (贄殿, the offering hall), then carried out the offerings for the outer sanctum (外陣). For the sacred offerings of the outer sanctum of the seven shrines, they relied on the Tone (刀祢) to supplement what was lacking. The sacred doors were opened around the hour of Mi (未刻, approximately 2 p.m.), and by the time the ceremonies in the government hall (庁屋) were completed, it had become the lower quarter of the hour of Saru (申の下刻, approximately 5 p.m.).

Not a single musician (楽人) attended. The deputy representatives (代参) of the shrine officials were as follows: Norihisa (軌久), deputy for the Shingū Hafuri (新宮祝); Suenaikisuesane (息内記季真), deputy for the Ōta Negi (太田祢宜); Suekageyu Kanetsugu (息勘解由兼斉), deputy for the Sawada Hafuri (沢田祝); and Kumahito (熊人), deputy for the Kataoka Negi (片岡祢宜). Kanenobe (兼述), the keeper of the sacred keys (御鑰), attended together with them.

Since it was a temporary shrine (仮殿, kariden), the ordinary small iron key was used. It was handed over to the Hafuri group (祝方) in front of the Chinese-style door (唐戸, karado). Due to the flood, attendance at the Ujigami Shrine (氏神社) was not possible, and the return was made from the Nara Shrine (奈良社).

Furthermore, the offerings (御料) for the Hafuri group — one set of sacred spear offerings (御鉾御料), one (portion of) sōmen noodles, and accompanying soup — totaling three trays (三盤), were delivered by the Tone as far as the covered corridor (透廊, sukurō). From the corridor in front of Sugio Shrine (杉尾社), the Shoshi Bettō (所司別当, the administrative superintendent) received and presented them. This was because the trees and other things in front of the main shrine (本宮) were blocking the way. The yakkō-gusa (射干草, Iris japonica or a similar plant) gathered on the last day of the previous month was also handled in the same manner.

The Shashi (社司, shrine officials) also recited the norito (祝詞, ritual prayers) facing northwest from the covered corridor (透廊). Kanenobe stated that, as the subsidiary shrine (権社, gon-no-yashiro) had been newly constructed, he had difficulty retaining custody of the old sacred locks and keys (御錠鑰).