(Continued from previous page) ...to be received by the述 (Noberu/the person in charge of records). Also, the御蓋衣 (sacred cover-robes) belonging to the provisional shrine are to be set aside and kept.
Since the eight shrines' [arrangements] are not being changed this time, the □ (illegible item) and the like are not to be retrieved.

When the raising of the pillars (御立柱) and the ridge-pole ceremony (上棟) occur on the same day at the same time, the ceremonial sake for the pillar-raising celebration is not to be included.

Among the Six Villages (六郷): the Eastern Ono (東小野) area extends to Ohara, Aogi, and various other places.
The Northern Ono (北小野) area extends to Yamashiro (山国), Kuroda (黒田), Seriu (芹生), Higashi-Gauchi (東河内), Nishi-Gafuchi (西河内), and other areas.

The 8th day: Cloudy; rain fell at the Hour of the Sheep (approximately 1–3 p.m.). A gathering of newly appointed shrine officials (新補社司衆) was held at the Lecture Hall (講所). Those present were: Ota Negi, Suehiro, Kiyoo, Ujinori, Suemura, Hideaki, Ujimochi, Kanemasu, Yasuka, Sanao, Tomoaki; and Muneyoshi served as an attendant to the Ujibito. The matter discussed was a prior request by Shokyu, who wished to inspect the original documents (本紙) of the precedent records (勘例) concerning the shrine officials of the subsidiary shrines' (末社) transfer ceremony (奉遷宮), and what was to be done about it. Also discussed was the question of what kind of items the ritual preparation goods (調物) should consist of. After deliberating on all matters, it was concluded that items such as the千早 (chihaya, a type of ceremonial garment), 覆面 (fukumen, face covering), 襪子 (musubi, a type of foot covering), and 手覆 (teooi, hand covering) should be prepared for four or five persons, passed along successively, and that the神主 (kannagi, head priest) should be consulted; the final decision was to be made by a general assembly at a later date. Ujinori stated that, regarding the fixing of the date and time for both the New Shrine (新宮) and Ota Shrine (大田社)...