It was determined that someone among the lower-ranking shrine officials (末社の社司) should be responsible for this duty, and orders were given that whoever was available should announce the time of the divine procession (渡御). However, when the chief priest (神主) was seen entering inside the curtains himself, everyone prostrated themselves in place. As a result, there appeared to be considerable tedium until the time of the divine procession. It would be appropriate for a lower-ranking official to handle this duty in the future. It should be performed after the opening of the sacred door (御戸開), the purification of the shrine implements (清鐁), the ritual purification (清祓), and other procedures have been completed.

Next, the Head of the Yin-Yang Bureau (陰陽大夫) performed purification of the sacred treasures, offerings, and other items at the御料屋 (goryōya, the designated ritual preparation house), and then also purified the bodies of the shrine officials and clan members (社司・氏人).

Next, as the palace guards (衛士) arrived to attend, fires were extinguished in various locations.

Next, the Acting Chief Ritualist (正祝代) Wakemaru opened the sacred lock and the sacred door. Next, the Chief Carpenter (正大工) performed the shrine implement purification (清鐁).

Next, the Assistant Ritualist (権祢宜) Korehisa performed the purification ritual of the inner and outer sanctums (内陣・外陣). The ritual wands (幣串) used were 2 shaku 4 sun in length, consisting of four pieces with four hanging strips. Kōtoku arrived in attendance. There was a rumor that, since purification had already been performed on behalf of the Imperial Palace (禁中), the purification by this Assistant Ritualist was unnecessary.

Next, the chief priest officiated over the divine transfer ceremony (御遷御). During this time, shrine officials and clan members (社司・氏人) prostrated themselves outside the curtains. All attendants, from the Imperial Courier (弁) downward, also prostrated themselves completely. After the divine transfer was complete, word was conveyed to the seat of the Imperial Courier (弁座), and then the chief priest came out and made his report.