As shown in the diagram on the right, the upper floor's main platform (futodoko) was covered with a spread of tatami facing (omote). In front of the temporary shrine (kariden) as well, a well-patterned mat facing (i no omote) was laid. Today, after the midday meal offering (goryō) had passed and the inner sanctuary (naijin) was being decorated, I (the author) recorded what was retrieved from the Takakura storehouse and handed over together with the monthly magistrates (tsuki-bugyō-shū).

Hamadoko (low platform) 《Interlinear note: with only a half-tatami spread》; Ceiling 《Interlinear note: a coffered ceiling with black-lacquered square panels》; the interior is white, and of the four pillars on all four sides, the inner two have nails driven in for the purpose of hanging the sacred mirror (shinkyō). On all four sides of the hamadoko there are paintings of Chinese lions (karashishi) and peonies (botan). For this occasion, the borders (fuchi) were repainted and the paintings were redrawn. The wooden base (kiji) from the Kan'ei era was reused.

The gohei staff (mitegura-gushi) of the inner sanctuary 《Interlinear note: approximately four shaku in length; measured at three shaku six sun》, with sakawa (榊 wreath rings) attached at both the top and bottom.

Two black-lacquered staffs, with two pieces of thin silk approximately two sun wide newly attached at the lower section (shimoto). The staffs were repainted. The large jar (ōbin no tsubo) was also repainted. The two sets of eight-legged stands (yatsuashi) in the outer sanctuary (gejin), and the two offering tables (ondaiban) on left and right, were all repainted. The two tall ritual stands (takatsuki) were similarly treated. The ■ (illegible character) above represents items that date from the Kan'ei era and were simply repainted.

The Shingū, Ōta, and Kifune (shrines) are, however, the apportionments for the subsidiary shrines (hata-sha). These are not present in the auxiliary shrine (gonden). Furthermore, for the inner precinct's portion, the subsidiary shrine's eight-legged stands and the like were used, with no separate items. However, one offering table (ondaiban) from the outer sanctuary was presented. Three round trays (maruban) were sent.

The above-mentioned seven shrines and the Kifune portion are the same as above. However, among the newly ordered items, the water-string decorations (mizuhiki) are listed first…