(Continued from previous page) Since they had been damaged, all were replaced. Regarding the Kifune Okumiya (inner shrine), there were changes, and since everything was newly constructed, the sacred robes (oshōzoku), the formal court robes (onnaoshi), and all other items were newly ordered. For the remaining sacred chests (karahitsu), those made during the Kan'ei era were used.

Next, the shrine priests (shashi) took their seats in two rows along the riverbank, with east as the upper position, each on a round rush mat (enza). 《Interlinear note: The chief priest (kannagi) sat to the west between the worship hall (haiden) and the main hall (honden); Norihisa and Narihisa sat to the west between the worship hall and the river.》 The clan members (ujibito) who arrived afterward sat in three rows in the long hall (nagatoko), arranged east and west. Others gathered in a crowd beneath the tower gate (rōmon) and around the bridge hall (hashidono). Five clan members who had entered retreat (sanrō) sat on the north side of Kataoka Bridge, each on a round rush mat. At the eastern end of the south side, guards (eji) 《Interlinear note: lower servants of the Tonomoryo (Bureau of Palace Upkeep)》 came and lit the garden lanterns (niwabi), and it was quiet. Former officials of the third rank, Norihisa, the former chief priest Okihisa, and non-officiating young children sat on round rush mats along the riverbank between Kataoka Bridge and Tama Bridge.

The order of the night ceremony is as follows:
First, at the Hour of the Rooster (around 6 p.m.), the shrine priests came to attend to their duties. 《Interlinear note: Shrine servants (jinin) carried torches — two in front, two behind, and four carrying poles.》 Norihisa, Narihisa, and the chief priests were each attended by a shoe-bearer (kutsumohi) in white robes (hakuchō) and a parasol-bearer in white robes. There were no sword-bearers. At the time of the main shrine ceremony, there were not even any parasol-bearers. Today, items stored at Takakura were retrieved and lent out. The three (senior officials) wore full court dress (sokutai). The five clan members wore informal court robes (hōi).