Item: The day before yesterday, I raised a question concerning the supervisors (bugyō) and the manner of each administrator's oversight during the cutting and sewing of the divine robes (go-shinpuku). Upon reviewing the regulations of earlier precedent, the records of Ujiyuki state the following: The supervisors consist of five officials from ancient times: the Azukari (Custodian), Bettō (Administrator), Kagi (歌伎, ritual performers/musicians), Shoshi (所司, manager), and Mokudai (目代, deputy). The work of cutting and sewing these robes need not necessarily be performed at the residence of the chief priest (神主); during the Kanei era, as all [such facilities] had fallen into disrepair, the work was conducted at the Mori residence. In the Tenshō and Kōji eras, it is recorded that this was performed before the divine presence (go-shinzen). For this reason, participants would apply ceremonial makeup to their eyebrows and don the ritual vestment (chihaya). This is entirely proper. It is the correct practice to prepare [the robes] at whatever place is most suitable for the occasion.

In particular, for the present divine robes, Samanojō Jutsunao (左馬允術直) was summoned, and as a measure of administrative economy (kanryaku), a notification three days in advance was to be sent to the five Upper Lady attendants of the divine robes (go-fuku jōrōshū), as well as to the Monthly Supervisor (tsuki-bugyō), Azukari, Bettō, Kagi, Shoshi, Mokudai, and others. Furthermore, the supervisors were arranged to take turns attending in shifts of one or two persons. Now, at the time of distribution, it is the height of impropriety—absolutely outrageous—that the Ukon (右近) official should act privately [for personal gain]. In the Kanei era, at the Mori establishment, the two officials Unemeno-suke (采女佑) and Higo-no-kami (肥後守) affixed seals to the long chests (nagamochi), and on the following day, reopened them and handed the divine robes over to the jōrōshū (upper attendants).

The three scraping boards (kakiita), three small knives (kogatana), and two nail-cutters (tsumakiri) were to be assigned by drawing lots; of these, one scraping board and one nail-cutter were designated to be taken by the Bettō of the divine robes (go-fuku bettō). In general, because of the commotion among the shrine people (ujibito), bribery and the manipulation of the Mokudai have become established practice [i.e., a corrupt norm].