...named after the place of origin, which became the name of the whole country. The country of Italia (Italy) was so named because a certain person called "Italus," king of Sicily, opened up that land and first taught its native people the arts of farming and sericulture. The country of Roma (Rome) was named after its founding ancestor "Romulus." The country of Ispania (Spain) likewise uses the name of its founding ancestor "Pania." Furthermore, the ancient name of Gerumenia (Germania) was "Anmania" [Note: As mentioned above, "Ashkenas," a great-grandchild of Noah, first opened that country, and his descendant "Aleman," also known as "Teutoc," first became king of that land], and it was also called "Teutoc." The ancient name of Holland was "Bataviarete" (as noted above), and Denmark (Denmarca) had an alternate name of Dania. All of these were named after their founding ancestors. It may be compared to the case in the Jin dynasty when the King of Henan, Ye Yan, used his ancestor's name to call his realm "Tuyuhun." On the other hand, countries such as France, Moscovia, and Switzerland were named after the places where they first arose. This is similar to how Han commandery names and Tang prefecture names later became country names, and also resembles how the general name for our Japan is "Yamato."

　　　　　Western System of Weights and Measures

The Western system of weights and measures has many varieties. There are the "Rheinland Maat" [Note: "Rheinland" is the name of a region, "Maat" means measure], the "Geometeer Maat" [used for surveying], the "Timmermaat" [the measure used by craftsmen and carpenters], and others — there is no single unified system. It is much like how in our country we have the kujirajaku (whale-bone measure), the kanejaku (carpenter's square measure), and the gofukujaku (draper's measure). Generally speaking, one "bu" (smallest unit) is called "Lijn" (line), and one "sun" (inch) is called "Duim." "Duim" means thumb. One "shaku" (foot) is called "Voet." "Voet" means foot. The measurement of the span between the extended thumb and middle finger is called "Span." Two "Voet" combined is called "El." "El" means arm or cubit. As for the specific measurements, in some systems one "bu" equals one "sun," while in others twelve "bu" equals one "sun." The same variation applies to the foot measure. Since arithmetic in those lands is based on the numbers four, eight, and twelve, unlike our system where ten "bu" make one "sun"...