【Page Ten】
【Upper Section】
under Huaisu. Master Shen lectured on the New Commentary, and his school flourished greatly. The three virtuous masters Yisong, Rujing, and Chengchu all studied the new chapters and together propagated this school. Eventually, later generations propagated the Dongta Vinaya. Master Manyi of the Western Pagoda propagated the Xiangbu Vinaya, with numerous disciples who debated doctrinal principles with each other. These included Vinaya Masters Wei, Jun, Si (this was not Wengang), Wenhui, Sihui, Fazang (Xiangxiang of Huayan), Yuan, Yuan, Yiwei, Yuanzhi, Quanxiu, Hui Beisong, Daliang, Cha, Zhaoyin, and others. Vinaya Master Dingbin was a disciple of Manyi. Huaisu refuted Master Li's Sixteen Great Principles, and Bin composed the "Record of Breaking Deluded Attachments" in one volume to rescue Li's great principles and break Su's deluded mind. The two worthies Eiei and Fusho of Japan sought vinaya teachings and traveled to Tang. In the twenty-first year of Kaiyuan, year Guiyou (corresponding to the fifth year of Tempyo in Japan), they requested Vinaya Master Bin to serve as preceptor for their ordination. Manyi transmitted to Fa Daliang, who transmitted to Yun Yi. Master Yi lectured on the Four-Part Vinaya thirty-five times. He passed away on the seventeenth day of the eleventh month in the sixth year of Dali, year Xinhai, at the age of eighty. Tan Yi's disciples continued to flourish. Xi Jing Zhanran and Qingliang Chengguan both studied vinaya under Tan Yi. Master Yi propagated the vinaya dharma of both the Xiangbu and Nanshan schools, so he composed the "Record of Revealing Correctness" regarding the "Jiecho." The Xiangbu Vinaya school was thus propagated and disseminated. Vinaya Master Shou had two outstanding disciples who propagated vinaya. In Japan, these were formerly called the "Excerpt School" and "Essential School." These were Vinaya Master Xuanyun's "Essential Discussions on Vinaya" and Nanshan Vinaya Master's "Jiecho on Monastic Affairs." Therefore, the "Essential Discussions" belongs to the Nanshan school. The Nanshan Vinaya school was transmitted for a long time in later generations. Nanshan was the ninth patriarch among the nine patriarchs, and now we establish him as the first high patriarch. His disciples were very numerous, all upholding the one school.

【Lower Section】
Zhiren of Silla first composed excerpt records, and Great Compassion Vinaya Master also composed excerpt records. Vinaya Master Hongjing had special connections with the Tiantai school and was a re-ordained disciple of Nanshan. He was also the ordination preceptor for Master Jianzhen. He composed vinaya excerpt records and lectured on vinaya one hundred times. Vinaya Master Huaisu initially studied the "Jiecho" and also studied Xiangbu teachings. He was also a re-ordained disciple of Nanshan. Tripitaka Master Yijing was also his disciple. Later he traveled to the Western Regions and transmitted the Sarvastivada Vinaya. Vinaya Master Wengang was a disciple of Nanshan and also received teachings from Daocheng. A gandharva spirit offered Buddha tooth relics to Nanshan, which were later entrusted to Wengang. There were also Vinaya Masters Mingge, Hongji, Dao'an, Zhou, Jiao, Yi, Shen, Zhihai (who composed vinaya excerpt records), Lin (who composed jiecho records), Tansheng (who composed Dangyang records), Rongji (who composed jiecho records), Chongfu (who composed Xihe records), Jingyuan, Lingyan (who composed excerpt records), Xiu, and others. All of these were disciples of Great Master Nanshan, briefly listing just a small portion. Among them, Vinaya Master Zhou is considered the second patriarch. The third patriarch was Vinaya Master Daoyuan of Suzhou, who composed ten volumes of records. His fellow disciples included Vinaya Master Zhiming (master of ancient and modern records), Vinaya Master Zhichan (ten volumes of Yuancheng records), Vinaya Master Fayan (ten volumes of Fuyang records), Vinaya Master Faxing (master of Zhiqing records), Vinaya Master Tan Yi (ten volumes of Fazheng records), Vinaya Master Zhixiang (master of Huichang records), Vinaya Master Qingfa (ten volumes of Kaiyao records), Vinaya Master Weiqing (master of Jizheng records), Vinaya Master Yichao (Zhezhong records), Vinaya Master Bianchang (who composed six volumes of records), Vinaya Master Huichao (who composed six volumes of records), Vinaya Master Dajue (fourteen volumes of excerpt critiques), Vinaya Master Xuanyan (ten volumes of auxiliary records), Vinaya Master Yiwei (master of Lingshan records), Vinaya Master Langran (master of Cihe records). All of these followed Vinaya Master Zhou in receiving and studying precepts and vinaya, conducting detailed research and composing records to explain the excerpts. The fourth patriarch was Vinaya Master Shenggong of Huizhao Temple in Yangzhou.

【Page Eleven】
【Upper Section】
He received and studied the vinaya collection from Vinaya Master Yuan and composed the "Record of Following Correctness" to explain the vinaya excerpts. His fellow disciples included Vinaya Master Changjin (master of Tongxuan records), Vinaya Master Gansu (who composed six volumes of records), Vinaya Master Tandu (who composed four volumes of records), Vinaya Master Zhihong (twenty volumes of Souxuan records), Vinaya Master Qingche (master of Houtang records, also called Collected Records), Vinaya Master Tanqing (master of Xianzong records), Vinaya Master Guangxiong (who also composed record explanations), and Vinaya Master Zhicui (who composed ten volumes of records). All received teachings from Daoyuan and conducted detailed research on doctrinal principles. The fifth patriarch was Vinaya Master Huizheng, who followed and served Shenggong in research and exposition. His fellow disciples included the two outstanding masters Liang Cui and Hengwen, who initiated the school division and lectured tirelessly. Hengwen transmitted to Vinaya Master Deyuan (who explained vinaya master excerpts), Vinaya Master Zhongping (who also composed excerpt records), and Vinaya Master Dannan (who also explained excerpts). Deyuan transmitted to Vinaya Master Quanzha (master of Changshui records). The sixth was Great Master Xuanchang Fabao of Jingzhao, who composed the "Record of Revealing Correctness" to explain the jiecho. His fellow disciple was Vinaya Master Congzhi (master of Jizong records), who refined the vinaya collection and expounded tirelessly. The seventh patriarch was Vinaya Master Yuanbiao of Yuezhou, who received vinaya teachings from Fabao and authored five volumes of "Excerpt Meaning Records." His fellow disciple was Vinaya Master Huize, who composed twelve volumes of "Collected Essential Records" explaining the vinaya excerpts. Huize transmitted to Vinaya Master Huimi (master of Shangyuan records), Vinaya Master Weiyou (master of Guijing records), and Vinaya Master Xijue (master of Zenghui records), all of whom were persons of unparalleled spiritual understanding. The eighth patriarch was Vinaya Master Shouyan, who received dharma from Yuanbiao and researched doctrinal principles. The ninth patriarch was Vinaya Master Wuwai of Hangzhou, who followed and served Shouyan in studying the vinaya collection. His fellow disciples included Vinaya Master Jingxiao (seventeen volumes of Jianzheng records) and Vinaya Master Deyin (master of Shoujing records), both of whom received from Shouyan and thoroughly examined the vinaya sections. Vinaya Master Juexi composed five volumes of "Pointing Out Taboos Records," Vinaya Master Qingyan composed "Collected Meaning Records," Vinaya Master Chongyi compiled "Excerpt Sound and Meaning," and Vinaya Master Li composed "Excerpt Record Explanations." The lineage of these four masters can be verified. The

【Lower Section】
tenth patriarch was Vinaya Master Fa Beisong, who followed Yuanwai in penetrating understanding of the vinaya collection. The eleventh patriarch was Vinaya Master Chuyun (also called Chuheng) of Hangzhou, who received vinaya dharma from Fa Beisong and composed three volumes of "Gleaning Records." His fellow disciples included Vinaya Master Deming (who composed Zhengxuan records) and Vinaya Master Zanbin (three volumes of Sound, Meaning, and Guidance), both leaders of the dharma school who received dharma from Beisong and thoroughly penetrated the doctrinal essence. There was Vinaya Master Puji who composed twelve volumes of "Collected Explanation Records" explaining the Nanshan excerpts. His lineage can be verified. The twelfth patriarch was Vinaya Master Zewu of Hangzhou during Song, who received dharma from Chuheng, thoroughly explored the vinaya sections, and composed seven volumes of "Meaning Garden Records." The thirteenth patriarch was Vinaya Master Yunkan of Taizhou during Song (also called Zhenwu), who received from Zewu and extensively propagated the vinaya sections. He was born in the second year of Jingde under Emperor Zhenzong, the third ruler of Great Song (corresponding to the second year of Kanna under Emperor Ichijo of Japan, year Yisi). From birth until full ordination, he greatly promoted the vinaya collection and composed record explanations for all ten works of Nanshan, earning the title "Master of Ten Record Sets." These included the Huizheng Record for the Jiecho, the Fahui Record for the Precept Commentary, the Zhengyuan Record for the Karma Commentary, the Fuyao Record for the Meaning Excerpts, two volumes of Tongyan Records for the Teaching and Admonition Ritual, three volumes of Fazhen Excerpts for the Pure Mind Contemplation, and others. These records flourished greatly during the Song dynasty and were called the "Huizheng School" within the Nanshan tradition. Vinaya Master Wenchuan of Wenzhou composed the "Simplified Correct Records" explaining the excerpts; his lineage can be investigated. The fourteenth patriarch was Vinaya Master Zeqi, who received from Yunkan and penetrated the vinaya collection. The fifteenth patriarch was Great Wisdom Vinaya Master Yuanzhao of Hangzhou, who received from Zeqi and researched the vinaya collection, integrating inner and outer teachings, encompassing both great and small vehicles, realizing the Tiantai school and thoroughly understanding Pure Land teachings. He composed record explanations for all three major vinaya works of the Nanshan doctrinal system, including the Zichi Records. Master Zhao was born in the eighth year of Qingli under Emperor Renzong, the fourth ruler of Great Song, year Wuzi (corresponding to the third year of Eisho under Emperor Go-Reizei of Japan). The eighth ruler