There were only occasional slight tremors, and when we crossed Usui Pass toward Edo, there was a considerable earthquake on the night of the 24th, but after that there were reportedly no earthquakes.

The above is a rough account as written of the major incidents witnessed during official duties. Details will be investigated and reported from those locations in due course. The above.

Kōka 4, Year of the Sheep, 4th month, 3rd day　　Construction Works Apprentice
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nishimura Kakuuchi

Second Report Regarding Earthquakes in Villages of Takai and Minochi Counties, Shinshū

Following up on my report submitted at the end of last month concerning the villages of Takai and Minochi counties in Shinano Province, which are currently under the temporary custody of my magistrate's office: after reporting the circumstances of the great earthquake disaster on the night of the 24th of last month, the tremors have not ceased and continue even now. There are tremors lasting brief periods fourteen to fifteen times day and night, and occasionally they are quite strong. The villages are in fear, and rather than cleaning up the aftermath or attending to agricultural work, they remain in panic and confusion. To calm them, I and my assistants and clerks have been making rounds of the villages, earnestly explaining the situation to them and taking measures to ensure that farming work does not fall behind.

Furthermore, on the 27th of last month, retainers of Sanada Shinano-no-kami came to confer about how this earthquake caused a mountain collapse at a location called Kokūzō-yama in Hirabayashi Village within his domain, approximately twenty chō in extent, located about two and a half ri upstream from the Tanbajima Village ferry crossing on the Hokukoku Highway. Water is currently flowing onto the upstream flatlands, but when the accumulated water breaks through, it will naturally wash away the blocked areas with water force, so there is concern about what kind of flooding might occur at that time. Word should be sent to villages along the Chikuma River in the administrative area to be prepared, they said.