【Right Page】
(59) Long ago, a man, thinking somehow of the capital, decided to live in the Eastern Mountains:
"I am weary of living here. Now I have reached my limit"—let me seek lodging in a mountain village where I can hide myself.
Thus, as his illness worsened and he was near death, they sprinkled water on his face and such, and he revived, saying:
"The dew that settles upon me—is it drops from the oars of boats crossing the Milky Way?"
And so he revived.

(60) Long ago, there was a man. When he was busy with court service and his heart was not sincere, his wife went with someone who would "think of her sincerely" to another province. This man, going as an imperial envoy, heard that she had become the wife of a local official who received envoys in a certain province. He told the woman host, "Bring me a sake cup. Otherwise I won't drink." When she brought out the cup, he took the tachibana flowers that served as appetizers:
"When I smell the fragrance of tachibana flowers awaiting May, I recall the scent of sleeves of someone from long ago."
Upon hearing this, she remembered the past, felt ashamed, and withdrew to the mountains.

(61) Long ago, when a man went as far as Kyushu, someone behind bamboo blinds said, "This one loves romance"—calling him a libertine.

【Left Page】
"How could one who crosses Dye River not be colored by it?"
The woman replied:
"If it's only reputation, it would be fickle indeed—they say one wears false accusations wet with the waves of Jesting Island."

(62) Long ago, there was a woman who had not exchanged letters for years. Perhaps she was not a clever woman? Following others' words, she was married off to a man from another province and came to serve before the man she had known before (Narihira). When evening came, he said to the master, "Please give me this woman," so he sent her over. The man asked, "Don't you know me?"
"Where has the beauty of old gone? Like cherry blossoms that have completely scattered."
Feeling very ashamed, she sat without replying. When asked "Why don't you answer?" tears fell and she said she couldn't see or speak:
"Is this she who kept avoiding meeting me in Omi? Though years and months have passed, she doesn't seem to have grown more beautiful."
He tried to give her his robes, but she threw them away and fled. No one knew where she went.