【Right Page・Framework】
【Right Column・Upper Section】
Senior
　Fourth Rank《Hairpin, cap, and robe same as Third Rank｜Dragon-coiled red belt》
Junior
【Right Column・Middle Section】
Senior
　Fifth Rank《Hairpin, cap, and robe same as Third Rank｜Multi-colored flower belt》
Junior
【Right Column・Lower Section】
Senior
　Sixth and Seventh Ranks《Hairpin and robe same as Third Rank｜Yellow silk cap｜Belt same as Fifth Rank》
Junior
【Middle Column・Upper Section】
Senior
　Eighth and Ninth Ranks《Hairpin and robe same as Third Rank｜Bright red crepe gauze cap｜Belt same as Fifth Rank》
Junior
【Middle Column・Middle Section】
Miscellaneous Officials《Hairpin and robe same as Third Rank｜Red silk cap｜Belt same as Fifth Rank》
【Middle Column・Lower Section】
Village
　Head《Copper hairpin　　Blue robe｜Red cloth cap or green cloth cap》
Group
【Outside the framework】
　《Additionally there are blue cloth caps worn by village headmen》
【Left Column・Upper Section】
Hereditary
　Officials《Hairpin, cap, clothing, and belt all same as Eighth Rank》
Officials
【Left Page】
　Generally, officials' outer garments are longer than their body height, bound at the waist with a large belt, lifted up three to four inches to make them loose and ample, convenient for storing various items in the breast. Paper folders and tobacco pouches are all stored in the chest area for use when needed. Both high officials and young attendants all do likewise. Menial servants, however, tie their sleeves back behind their backs. Young attendants have their sleeve sides opened, exposing about three to four inches. When they reach adulthood and shave the hair on top of their heads, they are immediately sewn into monk's robes. Both sides under the arms are opened. All others have continuous front panels with no gaps or openings. The clothing of Shuri people, when young, all use bright red as lining, with outer garments of five-colored silk brocade, also worn reversibly on both sides. Officials make their clothes from silk damask, with no restrictions on colors. To make one garment requires three zhang five to six chi of large damask, the cost being nearly double that of China, it is said.
　Women's outer garments are no different from men's, the collars all have no belts, called "coverlets," draped over the body on the left side.