Those who are granted [fiefs] pass down their stipends hereditarily, with the eldest son inheriting. The fiefs granted according to ranks they have personally achieved are
　immediately removed when they leave office. Annually, they collect two-thirds of what the land produces. For example, if one qing of rice fields produces one hundred
　shi of rice, the cultivator receives fifty shi and the stipend lord receives fifty shi. Of the stipend lord's fifty shi,
　there are public expenses, miscellaneous costs, etc. totaling over ten shi. Excluding these, the actual income is over thirty shi, roughly
　equivalent to two-thirds. The quantities of chickens, pigs, firewood, and lumber are determined based on the amount of rice shi, and are
　taken according to the season. Those people from the fiefs who come to perform service vary in number according to official rank. Kokusō and hōshi
　[provide] sixteen people, shikin-taifu eleven people, shikin-kan ten people, kibō-kan four
　people, and kōbō-kan two people, all rotating monthly.
　Kokusō fiefs are one fu《annotation: or two fu》, with stipends of six hundred shi. Those with merit receive additional seven, eight, or nine hundred,
　stopping at one thousand shi. Hereditary heirs and grandsons are granted stipends of three hundred shi and fiefs of one fu.
　For great-grandsons, differences are made according to merit.
　Hōshi fiefs are one fu, with stipends of four hundred shi. As a rule for hereditary stipends, heirs and grandsons are granted stipends of eight-
　ty shi and fiefs of one fu. For great-grandsons, differences are made according to merit.
　Kokukō fiefs are one fu《annotation: or one county》, with stipends of eighty shi, or one hundred or two hundred shi, all granted according to
　merit. Hereditary stipends depend on the magnitude of merit in granting stipends, fiefs, and [benefits to] descendants.
　Shikin-kan fiefs are one fu《annotation: or one county》, with stipends of thirty shi, or forty, fifty up to eight-
　ty shi as the limit. All are granted according to the magnitude of merit. Hereditary stipends make differences according to merit.
　Shihin and jimoku-kan fiefs are also one fu, with stipends of eighty shi. Tenpō, shikei, and kanpaku