In these months, the king observes ritual purification and conducts ceremonies for the mountain and sea deities as well as protective national gods, or dispatches officials to perform the rites. The
deity of Ben-dake is named Shukushuku, who is the second daughter of the Tensōshi (heavenly ancestor clan). Divine walls surround it on four sides, with clustered trees
particularly dense. There is a small gate facing inward toward the south, and outside the gate are two wooden pavilions. To the left are small stone
pagodas and stone lantern stands, five each on the left and right. Upon entering the gate, stone steps bend north then east, and after climbing dozens of
steps to the summit, there is nothing there except dozens of incense sticks burning on a stone brazier. This is the
place where the main mountain deity is worshipped. The flat ground in front of the wooden pavilions is square and wide with a southern view of the sea, and to the southeast there is
one stone brazier where incense is burned to worship the sea deity. Throughout the country, wherever there are dense clustered trees with short walls
surrounding them on four sides and small inward-facing gates, these are all called "dake" (peaks), and like the earth gods of China, every village
has them.

[Sōgenji Former Kings' Temple] For the spring and autumn ceremonies, either personal worship or dispatching officials, with three days of purification, and the music
all uses Tensōn Taihei songs, singing of the ancestral merits and virtues and the meaning that divine spirits continue distantly through successive generations
[Engakuji Temple] The main sect's incense offerings include seasonal festivals and monthly festivals《annotation: called Urabon festival》, with three days of purification, special festivals on death anniversaries,
and tea offerings on new and full moons. The rites at Tenōji and Tenkaiji temples are the same.

Former Kings' Temple Spirit Tablet Generational Chart
《annotation: 15th generation, Senior line》Shō Eki
《annotation: 14th generation, Senior line》Shō Tei
《annotation: 13th generation, Senior line》Shō Hō  
《annotation: 12th generation, Senior line》Shō Ei
【Horizontal text】Meritorious royal uncles through the generations