order the people to pray.
　In general, all genuflecting worship involves joining palms in reverent prostration, lying prone on the ground for a long time, then rising and rubbing hands together as a sign of respect. For women's
　worship, they first wave both hands left and right three times, then perform reverent prostration and kowtowing the same as men's ritual. This is first performed when meeting parents-in-law and respected
　elders; in ordinary circumstances there are no such rituals as mutual bowing.
　In general, when worshipping Buddha, first perform reverent prostration, one kowtow, four bows, nine hand waves, then kowtow once more and stand up,
　then perform thirty-three waves. When fathers and elder brothers make vows on behalf of the sick or petition the gods, they perform three hundred thirty-
　three waves together.
　　Learning
　The Sacred Temple is located north of Sensakibashi Bridge in Kume Village, with its gate facing south. Entering the great gate, the courtyard extends over ten
　mu square, with a worship platform set up above. The main hall has three bays, with wooden tablets of the four companions placed in front of the Master's statue,
　each holding one classic text. On the central beam above, there is also inscribed
the imperial calligraphy of the four great characters "Teacher for Ten Thousand Generations." In front stand wooden plaques with inscriptions by former envoys Wang and Lin
　placed on the left and right (the text is lengthy and not recorded). In the thirteenth year of Kangxi a temple was established but there was no school yet. In the fifty-
　sixth year of Kangxi, Purple-Gold Official Cheng Shunze, because the school building was not yet complete, took the intent of the temple records by the two officials Wang and Lin
　and petitioned to build the Minglun Hall. Also, near the north wall of the hall, he divided it into three small
　sections to enshrine the spirit tablets of Qisheng and the four companions. Construction began in the autumn seventh month of the fifty-seventh year, and was completed in winter
　the tenth month. The left and right corridors of Minglun Hall store classic books and texts, roughly complete. The king
　also commanded Purple-Gold Official Cheng Shunze to undertake printing and engraving.