【Title】
Two Days' Tale
Jishin-tei Nengyo
Town House Fire

【Subtitle】
●Shogi Enthusiast
●Yoshiwara Fire
●Great Shrine's Divine Horse

【Three-part Text】
【Part One】
●During the recent earthquake commotion, shogi enthusiasts happened to meet:
"Well now, Kakubei-san, that recent incident was terrible, but congratulations on your safety!"
"Oh, Bankichi-san, you're uninjured too. But how about a game of shogi with rook and bishop flying about?"
"My, my, to make shogi puns in the midst of this disaster over our beloved game is admirable. Well then, the game hall is also mutual destruction - truly like a king!"
"Indeed, a pun on 'death' (ōjō) - how amusing!"

【Part Two】
"Speaking of which, I heard from a certain scholar that there hasn't been such commotion since the knight and lance pieces were invented."
"Well, in exchange, the world will shake itself straight and gold and silver will circulate better. By the way, in that strange outfit, where are you going?"
"Oh, I'm being hired as a pawn at a certain mansion."
"Then you'll become gold!"

●Speaking of which, the five districts of Yoshiwara are in terrible chaos, aren't they?
"Indeed, the place was both crushed and burned, so there's nothing good to say about it."
"I was playing at Gojikken that night - what terrifying tremors!"
"If Yoshiwara shook that much, even the old warehouses over there must be bald now!"

【Part Three】
●Speaking of recent events, I heard that all the hair from the divine horse of the Great Shrine of Ise has disappeared. During the recent Edo earthquake, the deity of the Great Shrine came riding that horse and saved many people. Those who were saved apparently each found a single hair from that divine horse in their sleeves.

"Oh my, is that so? My father was crushed and killed in this earthquake and buried at the temple. I wondered if there might be a divine horse hair in the sleeve of the kimono he was wearing then, so I searched through his kimono sleeves and - oh my! - undeniably, there was a hair!"
"Let me see. This isn't a divine horse hair."
"Then what is it?"
"This? This is a catfish whisker."