【Right page】
From ancient times, (the rice) has grown too vigorously but failed to set grain. At a place called Kameda, they also tried, but with similar results, and so rice came to be regarded as impossible to cultivate there, and no one attempted it again. Ultimately, this may be because the frost comes early. Or perhaps it is because rice is not scarce, so no one puts in full effort. But should it truly be said that it cannot be grown? Tsugaru too, in former times, must have been a country where rice could not be produced, just as Matsumae. The fact that the area from present-day Hirosaki all the way to Sotogahama has become entirely paddy fields is not something that happened long ago. Within Sotogahama, the areas near the northern sea are all newly reclaimed fields, and since rice grows well there, even the mountain valleys have been turned into rice paddies. In general, when attempting to develop new rice fields, if one seeks profit too quickly, it will not succeed. Unless one takes up the work with the mindset that crops will not ripen for the time being, it will be difficult to achieve success.

【Left page】
One should not conclude that the land is unsuitable just because the crops fail after one year of trial. Not only rice, but wheat too had been considered impossible to grow and was left uncultivated; however, when early wheat seeds were tried at three locations last year, they grew remarkably well and bore grain, and when returning home, those seeds were brought back. Even crops such as millet, barnyard millet, buckwheat, soybeans, and adzuki beans bore adequate yields simply by being sown without any fertilizing of the fields. Eggplants and melons also grow well. In general, the way grasses grow is doubly vigorous compared to other regions — perhaps because the land is fertile, or perhaps because the plants are held down by snow and then the warmth erupts all at once in a burst. Japanese knotweed and mugwort have grown to over one jō (approximately three meters) in some places, and when passing through on horseback, the branches and leaves cover overhead, and one must beat them aside with a whip while passing through. Coltsfoot (fuki)...