【Right page】
Since this is a place of all high mountains with no flatlands, it does not appear to have particularly tall mountains. Fifty to sixty ri beyond Usu-ga-take, there is a mountain called Shiribetsu-yama, which is a high mountain that looks as if Mount Fuji had been directly transplanted there. However, if Fuji is rated as ten, this would be three points lower. In Nanbu province, Mount Iwawashi, and in Tsugaru, Mount Iwaki are praised as "the Fuji of Nanbu and Tsugaru." While their shapes somewhat resemble it, their height would be about one-third that of Fuji. Shiribetsu-yama is about twice as high as these two mountains. Sailors call it the highest mountain in Ezo territory, and the great mountain in the center of Matsumae domain is called Senmi-ga-take. It is eight ri from Matsumae, and one reaches the mid-slope of Senmi-ga-take after crossing eleven mountain passes. When climbing to this summit, there are no obstructing mountains as far as the eye can see. To the south is Nanbu's Yake-yama,

【Left page】
and Tsugaru's Mount Iwaki; to the west, Mount Kennichi and Okoshiri can be seen in the sea; to the east is Hakodate. Continuing north, mountain ranges stretch in succession, with Hidaka and Yūrappu in the distance, and Matsumae directly below where ships entering port can be seen. This is the foundation of the gold and silver mines throughout Matsumae. Since gold and silver mining is also my main occupation, I have ventured into deep mountains and secluded valleys and surveyed as far as human effort can reach. However, the land is vast and there are numerous gold and silver mines, so I have not yet thoroughly examined even one-tenth of them. Moreover, for the Ezo territories, it would be difficult to conduct a proper survey without spending several years.

One: At the beginning of the reign of Jōken-in-sama [Tokugawa Tsunayoshi], there was an inquiry to the lord of Matsumae domain, and a geographical map of Ezo was submitted. It is said that Kanō Sukesuke was ordered to copy it and present it to the authorities. Also, Kōmon Mitsukuni-kyō [Tokugawa Mitsukuni] for the purpose of conducting a provincial survey of Ezo territory