[Right page]
　　When Tsugaru had a poor harvest and did not release rice for sale, all of Matsumae suffered from famine.
　　Since the people normally did not know sufficient food supplies, it was even more
　　painful and severe than famines in other domains, with many deaths. If they had at least made barley cultivation their
　　livelihood, they could have avoided such worries during these times. However, the local people
　　make fishing and hunting their specialty and have no interest in rice cultivation. Moreover, since the time for fishing
　　and the time for rice cultivation coincide, they should not abandon
　　the occupation they have been accustomed to for hundreds of years. The local people should make fishing and hunting their livelihood, while for rice cultivation, farmers should use
　　poor people from neighboring domains for rice cultivation, and when the farming work is doubled, it will be accomplished without neglect.
　　When grain production develops, the domain will gradually
　　expand, and when the Ainu naturally learn and adopt grain eating,
[Left page]
　　they will become people of our realm. Therefore, I think that in ancient times, what we hear of as
　　Ainu of Michinoku was that the Tsugaru and Nanbu regions were entirely Ainu territory, but
　　when the military headquarters was established at Taga Castle, customs gradually changed, grain production
　　developed, and it became today's domain. Therefore, the Ainu of Tsugaru are not the same as the Ainu of Matsumae,
　　but are descendants of the ancient Mutsu Ainu. The Ainu of Matsumae and the Ainu of Tsugaru and Nanbu
　　are clearly different peoples. Since the Ainu maintain their bloodlines and do not
　　mix their family lineages, even after a hundred generations there is no difference. In Sendai domain there is
　　a place called Ichinoseki. This must be where an ancient barrier station existed. The
　　inscription on the Tsubo monument at Taga Castle states "120 ri from the Ainu national border," and if we
　　calculate using the distance measurement of six chō to one ri, this Ichinoseki was the ancient Ainu national border.