To Takaya Hanzaemon, retainer of Koma Oribe:
This time, Takaya Genemon has been granted leave, and the Takaya family name has been discontinued. Therefore, you are granted the restoration of the Takaya family name, appointed as a direct retainer (chokusanban), granted a new stipend of 100 koku, and assigned to the Great Guard (ōban).

1. On the 11th day of the 10th month of Enyō 3 (1746), Year of the Tiger
Town Magistrate Iwagami Kajidayū
Two inspectors present
Mabuchi Yōshin: 25 koku, allowance for five people
Maenami Dōtatsu: same as above  
Yamamoto Seiaku: same as above
This was announced at the residence of Koma Taidō by him personally. At that time, monthly duty officer Nara Gonzaemon and Katō Mataemon were present.
[Enyō 4, Year of the Rabbit]

1. On the 21st day of the 12th month of Kan'en 1 (1748), Year of the Dragon, in Edo, with Misaki Sōan present:
You have served from the time of Lord Shōan'in and Chōo Junan
You served until accompanying Lady Yōju'in on her hot spring cure
From when our lord was in his childhood, you were frequently ordered to provide medical treatment and have served diligently for many years. Moreover, you should regularly visit the lord's chambers. In case of fire in the neighborhood, rush immediately to the mansion, and should evacuation become necessary, follow in pursuit of our lord. Your stipend allowance is increased by ten people's worth. Until now you have been treated as an ordinary retainer, but henceforth you shall be given the same seat and treatment as court physicians. Your town residence arrangements may continue as before at your discretion.
This was announced at Honda Yagara's residence.

1. On the 20th day of the 3rd month of An'ei 9 (1780), Year of the Rat:
Summoned as court physician with twenty people's stipend allowance: Yoshida Seisen
On the 27th day of the 5th month of the same year, appointed as court physician; on the 16th day of the 11th month of Tenmei 8 (1788), granted fifteen pieces of silver; on the 23rd day of the 10th month of Kansei 3 (1791), granted leave.

1. On the 19th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 17 (1732), Year of the Rat: Summoned to New Guard and Horse Corps, granted 18 koku rice stipend and allowance for three people.
From among the retainers of Sasaji Shōzen: Hasegawa Jiemon
He was ordered to appear at monthly duty officer Honda Shūri's residence this morning, as Shūri had sent a note to Shōzen's place the previous day. This was announced to Jiemon with Horse Corps General Supervisor Suganuma Ichizaemon present, and Inspector Atsumi Shinemon attended.

1. On the 21st day of the 12th month of the same year: Newly summoned, granted 15 koku rice stipend and allowance for three people, appointed to official rank. Regarding duties, further instructions will be given by the administrative office.
Koma Ise's retainer: Hashimoto Gensuke
However, this person was among those who were ordered to play flute during Lord Hōsen'in's time and served as court entertainers, and was previously granted general leave. This was announced by magistrates at the accounting office.

1. On the 11th day of the 11th month of Kan'en 1 (1748), Year of the Dragon:
Since your family medical skills are reported to be excellent, you are summoned as official acupuncturist and granted 20 koku rice stipend and allowance for five people: Yoshida Genmori
This was announced at the monthly duty officer's residence before council meeting, with one court physician present.

1. On the 25th day of the 3rd month of Kan'en 2 (1749), Year of the Snake: Suganuma Yoichirō
Although Suganuma Iwatarō's father Yozō was granted leave in previous years, in memory of Chishō'in and because his grandfather Ichizaemon served as close attendant for many years, Iwatarō is now granted an allowance for ten people. Since Iwatarō is still young and finds it difficult to appear, this is announced to Yoichirō, who should inform Iwatarō of this matter.

1. Same day: Okabe Shūan
Shūan's father Kōaku was granted leave in previous years, but since his grandfather Gen'aku served as court physician for generations, you are now granted an allowance for three people. This was announced to Shūan by Mabuchi Yōshin with Okabe Genjō present.