P. All matters to be announced

All matters concerning official duties to be communicated

1. Regarding the communication of general official duties: To the kōchi-chū, various ban-gashira (group leaders), various mono-gashira (unit heads), and ban-gai (non-grouped) members, the karō-chū (senior councilors) shall directly inform them personally. For members of various ban-gumi (organized groups), notification shall be made to their ban-gashira.

1. Official duties announced uniformly to all samurai: Generally, for ban-gai it is to those of equivalent rank, for ban-gumi it is to their ban-gashira, and in all cases, one or two monthly duty officers are called out and informed.

1. Depending on the nature of official duties for all samurai, communication may be made through sōsha-ban-chū (protocol officers), bugyō-chū (magistrates), or metsuke-chū (inspectors).

1. When in Edo residence, regarding petitions from ban-gumi members to be submitted from here: Even when the ban-gashira are stationed in Edo, if the person in question is present here and submits a petition, it shall be communicated here to the appropriate hittō (chief). It shall not be communicated to the ban-gashira there. This was recorded in the karō-chū official correspondence files in the 12th month of Tenna 1, year of the Rooster (1681).

1. Regarding temple and shrine matters, as well as agricultural and commercial affairs, instructions are naturally given to the respective bugyō (magistrates).

1. When there are official duties to be communicated, the monthly duty karō shall inform the person the day before via kirishi (official notice) of the time they should report for duty. For ban-gumi members, notification of the summons is communicated to their ban-gashira; when the ban-gashira are in Edo residence, it is communicated to the hittō.

1. Regarding communication of official duties to medical officers: Generally following the same procedure as for御ban-gumi samurai, when official duties for the entire ban-gumi are to be communicated to the ban-gashira, for medical officers it is communicated to their hittō. For individual official duties, depending on the matter, the karō-chū communicate directly to the person.

1. Regarding family succession, role changes, and all other auspicious appointments: expressions of gratitude to the osuke-beya (secretariat), and matters concerning relatives and connections...