Article 1: On the 23rd day of the 3rd month of Bunka 5 (1808), when Inoue Hantadayu was appointed to the messenger role, we communicated that the official insignia should be handed over to the monthly duty officer Fukuda Hachirozaemon. Hachirozaemon reported that last month when Murakami Gundayu was relieved of his duties, instructions were given to Juroemon to store them with the armaments office. When we communicated to armaments officer Takada Magozaemon that the messenger insignia should be handed over to Fukuda Hachirozaemon, he said they would send someone to retrieve them from the armaments storehouse this evening, so we communicated this to Hachirozaemon.

Article 1: When position changes are ordered and night patrol reassignments become urgent, the night patrol chief should be informed to temporarily assist each other in duties, with proper assignments made the following day. There was such an example in the 8th month of Kyowa 1 (1801), recorded in the night patrol provisions.

Article 1: On the 16th day of the 9th month of Genroku 11 (1698), Sakakibara Rokurozaemon's unit guarding Kaga entrance was reassigned to Arakawa Sobei, and orders were given that he should serve at Rokurozaemon's residence instead. 【Red writing】Note: Sobei was the commander.

Article 1: From Genroku and Hoei periods onward, generally for position changes of military commanders, messenger rank and above, senior councilors make the announcement, after which each person appears before the lord and expresses gratitude with senior councilors' mediation.
However, official business is sometimes communicated directly by the lord.

Article 1: On the 7th day of the 8th month of Kyoho 8 (1723), Akita Sangozaemon, advance guard commander of Kaga entrance, was ordered to retire. For his replacement as Kaga entrance guard, it was planned to appoint someone from among the veteran advance guard commanders, but since Nomura Ichirozaemon belonged to the archery unit making it difficult, the next in line, Ichimura Kanemon, was appointed. Also, following precedent, five men from Kanemon's unit and Sangozaemon's former unit were exchanged.
Akita Sangozaemon's former unit: 15 men; Kanemon's previous unit: 15 men
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ichimura Kanemon
Ichimura Kanemon's unit: 15 men; Sangozaemon's former unit: 5 men
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Advance guard commander replacing Sangozaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Oka Hanemon

Article 1: On the 25th day of the 11th month of the same 9th year, Ichimura Kanemon was appointed as archery commander, and Ihara Josuke was appointed to his position. It was explained to Ise Katashozaemon that previously, veterans experienced in service were sent to Kaga entrance residence from among the chief and second-ranking advance military commanders, but since Josuke has distinguished family lineage and it was also fortunate for the lower entrance guard post, he was sent directly to Kaga entrance residence. This case should not become a precedent.

Article 1: On the 28th day of the 5th month of the same 10th year, regarding the insignia handbook, henceforth when there are position changes and illustrations need to be prepared and submitted here repeatedly, replacement matters should be ordered from Edo, as communicated from Edo colleagues.

Article 1: On the 16th day of the 11th month of the same 12th year, Kaga entrance advance guard commander Ihara Josuke was transferred to estate magistrate, and advance guard commander Yamamoto Uemon was ordered to proceed to Josuke's residence. Previously five unit members each were brought along, but since it was an archery unit, it was said they should be handed over as is to successor Suzuki Genbei, so we communicated to senior councilors that all twenty should be transferred to Genbei.

Article 1: On the 17th day of the 2nd month of the same 16th year, there were position changes, and monthly duty officer Kaifuku Chuzaemon reported that duty assignment documents were distributed to these individuals by official duty officer Uneme.

Article 1: On the 11th day of the 1st month of the same 17th year, during a caretaker year, there was a New Year armor celebration. On this day, position changes were announced by senior councilors in the gun room of the main castle. Oi Migiemon was appointed as archery commander replacing Kuwayama Jubei, and Nara Sakonemon was appointed as chief of the second great guard unit. However, Migiemon was ordered to Edo duty as soon as preparations were complete.

Article 1: On the 1st day of the 7th month of Genbun 1 (1736), inspector commander Tochiuya Hanemon was appointed as financial affairs examiner, given duty instruction documents by senior councilors, and appointed as deputy magistrate.
However, the duty instruction documents are not recorded in the general records.

Article 1: On the 7th day of the 5th month of Genbun 5 (1740), chamberlain Mizutani Oribu was granted a 300 koku increase in Kochi rank status and ordered to attend senior councilors' chambers and countersign official documents.
However, it is noted that although this was the case, he still appeared before the head chamberlain for New Year and seasonal celebrations.

Article 1: On the 3rd day of the 3rd month of Kanpo 1 (1741), Watanabe Sanaka, Shimada Seizaemon, and Iida Oriei were all appointed as attendant roles. Previously, page supervision was uniformly appointed, but henceforth about two veteran officers would be appointed to page supervision at the lord's discretion. Sanaka and Seizaemon were appointed to page supervision as is, so they should consult and serve together. Oriei was relieved of page supervision duties and should continue personal attendant duties as before.

Article 1: On the 25th day of the 10th month of the same 3rd year, Isono Tamiya in the presenter role, having served faithfully until old age, was now appointed as caretaker elder with a fifty koku increase and appointed to seated council. His seat is next to Inaba Yojin.

Article 1: On the 26th day of the 12th month of Meiwa 2 (1765), Nagami Jibuzaemon and Matsudaira Saori had their page supervision reformed, and henceforth were placed under middle elder supervision. Therefore, their individual supervision duties were relieved. This should be understood accordingly.

Article 1: On the 19th day of the 1st month of Kanpo 3 (1743), Nakane Jurozaemon was appointed as magistrate replacing Iwagami Kajidayu, and personal guard commander Hasegawa Buemon was appointed as inspector replacing Nakane Jurozaemon. Although Buemon should be brought to Edo when appointed to Nakane Juzaemon's former position, since his speech was not yet clear, he was left behind during caretaker duty this year.