Article 1: On the 29th day of the 7th month of Kansei 4 (1792), the following was proclaimed:
　Even when children of foot soldiers (ashigaru) are summoned to service, they shall succeed to their father's position and shall not establish separate households, as proclaimed.
　　However, second sons summoned through special deliberation may establish separate households.

Article 1: 3rd month of Bunka 2 (1805)　　　　　　　To the Inspector:
　It was previously proclaimed that children of foot soldiers and temple servants (bozu), even when summoned to service, shall not establish separate households. Hereafter, not limited to foot soldiers and temple servants, but for all personnel summoned from any department to any department, even when gradually granted provisional appointments, they shall not establish separate households. Of course, whether they succeed to their father's position or succeed to the position of the one who summoned them shall be determined based on their workplace and meritorious service at that time. This matter shall be communicated to each department as appropriate.
　Given this arrangement, when vacancies occur in various departments, personnel shall be rotated, and for understaffed areas, new appointments shall be made. Department heads must keep this matter firmly in mind.
　《Marginal note: 1st year of Tempo》

Article 1: On the 28th day of the 12th month of Bunsei 13 (1826), the following was communicated to Magistrate Hagiwara Chobei by separate document:
　Summoned as temple servant to the Accounting Office　　Magistrate Nara Sukeemon's unit
　Granted three-person stipend　　　　　　　　　　　　Ichihashi Mohei, son Bunki
　　However, hereafter shall not establish separate household but succeed to father's position【Red ink】Tempo 3 (1831): Upon father's death from illness, entered successor unit

Article 1: On the 20th day of the 4th month of Tempo 13 (1842), regarding the distinction between being summoned as temple servant and being employed, the following was proclaimed:
　Sons of temple servants with three-person stipend who were employed have now had their title changed and been granted summons to service.

　However, those summoned and employed shall be seated in order of years of service as previously proclaimed.

Hasebe Monthly Record
Article 1: Spring of Bunka 9 (1812)《Marginal note: said to be end of year of the Sheep》Memorandum for reporting minor official work assignments to foot soldier inspectors
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Marginal note:【Red ink】Two bags per month each, but off-duty personnel maintain themselves》
　1. Household affairs official　　1. Cotton and hemp magistrate　　1. Flower magistrate
《Marginal note:【Red ink】Five bags, one-person stipend, one rotating person》
　1. Rice stipend section　　1. Stipend section　　1. Akesato granary receiving clerk
　1. Akesato granary disbursement clerk　　1. Lumber magistrate　　1. Miscellaneous duties official
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Marginal note:【Red ink】Five bags, one-and-half-person stipend, one rotating person》
　1. Nenjo custody antiquities section records section combined　　1. Permit office lending section
《Marginal note:【Red ink】Eight bags, one-and-half-person stipend, one rotating person》
　1. Mikuni port tax inspection official　　1. Policy section lending section
　Regarding these various roles, there may be difficulties if they are not persons who have personally mastered arithmetic and writing. Of course, regarding Nenjo custody, while it does not directly involve accounting matters, there may be reasonable difficulties if appointments are made from the guard units.
　1. Kitchen head
　This was previously a minor official workplace, but currently appointments are made from guard units.
　1. Rough land head　　　1. Kitchen inspector
　Regarding these two roles as well, currently【Red ink】New unit dropout?　appointments are made mixing with the same rank, but are there no difficulties?
　1. River works magistrate
　This was previously appointed at minor official rank, and even after being appointed to guard unit entry, continued the same duties. In recent years appointments are also made from guard units, but