Since there are also construction estimates and such matters, if personnel are not skilled in arithmetic and writing, how would financial management fare?

　1. Charcoal and firewood section
　This has previously been appointed from among foot soldiers or temple servant heads, but since it is an office that handles cash receipts and payments, it is a position that cannot easily be left to subordinates, so should skilled persons be appointed?

《Marginal notes:【Red ink】Seven bags, one rotating person　【Red ink】Five bags, one rotating person　　　【Red ink】Six bags, one-person stipend, one rotating servant》　
　1. Moat and earthwork magistrate　　1. Fountain estate custodian　　　1. Flower garden and vegetable garden custodian
　Since these positions are not offices involved with accounting, there should be no difficulties regardless of which department makes appointments. For the flower garden section, should persons skilled in gardening be appointed?

　1. Permit office reception
　This was previously a minor accounting workplace, but in recent years has become like a minor official position, with new guard appointments also being made, currently ranking with new guards.

　1. Master carpenter　
　This was previously a minor official position, but currently all are appointed from guard units.

《Marginal note:【Red ink】Six bags, one-person stipend, one rotating servant》
　1. Minor construction section　　1. Inner palace assistant　　　1. Small implements section assistant
　For these positions, would there be no difficulties regardless of which department makes appointments?

Article 1: On the 20th day of the 10th month of Bunka 9 (1812), regarding the policy directive, the following was proclaimed《Marginal note: The senior councillors ordered understanding as per separate document》To Magistrate Kajikawa Hanbei
Separate document
　1. Those appointed to household affairs roles have until now received three koku salary increase for a total of eighteen koku three-person stipend, but hereafter during service they shall receive three koku supplementary stipend, which shall not be granted upon transfer.
　1. Those appointed to minor accounting have until now received ten koku three-person stipend, but hereafter shall receive ten koku two-person stipend.

《Marginal note: Due to policy directive, proclaimed as per separate document, each to be handled with unit supervision　Magistrate　The senior councillors ordered that I shall communicate to each individual　　Inspector》To《Marginal note: Kajikawa Hanbei　Nagabe Koemon}}
Separate document
　1. Due to this policy directive, current various subordinates are appointed as additional allocations within various units, and regarding work methods, current personnel shall work as before.
　1. Hereafter regarding subordinate service, appointments shall be made through personnel selection from within units.
　　Since appointments are made as above, they should work with utmost diligence. Of course, depending on meritorious service, advancement shall be granted.
　　　Yaosato says: Additionally, foot soldier inspector stipend matters were proclaimed and appear in the inspector supervision section; foot soldier succession matters were proclaimed and appear in the minor official and below succession section.

Article 1: Regarding the appointment of above various subordinates to unit allocation, the following was proclaimed and communicated on the 27th:
　1. Regarding seat allocation order, allocation shall be made according to years of service up to now.
　　　However, regardless of how many years of service one has, allocation shall be next to unit heads.
　1. Those of minor accounting rank and minor assembly rank shall be handled in separate seating.
　1. Petitions shall be handled through main heads.