However, depending on the matter, it shall be according to circumstances
　1. In cases of death, illness, or substitution, all matters shall be handled by the main head
　1. Regarding receipt of stipends and such, rice stipends shall be handled by the main head as before
　1. Temple certificates and receipt documents that were previously submitted to section heads shall now be received by main heads as they are
　1. New Year visits shall be made to main heads; other matters are at one's discretion
　1. Ceremonial meals and such shall be handled by section heads as before
　1. All notifications shall be announced by main heads
　1. Congratulations and such shall be presented to section heads as before
　　　However, regarding mourning exemptions, if section heads give notice, main heads shall grant exemption
　　　　End
1. Regarding the above, on the same 28th day, a memorandum was sent to magistrates as follows for the understanding of former section heads
　1. Petitions shall be handled by main heads
　　　However, depending on the matter, it shall be according to circumstances
　1. Rice stipend matters shall be handled by main heads
　　　However, food stipends remain as before
　1. Temple certificates and receipt documents previously submitted to section heads shall now be submitted to main heads as they are

　1. Congratulations and such shall be presented to section heads as before
　1. All notifications shall be announced by original section heads
　　　　End
1. Stock money regulations were proclaimed as follows　　　　　　Magistrate
《Marginal note: Refer to the article from Bunsei 3, 10th month, two pages later》　　　　　　　Inspector
　1. Nine koku two-person stipend　　Stock money　Fifty ryō　However, including ten ryō house silver
　1. Seven koku two-person stipend　　Stock money　Forty-five ryō　However, including ten ryō house silver
　　When there are stock sales within various groups, they shall be purchased officially and new appointments made. Of course, various loans shall be forgiven
　These matters shall be discussed and handled

　1. On the 29th day of the 4th month of Bunka 10 (1813), the following was proclaimed:
　　For members of various groups dismissed for misconduct, those not reinstated shall henceforth receive two-thirds of the standard stock money, reduced by one-third
　　　　Memorandum: However, sailor groups, bird watchers, stealth groups, etc. have no new appointments
　This was the case, but later it was changed so that half of the stock money would be granted
　　　　　
　　　　　Memorandum
　1. Nine koku household silver guarantee? Six hundred monme
　1. Joint signature one kan two hundred monme
　　This should be about the amount. Even when new appointments are made, this much should probably be granted
　1. Cedar formation group stock money thirty-two ryō, stock payment fixed
　　　However, for negotiated stock money, group town stock is forty ryō, external residence stock is forty-two ryō one or two bu, it is said