1. Bunka 10 (1813), 10th month, Internal Evaluation Regulations Memorandum
　1. When magistrate deputies have served thirteen years or more, they shall be promoted with salary increase even if there are no openings in the promotion slots
　　　However, those with unavoidable meritorious service who have not reached the required years shall be temporarily placed in promotion grade
　1. When accounting magistrate pursuit section deputies have served seventeen years or more, the same as above applies
　　　However, the same as above
　1. When accounting office junior pages have served seventeen years or more, they shall be appointed to formal page positions or other group positions where there are openings
　1. When inspector clerks have served seventeen years or more, they shall be granted vacant positions in the same manner　
　　　However, within the required years for deputy service and other duties, arrangements shall be made to avoid holding two positions simultaneously
　The above shall be understood. When promotions are made where openings exist, those with meritorious service may be appointed out of order regardless of years of service, as may be proclaimed
1. On the 8th day of the 11th month of the same year, after consultation among magistrates, the following was decided:
　Regarding the lord's intention for various deputies to be allocated additional positions to various groups, when purchased group houses are granted hereafter:
　1. Even eight-koku recipients, when granted nine-koku group houses, shall pay three hundred monme house silver
　1. When granted seven-koku group houses, house silver payment is not required
　1. When promoted to separate stock positions through summons, etc., regardless of nine-koku or seven-koku status, when granted group houses, three hundred monme house silver shall be paid

1. Bunka 12 (1815), 5th month, 13th day: Regarding deputy magistrate recruit deputy • Inspector Imamura Denhyōe allocation group minor promotion grade Yasukawa Shōtayū, who was recently replaced after serving recruitment duty for thirty-one years, totaling thirty-nine years of good service, his son was directly appointed to deputy service. Regarding this matter, not limited to magistrate recruits, henceforth when minor promotion grade personnel who have served one role for forty years without incident are replaced, whether their sons should be directly appointed to service was inquired to duty officer Honda Chikugo, and this was decided accordingly. This matter was reported to magistrate Kajikawa Hanbei
1. Bunka 3 (1806), 4th month, 29th day: When there are vacant positions for those in various groups who have not completed required years of service, debt amount statements were previously required - for seven-koku level positions up to two kan monme, for nine-koku positions up to about three kan monme, and for higher amounts direct appointment was made. Hereafter, it was decided through deliberation that around three kan monme more or less would be acceptable
1. Bunka 14 (1817), 1st month, 27th day: A person named Kobayashi Yasaburō from the group of long-spear magistrate Takada Saburōzaemon absconded last winter. His position was not filled, and 896 monme from the stock money was granted to the group colleagues' joint signatories
　　For seven-koku forty-five ryō allocation, four koku five to was calculated as 1,793 monme silver, and half of that amount, 896 monme, was granted. At this time, one ryō equaled sixty-five monme
1. 11th month of the same year: At the accounting office, magistrates Imamura Denhyōe, Miyakita Chōzaemon and other colleagues deliberated and decided the following:
　1. When nine-koku deputy service personnel become ill, are excused from duty, and die from illness, until a replacement is hired, they shall be paid at eight-koku rate. However, from the day a replacement is hired, nine koku shall be paid
　1. For seven-koku personnel in the same situation, until a replacement is hired, they shall be paid at seven-koku rate
　　　However, when a replacement is hired, seven koku shall be paid
《Marginal note: Refer to stock money regulations two pages prior》
1. Bunsei 3 (1820), 10th month: After deliberation among colleagues, the following was decided:
　1. Previously seven-koku stock money was forty-five ryō, but hereafter when there is no group house it shall be forty ryō, and when a group house is granted