forty-five ryō as before
　1. For nine-koku stock money of fifty ryō, when there is no group house it shall be forty-five ryō, when a group house is granted it shall be fifty ryō as before
　　　　End
1. Bunsei 5 (1822), 12th month, 5th day, the following was proclaimed:
　Hereafter, when account clerk trainees receiving ten koku are appointed to regular positions, they shall receive an increase of two koku
　　　　End
1. Around Bunsei 7-8 (1824-1825), regarding deputy promotion years that Akita Sangozaemon reported to Ōsaki Shichitayū:
　1. Ceremonial hall deputies are promoted to minor calculation rank after about ten years
　1. District reception deputies are promoted from minor assembly to minor calculation grade
　1. Magistrate deputies cannot reach minor calculation rank without about twenty years
　1. Promotion to minor assembly grade occurs from fifteen-sixteen years, though depending on necessity it may be earlier, counting years from deputy service
　　Besides this, promotions depend on the needs of each position regardless of years of service
　　　　End
1. Bunsei 1 (1818), 7th month: Regarding granting group stock to inspector clerks, matters to be appointed after further inquiry appear in the section on various groups' petition documents

1. Bunsei 12 (1829), 12th month, 16th day, the following was proclaimed:
　Consultation and handling as proclaimed in the separate document　Monthly magistrate Kaga Jirōzaemon
　To be communicated to those with group supervision　Inspector, same　Akita Sangozaemon
　　　　Separate Document
　In Bunka 9 there was a lord's intention for various deputies to be allocated as additional personnel to various groups, and deputy service was appointed from within various groups, but henceforth active service duty shall be discontinued and various deputies shall be under magistrate supervision as before
1. Bunsei 13 (1830), 2nd month, 11th day: Following the proclamation last winter, after internal deliberation colleagues made inquiry, and today duty officer Aruga Gokuhito and monthly officer Ōida Kinai were informed to handle the following matters with magistrates and inspectors keeping them in mind:
　　　　Separate Document
　1. From Bunka 9 (1812), those serving as active deputies from within various groups shall gradually be returned to their groups when their masters change
　　　However, those of minor calculation rank and below shall be temporarily returned to groups
　1. When there are deputy openings, former deputy stock holders within various groups shall be examined and released
　　　However, appointments shall be made through personnel selection
　1. When returning successors of active deputies to groups, if there are no openings, they shall be handled as additional personnel, to be replaced when openings become available
　　　However, successors of those who served from nine-koku positions shall be handled as additional personnel within the lord's direct groups, while others shall be placed as additional personnel in their former stipend-level positions