【Written in red ink】
1. Hōei 4, 7th month, 13th day: At the residence of Honda Shirōemon, Inaba Tamon presiding, Honda Jirōtayū
　The above, Sakutayū's successor and stipend of 1,975 koku granted without change, seat next to Ashida Uei-
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monthly duty officer
mon as announced, and to serve as fire brigade officer, on that occasion Inspector Hasegawa Ihei and Kawasaki Saburōsuke were present. 【End of red ink notation】

1. Genroku 15, 11th month, 2nd day: At the residence of Matsudaira Shōbei, Tochiya Hanemon presiding, Mizuno Tōbei
　The above, Mizuno Genshichi's successor position of 100 koku granted to Tōbei without change, as conveyed by Shōbei. On that occasion, monthly duty officers Iinuma Kanbei and Hasegawa Denbei appeared.

1. Same day, 5th: At the Council Chamber, Nakarai Taketake presiding, Noji Kōtarō
　The above, as Noji Joken's successor position, Kōtarō was granted ten-person rice allowance, as conveyed by Shōbei. On this occasion, Iinuma Kanbei and Hasegawa Jinbei were present.

1. Same 16th year, 12th month, 28th day: At Sakai Tenzen's residence, Ashida Saemon presiding, Sasaji Shōzen
　The above, regarding Shōzen's case, he was granted his father Daigaku's successor position of 2,600 koku, as conveyed by Tenzen with Matsudaira Shōbei, Sakai Yosazaemon, Takaya Zenemon, and Hahakabe Koemon in attendance.

　　　　　　　　　　　Ashida Saemon presiding, Sasaji Gonshirō
　The above, regarding Gonshirō's case, he was granted his father Daigaku's divided stipend of 500 koku and appointed to accompany to Edo next spring, conveyed in the same manner. On that occasion, Iinuma Kanbei and Kawai Sadaemon appeared. Takada Kintayū monthly duty officer and Inoue Handayū did not appear as they had to report to the Main Castle [remainder illegible].

　　　Regarding successor appointments　
1. From the above high-ranking positions, regardless of whether regular or irregular guard units, announcements to successors are made by the Senior Councilors, and those who relay death notifications are designated. For those guard units, when guard commanders are occupied with appointments, only inspectors are designated, and the senior officer accompanies up to the next seat.

1. When family succession is granted, two inspectors attend. However, for those receiving stipends other than fiefs, such as provisional grants and rice allowances, one inspector's attendance suffices.
　　However, for retirement successions, one inspector attends.

1. When family succession is granted to high-ranking retainers, the Senior Councilors assemble at their residences. This also applies to retirement successions.

1. When retirement is granted, if sons are called to accompany by the Senior Councilors but cannot appear due to illness, the parent alone suffices. Courtesy visits are conducted by family representatives.
　　However, on Bunka 4, 1st month, 24th day, when Matsubara Shirōbei was granted retirement, since his son was ill, the parent alone sufficed.

1. Successor positions are announced after fifty days of mourning. However, for particularly distinguished families, when summoned, they should accompany up to the intermediary, and appointments may be made even before the full period.
　　However, family succession for high-ranking positions is granted on the forty-ninth day.

【Following in small characters below】
　　Official duty records　　　　　　　　　Sozaemon's adopted son
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Katō Jinzō　Age 22
　　Genbun 1, 12th month, 25th day: Granted stipend of 150 koku without change, entered Great Guard unit　　The above, Senior Ashigaru Commander Katō Sozaemon died of illness on the 18th of this 11th month in Edo
　　However, the mourning procedures have not yet been conveyed, but since Jinzō's illness is heard to be serious, the announcement was made today.
　　Since Jinzō is young at this time, Katō Buemon appeared as his representative, and at Honda residence's sewing room, Senior Ashigaru Commander monthly duty officer Ōki Yogoemon was designated to make the announcement　Note: From 11th month 18th until today is the 18th day of mourning; what constitutes the mourning period has not yet been determined.
　　
1. Before departure and return to castle, even if family succession is less than fifty days, if it is forty-eight days, family succession is granted.
　　However, in Kansei 6, when Yamagata Yajirō's elder brother Sansaburō died and succession was granted to an adopted son, family succession was granted on the fiftieth day from Sansaburō's death. This was because Yajirō was stationed in Edo, various negotiations took time, and prolonged mourning for family succession would cause inconvenience, so though the fifty days for the inquiry period were not complete, it was granted on 8th month, 13th day.

1. Kansei 12, intercalary 4th month, 25th day: Okabe Kozen's adopted son Uzen, at Edo on the 20th of last 3rd month [incomplete] when on the coming 28th day