Due to the lord's entry into the domain, though the fifty-day mourning period was not complete, family succession was granted on the 25th day today. Additionally, regarding Nomura Yūtarō of the Great Guard unit, whose father Taemon died of illness last month - though this also did not complete the fifty-day mourning period, for the same reason succession was granted on the 25th day today.

1. Regarding family succession: when granted on the same day, it follows the order of the parent's general ranking.

1. Kansei 4 (Year of the Child): Koma Shikibu's family received succession as apprentice to Senior Councilor position.

1. When successor positions are granted: even if the fifty-day mourning period is complete, if someone is in heavy mourning, family succession is not granted until the heavy mourning period ends. In medieval times, when the fifty-day mourning was complete, heavy mourning was pardoned and appointments made. Later, when the fifty-day mourning was complete, family succession was announced through a representative, and courtesy visits were conducted after the heavy mourning period ended.

《Marginal note: [In red ink] Representatives also conducted courtesy visits to Senior Councilors on the same day. On Kōka 3, 5th month, 20th day, Atsumi Naoki's representative Nara Sukeemon did so.》

《Marginal note: Tenpō 1, 11th month, 2nd day, when Ariga Shōsuke received family succession, due to his adoptive mother's heavy mourning, it was conveyed to his representative.》

1. Kansei 4 (Year of the Child): When Sakata Sukeemon died and his adopted son Sukegorō was to receive succession after the mourning period ended, Sukegorō was affected by external mourning, but was pardoned from mourning and granted succession on the 29th of the 10th month, the fiftieth day after his adoptive father Sukeemon's mourning period ended.

1. In cases of retirement succession: if the son is in a mourning period, mourning is pardoned and succession is granted.

1. When Hara Heizaemon was granted retirement, Heizaemon was unwell and his son Hanjirō and relatives were in mourning, but Hanjirō was pardoned from mourning and granted succession.

1. Bunka 5, 7th month, 5th day: When Hishikawa Kuzaemon of the New Guard unit was granted rest, his adopted son Gonkichi's adoptive mother died and he was in mourning, but was pardoned from mourning for the adoptive mother and granted succession.

1. Kyōhō 16 (Year of the Boar), 2nd month, 17th day: Regarding successor matters, a handwritten directive was issued as follows:

Regarding family succession among retainers: those under fifteen years of age are appointed to stipend positions - this has been the law since previous generations. From this year forward, those fifteen years and under should be appointed to stipend positions as before. However, there are hereditary retainers and those whose parents serve faithfully. Hereafter, when successor sons reach fifteen years of age, those succeeding to fiefs should be appointed to fiefs, and those succeeding to provisional grants should be corrected accordingly. However, appointments should be made according to the conduct and service record of father and son. This directive should be urgently communicated to all retainers. End.

However, at that time, Senior Councilors made the announcement through a written directive as follows:
This time, regarding samurai succession matters, a handwritten directive has been issued, so we convey this document. Regarding the intent that young people granted succession should have their relatives provide even more constant care so that their upbringing may be proper. Moreover, when they reach fifteen years of age, that matter should be reported to us monthly duty officers. End.

1. Meiwa 8, 7th month, 13th day: Ashida Naiki was granted succession without change, appointed at the residence of Duty Officer Sakai Yosaemon. The above Naiki was the younger brother of Sasaji Ichigaku, requested adoption while Shimono was ill, and Shimono died at age sixteen (currently seven). Regarding Naiki's matter, he ranked next to Sugita Mondo, and while he had a forelock, he was pardoned from fire brigade duty in the castle town.

[In red ink] Senior Councilors' duty records: Meiwa 7, 12th month, 14th day, succession at age sixteen recorded, at that time called Kamezaburō.

1. When the late Ashida Tosho died, his adopted son Uemon, age fourteen, was granted succession without change.

1. Regarding samurai family succession and coming-of-age adoption families: when wishing to meet with Senior Councilors, they should have guard unit commanders, senior officers, and other close associates make arrangements and accompany them. This should be conveyed from time to time. This was conveyed in writing from Senior Councilors to inspectors in Jōkyō 2, 8th month.

1. Hōei 5, 3rd month, 21st day: Conveyed to all monthly duty officers through a written directive from Matsudaira Shōbei as follows: