Meiwa 3, 5th month, 27th day: The aforementioned Tsurutarō died of illness today. Although he was young, considering his family lineage since Yūki and moreover his grandfather Oribe's meritorious service, through special consideration for his family, the family name was established, sixty-man stipend was granted, family succession was decreed, and he was appointed to yoriai rank.

17 koku, 3-man stipend - Kure Matsushigehachi
Died of illness in Enkyō 2, at age 4, granted family succession with 5-man stipend - real son age 8
Granted, died of illness at age 9 in Kan'en 2, leading to extinction - same, Sukesaburō
Meiwa 3: family name established, granted 5-man stipend - second son of Tada Kyūko
Kure Matsui no kichi

Died of illness in Kan'en 2, 20 koku 4-man stipend, shell role - Nakayama Gensuke
Due to young age, succession became stipend position, served about 3 years
Died of illness, line extinct - real son age 8, same Iwagōrō
Meiwa 5: family name established - second son of foot soldier commander Iwasa Yagatayū
Appointed to Reserve Guard Unit 2, granted 5-man stipend - Nakayama Mirai Saburō

Died of illness in Kan'en 2, 20 koku 3-man stipend - Kashio Matazaemon
Due to young age, granted succession with 7-man stipend, assigned to Reserve Guard Unit - real son age 5
However, died of illness at age 12 in Hōreki 6, line extinct - same, Tagorō
Meiwa 5: family name established, granted 5-man stipend -
Yoriki Sugita Kahei
Kashio Matazaemon

1. Shōtoku 4: Yamamura Kyōsuke drowned at Koura Mikawa, his son Gengōemon's negligence was accidental according to regulations, so succession was not decreed. Among retainers.

This appears in the section on accidental deaths.

1. Examples of dying of illness shortly after being granted succession
1. Kyōhō 12, 12th month, 5th day
Adoptive father Kinemon's succession, 150 koku without change, Great Guard entry - Hatta Daisaburō
This Daisaburō was still a youth who had not yet served guard duty when he died. On the 21st day of the 3rd month of the same 15th year, the following was decreed:
From adoptive father Daisaburō's succession fief, 50 koku was reduced,
granted 100 koku, Great Guard entry - Hatta Iwanosuke

1. Enkyō 4, 12th month, 15th day - Watanabe Heisuke
Adoptive father Sanaka's succession without change, yoriai seat, successor to Iida Sakuzaemon, renamed Tarōzaemon. This Heisuke died of illness on the 3rd day of the 2nd month of the following year. On the 29th day of the 3rd month, the following was decreed:
Adoptive father Tarōzaemon's succession without change, non-duty seat, next after Suzuki Hikotayū - Watanabe Kinzō

1. Kansei 2, 2nd month, 16th day succession, died of illness 3rd month, 9th day - Ōtani Tetsutarō
Same year, 4th month, 29th day: Tetsutarō's succession granted without change - Ōtani Daihachirō

1. Kyōwa 3, 4th month, 5th day succession, died of illness same month, 11th day - Okabe Giken
However, when this Giken was granted succession, he was unwell so sent a representative, and naturally did not attend courtesy rounds and duties.
Same year, 6th month, 5th day: from Giken's succession, 50 koku was reduced and granted (reduced from 200 koku to 150 koku) - Okabe Matanosuke