However, Bunnosuke was the younger brother of Yano Denzaemon, and requested adoption while ill.
(However, he was instructed through the inspector to shave his head, and regarding name change, the person should report directly to the chamberlain, who would then inform the inspector)

1. Bunsei 10, boar year, 12th month, 3rd day
   Parent Kazuma's succession, 100-man stipend without change, yoriai handover seat - Saito Gengoro
This Gengoro, at the time of succession, only made courtesy calls to senior councilors with no other duties, died of illness in the first month of the following rat year. On the 29th day of the 2nd month, the following was decreed:
   Gengoro was granted adoption while ill, 100-man stipend granted without change
   Moreover, although Gengoro served only briefly, due to family lineage
   Through special consideration, appointed to yoriai handover seat - Saito Bunko
   However, entered the handover preliminary seat, ranked five positions lower

1. Horeki 3, cock year, 5th month, 25th day, the following was decreed:
      Died of illness on 4th month, 25th day - Sasaki Sadataka, age 36
                                            Son Kumashiro, one year old
      Return to service - Sadataka's parent Sasaki Sadao
This Sadao was granted retirement as an elder, and succession was given to his son Sadataka, who died of illness. Since his son was very young, the normal legal procedure should apply, but hearing that he was in poor health and having family duties, through special consideration he was granted return to service, given 15 koku 5-man stipend without change, and appointed as court acupuncturist. Regarding Kumashiro, it was decreed that he should be raised and eventually serve in the family profession.

1. Kansei 10, horse year: Tsuchiya Shinnosuke was granted leave, but since Gorotayu had meritorious service during his tenure, Torazo at Ishihara Kizaemon's place (age 9 this year) was granted 10-man stipend and appointed to family name succession. On the 20th day of the 9th month, the following was conveyed at the residence of chamberlain Watanabe Jurozaemon:
   1. Regarding Tsuchiya Shinnosuke being granted leave: since Gorotayu had meritorious service during his tenure and family name succession was decreed, regarding mourning observance, this Torazo should treat the Gorotayu couple as adoptive parents for fifty days and thirteen months, and other relatives should follow this precedent in mourning observance.
   1. Generally, when someone is granted leave and later family name succession is decreed from another house, since this is decreed to another person, the aforementioned Shinnosuke and Torazo need not observe mourning requirements.

Text of mourning regulations:
   1. When someone dies without children and succession is newly granted for name succession, mourning should be observed as for an adoptive child. The wife of the deceased should be treated as an adoptive mother.
      Total

1. Among the 13 articles of internal decisions from Bunka 9, monkey year, those with △ marks that became regulations (3 articles with △ marks appear in the miscellaneous records section) and
   Those with ○ marks not yet regulated (3 articles with ○ marks appear in the seating order section; additionally, 4 articles with ● marks that were decreed and completed appear in the same section)
   △1. For those of aishin-tai rank and below, if succession occurs within ten years, seat demotion should be decreed as follows:
      Aishin-tai to promotion seat
      Promotion seat to new guard unit
      New guard unit to minor officials
      However, when appointed to minor officials, regardless of previous stipend, should be appointed to 15 koku 3-man stipend