Regarding the summoning of samurai retainers (jichū), their children, and others, as well as their promotion

1. When newly summoning samurai retainers, the announcement shall be made at the monthly duty officer's residence, with the presence of those from the relevant lineage and the inspector (metsuke).
   However, when including those from the relevant lineage, even if the person has no relatives, the lineage members shall be treated as equivalent to relatives. Also, when summoning someone from elsewhere to the samurai retainer group, instructions shall be given to the monthly duty group leader that everyone should cooperate in performing their service.

1. On the 15th day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 5 (1720), in Edo, Kawano Sashima was summoned and granted a stipend of 150 koku, appointed to the Great Guard Group. This was due to his being an elderly relative of Kawano Shōan, for whom a petition had been submitted beforehand. At that time, to the Great Guard Group leader on monthly duty, Minagawa Tasaemon, it was announced that the aforementioned Sashima was summoned, granted 150 koku, and appointed to the Great Guard Group, so everyone should cooperate in performing their service. Instructions were given to inform the group members as well. It was declared that henceforth, when anyone from elsewhere is summoned to join the group, the same instructions shall be given.

1. On the 8th day of the 7th month of Enkyō 3 (1746), in Edo, when Ishida Heiji, who was close to the deputy governors Ōtani Ichiemon and Banda Kuemon, was summoned, Ichiemon and Kuemon accompanied Heiji to Sakai Genba's official residence. With both present, Genba's representative announced to Heiji that he was summoned to the Great Guard and granted a stipend of 100 koku. Inspector Hatano Kyūemon was present at that time.

1. At the same time, Great Guard leader Nagami Tamon was invited to Genba's quarters and informed that a person named Ishida Heiji had been summoned to join the Great Guard with a 100 koku stipend, so everyone should cooperate in service. Moreover, he was appointed to permanent Edo residence. Inspector Kyūemon was present.

1. On the same day, Nagami Tamon announced that since Ishida Heiji had been summoned that day, he was ordered to perform guard duty. As a temporary measure for observation, he should report to the guard station daily until the next noon. Overnight guard duties should be performed according to the regular rotation. For now, he resides in rented quarters at Yamaguchiya Jinbei's in Hatagocho, outside Asakusa checkpoint, as recorded.

1. On the 25th day of the 9th month of Hōreki 14 (1764), at Sakai Geki's residence, Takaya Jōtayū was summoned to the deputy governor group and granted a three-person rice allowance. His elder brother Masugi Shozaemon accompanied him. Afterward, instructions were given to group leader Tsuneoka Yazaemon that in all matters, everyone should cooperate in performing their service.