1. When a physician is employed, instructions shall be given to the head court physician to provide care as a colleague.

1. Regarding the summoning of samurai retainers' children to positions such as page (koshō) and personal attendants (temawarai): For those outside regular duty groups, their parents shall accompany them. When residing in Edo and in case of illness, their parent's colleagues shall accompany them. For members of regular duty groups, parental accompaniment is unnecessary; instead, the parent's group leader shall accompany them. When the group leader is unavailable, the senior member shall accompany them. In all cases, an inspector (metsuke) shall be present, and for pages, the head of pages shall also be present during the announcement.
   However, when the group leader accompanies, he shall be present at the ceremony, but the senior member need not do so. When parents accompany, they shall pay their respects after the announcement is completed.

1. Regarding children or relatives of samurai retainers who have once petitioned and been sent elsewhere, then returned to the domain: such persons shall not be summoned.

1. Regarding the number of retainers promoted by successive lords:
   1. From Takachi to new guard level, 762 samurai in total
      Including: 38 physicians, acupuncturists, surgeons, tea masters, and artists
                393 with stipends from 20,000 to 100 koku
                Others with various allowances including rice stipends and silver allowances
   1. Matsuoka group: 169 people, including 31 personal attendants
   1. Yoshie group: 65 people, including 15 personal attendants
      Total

   1. Revised in Kansei 5 (1793):
      Lord Tadamasa's reign: 35 promoted
      Lord Mitsumichi: 16 promoted
      Lord Yoshishina: 37 promoted (17 at Yoshie)
      Lord Tsunamasa: 7 promoted
      Lord Yoshikuni: 10 promoted
      Lord Munemasa: 50 promoted (34 at Matsuoka)
      Lord Munenori: 72 promoted
      Lord Shigemasa: 11 promoted
      Lord Shigetomi: 55 promoted
      Total: 293 people

This document was copied from one possessed by Misawa Kanzaemon (later renamed Hakuraku) in the summer of Bunka (2nd year?) year of the Ox.

1. On the 29th day of the 5th month of Kyōhō 6 (1721), granted 25 koku rice stipend and allowance for five people, with Ōmiya Hikoemon and Ariga Gentetsu present: Ōtsuki Sōan
   The above person was summoned as court physician and granted the above as acting physician, announced at Ashida Uemon's residence, with Yano Uemon-saku present.

1. On the 29th day of the 12th month of the 12th year (1727), at Uemon's residence, someone was summoned to the foot soldiers (okachi), including Anzaemon, younger brother of Koma Ise's assistant Kurosawa Gorobei, who was summoned to the foot soldiers. This was because Inoue Sadaemon had died, and after consultation among the inspectors, he was summoned due to his good character, so he should understand this and take the name Inoue.
   However, Yaori speculates that Sadaemon was probably a foot soldier inspector.

1. On the 5th day of the 9th month of Kanpō 2 (1742), the following was announced at Okabe Sazen's residence, with Tanabe Gotayū and Shimoyama Hikozō present.