【Right Page】
Also for rectal prolapse, soak slugs in sesame oil and bury them in the ground; they will turn to water, which should be applied to the affected area - this is effective. Good for all types of hemorrhoids. The diseases marked with this △ symbol are considered difficult to treat and incurable in the world, so I have applied even greater care and practiced extensively to discover effective treatments, but since they are difficult to describe in writing, those who trust in ancient traditions should visit my residence.

○Ancient traditions for exorcising and curing all evil spirits, curses, and fox-spirits, along with moxibustion methods - Transmitted by Mr. Katsuki of Bungo Province
△First, burn sacred brooms and fumigate with the smoke. For all evil spirits, fox-spirits, or diseases of unknown origin, take black peaches that have remained on peach branches for many years without falling, powder them, and take with sake. When black peaches are unavailable, pinch between the nail bed and flesh of the patient's thumbs on hands and feet as shown in the diagram, bind the thumbs tightly with thread, and simultaneously apply seven moxa cones to eight points on the hands and feet. If done to one location first, it will be ineffective. If moxibustion is applied simultaneously, fox-spirits, dead spirits, or living spirits will announce their names and depart. Fox-spirits hide their thumbs to deceive people. For other evil spirits, weasel-spirits, and dog-spirits, use decoctions of honeysuckle and cockscomb flowers.

【Left Page】
○Famous remedy to make people stop drinking and become teetotalers - Transmitted by Mr. Ishikawa of Sendai, Oshu Province
Put a live eel in sake and cover it; the eel will become drunk and die. Discard the eel and give the remaining sake to drink. ○It is also good to collect horse sweat and mix it into sake for drinking.

○To rescue those who have died from lightning strikes - Transmitted by Mr. Matsuo of Nagasaki
For those who have died from lightning strikes, crush earthworms and apply thickly to the soles of their feet, also apply around the navel, and call the person's name loudly. Also catch a live crucian carp and make it jump on the chest at the solar plexus. It is lamentable that people do not know this method and abandon the victims.

○First-class remedies for all types of fainting and apoplexy - Transmitted by Mr. Matsumoto of Hakata, Chikuzen Province
First, bend the patient's middle finger and apply moxibustion where the tip touches. Also apply moxibustion at the nail bed of the big toe. ○Rub pine buds well with hands, put in cold water, and place the oily part in the mouth