[Right page]
【Heading】Sweet Chrysanthemum (Kankiku) - Flowering period: May-June to October
The leaves are like ordinary chrysanthemum leaves with rounded edges. Flower colors are white and yellow.
It blooms vigorously. Height is about 1 shaku (30cm), or 4-5 sun (12-15cm). Found in mountain valleys and also in fields.
Called sweet chrysanthemum because of its sweet taste. This is also used for chrysanthemum dolls.

According to Chinese herbal texts, chrysanthemum flower is also called Josetsu (women's festival) or Joka (women's flower). Liu Meng's Chrysanthemum Records lists 35 varieties, or 32 varieties. Fan Shiko's Chrysanthemum Records lists 72 types. Here I record only the sweet chrysanthemum variety. Those with purple stems, good fragrance, sweet taste, deep yellow flowers with single petals, and thin membranous coverings are considered authentic. Take the flowers to make rice cakes, or boil with salt to drink - both are good. There are also mandarin duck chrysanthemums, May chrysanthemums, and June chrysanthemums. Lu Guimeng wrote "Ode to Chrysanthemum Picking." Tang Bo once considered this a good friend.

【Heading】Shiran (Bletilla) - Flowering period: March-April (also called kei)
Also called purple kei. Chinese name: Baikyu (Bletilla striata)

Leaves resemble those of yellow hui, long and hard. Flower stalks extend with orchid-like deep purple flowers. Inside the flowers is a tongue-like part, also purple with small white fine patterns. There are also light purple ones. Called light kei or purple kei. There is also white kei with white flowers. One variety has white flowers with purple markings. Leaves are thin and long, smaller than ordinary purple ones.

[Left page]
The leaves wrap around the stem with leaves emerging in tiers. Extremely beautiful.

【Heading】Keman-so (Bleeding Heart) - Chinese name: Kahou Botan (荷苞牡丹)
Also Yellow Keman - Chinese name: Bakin (馬芹)

The flower shape resembles keman ornaments arranged in tiers.
Yellow keman has chrysanthemum-like form with leaves like wild carrot. The flower shape resembles blue orchid flowers but is yellow in color. Though it has the keman name, it has a grassy appearance with particular differences. Flowers last until March-April.

【Heading】Kumagai-so (Cypripedium) - Flowering: March
Atsumori-so (Cypripedium) - Flowering: February

Flower shape is like a horo (warrior's cloak), white in color, with leaves resembling butterbur leaves, hard and thick. Atsumori-so is light crimson in color. Leaves are like bamboo grass. Flower shapes are similar. These are related species. Chinese name: Gajutsu

【Heading】Hotaru-so (Firefly Grass) - Flowering: mid-April

Leaves resemble willow leaves, thick and glossy. Flowers are small, true lapis lazuli color with white base, with crimson stars between the lapis and white areas, with thin stamens inside. Extremely beautiful. It's a vine that spreads by laying down stems and growing roots. Also called hotaru-kazura (firefly vine). Also called ruri-so (lapis grass) or tama-kazura (jewel vine). Height is about 5-6-7 sun (15-21cm). Found in valleys.