[Right page]
【Heading, boxed section】Byakujutsu (Atractylodes) 《Side note: flowers bloom from summer to the end of autumn》
【Outside the box】Grows from spring. Leaves are small like bamboo grass, with small serrated edges. There are single leaves and three-lobed leaves. Flowers are white, and some are cherry-colored. The receptacle has small fish bone-like leaf arrangements surrounding it. Height is about 1-2 shaku. Also called okera.

【Dividing line】【Heading, boxed section】Ginsenka (Silver coin flower) 《Side note: also called morning dew grass》
【Outside the box】The flower shape is like hibiscus, but smaller than hollyhock. The color is white with a bluish lustrous hue, and the flower base has a hint of dark red. Leaves have five divisions with three fingers. The leaf cuts resemble watermelon leaves. Height about 1-2 shaku with branches. Opens in the morning and closes in the evening, then the next flower opens the following morning. It belongs to the hollyhock family. Also resembles kinsenka (marigold). Flowers bloom until June-July.

【Dividing line】【Heading, boxed section】Rankikusou (Orchid chrysanthemum grass)
《Side note: flowers from July to August》
【Outside the box】Leaves resemble hotei chrysanthemum, thin and broad. Tips are pointed, with cuts around the edges. Flowers bloom in short wheel-like clusters between leaves, with purple and white varieties.

【Dividing line】【Heading, boxed section】Barin (Iris lactea)
【Outside the box】Flower shape is like iris, color is light purple. Leaves resemble iris but slightly narrower. Flowers from March to May.

【Dividing line】【Heading, boxed section】Ichihatsu (Roof iris)
【Outside the box】Flowers have purple and white colors. Leaves resemble cypress fan. Flowers at the end of February.

[Left page]
【Heading, boxed section】Ichirinsou (One-wheel grass)
Toki (Rabbit hollyhock) 《Side note: February》
《Side note: has flowers》
【Outside the box】Both flowers and leaves resemble plum blossom grass but are smaller. Grows like bamboo stands with one flower per stem. Also called summer snow grass. A slightly larger variety is called one-flower grass. Differs from plum blossom grass in how the flowers attach.

【Dividing line】【Heading, boxed section】Ayame (Iris) 《Side note: March-April》
《Phonetic reading: Keison (valley iris)》【Note】《Side note: has flowers》
【Outside the box】Flowers come in white, purple, and gray colors. There are variegated types. Some are white with a slight purple tinge. Called Shokkin ayame. Others are purple with six petals, and okina ayame has leaves with white and blue tinges, and striped ayame has white stripes in the leaves.

【Dividing line】【Heading, boxed section】Haru sukashi yuri (Spring tiger lily) 《Side note: flowers bloom in March-April》
【Outside the box】Color is slightly stronger than summer tiger lily, with fewer spots. Has roundness and luster, growing 2-3 shaku tall. Flower color is yellow-red with red shading. Six petals, six stamens, with rice-grain-like tips that are purple in color.

【Dividing line】
There are 2-3 types of lilies. One is called sandalwood lily. Lily bulbs can be eaten boiled or steamed. They benefit qi. One is called mountain lily. The bulbs are edible. Flowers bloom one month later and are not very fragrant. One is called tiger skin lily, which can kill people and should not be eaten. Tosa people don't know agriculture, and the land has many lilies. They take the roots as food.

[Note: The character "𬞥" is possibly "渓" (valley)]
[Various editorial notes about textual variants follow]