【Right page】
【Heading, boxed section】Tokei-sō (Clock plant/Passion flower)
《Split writing: Also called hojiro-gusa (white grass)》
【Outside box】The flower color is white, with stamens standing upright in the shape of a windmill, with serrations like a tea whisk inside. They stand in two layers, with indigo-colored tips. Inside are five long structures resembling Takasago lilies, with yellow flower bases and white interiors with yellow edges. Furthermore, inside is a purple spider-like core resembling a bracken-shaped clove head, with the base of the core surrounded by small, thin purple structures like hair strands forming the stamens. Inside the spider-like core are brown rice-sac-like structures resembling fruit that stand tall. The flowers open around 4 o'clock and remain open until 8 o'clock, facing the sun. The serrated stamens rotate like a clock, blooming from April through July-August.

【Heading, boxed section】Shunran (Spring orchid) 《Also called》 Dokutōran (Single-head orchid) 【Outside box】Leaves resemble orchids but are smaller. In spring, opens white and pale pink flowers like orchids. Flowers bloom in February.

【Heading, boxed section】Hototogisu-sō (Toad lily) 【Outside box】Flower shape resembles bellflower petals but more delicate. Many color varieties exist: white, persimmon-red, true yellow, and pale yellow. Those with white petals and black-red spots inside are called mountain hototogisu. Leaves are bamboo-grass-like and thick, emerging wrapped around the stem. Some leaves have black spots on top, others don't. Both stems and leaves have fine hairs. What's called uguisu-sō (bush warbler grass) is distinguished from this variety. Flowers bloom in September. Height exceeds two shaku.

【Left page】
【Heading, boxed section】Sakura-na (Cherry-name)
《Split writing: Cherry grass》
《Split writing: Many varieties, from March》
《Split writing: to April flowers bloom》
【Outside box】Flower shape resembles cherry blossoms with stamens standing in a circle. Many flower colors exist: white or snow-white, purple, also variegated, pale purple, and speckled varieties. Variegated cherry grass is not like today's tie-dyed patterns but has purple and white colors separated within single petals. Pale purple has slightly larger flowers called Komachi cherry grass. Speckled varieties are called tie-dyed cherry grass, brocade cherry grass, or variegated cherry grass. Height is 6-7 sun.

【Heading, boxed section】Harukei (Spring aromatic) 《March flowers》【Outside box】Leaves resemble purple orchid but are broader and softer. Flower shape is orchid-like with turmeric color. Leaves have white spots.

【Heading, boxed section】Yamabuki (Japanese kerria/Teitō/Tobika) 【Outside box】Flowers are very yellow, shaped like garden cherry. Leaves resemble golden wild rose with wrinkles. One variety is single-petaled, resembling mountain cherry. Also has two color varieties; one type is white with standing stamens like wild rose. Flowers bloom in February-March, also has return blooms from autumn through winter. Grows in mountain fields.

【Heading, boxed section】Yukino-shita (Snow-below)
《Also called》Sekika (Stone lotus)
《Also》called Kojisō (Tiger-ear grass)
【Outside box】Flowers bloom in March. Emerges from center like bracken fern, with snow-like flower shape. Three petals are small, two are large and long. Flower color is white. Leaf shape is round like snow-ring pattern and thick. Leaf undersides: young leaves are true red, old leaves are pale red. Surface has pale white streaks. Long runners emerge from root base with buds at tips that root into the ground.