【Right Page】
【Heading, boxed section】
Mountain kerria
St. John's wort (kinshibi)
【Outside box】The flower has four petals, and the color is truly pure yellow. It closes at night and opens during the day. The leaves resemble wild mallow (mitsuba). It blooms in March.

【Heading, boxed section】
Small blue (shōsei) grass
Eastern chrysanthemum
【Outside box】The leaves are like thlaspi (oninazuna) without serrations. Five or six flower stalks rise up, with small chrysanthemum-like flowers in light pink color. It is also called "thousand spears." It blooms in February.

【Heading, boxed section】
Barrenwort (ikari-sō) 《marginal note: April-May》
Epimedium (in'yōkaku) 《marginal note: flowers bloom》
【Outside box】The flower shape is like an anchor, with colors of deep purple and light purple. The leaves are small with distortions at the base. Both stems and leaves are hard. There are also white flowers. All three types have large and small varieties, called large barrenwort and small barrenwort.

【Heading, boxed section】Dandelion 【Outside box】The flower shape resembles chrysanthemum. The stem has no branches, and like spatterdock, the leaves have large serrations like shepherd's purse. It produces leaves from winter, green in color, and when receiving frost, the leaf tips turn purple and scorched. Flower colors are yellow, and there are also white ones. There are said to be red ones too, but I have never seen them. Some flowers bloom from winter, but most bloom in March.

Taraxacum originally had no clear place of origin. Now it exists everywhere in plains, marshes, and fields. In early spring, seedlings emerge. The leaves are like endive with fine thorns. From the center, one stem extends, producing flowers from the stem tip. The color is yellow like gold coins. When the stem is cut, white sap emerges.

【Left Page】
People also eat this. It is commonly called "hōei." Another name is "kōjokusō." It is sweet and non-toxic. It treats women's breast abscesses and swelling. When boiled in water and the liquid is drunk, or when applied as a poultice, it immediately disappears.

【Heading, boxed section】
Thistle
《marginal note: Chinese name》薊
《marginal note: Has flowers in March, blooms in April, also has flowers in May-June, also blooms in autumn. This is the thistle that blooms from August to September》
【Outside box】There are many varieties of flowers: white, terminal red, base red, or terminal purple, snow white, also deep blue, purple, and light pink. Snow white with base red tips have distinctions, and purple with white tips have distinctions. Both types are extremely refined. There is also one called Nikkō thistle: medium purple, large flowers, with leaves the same as ordinary thistle. When well cultivated, it becomes extremely large. There is also one called Tenjiku (Indian) thistle, also called Korean thistle. Both flowers and leaves are large. The flower color is lapis lazuli purple. The leaves have deeper serrations than ordinary thistle, resembling the leaves of Echinops. The plant height is exceptionally tall, startling to the eye. This year I saw a yellow thistle for the first time. It's just that the flower color is different, not particularly appealing. There are also ones with variegated leaves. Wild thistle is also called "fox thistle."