【Right Page】
【Heading, boxed section】Hōsōka (Treasure Phase Flower)
【Outside the box】A flower similar to roses. Large, with varieties in large white and large red colors. There are two types with a thousand petals.
Larger in both flowers and leaves than chōshunka (perpetual spring flower). Blooms in March and April. Commonly called
"long rose." Also known as gyūroku (ox bridle), also called gyūkyoku (ox thorn), also called shikō (thorn red). It grows on the roots of large trees in the mountains.
It also trails down from valley rocks and cliffs, or trails down from riverbanks and mountain fields. Some varieties have smaller leaves than chōshunka.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Sotohama Transparent Lily【Outside the box】The flower resembles ordinary transparent lilies, with color similar to daylilies
but without stars. The center has a dragonfly-head shape with six lines, and the pistil tips have purple rice-like
grains. The leaves are more slender than ordinary lilies. Flowers bloom in March and April. About three feet in length.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Tametomo
Lily
【Outside the box】The flower color is white with fawn spotting. Purple, black center with dragonfly-head shape and
kite-colored stamens likewise. Leaves resemble tiger lily. A little
yellow appears from within the petals. There's a little green color there. Overall resembles tiger lily. Thicker and more robust than giant
lily, flowering in mid-April or lasting until May-June. About four to five feet in
length. Stem is thick with black-blue color. Flower size is over seven to eight inches.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Grass Shimotsuke【Outside the box】Flower is the same as tree shimotsuke. Color is pale red. Central stamens are

【Left Page】
white, and white shimotsuke is also the same. Leaves resemble those of kodemari
(small snowball tree) with serrated edges and soft texture. Similar to shinodachi
fujibakama with thin stems. It is herbaceous. One of three varieties.
Flowers bloom from March-April through June-July. Chinese name is senshūgiku (thread-embroidered chrysanthemum).
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Poppy (keshi)
Ying su
Ying zi su
【Outside the box】Four petals with colors including large red, large white, and purple. Single, double, and thousand-petal varieties exist.
Leaves are like those of bitter herbs. About three to four feet long. Leaves are deeply cut. Flowers bloom in April.
Called reikaka (beautiful summer flower). Also has two sepals. They fall when the flower opens.
【Dividing line】
【Heading, boxed section】Reishunka (Beautiful Spring Flower)
Kaozo (Flower Warbler Poppy)
【Outside the box】Commonly called bijinsō (beauty grass). Shape resembles poppy but smaller, with
petals also four in number. Colors include white, large red, and purple. Single varieties
exist, also double and thousand-petal varieties. Flowers bloom in spring March. Leaves
resemble poppy leaves but shorter, and flower buds, leaves, and stems all have hair.
Sepals are the same. The sepals fall as the flowers open.
【Dividing line】
Warbler poppy (ōzoku) should be sown in August and grows well. When planted with spacing, it flourishes. Harvesting seeds to make compost
is good. There are also five-colored thousand-leaf varieties. These are most worthy of love.