【Right Page】
【Heading, boxed section】Violet grass
《Small text: Also》Three-country grass (sangokusō)
Large violet
Violet vegetable (kinsai)
Arrowhead grass (sentōsō)
【Outside the box】Also called fukki-sumire or kakuremino. The leaf shape is like flowering vines, with deep cuts, and the leaves are soft and small. The stem is purple in color. White flowers bloom that resemble violets. There are three varieties of this type with different flowers and leaves. Some have narrow, long leaves, and some have round leaves. The round ones are called tsubo-sumire (pot violets). The flowers come in purple and white, and all are jichō (violets).
There are also other grasses called three-country grass, and since there are grasses whose names change depending on location, there is a separate grass called three-country grass. It is unclear which one is being referred to. The flowers bloom from March to August or September.

【Heading, boxed section】Calanthe grass
Mountain magnet (sanjishaku)
【Outside the box】There are many flowers. What is called large calanthe has flowers of hon-yellow color with generally scales. Man-calanthe has the same flower color as large calanthe with large scales. Nanking also has the same flower color. What is called gold-purple has flower petals of deep persimmon-red with luster, and the inner tongue is also hon-yellow. What is called tea-gold has blue-purple flower petals, and the tongue is the same color but slightly lighter.
Defune-calanthe has dirty white with light purple mottling, and the tongue is the same. Leaf-calanthe has yellow with blue gradation, and the flower exterior is medium yellow.

【Left Page】
The inner tongue is also white. There is crimson birch calanthe, with flower petals of gradated white with slight redness. Purple calanthe is of deep purple throughout, with flower petals and tongue of the same color. Kanoko calanthe has white with red spots. White calanthe has flower petals and tongue that are both dirty white. Those with blue-white flower petals and white tongue are called gosude calanthe. Those with blue-purple flower petals and white tongue with red coloring are called crimson calanthe. There are also snow-white and true-crimson varieties. There are summer calanthe and autumn calanthe. Summer calanthe has yellow with blue gradation and blooms in April and May. Autumn calanthe blooms in July and August. The flower color is light cherry, and the tongue is the same. Both flowers and leaves remain unchanged, with differences only in blooming season.

【Heading, boxed section】Nine-ring grass
Banner-joint flower (seisetsu-ka)
【Outside the box】The flower shape is like that of primrose, with thick petals, and the stems stand and bloom all around. The stem stance is thick, standing and extending, blooming in tiers. There are several colors: white, crimson, or snow-white, genji, and also light-colored variants. Those with ground crimson and white-edged flower petals are called genji nine-ring grass. Flowers appear in March and April.

【Heading, boxed section】Strawberry
Rubus fruit (fukubonshi)
【Outside the box】The flowers are small like plum blossoms, with yellow and snow-white varieties. Herbalists call the fruit fukubonshi and the leaves yōrui. Also called winter strawberry or cold strawberry.