【Title】
Record of Ebisu and Tenjin's Apology

While we (Ebisu and Tenjin) were entrusted with watching over the affairs of the various gods, we caught such fine sea bream that we drank too much and became heavily intoxicated. Taking advantage of this opening, the catfish immediately knocked away the keystone and went out to great Edo, destroying the foundations of storehouses, removing their protective bands, crushing various houses, causing not a few deaths, and causing fires—committing extremely violent and inhumane acts. Therefore, we immediately apprehended them for interrogation. One catfish trembled with great fear and could not utter a single word in response. At this time, what appeared to be their leader respectfully spoke as follows:

"With all due respect, we humbly acknowledge your words. Please hear the full account of this great disaster. Though we need not mention what you already know, among the four seasons of spring, summer, autumn, and winter, there are cold days during hot periods and warm days during cold times. With such climate disruptions, years with proper seasonal order are few. Though this year has been most irregular, the five grains have ripened well thanks to the protective power of the eight million gods. However, with the established order of hot and cold in heaven and earth, and spring and summer weather being particularly disordered, we ignorant ones in our earthly dwellings thought this an exceptionally interesting season and went about wildly like madmen. Though we tried various means to restrain them, they paid no heed and continued their violent revelry, until unexpectedly the effects reached Japan, damaging areas under your governance. Whatever punishment we may receive, we have no excuse. However, we particularly request that even if you were to sell us all completely, it would not help restore the damaged houses and storehouses. Please spare our lives for now, and from here forward we will protect Japan's land. No matter what weather irregularities occur, we will never again commit acts like those of this time. We will protect the realm's peace, the country's abundant harvests, and His Majesty's reign."

Since they all made this plea, I offered our apology, and you graciously heard and accepted it immediately, for which we are truly grateful.

Due to this year's October calamity, the following is for protection from hardship:

Earthquake Protection Charm
(Sanskrit characters for East, West, South, North directions)
Paste in all four directions
(Sanskrit character) Paste on the ceiling inside the house, or it is also good to place in an amulet bag