【Right page】
Written by his son Kyuko.

　　　Okura Village tax forty kan all paid, Ishiido Shinkai two kan, one kan portion to Manganji
　　　Husband money seven hundred fifty [?] followers, ◦husband two hundred fifty confirmed paid
　　　Shiba Village eleven kan all paid　　　　Takada portion twenty kan all paid
　　　Sakado Kawahara twelve kan all paid　　Kumazawa portion five kan all paid
　　　　　Koji 2nd year, hinoe-tatsu, 12th month, 18th day
　　　　Kira
　　　　House vermillion seal

　　　Regarding Manganji within Setagaya, the mountain residence and self-cultivated rice fields are entrusted, and by your communication that temple house has been restored, prayers and other religious practices shall be performed. Details shall be explained by Matsubara Sado-no-kami.
　　　Respectfully submitted
　　　　Tenbun 21st year, mizunoe-ne, 2nd month, great lucky day　　　　Sahyoe-no-suke seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Seionji Temple

　　　Regarding the Manganji portion of Fukasawa Village within Setagaya, in whatever year there shall be no various duties or public affairs whatsoever.
　　　As evidence for future days, the document is as stated.
　　　　Tenbun 23rd year, kinoe-tora, 4th month, great lucky day　　Former Sahyoe-no-suke Yoriyasu seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Manganji

　　　Regarding the restoration of Iozan Manganji, it shall be permanently exempt from various duties. The current house lord's children and grandchildren shall not go against this intent.
　　　Therefore, as evidence for future days, the document is as stated.
　　　　Kinoe-tora 2nd year, lucky day　　　　　　Former Sahyoe-no-suke Yoriyasu seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Manganji

【Left page】
　(These ancient documents are said to be scattered among Manganji and farming families and are not complete)

　Grave of Master Kotaku: Located in the same temple grounds, on a hill behind the hall.
　(Master Kotaku was of the Hosoi family, commonly called Jirotayu. He had pen names such as Shian and Shorin-an. He studied in Edo and learned calligraphy from Setzan, served Lord Yanagisawa from a young age. Later he retired and lived in seclusion in Aoyama, west of the castle. He wrote works such as Shihi-sho, Kanga Hyakutan, Bassho Shinsen, Tentai Ido-ka, Kibun Fusai-shu, Shirin Choka, etc. The inscription on the monument is as follows:)

　Front face: Grave of Master Kotaku, Lord Hosoi
　Left face: Gotokuin Fuko Yurin Dai-koji
　Back face: Personal name Chishin, courtesy name Kokin, pen name Kotaku, family name Fujiwara
　　　　Hosoi, father Chiji, mother of Yamamoto family
　　　　Born Manju 1st year, tsuchinoe-inu, 10th month, kinoto-i, 8th day, mizunoe-saru
　　　　Born in Kakegawa, Enshu
　　　　Kyoho 20th year, kinoto-u, 12th month, tsuchinoto-ushi, 23rd
　Right face: Day tsuchinoe-ne, died at sleep in west of Edo castle, aged 78
　　　　　　　　　　　　Built by filial son Tomofumi

　(The rest includes the teacher's parents and son Kyuko, etc., all appearing to be the burial ground of the entire Hosoi family, with graves of people of the same surname throughout the area enclosed by fencing. The filial son Tomofumi refers to Kyuko.)

Akasaka Gate: The exit to Akasaka on the road from Koji-machi toward Aoyama. This gate is called "North Star formation" and among the many fortifications of Edo Castle, it has an especially excellent rope-work layout.