[Geographic Labels in Black Frames]
[First row] Nara, Koriyama, Furuichi, Yamato [Second row] Tanba, Kameyama, Kyoto, Kizu, Yamashiro [Third row] Echizen, Osaka Plains, Settsu [Fourth row] Fukui

[Vertical Title in Black Frame]
Illustration of the Great Earthquake in Ise, Iga, Shima, Omi, Owari, and Mino

[Article Content]
The time was the 7th year of Kaei, year of the Tiger, 6th month, 14th day, at the 8th hour of night (around 2 AM). Starting from Yokkaichi post station on the Tokaido in Ise Province, extending east to Owari, west to Omi Province, north to Mino, and south to Iga and Shima provinces, a great earthquake occurred with extraordinary reverberations.

Particularly in Yokkaichi post station in Ise Province, the shaking was extremely severe. First, all of North Town and South Kawahara collapsed completely, while about half of South Town was destroyed. Fire broke out from there, raising clouds of sand and dust, and in the devastation, over 90 houses were burned down.

Hamada, Akahori, Ochiai Bridge, Kawaya Bridge, Nagata Bridge, Katao Bridge, Hinaga, Sunagawa, Uneme Village, and Tsuetsuki Village were all devastated, and bridges collapsed and were swept away. At that time, how could the old and young, men and women, not be in panic? Everyone tried to flee, but the earth split open greatly, making it difficult to determine which direction to escape. The injured and dead numbered approximately 500 people, and cattle and horses that died instantly numbered approximately 160 head.

In the domain of Matsudaira Etchū-no-kami of Kuwana (110,000 koku), the rural areas shook very severely. In the castle town, Yata-machi, various residences, Daimon, Yasunaga Village, merchant quarters, and riverside storehouses suffered major damage or collapsed. Kasuga Shrine, Hachiman, and Hazu Myōjin Shrine were damaged, along with the double embankment, Kaneba Village, shrine officials' quarters, Iso riverside, Nanatsuya, Taki River, and Sue earth bridge.

In Nagashima (20,000 koku) under Masuyama Kawachi-no-kami, the castle town suffered major damage and all rural areas were devastated. In Ishiyakushi-shō's Kameyama (60,000 koku) under Ishikawa Tonomo-no-kami, the castle town and all rural areas suffered major damage.

On the Omi route, Seki, below the slope, Suzuka, and Yamada Village shrine were damaged. Tsuchiyama post station, Minakuchi (25,000 koku) under Katō Etchū-no-kami's castle town and rural areas, Ishibe, Kusatsu, Ōtsu, and even Kyoto shook extraordinarily. On the Nakasendō, from Moriyama to the Ōta area, a total of 16 post stations shook violently. In Ōgaki and Takasu domains, and in Owari up to Tsushima, Saya, Manba Shrine, and Inuyama area. In Ise, Kōbe (15,000 koku) under Honda Iyo-no-kami shook severely.

Shiroko and Tsu (323,000 koku) under Tōdō Izumi-no-kami shook extremely strongly including the castle town, with damage in various places. From there, various post stations and the Yamada area suffered major damage, but the Two Shrines (Ise Grand Shrine) had no problems. Mount Asama was greatly damaged.

In Tamaru and Hisai (53,000 koku) under Tōdō Sado-no-kami, the Hatta area shook strongly and was damaged. In Omi, Hikone (350,000 koku) under Ii Kamon-no-kami, all around Lake Biwa shook severely. Finally, on the morning of the 15th, it calmed down, and all people felt relieved.

○Although the area around the Two Shrines of Ise was particularly devastated, both sacred shrines suffered no damage whatsoever. The august divine power should be understood through this.