Those seen locally are particularly small compared to Chinese varieties, barely like small black beans. Among unique products is sweet potato, found everywhere. It is planted with a plow in sandy soil, grows as vines covering the fields, and people use it as staple food. Its benefits equal those of grain crops. Each household plants dozens of banana plants, extracts fibers to spin into thread, and weaves it into banana cloth. Men and women wear this in both winter and summer, and its benefits match those of sericulture. The old records of Ming investiture envoys Xiao Chongye and Xia Ziyang state "the soil does not plant cotton, the land is not suitable for tea," but now these are occasionally found, though not extensively cultivated.

Vegetables include Chinese cabbage, mustard greens, spinach, radish, coriander, loofah, winter melon, eggplant, sword beans, broad beans, taro, scallions, garlic, Chinese chives, ginger, pepper, Chinese onion, celery, shepherd's purse, bracken, bottle gourd, cilantro, fennel, crown daisy, mushrooms, purple laver, Chinese cabbage, wood ear, and agar seaweed. Unique products include kelp, arctium, spicy buckwheat, poria vegetable, and jar vegetable. There is also pine dew, called chikura in the local pronunciation. It grows in soil under large pine trees during the ninth and tenth months. The fruit is round and white, a type of mushroom with fresh and delicious taste. Those from Gushikami are especially good. Gray ones grow in cow dung and are inedible. 《Note: Among sea vegetables is kelp, also called kombu. There are also red vegetables similar to agar seaweed but somewhat flattened, appearing on beaches. There are also chicken-foot seaweed and kirin seaweed》

Trees include pine, cypress, hinoki, cedar, banyan, camphor, gardenia, willow, pagoda tree, palm, boxwood, and Chinese parasol tree, but very few. Unique products include oak and others.

【Oak】Also called arhat fir. Leaves are short, thick, and three-angled, same as Chinese podocarpus. The wood grain is hard and smooth; throughout the country it is used for making house beams and pillars. Found on all islands, but those from Kikkai are especially good.

【Garcinia】Leaves are like holly but particularly large, growing in pairs at nodes, about two inches long, thick and kidney-shaped.