and glossy. Also called tokiwa-gi (evergreen tree). The tree grows straight upward to over one jō in height and does not wither throughout the four seasons. The leaves can be used to dye green color. It blooms small yellow flowers and bears fruit like oranges that can be eaten. There is also another tree with the local name [arappo]. All its leaves resemble the garcinia tree, also growing in pairs at nodes, with white flowers resembling plum blossoms. It fruits in the eleventh and twelfth months. Both are called gentleman trees. 《Note: The leaf patterns are paired like threads in weaving, and the center edges become transparent golden-yellow when reflecting sunlight. The traditional dōrō tree is said to have leaves like oranges, which should be this one》

【Iron tree】This is the phoenix-tail cycad, also called sea palm. The trunk has cycad leaves, and the leaves are strong and upright, growing in pairs, feathery like a phoenix tail. When reflecting sunlight, there is a clear line in the center with no shadow. It does not wither in any season and is planted everywhere.

【Black wood】Leaves are like osmanthus, growing straight up. The exterior is no different from ordinary wood, but the heartwood is black. However, there are also those with white grain. There is also 【red wood】.

【Oil tree】Leaves resemble orange trees and fruit is orange-sized but inedible. It is used to press oil. There is also 【fukuman wood】. The tree is several shaku high, leaves resemble hibiscus but slightly smaller, flowers are clustered like small oranges, red in color and edible. There is also a tree with leaves resembling holly, over one jō tall, flowers clustered like jujube, growing like Chinese privet berries, sweet and sour, edible, and can also be used to dye things blue-lotus color. Named yammai, also called nomago, this should be the blue essence plant.

【Kubatēsu】Tree height is over two to three jō, leaves large like persimmon leaves, flowers have five branches, fruiting in the eighth and ninth months like green fruit but somewhat flattened, with fragrant sweet taste. Also found in Fujian, where it is called bodo.

【Una】Tree height is over three to four jō, leaves resemble white paulownia. In summer it blooms flowers like Chinese autumn mallow with yellow petals and sandalwood-colored center.