【Nago Orchid】Leaves are short and thick, the same size as osmanthus leaves, barely like fingers. Blooms in the third and fourth months, no different from orchids. Eight to nine flowers cluster on one stem, with a clear and superior fragrance exceeding that of orchids. Grows among the rocky crags of Mount Nago without need for water or soil, sometimes parasitic on tree forks or wrapped in palm fiber and suspended. There is also 【Wind Orchid】with leaves relatively longer than orchids, fragrance like galangal and fennel, suspended in bamboo baskets in front of the wind. Extremely easy to propagate. The common people all esteem orchids and call them "Confucius flowers."

【Millet Orchid】Also called Zhi orchid. Leaves like phoenix tail, flowers like pearl orchid. There are also 【Pine Orchid】【Bamboo Orchid】【Stick Orchid】《Note: Shaped like coral tree, green colored without leaves, flowers emerge from branch joints resembling orchids but smaller》.

【Wild Peony】Local name is 𦬯 flower. Leaves are no different from peonies. Flowers bloom in the second and third months, forming clusters hanging like bells. White petals with purple tinge and sandalwood heart, large as bowls and extremely fragrant. The leaves are chewed as mouth freshener. The variety grows on Mount Daping. There are also 【Wild Begonia】【Immortal Rod】【Broom Peach】【Wild Orchid】《Note: That is, China's qingnang》.

【Patterned Daylily Flower】Also called Welcome Winter flower. Flowers like daylily but particularly small, leaves have blue and white alternating patterns.

【Mountain Su Flower】Also called Monkey Mat flower. Has neither flowers nor trunk, emerges from soil growing less than one chi tall. Leaves like banana but small, hard and thick with patterns.

【Thunder Mountain Flower】Local name is Lucky Eggplant. Leaves like iron-stem begonia, flowers like morning glory but somewhat smaller and crow-jade colored. Blooms from fourth and fifth months until eleventh month when it bears seeds like beans, pods like pomegranate chambers containing dozens of seeds that can be planted.