【Jikokura】Also called Fire Phoenix, commonly planted on household walls to ward off fire. Stem resembles Bawang whip grass, leaves resemble fire-prevention grass, flowers resemble yellow chrysanthemums. There are also red varieties called Fukuroku wood.

Fruits include lotus root, sugarcane, watermelon, cucumber, papaya, mandarin oranges《Note: several varieties》, fragrant oranges, kumquats, Buddha's hand citron, lychee, longan, grapes, cherries, yangmei, raspberries《Note: shaped like yangmei》, chestnuts, persimmons, walnuts, loquats, and plums《Note: small like longan》. Special products include banana fruit, etc.

【Banana Fruit】The fruit produced by banana plants, called sweet dew flower. Purple-red color, large as a gourd. Opens one petal per day, bears fruit like five or six fingers hanging together. After harvesting and storing for a long time, the texture resembles the most tender lotus root, and when ripened it becomes sweet like sweet potato.

【Ateani】Leaves are long with thorns on the sides, eventually forming forests with interconnected vines that are firm and sharp, suitable for hedges. Leaves can be used to make mats, roots can be used to make rope. Flowering plants are male trees with white flowers like lotus petals coming to a point, bursting and layering left and right with over ten clusters growing straight up. Five-pronged stamens protrude like staffs several inches long, as fragrant as orange blossoms. Female trees have no flowers but bear fruit large as melons with raised surface patterns, all six-ridged and edible. This is said to be a variant of jackfruit, also found in eastern Guangdong where it is called pineapple.

【Chu Seeds】Also called Shishi, like acorns but smaller, found everywhere in the mountains. Also called Shii seeds.

Bamboo varieties include bitter bamboo, cat bamboo, tiger-spotted bamboo, phoenix bamboo, pole bamboo, broom bamboo, black bamboo, large pole bamboo, arrow bamboo, and ding bamboo. Special products include Kannon bamboo.

【Kannon Bamboo】Grows in clusters from the ground, leaves about one shaku long, three to four sun wide, purple colored.