The two forces of Yin and Yang are the fundamental source of all things in heaven and earth. When Yin and Yang clash in the heavens, they produce thunder; when they stir within the earth, they produce earthquakes. Now, the great earthquake of Genroku 16 (1703), and more recently the great earthquakes at Sanjō in Echigo Province and at Zenkōji in Shinshū, as well as earthquakes and tsunamis in Kyoto and Osaka — such events have been exceedingly rare since ancient times. And yet, on the second day of the tenth month of Ansei 2, the Year of the Wood Rabbit (1855), in the upper hour of the Boar (around 10 p.m.), a great earthquake struck the provinces of the Kantō region, crushing houses and toppling earthen storehouses. As a result, those who were crushed beneath collapsing structures, or whose bodies were burned in the fires that broke out, numbered in the tens of thousands. Nothing like this has ever been recorded since time immemorial — truly it is an extraordinary and unprecedented event.

Within the four-ri radius of Great Edo, the total damage to houses and storehouses, and the number of deaths, are as follows:

　　Number of districts: 4,057 districts damaged; of these, 68,080-odd houses completely destroyed
　　Earthen storehouses: over 107,000 storehouse-fronts damaged
　　Daimyō residences: over 300 damaged
　　Number of fires: 38 outbreaks
　　Deaths: 229,000-odd people

Parents losing children, children losing parents, brothers and sisters torn apart — the grief and sorrow was truly a sight too painful to behold. For those who were fortunate enough to escape death by a hair's breadth, it is said that writing down the following verse and tucking it inside one's hair will protect one from injury. This is a charm against earthquakes:

　　○ By the divine warning of the Water God, my life was saved — how joyous it is to be counted among the six parts (the survivors)!

A charm to ward off the calamity of earthquakes, by divine oracle of the Kumano Gongen:

　　○ Eight ridgepoles, nine gates, one door — place thyself within the realm of Izanagi!