《Title: Ei (Nutritive) Diagram》

Ei refers to the arterial vessels. Their source emerges from the left system of the heart, flows into the great chong mai (thoroughfare vessel), rises up to the supraclavicular fossa (quepen), and descends down to the navel as one great artery. This is namely the spinal artery. Those that branch off become channels (jing), network vessels (luo), branch networks, grandson networks, and fine networks. Their terminals become like a net, as fine as hair. Above they flow into the head and hands, below they descend to the feet. Internally they irrigate the twelve organs. The nutritive qi flows through the vessels, moving in large and small motions without rest. Those that pass over bones and travel the isolated pathways can be diagnosed to observe excess and deficiency. They receive nourishment from the essence and subtleties formed by the transformation of water and grain flavors in the middle jiao.

The Lingshu "Ni Shun Fei Shou" chapter states: The chong mai serves as the sea of blood. That which ascends runs from the supraclavicular fossa to the respiratory pathway, passes through the crown and emerges at the forehead. It permeates the various yang and irrigates all the essences. That which ascends and becomes external runs from the supraclavicular fossa flanking the throat, travels hidden through the ear and emerges in front of the ear. It ascends to the head corners and disperses. That which separates from in front of the ear ascends behind the eyebrows, follows the temple corners, reaches the fontanelle and disperses. That which is posterior separates from below the ear, emerges behind the ear, flanks the occiput and ascends to the posterior crown where it disperses. That which is anterior separates from the renying point, ascends to the daying point, emerges at the corners of the mouth, and reaches below the nose bridge. It travels hidden and emerges between the nose and cheek, follows the eyebrow root, ascends to the forehead and disperses at the anterior crown. That which separates from daying follows the gums of the lower teeth to the chengjiang point. It follows the lower lip and joins at the corners of the mouth. It permeates the various networks and warms the muscles and flesh. Therefore, when the networks become knotted, the facial pulse does not move. If it doesn't move, there is reversal (jue). If there is reversal, it becomes cold.

That which is lateral separates from the supraclavicular fossa and emerges laterally below the armpit. It follows the inner arm and enters the elbow center. It travels hidden along the inner upper arm bone and emerges behind the wrist, ascending to the thenar eminence. It enters between the inner thumb. That which separates from the elbow and descends travels hidden along the inner lower arm bone and emerges behind the palm bones. That which is anterior separates from behind the palm and emerges between the two bones of the metacarpals. That which is posterior travels from behind the palm, moves hidden through the palm center, and enters between all the fingers. It permeates the various networks and warms the muscles and flesh. Therefore, when the networks become knotted, the hegu point does not move. If it doesn't move, there is reversal. If there is reversal, it becomes cold.

That which descends goes straight down to the navel. It separates left and right and emerges at the qichong point. It follows the inner edge of the yin thigh, enters obliquely into the popliteal fossa. It travels hidden along the inner tibia, descends and enters behind the inner ankle where it separates. That which separates from the popliteal fossa and descends travels hidden along the outer tibia, descends to the division of the jiexi point and separates. That which is anterior travels hidden and emerges at the attachment, descends following the sole of the foot, disperses and enters between all the toes. That which is posterior descends from jiexi to fuyang, disperses and enters between all the toes. It permeates the various networks and warms the muscles and flesh. Therefore, when the networks become knotted, the dorsum of the foot does not move. If it doesn't move, there is reversal. If there is reversal, it becomes cold.

《Title: Middle Channel Diagram》

The biography of Bian Que in the Records of the Grand Historian states: Connecting along the middle channels and maintaining networks, below the diaphragm, in the space between the upper and lower markers, fine branch networks are generated. Receiving blood from the nutritive, they meet together to form one great channel. They also disperse to generate fine branch networks that spread throughout the liver and transport blood to the defensive qi. This is called the middle channel. Compared to the nutritive, this channel has no movement. Compared to the defensive, it has no rhythm. This is a type of extraordinary channel of the abdominal region.

Yoshuen Publishing House Edition