Villages in the area suffered minor damage, Shinane-oiwake was completely destroyed, the banks of the Yashiro River were severely cracked, but the Yashiro River ferry crossing remained undamaged.
Seven or eight houses in Yashiro post station collapsed, Togura post station was undamaged, Jakumaku village was undamaged, at Yokobuki a landslide blocked passage down to the bottom, Sakuragi post station was undamaged, at Shiojiri rock slides buried the rice field ridges making passage difficult.
There are rumors that the stone walls of Ueda Castle collapsed. Other post stations were undamaged. At Komoro, according to a messenger from the Matsushiro domain, approximately seventy percent of the retainers' residences and townhouses collapsed. At the Iiyama domain, all retainers' residences and townhouses collapsed and were also destroyed by fire. In this condition, the roads in these areas were severely cracked and could be observed in various places.

March　　　　　　　　　Takeo Ushi[?] Horse Unit
　　　　　　　　　　　　Terauchi Yonezaburo

On the night of March 24th at the fourth hour, there was a great earthquake, and the land within Otani village of the current administrative territory collapsed and caved in, with the mountains roaring. The mountains collapsed equally due to the earthquake, and the rice fields below the mountains were all pushed out together. Peasant houses were buried in earth with five houses completely destroyed and two houses half-destroyed. Fifty-nine people from these households (thirty-two men, twenty-seven women) died. Among these, some people from undamaged houses died because they had gone to collapsed houses, while some people from collapsed houses were fortunately saved because they had gone to other houses. What I observed and heard is as follows:

1. A peasant named Kozaemon's residence was buried entirely in earth due to the earthquake and completely destroyed, with all household members perishing. However, his daughter, currently nine years old, was pushed by earth all the way to the residence of village headman Mozaemon (which was quite far away) and pushed under the veranda. Mozaemon's residence was half-destroyed, but the area where the girl was pushed had no particular damage and she survived.

1. The wife of one Rokuremon had gone to fellow villager Denzo's house to prepare a bath, when the earthquake struck and Rokuremon and she ran outside naked, but a landslide brought earth rushing toward Hizen-no-kami...