The Hijikata domain should not have been ordered by the public authority (the shogunate). At that time, there was no practice of seeking approval from the public authority, and since Lord Hijikata had historical connections, he was secretly given assistance, which was certainly possible. This was the lord's opinion on the 18th day of the 7th month of Kyōhō 7.

The above Tenmei Diary and Shōun Night Tales are recorded as references for the Hijikata domain.

According to the Sanshū-shi Raiinjō Gairanroku, in Jōkyō 1, the confiscated territory of Hijikata Iga-no-kami consisted of 49 villages out of 61, with a yield of 10,000 koku. In Genroku 2, it became the territory of Torii Harima-no-kami Tadamasa. In the summer of the 8th year of the same era, when Tadamasa was transferred to Minakuchi in Ōmi Province, the former territory again became administered land. In the 11th month of Genroku 11, 46 villages out of 61 with a yield of 10,000 koku were granted to Mizuno Kazuma Katsunaga. In the 11th month of Genroku 13, when Katsunaga was transferred to Yūki in Shimōsa Province, the former territory again became administered land. On the 28th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 7, these 61 administered villages with a yield of over 10,000 koku became tributary fields (yorita) of the Maeda family, with the imperial command that both the life and death of the people should follow national law. On the 2nd day of the 3rd month of Bunka 7, according to the Maeda family's petition, the villagers of the tributary fields were treated the same as those in their own domain, and tribute payments were changed to fixed monetary payments.

The directive to the townspeople of Kanazawa recorded in the Kokuzui Ishō is as follows:
"Henceforth, the townspeople shall not arrange marriages or adoptions with the 10,000-koku domain in Noto Province.
4th day of the 8th month of the Year of the Tiger (Genroku 11)"

"Regarding adoptions and marriages with imperial domains, it has been firmly prohibited as previously announced, but in recent times this has been neglected and there are signs of misunderstanding. Once an order has been given, neglect