1. When bridges are burned from within the castle, it is better to let them burn, [Ieyasu] said. This too is for the purpose of night attacks. When charging into a castle, bridges and moats are the same thing.

1. When besieging a castle, if there are bridges in front of the encirclement, one should be careful, everyone said. There might be night attacks launched from the castle.

1. When Lord Tokugawa besieged castles, he would always leave one direction open and conduct a surrounding attack.

1. At the time of the Battle of Sekigahara, Murakoshi Mosuke was sent as a messenger from Fujikawa in Mikawa Province to the western lords. The western daimyo - Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami, Katō Higo-no-kami, Yamauchi Tsushima-no-kami, Tanaka Hyōbu-shōyū, Asano Kii-no-kami, Horio Shinano-no-kami, Kuroda Chikuzen-no-kami, Katō Samanosuke, and many others - had come as far as Kiyosu. They were impatiently waiting daily, saying the military departure was delayed. At that time, generally speaking, Lord Fukushima Dayū and Lord Hashiba Sanzaemon were positioned as the two leaders of the western forces. Honda Nakatsukai and Ii Hyōbu alternated daily in leading the vanguard as they advanced. At that time, when everyone was at Kiyosu Castle in the area around the moats, Murakoshi Mosuke arrived. Nakaide Hyōbu asked, "Why have you come?" When Mosuke replied, "The western daimyo are stationed at Fujikawa. Since the situation ahead is unknown, they are staying there," and said he had come as a messenger, the two men said, "Wait first. We have been anxiously wondering why the western daimyo's military departure is so delayed, and if you bring such a message, everyone will be even more suspicious. First, have some food," and served him a meal in the kitchen. Mosuke thought to finish eating, but then reasoned, "Since I have come as a messenger, whether for good or ill, if I do not convey the lord's intentions properly, it will be a mistake," and went to Lord Nakaude Hyōbu's quarters. While sake greetings were being exchanged, Mosuke suddenly appeared in the reception room. The various daimyo asked, "Lord Mosuke, why have you come?" Both Nakaide and Lord Hyōbu were amazed that he had appeared so suddenly. Mosuke, paying no heed, told everyone "I have come as a messenger" and related the situation as described above. The various daimyo said, "That is quite reasonable. Since we are waiting for the vanguard's military departure and not engaging, the distinction between enemy and ally is