"there is nothing much [to be done]," [Ieyasu] beckoned with his hand and said, "No, that attitude is wrong. When victorious in battle, think 'today exists [for us].'" As expected, Hideyori was said to be in the regular bailey, which became known the next day.

1. In all matters, make lightness in military equipment the foundation - so spoke Jirōuemon.

1. When forming up in close formation, even slightly higher ground is better, it was said.

1. With a force of a thousand men, it is better to form them into two or three units. Depending on the terrain, space them two to three chō apart, or if it's a large force, five to six chō apart when forming up. While the vanguard is fighting, the second unit waits and guards without engaging. This was said by Asakura Noto-no-kami.

1. Fujita Yahichi related that Kagekatsu had regularly established: first unit under Sugihara Hitachi, second unit under Naoe Yamashiro, third unit the headquarters, and another unit as rear guard - a total of four or five units. Depending on the situation, they would be spaced five to seven chō apart. Scouts would dismount from their horses, and all horses would be kept to the rear and sides of the formations. Everyone would dismount and kneel. Only the general and military magistrates would ride around on horseback. When the battle began, if the second unit engaged and the vanguard was defeated and fled back toward the allied second formation, anyone should cut them down - this was predetermined. The higher-ups [said] this was not killing allies. If those who were defeated fled from the side to the rear and formed ranks, then it was not true fleeing - this was established as policy, he related.

1. When crossing rivers or when intending to draw out and pursue the enemy, it is better for foot soldiers to be equipped lightly, mostly in undergarments, it was said.

1. When the enemy's formation becomes disordered, in order to attack at that moment, by all means send forth foot soldiers to draw them out in pursuit - this was Kenshin's established policy, it was related.

1. As a precaution, when Lord Tokugawa passed through mountain areas and the bearers of his palanquin were changed, if the walking attendants crouched down, he would scold them, saying "Stand upright."

1. During a siege, prepare well ropes or straw ropes in front [of the fortification] - so related Kichiuemon.