If held horizontally, first of all, the commander on horseback cannot charge in. Also, when encountering the enemy and striking immediately, one's spear will be above theirs. Generally, spears are meant for striking each other, as they say.

1. After the defeat at Mikatagahara, when [Tokugawa] entered Hamamatsu Castle, Sakuma Uemon-no-jō said: "At times like this, it would be best to quickly send letters in your own hand to the castles under your control, informing them that you have safely entered the castle." He insisted on this. Immediately letters were sent to castles in Enshū and Sanshū provinces, and the castle lords felt reassured, with no one in the vicinity changing allegiance, as everyone tells.

《Matters of Vigilance》
1. Vigilance should be displayed outwardly. If there is a reputation for being vigilant, spies will not enter carelessly. Vigilance is based on external reputation.

1. The vigilance of the ancients was fundamentally based on knowing people's hearts. One should also know when people will gather. No person will abandon their life and body lightly. Without a position from which to sally forth, people throughout history have not acted.

1. At Fushimi, someone posted notices, which a certain person discovered and reported to the council of elders. When it was immediately reported that strict investigation should be ordered, Gongensama's opinion was: "The very act of investigating such posted notices will encourage those who do such things. Samurai with proper spirit do not do such things. Those who cannot accomplish things directly, like women, work in shadows or post notices. If one does such things, one is not a samurai. Those who discover this and report 'so-and-so did it' are of the same mind. Leave it alone and ignore it - those who see and hear it and then report it are ultimately the same type." After this imperial opinion, such incidents ceased.

《Castle Walls》
1. For siege preparations: double moats with stone-mixed earthen walls as filling, dig holes under the foundation, using stones of one-person-carrying size as cover. If needed, these stones are for throwing. One should be able to run around in the holes. Place thick bamboo bundles horizontally at some distance from the wall, making the top into a warrior's walkway, so when under attack, one can approach it and [defend] with stones...