...scatter with burned ash. Even if the outer wall is broken, the inner bamboo bundle wall should be able to defend.

1. Sometimes curtains are hung on top of walls as arrow shields. In this case, floors are constructed on the walls, with the top serving as a warrior's walkway.

《Descending Torches》
1. Regarding descending torches: ropes should be stretched in advance from the wall to the bottom of the moat. On those ropes, attach another rope with a pulley working well, simply tie torches and raise and lower them to frequently observe the bottom of the moat during the night.

1. Night patrols and reconnaissance rounds are the same as the previous matter.

1. For castle attacks, bamboo bundles are attached and advanced nightly in siege works. Even when digging approach tunnels, they should be directed toward the destination. The tunnel digging method should avoid lateral arrow fire.

《Method of Attaching Bamboo Bundles》
1. Attaching bamboo bundles involves driving stakes and leaning them against these, creating crosswise arrangements with openings for troops to move in and out. Bamboo bundles should be set up in double layers like bird feathers, and arrow slits should be cut.

1. Bamboo bundles are used initially and also in later deployments. The spacing between bamboo bundles should be five or ten ken depending on the number of troops.

《Method of Preparing Bamboo Bundles》
1. Bamboo bundles should be tied at seven points so they can be carried lightly. Five points are also acceptable. Make them about the size of regular bundles for easy carrying, and they can also be used with cut trees for siege works.

1. Above, guns are mounted, with the number of guns per embrasure depending on available firearms. Same for above the moat - this is for shooting at people climbing up.

《Method of Digging Moats》
1. The method of digging moats is fundamentally based on lateral arrow fire. Tiger mouths (entrances) should be concealed to prevent clear sighting, with many turns as the basic principle. However, left-handed approaches put the enemy behind, so archers in the castle feel uneasy about their rear and cannot work to their full capacity. With right-handed tiger mouths, the enemy is kept in front for shooting and firing, so they can work with peace of mind.

1. Regarding passages: when fighting hand-to-hand with the enemy in close combat, if the rear is wide, the people who came out from the castle...