should be constructed with earthworks to create an enclosure for close combat.

《Stone Catapults》
1. Stone catapults are used in mountain castles. Large trees are laid horizontally across the belly of earthworks, and suspension ropes - three to five locations depending on the size of the wood - are hung beneath the walls. Many stones of appropriate size are placed on top of these trees, and when the enemy approaches the moat attempting to climb up, all suspension ropes are cut at once. Since both wood and stones fall simultaneously, many people die.

《Burning to Death》
1. The method of burning many people to death: This is done at locations during castle attacks where troops are expected to get stuck and establish positions. It should be placed at a considerable distance from the castle - about thirty or twenty ken away. First, prepare at locations where many will gather and initially get stuck unable to advance. Dig small holes one or two ken wide and about four shaku deep at two or three locations, fill them with much gunpowder scattered about, cover the top with small timber and bamboo like a screen, place small stones on top and cover with earth to make it like a pitfall. From within the castle, insert bamboo with nodes removed, laying it one or two shaku under the earth, coat fire cord with gunpowder and arrange it to pass through the aforementioned holes. When fire is set from the castle, that fire ignites the gunpowder in the holes, causing an explosion that sends earth and stones flying. Since it burns up from beneath the feet where many people have gathered, many die.

1. Small buildings and powder magazines within the castle should be made as plaster buildings.

1. Bamboo bundles are attached near the walls, and a trench waist-deep is dug between the wall and bamboo bundles. Staying in this trench, one digs under the foundation of the wall and fires guns from there. Deliberately opening embrasure covers and closing embrasures from outside to make ineffective gun shots. Earth bags are piled up behind the bamboo bundles to create a warrior's walkway. This is for climbing onto the earth bag walkway and shooting at those who have climbed the wall and are out of breath. Stone throwing is effective at this time.

《Wall Curtains》
1. Curtains hung on top of walls do not allow arrows and guns to pass through. At such times, earthworks or earth bags are constructed inside the wall, or floors are built as wall supports to serve as warrior's walkways for defense. For nightly stealth operations, monkey torches or thrown torches are essential. A ten-shaku wall is good. The covering should be made as a rolled covering.

1. Whether during castle attacks or military engagements, thinking that anyone would do such things to this extent...