"...would oppress the people and neglect their duties to make their own lives comfortable - such daimyo are inferior to dogs and beasts." Upon hearing this, everyone later shed tears of emotion, as was related.

1. Once, when selecting personal attendants, Lord Hidetada's opinion was: "When appointing those close to me to official positions, if that person proves bad, it is due to my poor judgment. When appointing tozama (outer domain) retainers who serve from afar to positions, if they prove bad, it is the fault of their superiors, the elders. While people of the current generation understand this principle, in future generations it will become a burden for the lord, so one must specialize in discerning people's character" - this was his constant directive. However, he said one should not abandon a person just because they later prove bad. If someone committed wrongdoing last year but does good this year, one should discard their past wrongdoing and place them among the good. Human judgment can turn good or bad, and one must reform past mistakes during this process. "Make this your primary concern," he commanded, so that even those who harbored ill intentions until yesterday would receive words of praise if they performed good deeds today - thus it was related.

1. When those who had lost face appeared before him after making amends and being summoned, they asked, "Might you grant us rice stipends for our sustenance?" He replied, "Rice stipends are unnecessary. Let them receive their fiefs as before. Their confinement has expiated their crimes. Having recalled them, why would I withhold their former fiefs?" With this gracious command, they received everything back, as was related.

《The Shimabara Campaign》
1. When the Shimabara Rebellion erupted and became the subject of much discussion, Hikozaemon said: "As I have previously stated, an enemy force of three thousand, no matter who they may be, cannot be easily defeated through hasty action. Even in open field battles it is thus - how much more difficult it is to quickly defeat a large force in a fortified position. An experienced commander should survey the castle's condition, attack where it is easy to attack, and where it is difficult to attack, construct siege fortifications or palisades with outposts, then prepare and return. The castle's defenders will weaken and exhausted, allowing attack without delay and achieving surrender without heavy losses. If the general rushes and sends messenger after messenger, inevitably the advance forces must fight to the death." Indeed, as he predicted, Itakura Naizen died in battle.