He wrote down the precedents for judgment and recorded them according to the way they were decided. This would be a treasure for all future generations. If judgments were to be made using this, he said he would come. When this was reported to Lord Taitokuin (Tokugawa Hidetada), he immediately responded: "If you use such written materials for judging legal cases, you would be too focused on matching the documents, and the essential matters of the case would be pushed aside, leading to important oversights. Legal judgment should not rely on prior deliberation; right and wrong naturally reveal themselves in the proceedings." This was the lord's will, which everyone should understand.

《Messengers and Reconnaissance Methods》
One: During the Osaka campaigns, when messenger officials were sent to the vanguard, Lord Gongen (Tokugawa Ieyasu) instructed as follows: "When you go to the vanguard, there are three things to observe, so pay careful attention and observe well. First, whether the vanguard is in high spirits. Second, whether their provisions are running low. Third, whether there are any who are in collusion with those in the castle. You must understand these three points well and report accordingly."

From the time of our ancestor's third generation, Lord Nobumitsu (Matsudaira Nobumitsu), through nine generations of service up to the current lord Iemitsu:

●Hachirou-emon《Served Lord Nobumitsu》【Masatada】
　―Jirou-emon《During Lord Nagachika's time, a warrior named Kou Okubo came down from Kii Province for martial training. Lord Nagachika desired to grant him a family name and commanded that he should take the name Shichirou-emon, thus he became Okubo》【Possibly Saburou-emon Tadaoki】
　　―Shichirou-emon【Utsu Tadashige】
　　　《Childhood name: Shinhachi, Buddhist name: Jōgen》
　　　―Gorou-emon【Tadatoshi】
　　　　―Gorou-emon【Tadakatsu】
　　　　　―Gorou-emon【Yasutada】
　　　　　　―Shinhachirō【Yasumura】
　　　　　　―Shinhachirō
　　　　　―Goroubei
　　　　　―Jinzaburō
　　　　《Childhood name: Jinshirō》
　　　　―Heiuemon【Tadakazu】
　　　　　―Shichirou-emon【Tadayo】
　　　　　　　《Masachika》
　　　　　　―Sagami-no-kami【Tadachika】
　　　　　　　―Kaga-no-kami【Tadatsune】
　　　　　　　　―Kaga-no-kami【Tadamoto】
　　　　　　　―Ishikawa Tonomo【Tadafusa】
　　　　　　　　―Same Danjō【Renshō】
　　　　　　　―Okubo Ukyō【Noritaka】
　　　　　　　　―Same Sōzaburō【Norikatsu】
　　　　　　　―Okubo Shuzen【Yukinobu】
　　　　　　　　―Same Sōshirō【Tadatoki】
　　　　　　　―Okubo Kazue【Tadamura】
　　　　　　　―Okubo Seizaemon (died young)
　　　　　　―Genba【Tadanari】
　　　　　　―Hanemon【Tadanaga】
　　　　　―Jiuemon【Tadasuke】
　　　　　―Gonemon【Tadatame】
　　　　　―Jinemon【Tadanaga】
　　　　　―Hikozaemon【Tadanori = author of "Mikawa Monogatari"】
　　　　　　―Heisuke《became Hikozaemon》【Tadana】
　　　　　　―Kanshichi【Tadamoto】
　　　　　　―Shinzō【Kanenori】
　　　　　　―Daihachirō《inherited the Ōkōchi house and became Zenbei》【Masao】
　　　　《Saemonshirō》
　　　　―Abe Shirō Goso school