They opened the lid and began the collection ceremony as on the previous day. (However, after delivering the paper documents, two wooden tablets were delivered from the Ono village headman to the deputy chief, regarding what should be received and kept.)

1. Regarding the collection money for sacred offerings from the Hosokawa family, the portions for the treasury officials and the Ono village headman were distributed at the deputy chief's residence, so each received their allocated portion in a lump sum. (The number was indefinite, approximately twenty mon.)

1. After nightfall, the minor administrator's delivery of daily offerings was the same as the previous day.

1. From the Administrative Officer came willow casks (one piece), skate fish (three pieces), persimmons on skewers (two skewers with sake cups added), etc. From both Nakamura and Okamoto villages came ground tea, kelp, etc. The officiating shrine attendants announced each of these and distributed them.

1. Tonight the deputy chief provided evening meals in the following order: first the village representatives, then the deputy officials, then the treasury officials, the Ono village headman, and finally all the shrine attendants.

1. Regarding the collection ceremony for the sacred pacification money, after completing the collections for the celebratory offerings from the five villages, they closed the lid of the account box.

1. For the Ono village written report, the Ono village headman brought approximately five sheets of paper. All attachments were recorded, and it was written on the back. Notably, according to ancient law, it should not be written facing toward the account box. The draft of the written report is as follows:

　　　Respectfully submitted: Regarding the Sacred Pacification Shelf of North Ono Village
　　　　Total
　　　Sacred offerings one set (respectfully hung) plain silk one piece
　　　　Sacred shelf one stand, contents:
　　　Sacred cover silk three pieces, white figured silk with two-leaf design steamed