Water-drawing cords four pieces, contents: (two pieces of red ground Yamato brocade with two-leaf hollyhock pattern, two pieces of white figured silk with two-leaf hollyhock pattern)
Sacred confections two go
Sacred vegetables twelve go  
One carp
Sacred sake bottle (with bird decoration)
The above was respectfully submitted according to precedent as stated above.
Year name, first month, fourteenth day　　　Administrator

Regarding the above Ono village written report, the distinction between South and North is as follows: in years of the zodiac signs child, ox, dragon, horse, sheep, dog, etc., it should be written as "South Ono Village," and in years of tiger, rabbit, snake, monkey, rooster, boar, etc., it should be written as "North Ono Village." In any case, the fourteenth day follows the zodiacal calendar of that year.

1. After carrying down the sacred shelf to the garden, the village representatives and treasury officials dispersed. (However, the deputy chief's box should be placed in the sake hall as instructed to the officiating shrine attendants. The two wooden tablets should naturally be carried back with them. They inquired whether there were any delays between the village representatives, treasury officials, and deputy officials, and if there were any difficulties, the sacred shelf would not be carried down, and the village representatives and treasury officials would also not rise from their seats, etc.)

1. After the deputy chief returned home and rested, he changed his clothes anew, wearing a formal court cap, purified robes, unlined garments, light blue garments, yellow embroidered garments, through-sewn tabi, etc. For his attendants, one white-robed servant came from the chief deputy, so he had him carry one wooden tablet, lantern, shoes, etc.

1. Having previously arranged for two or three village headmen to come, upon their arrival, he offered a celebratory drink. (Clear soup, sake, three types of side dishes)

1. At the appointed time, preparing for the sacred shelf's departure and going out the gate, first to the bathhouse in advance