One sheet of thick paper is laid [in the viewing box], with one inkstone placed on a wooden tray (片木), another wooden tray serving as the lid, one pair of brushes (white bristle, white shaft), one stick of dragon-shaped ink, two or three sheets of hanshi paper (for moistening; the paper should be dampened and the ink also generally prepared in advance), one sheet of the head persons' rank and name document, eight copies of the appointment documents (差符), etc. The viewing box is then placed into the upper-pointing bag (上指袋).

Item: The ceremonial dress consists of a standing eboshi hat (立烏帽子), purification robe (浄衣), single-layer robe (単), large-crested robe (大紋), and stabbing-through garment (刺貫), carried along with a folding fan (末広), white socks (襪子), and rush sandals (藺沓). Sandals and peach-shaped lanterns are to be carried by attendants, accompanied by one person in a suō robe and two white-robed servants (傘持ち and 沓持ち, i.e., umbrella and sandal bearers). These come from the senior deputy administrator (正目代).

Item: In advance, two or three members of the kimo-iri group are to be asked to come dressed in hunting robes (狩衣) or purification robes (浄衣). For other visitors who come to pay their respects, a formal offering of soup and other dishes, sake and three kinds of food accompaniments (whatever is suitable), should be served.

Item: At the designated time, around the hour of the rooster (酉, approximately 6 p.m.), after the head persons have reported for duty, one proceeds out of the gate and first makes one's way to the sake hall (酒殿), entering from the south entrance. The seat is in the center of the western chamber, facing east. At this time, the superintendent (別当), shrine officials (所司), and the upper meal service staff (上膳方) also take their seats. (The senior deputy administrator sits to the right; the superintendent to the left; the shrine officials next; the two upper meal service staff each face east; the remaining attendants are seated in a row to the south, with the senior position to the west, facing north.) Next, the ritual of offerings begins. For the first offering (初献), three cups are passed around (three rounds, with three earthenware cups, five pieces of pounded chestnuts, five pieces of uchiwa sea bass (?尉斗), and five pieces of kelp, each placed on small dishes, all mounted on a three-legged tray [三方]). The sacred sake (unfiltered sake placed in a long-spouted sake vessel; two attendants in purification robes assist, chosen by the deputy administrator) is first offered beginning from the senior deputy administrator (after exchanging greetings with each person, the offering begins), then passed to the superintendent, then to the shrine officials, then in order to the upper meal service staff and below. Next, the second offering (二献): one cup (three rounds, one earthenware cup placed on a three-legged tray), sake (same as before). At this time, the yatone (矢刀祢, shrine ritual official) presents the banquet tray (饗膳) to the senior deputy administrator. (Note: this banquet tray is the one that was prepared for the deputy administrator when he was at the administrative hall [庁屋]. After the reading of the cups is completed, the junior deputy administrator (小目代) brings it forth and hands it to the yatone, who then places it on a three-legged tray [with two sheets of sugihara paper spread beneath it] and presents it to the senior deputy administrator. After the communal meal [直会] is concluded, it is removed. The yatone then partakes in the communal meal.) After each communal meal is concluded, one cup is again begun from the senior deputy administrator. At this time, the superintendent and shrine officials rise from their seats and take turns pouring (the superintendent handles the sake vessel; the shrine officials join in this role; this practice is performed as a gesture of goodwill based on prior arrangement with the deputy administrator). After the three offerings,