The affairs officer withdraws to the waiting area. Next, the senior deputy administrators (目代々) bring the ledgers (引附) of the five villages (五郷) and place them before the village representatives (郷方) in order of village, then return to their seats. (Moreover, one inkstone box [硯箱] each is placed before the village representatives by the affairs officer [沙汰人].) Next, as the opening act of the ledger-reading ceremony (読合の儀), five persons from among those attending from the senior and junior members (老若) advance to stand before the village representatives, each taking one scroll of the senior deputy administrators' ledgers, examining them, and reading them aloud simultaneously for all five villages at once. (However, in each village's case, the reading proceeds from one side.) When no discrepancies are found, check marks (点) are placed throughout on the ledgers on both left and right sides, and the senior and junior members return to their seats. At this time, it is announced in the assembly hall that the calculation (算) is to be performed. Next, the accountant (算取) advances and performs the calculation. (Note: the counting rods [算木] are not used; an abacus [十露盤, i.e., soroban] is used instead. However, not all five villages have their calculations performed at once; each year, the calculations are performed for one village at a time in rotation [巡番].) At this time, one more person from among the senior and junior members also performs a verification calculation (合算), and when this is completed, the scribe (執筆) advances and adds verification notes (卜書) to all of the senior deputy administrators' ledgers. At this time, the village representatives (郷方) also each add their own verification notes, and upon completion, all disperse. The paddy field acreage (田数) and allocated cash (分銭) for the five villages are as follows:

　　Kawakamigō (河上郷)：　Paddy fields: 21 chō, 4 tan, 60 bu　　Allocated cash: 17 kan, 134 mon
　　Ōmiyagō (大宮郷)：　　 Paddy fields: 16 chō, 7 tan, half　　 Allocated cash: 13 kan, 400 mon
　　Oyamagō (小山郷)：　　 Paddy fields: 12 chō, 8 tan, small　  Allocated cash: 10 kan, 267 mon
　　Nakamuragō (中村郷)：　Paddy fields: 33 chō, 9 tan, large　  Allocated cash: 27 kan, 174 mon
　　Okamotogō (岡本郷)：　 Paddy fields: 14 chō, 3 tan, large, 90 bu　Allocated cash: 11 kan, 514 mon