[First and second lines at the beginning missing, only readable portions included]
　　　February 25th　　　　　　　Kawakami Kingonosuke
In Shinshū Matsushiro under my jurisdiction, from the hour of the boar (9-11 PM) on the 24th, the day before yesterday, there was a great earthquake. The residential quarters within the castle, turrets, and surrounding walls suffered severe damage. Many houses collapsed in the samurai residences, castle town, territorial villages, and other administrative areas, with numerous deaths. Particularly in the village areas, there were also fires. Moreover, landslides occurred along mountain routes, the Sai River was blocked and water accumulated, gradually filling up. Of course, there is no flowing water at all, and the ferry crossing at Tanbashima-juku on the Hokurikudō highway has dried up. Depending on how the overflow water emerges, I will report later what consequences may follow, but first I submit this report. The above.
　　March 26th　　　　　　　Sanada Shinano-no-kami

Regarding the villages in Takai District and Minochi District of Shinano Province, which are currently under my temporary administrative custody as deputy magistrate territories: From the middle of the hour of the dog (7:30-8:30 PM) to the latter part of the hour of the boar (10-11 PM) on the 24th of this month, there was a great earthquake, followed by continuous tremors with occasional earthquakes occurring. This finally subsided around the middle of the hour of the rabbit (6-7 AM) on the following 25th. However, the ground cracked and muddy water gushed out, with many collapsed houses and deaths of people, cattle, and horses. The injured are numerous, and some villages have been completely destroyed. As reports continue to arrive stating this is an unprecedented disaster, I am immediately dispatching my agents. Regarding Nakano village attached to the jinya, there is only damage to houses to some extent, and the jinya itself has suffered no particular problems. I will report details later, but first I submit this report. The above.
　　　3rd month of the year of the sheep　　　　　　　Takagi Seiemon