【Inside Cover】
【Left Folio】

To issue proclamations on the 15th day of the first month.

【Red Writing】"This document had been submitted around the 28th day of the first month up until Kyōhō 9 (the Year of the Dragon). However, as the authorities took charge of the matter and the inspectors (metsuke) repeatedly issued proclamations, the number of servants increased. Therefore, it was decided that from the coming Year of the Snake onward, the proclamation would be issued at the beginning of the first month and included as an addendum."

　　　　　Memorandum

【Red Writing】"This document first appears in the general record of affairs in Kyōhō 9 (the Year of the Dragon)."

Item: Since there is a shortage of servants (hōkōnin) among the domain retainers' households, causing hardship to various parties, it has been ordered to the relevant administrative authorities that persons from towns, villages, and domain-administered territories (o-azukari-dokoro) must not be sent to other provinces to work as servants without permission.

Item: When hiring servants in accordance with established regulations, there is no objection, but when reporting to the previous employer, one must confirm the amount of the servant's wage (kyūgin). If anyone misrepresents the wages they received from their previous employer, this must be reported immediately to the Inspector Corps (metsuke-chū), and strict punishment will certainly be imposed. Furthermore, if an employer, out of misplaced sympathy for a retainer, sends word to an inquiring party exaggerating the servant's wages, that employer shall henceforth bear responsibility for this transgression. Since it is natural for wages to vary depending on the servant, minor differences in pay are acceptable when hiring. However, for any servant, the wage must not exceed two ryō and one bu. Since servants' wages have been rising year by year, causing hardship to employers, proclamations have been issued repeatedly in previous years. It appears that, due to insufficient consideration on the part of household masters, servants who act selfishly or scheme to obtain higher wages are being treated too leniently. This must be strictly prohibited. All parties should take heed of this, and those who are found negligent must be reported promptly to the Inspector Corps. If a servant currently in employ is given a letter of dismissal (itoma) on the 2nd day of the second month, and if this causes a shortage of labor, the servant may be immediately re-employed. However, if the servant has already committed to joining another household and submits a refusal, the dismissal should be accepted and the servant released. If there remains a shortage of help in such circumstances, then at present—