【Right page】

1. If itinerant monks (dōshin-sha) or Buddhist nuns (bikuni) frequent one's premises, seals must be obtained from the temples of their respective sects and submitted to the Magistrate's office. Any itinerant monk who fails to submit such a certificate should be strictly prohibited from visiting. This order should be communicated to all, including those of the lowest ranks. However, itinerant monks merely passing through from other regions who stay temporarily are to be treated as exceptions. The above.

[Day], Second Month　　　　　　　Magistrate

Proclamation issued around the 10th day of the Third Month
【Red ink note】"From the 4th year of Hōreki (Inu year, 1754), this became a standard annual proclamation, and was therefore sealed and placed in the official document box, to be used each year by extending its date."

○ As this is the season for fire vigilance, the matter of fire prevention should be thoroughly communicated to all, down to the lowest ranks. When the wind blows strongly, retainers should be made to patrol the vicinity of each household at night, and any suspicious persons should be apprehended and reported to the Magistrate. Those whose households are being maintained while they are in Edo are likely to be short-staffed, so their relatives or neighboring households should be consulted to ensure no negligence occurs. Furthermore, 【red ink insertion】"as it is the established rule that lanterns must be lit and carried when traveling after the fifth hour (around 8 p.m.), this rule should be strictly observed, and everyone down to the lowest ranks should be firmly instructed to light lanterns. The above." It has been heard that low-ranking individuals are smoking tobacco at the gates of samurai households and at street corners, and strict orders should be given to those of lower ranks that such behavior must cease. Moreover, as per the established rules, lanterns must be lit when traveling after the fifth hour, and this should be strictly communicated to all levels. The above.

Third Month　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

【Left page】

To all　【Red ink note】"○ The passage beginning with 'furthermore, etc.' in red ink appears from the 20th year of Kyōhō (Utsu/Rabbit year, 1735), and has been used in the same manner every year thereafter."

Additionally, those with group supervision should communicate the above matters.

Proclamation issued around the 10th day of the Fourth Month

Verbal communication

○ Although fire prevention has been proclaimed many times, further careful and strict instructions should be given. As previously announced, lanterns must be lit when traveling after the fifth hour. This should be firmly communicated to all retainers down to the lowest ranks. If suspicious persons are seen in the vicinity of the respective estates, they should be apprehended and reported to the Magistrate. 【strikethrough: 取｜捕】Mistakes are unacceptable. When going out to the Kawakano area, not only in the vicinity of residential houses, but fire prevention should by no means be 【strikethrough: 作法｜沙汰】treated carelessly. Furthermore, 【enclosed in red】"particularly this time" 【red ink marginal note】"this spring," since there are also instructions to be especially careful in the castle town, strict investigations are to be carried out, and it should be understood that there must be no careless conduct. The above.
【Red ink note】"As stated in the red ink above, this was revised through deliberation from the 2nd year of Kaei (Tori/Rooster year, 1849)."

Fourth Month　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
To all

Additionally, those with group supervision should communicate the above matters.