【Right page】

Proclamation issued before the Lord's return to the castle

Verbal communication

○ On the occasion of the Lord's return to the castle, should any persons from among the entire household staff down to the lowest ranks go out into the town streets, they must strictly restrain themselves from any disorderly conduct. Moreover, since households throughout all ranks will likely be short-staffed, one must above all give thorough instructions regarding fire prevention before going out. Lower-ranking persons should consult with their neighbors, remain attentive within their households without negligence, and take care that fire prevention is not treated carelessly. The above matters should be strictly communicated to all retainers of each household down to the lowest ranks, and the intent of this proclamation should be well understood. The above.

Fifth Month　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

Additionally, those with group supervision should communicate the above matters.

Proclamation issued around the 23rd day of the Sixth Month

○ As the dry weather has continued and conditions have been particularly arid of late, it is hereby ordered that each person give careful attention to fire prevention. As this is the season for mosquito-repellent burning, strict instructions should be given to all, down to the lowest ranks. The above.

Sixth Month

【Left page】

To all

Additionally, those with group supervision should communicate the above matters.

Proclamation issued around the 9th day of the Seventh Month　【Red ink note】"This has been done in this manner since the Genroku era."

○ As in previous years, the following are strictly prohibited during the Bon Festival period: loitering at gates, roadside dancing (tsuji odori), roadside sumo wrestling (tsuji sumō), lower-ranking persons wandering without purpose through streets and various entrances and exits, and in general, crowds gathering in the open spaces of the castle town. However, it is permissible for children aged thirteen and under to dance within the precincts of their respective estates, provided they are in the company only of other children among the household servants, without mixing with outsiders. In the case of town residents, it is permissible for children aged thirteen and under to dance a little within their own town district, without mixing with children from other towns. All else 【red ink marginal note: "is"】 is prohibited, and the intent of this proclamation should be well understood. The above.

[Day], Seventh Month　　　　　　Magistrate
To all　【Red ink note】"It appears that this was discontinued from the 1st year of Kyōhō (Tori/Rooster year, 1716)."

Additionally, instructions should be given that lower-ranking persons must not go to Mikuni or Kanazu 【red ink insertion: "around the Genroku era: Shihi and Sakai"】 without permission and recklessly. Since magistrates (metsuke) have been stationed there, everyone should be mindful of this. Those with group supervision should communicate the above matters.

Proclamation issued around the 11th day of the Twelfth Month
《Interlinear note: However, this was previously issued in the First Month, but in recent years it has come to be issued as above. Note also that the wording of the proclamation may change depending on circumstances.》