【Right page】
Item: Genroku 15th year, Year of the Horse (1702)

○Some time ago, a stone coffin (karabitsu) emerged from the stone quarry on the private mountain of a peasant in Koyamatani village. Some of the items contained within this stone coffin fell outside of it, and there are those who picked them up. Furthermore, should there be anyone who has picked up such items, they are to report immediately to the Inspectors' office. The above.
　　　　　　Intercalary 8th month, 13th day　　To all　　Additionally to each group　　　　　Inspectors

　　Note: Regarding the above matter, it appears that in late July, due to heavy rain, the coffin was washed out from that location. On the 29th of that month, a peasant reported the matter, and the District Magistrate, Tanaka Jōzaemon, investigated and reported to the Senior Councillors. In the meantime, an on-site inspection was conducted, during which various items were found. Members of Jōzaemon's group brought them in. As there were also some bones found, these were entrusted to the village headman (shōya) and senior peasants of Koyamatani. The Senior Councillors directed that the items found inside the stone coffin be kept in Jōzaemon's custody, and that a suitable location be found to rebury the coffin where it would not cause inconvenience. Accordingly, on the 9th day of the 8th month, the coffin was reburied near Koyamatani. However, on the 10th day, Seishirō, son of Hajima Maenosuke of the Tagaya Gondayū patrol group, and Kihei, son of Yamana Jirōemon of the Himi Jibuemon patrol group, having gone to view the coffin some time prior, reported that they had found two pieces of agate (mme no u) lying nearby and had each picked one up. As inquiries were made successively regarding how to handle this matter, and as the report reached the Senior Councillors, on the instructions of Matsudaira Shōbei, they were told to keep the items they had picked up in their own custody for the time being. Further details are recorded elsewhere.

○On the night of the 25th of this month, around the Hour of the Pig (approximately 10 p.m.), at the burial ground (zanmai) at the foot of Hiraoka Mountain, above the village settlement, a woman of approximately twenty years of age was found slain——
【Left page - reverse side of attached paper】