【Right page - attached paper】
Genroku 14, Year of the Snake
　　Regarding the gambling punishment that was carried out in the 6th month of the Year of the Sheep eleven years ago, the directive issued to the lord's clan members by written notice has been neglected for a long time, so the inspectors suggested that it would be good to issue another proclamation, and thus ordered that it be proclaimed again.
　　　　　　Memorandum
　　1. Gambling has long been prohibited by lord's decree. To ensure that gambling is not practiced even more strictly, all subordinates under each person's control, including servants and lower-ranking people, must be ordered to strictly observe this rule.
　　1. Even if they are relatives or family connections, those who habitually continue gambling and are unruly should not be allowed to remain within the estate.
　　1. Lower-ranking people should follow the same rules as in the Year of the Sheep, and selfish behavior is not permitted.
　The above principles must be strictly observed. If there are any who violate them, their masters will be held responsible for negligence. The above.
　　　　　　1st month, 18th day　　　　　From the Inspectors
【Left page】
　was placed. The clothing and miscellaneous items of the aforementioned woman are as listed in the separate written inventory. Therefore, interrogate all your servants, and if there are any suspicious persons or if you have any suspicions, report them promptly. The above.
　　　　　11th month, 28th day　To all　Additionally to groups～　　From the Inspectors
　　The separate inventory of miscellaneous items is omitted
First year of Genroku 16, Year of the Sheep
　○When samurai and others traveling to Edo or other domains on official or private business wish to bring along relatives or family connections, until now they have submitted petitions and brought them along. From now on, even if members of their group or retainers and other ordinary people are concealed, they are strictly forbidden from bringing them along. If someone wishes to bring relatives or family connections, their patron or master must petition the senior retainers and act according to their instructions. Therefore, understand the above. The above.
　　　　　　6th month, 8th day　　　　To all　Additionally to groups～　　　From the Inspectors
　　　When this was proclaimed as above, Senior Ashigaru Commander Nakagawa Koshi Uemon (who is an inspector) was consulted, and he understood and accepted the directive. Members of the Senior Group and Caretaker Group regularly travel to Edo for transporting official cargo