【Right page】
(Continued from previous page)
…It is not permissible to remain behind as before, so if there are those who wish to stay in the current location, they should first return to the home domain, report to their supervisors, and only then come out again.
　The above directive should be understood by each party and strictly communicated down to the lower ranks. The above.
　　　　　　1st month, 11th day　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors

○From the evening of the 4th of this month, the water supply will be shut off, and from the 5th through the 7th, dredging of the waterway is scheduled to be carried out. Each estate should send out workers to carry out the dredging. Inspector groups will be stationed for all three days. Further details will be communicated by Yanagihara Kakudayu, so please take note accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　4th month, 3rd day　　To all　　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors

○Since the drainage channels at the rear of each estate are to be dredged as before, one person each should be sent to Suzuki Chūemon and Oka Saburōemon the day after tomorrow, the 6th. Upon receiving instructions, they should be directed to dredge the drainage channels. The above.
　　　　　　4th month, 4th day

　The above directive was communicated to only one side of the Edo town quarter. However, the back areas of the town are to be dredged by townspeople sending out their own workers to assist.
　The above two directives were also communicated to Atsumi Shinemon.

【Left page】
First entry, 5th year of Hōei, Year of the Rat
○On the night of the 2nd of this month, a tenant farmer named Kyūzaemon from Shimoara-machi in Matsumoto went out to check on his field, where it appeared that someone had been stealing the melons and eggplants he had been growing. It appears that Kyūzaemon attempted to apprehend the person, but Kyūzaemon was cut down and killed. Kyūzaemon had wounds in several places, none of which appeared to be from a sword or short sword. The assailant also appeared to have sustained wounds, and blood was spilled along the road outside the place where he was found dead. In light of this, an investigation is being conducted, and after strictly questioning the lower-ranked servants among each household's retainers, any suspicious individuals should be reported immediately. Those who have provided lodging to suspicious persons, as well as those who have placed them in tenement housing, should submit a written report. If any among those persons have left for other places after the 2nd of this month, their names should also be noted in the written report.
The above.　　8th month, 8th day　　To all　　Addendum: Group~　　　　　　From the Inspectors

　　Regarding the above, various investigations were carried out by Atsumi Shinemon, but the matter remained unresolved. As Shinemon reported his wish to conduct investigations in samurai households and post towns, he was instructed to quickly consult with his colleagues and coordinate with Shinemon on how to issue the directive. This was communicated from Sakai Tenzen to Kawasaki Saburōsuke, whereupon after consultation, the directive document was submitted for inspection to the senior retainers, and today it was issued to the samurai households.