【Right page】
First entry, 6th year of Hōei, Year of the Ox (1709)

○Since the posthumous Buddhist title of Lady Gombō conflicts with that of another, the temple Jōkōin shall henceforth be called by the temple name "Renshōji." This matter is to be made known to all samurai household members, and thus this notice is issued. The above.
　　　　　　2nd month, 5th day　　Addendum: ~　　　　　From the Inspectors
　　Note: Atsumi Shinemon also joined in delivering the above directive to the head priest of Jōkōin.

○This is communicated by letter. At this time, there are various rumors circulating in Edo, as well as satirical writings (rakusho) arriving from Edo and Kyoto. It is most appropriate that instructions be given down to the lowest ranks not to handle such materials carelessly. This matter is not of the sort that would normally warrant an official notice, but the Senior Retainers have directed that it be communicated to each party for their own awareness and passed along as appropriate to relevant parties. Please also convey this to your colleagues. The above.
　　　　　　3rd month, 18th day　　　　　　　　　　　Kawazu Zentayu
　　[Note by "Happyakuri"]: Upon reflection, this concerns the successive deaths this spring of Lord Tsunayoshi and his consort (the Midaidokoro).

【Left page】
○Regarding the official days of Buddhist abstinence (the 8th, 17th, 20th, and 24th of each month), on which killing of living creatures has long been prohibited, it has now been decreed that the 10th shall also be observed in the same manner henceforth. Each party should take note. The above.
　　　　　　3rd month, 21st day　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors

○Within the gates of the castle enclosure (go-kuruwa) in Edo, those serving as attendants should be instructed not to wear bamboo hats (kasa) on fair-weather days. The above.
　　　　　　6th month, 28th day　　To all　　　　　From the Inspectors
　　Addendum: Those under the command of the group unit should also be instructed accordingly. Furthermore, townspeople and farmers, including those serving as attendants, must not wear either sedge hats (suge-gasa) or woven hats (ami-gasa). This should also be communicated to the town and rural areas. The above.

○Since the 14th of every month is the memorial day of Lady Seiyōin, it has been designated an official day of Buddhist abstinence. It has been decreed that all killing of living creatures is to be strictly prohibited from this time forward. Each party should take note. The above.
　　　　　　7th month, 12th day　　To all　Addendum: Group~　　From the Inspectors

One item: It has been the practice that male employment brokers (kimoiri) serve as intermediaries when hiring female servants for samurai households. Henceforth, male brokers shall not be used, and this should be strictly enforced. From now on, female employment broker lodgings (kimoiri-yado) shall be designated in the town, and when hiring female servants, arrangements should be made through said female broker lodgings.