【Right page】
　　Of course, it is preferable for female servants to be replaced on the 5th day of the 3rd month, but in cases of illness or other unavoidable circumstances, the timing need not be strictly observed.
First　Regarding female servants, once intermediary lodgings are established in the towns, further notice will be given, so one should go to those intermediary lodgings and
　　decide on employment according to their instructions.
First　For yoriki (assistant magistrates) and those who attend New Year ceremonies, or those of rank who perform unified ceremonies, their daughters and sisters may act at their own
　　discretion. For other relatives and women being raised in one's household who are sent into service, they must be presented to the aforementioned intermediary lodgings. Those
　　below this rank must send even their daughters and sisters to intermediary lodgings to decide on employment.
　　However, when masters employ the daughters and sisters of their own retainers, this is a separate matter; all others must go through intermediary lodgings to
　　　decide on employment.
　　These instructions have now been issued, so everyone must strictly observe them and give firm orders to group supervisors and retainers. The above.
　　　　　　　11th month, [day] [Vermillion note] "The above draft was presented for viewing, and after preferences were considered, it was decided. Today at the audience chamber, it was handed to the inspectors with orders that it should be promptly announced to all samurai households, as conveyed by Inaba Tamon."
　○Regarding the replacement of servants, a directive has been issued as per the separate document; please understand this. The above.
　　　　　　　11th month, 25th day　To all　　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors　
　○In Edo, for the memorial service of Jōkenin-sama, killing of living beings is to be stopped from the last day of this month until the 10th day of next month, as has been
　　decreed. Everyone should understand and strictly observe this. Of course, group supervisors and subordinates should also be firmly instructed accordingly.
　　The above　　　11th month, 28th day　To all　　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors
【Left page】
　　　Additionally, killing done as part of one's trade is a separate matter.
　○Regarding the female servant intermediary lodgings mentioned earlier, Karamono-ya Taemon in the lower town and Kiya Kyūbei in Kichō have been
　　designated as the two establishments, so those hiring female servants should apply to these lodgings. In that case, the intermediary lodgings will send female servants with elderly women as
　　chaperones. Also, when dismissing women who have been in service, a retainer should accompany them to the intermediary lodging to give notice.
    　Of course, regarding female servants, employment should be decided by going to these lodgings. However, from each servant's salary, one bu per ten momme of silver
　　should be sent to the intermediary lodging.　　
　　Group supervisors and subordinates should also be instructed accordingly. The above. 《Marginal note: However, regarding the petition for exemption from this female intermediary system, this is recorded in the regulations after the 2nd day of the 1st month of Shōtoku 1, Year of the Rabbit, on the 21st day of the 11th month of the same year》
《Marginal note: The order to cease the female intermediary lodging system and handle matters as before is recorded in the general records》
　　　　　　　12th month, 12th day　　To all　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors
First year of Hōei 7, Year of the Tiger
　○The inspection tour group will pass through in the near future. Accordingly, fire precautions should be even more strictly enforced during their passage through the domain. While they are
　　staying in the castle town, firearms must not be fired. Also, when sending servants to rural areas, prior consultation should be made to ensure they do not go in the direction
　　of the inspection tour's route. During their stay in the castle town, subordinates should not be sent into town carelessly. If they must be sent on business,
　　they should not shout loudly or behave rudely, should be careful in all matters, and if they encounter retainers of the inspection tour group in town, they should yield the road and show deference. The area in front of and behind the lodging is completely off-limits, with guards posted.