【Right page】
　　Understand the above instructions and firmly instruct subordinates accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　6th month, 24th day　　To all　　Additionally to groups～　　　　　From the Inspectors
　○Due to the memorial service for Jōkenin-sama in Edo, killing of living beings is to be stopped
　　from the 29th day of this month until the 10th day of next month, as has been decreed. Everyone should understand this and strictly observe it. Of course, group supervisors and subordinates should also be firmly
　　instructed accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　9th month, 28th day　　To all　　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors
　　　Additionally, killing done as part of one's trade is a separate matter. The above.
First year of Shōtoku 1, Year of the Rabbit
　○Whatever diaries are in one's possession should be submitted to Katō Genzō. The above.
　　　　　　2nd month, 22nd day　　To all　　Additionally to groups～　　　　　From the Inspectors
　　However, the above was done because Takaya Rokurōemon informed us and sent a letter requesting that this be announced to the yoriai and below
　○The era name has now been changed to Shōtoku. This should be understood accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　5th month, 10th day　　　To all　　　　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors
【Left page】
　　However, in previous era name changes there were no official announcements, but when I reported to the senior retainers that era name matters should be quickly known down to the lowest levels, they agreed it was reasonable, so it was immediately announced to the samurai households.
　　　　　　　Regulations
　一Those going on official business for entertaining Koreans must strictly observe the shogunate's prohibitions during travel
　一If there is disrespectful behavior toward Koreans or if it leads to disputes, it will be considered a crime regardless of right or wrong
　一In all matters, follow the instructions of Kunieda Koichirō and Hori Toyosaemon, and consult with foot inspector Kondō Tasuke
　一During rest and lodging, do not make unreasonable demands regarding high lodging prices or toward servants
　一During travel, do not act unreasonably toward oncoming estates or horse handlers
　一Licentiousness, gambling, and other improper behavior are strictly forbidden
　一If a fire should break out at a lodging, the response should naturally be directed by Kunieda Koichirō and Hori Toyosaemon,
　　and consultation should be made with foot inspector Kondō Tasuke
　一During Korean passage from Hamamatsu to Mishima, while at lodgings, official business is separate, but for private matters one must not
　　carelessly leave the lodging. However, if one must leave for unavoidable business, permission must be obtained from foot inspector Kondō Tasuke and
　　his instructions followed
　一Taking side roads or detours during travel has long been prohibited, so this must be strictly observed