【Right page】
　　　　　　　4th month, 6th day　　To all　　　Additionally　　　From the Inspectors
　　　Additionally, strict orders should be given to the retainers that people bring with them, so that there will be no improper behavior. The above.
　　　　　　　　Memorandum for transmission to High Families and below, all monthly duty officers
　○I communicate by letter. Now, the daughter of Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-kami will pass through here around the 15th or 16th of this month, so male
　　spectators are forbidden. Regarding women, they may watch but should do so modestly on the town roads without being improper. Each person should understand
　　this intent and strictly order their group supervisors and retainers accordingly. For this reason, the above is stated.
　　　　　　7th month, 11th day　Additionally, this should be transmitted sequentially among colleagues. The above.
　　　However, regarding the people of Tosa, the senior councilors had given strict orders, but due to the death of Lady Seishōin, 
　　　the senior councilors ordered that female spectating should also be avoided, so the following was transmitted to each accordingly
　○Regarding the recent passage of Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-kami's daughter through this area, I previously communicated that female spectating was acceptable, but
　　it is now unnecessary, so please understand accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　　7th month, 14th day　Additionally, this should be transmitted sequentially among colleagues. Also to group supervisors～
　　　　　　　　Memorandum for transmission to High Families and below
　○I communicate by letter. Now, regarding inquiries about the Princess's well-being and other matters related to her quarters, domain retainers

【Left page】
　　visiting the monthly duty senior councilors should hereafter be unnecessary, as communicated from Edo, so the
　　senior councilors have ordered this to be transmitted, therefore each should understand and communicate to colleagues as well. The above.
　　　　　　　7th month, 26th day
　　　Additionally, officials and those with distinguished lineage are exceptions to this rule, so please understand. The above.
　In Edo
　一Except for official business, gatherings of people after 6 o'clock in the evening are suspended, but hereafter when there are
　　business matters, they may be conducted as appropriate. This follows last year's regulations, but evening gatherings should be conducted even more modestly. Heavy drinking
　　should be avoided even more strictly.
　一When guests come from elsewhere and it becomes evening, this should also be handled as appropriate.
　一When going outside the gate, everything should be strictly observed. Of course, this intent should also be strictly
　　communicated to group supervisors and people's retainers, so please understand. The above.
　　　　　　　9th month, 15th day　　　To all　　　　　　　　From the Inspectors