【Right folio】
　　The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　16th day of the 4th month

Item: 5th year of Shōtoku, Year of the Sheep (1715)
　○ Although it has been previously instructed that all persons take care regarding fire hazards, as the lord is currently away and this is the season for fires, all persons down to the lowest ranks are to be strictly instructed to take precautions against fire. Furthermore, while it has been established that lanterns are to be carried when traveling after the fifth hour [around 8 p.m.], this rule is to be strictly observed, and all persons down to the lowest ranks are to be instructed to carry lanterns at all times after the fifth hour, even for personal travel. Should any negligence occur, it will certainly be corrected, so take heed accordingly. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　18th day of the 3rd month　　To all　　　Additionally, to group leaders, and to inspectors

Item: 1st year of Kyōhō, Year of the Monkey (1716)
　○ It has been announced from Edo that the era name has been changed to "Kyōhō" as of the first day of this month. Take heed accordingly. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　13th day of the 7th month　　To all　　　Additionally, to group leaders, and to inspectors

【Left folio】
　○ In recent years, the pigeons at the various gates have become scarce. All persons are strictly instructed not to catch pigeons within their residence compounds, and are to convey this instruction to those in their service as well. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　18th day of the 11th month　　To all　　　Additionally, to group leaders, and to inspectors

Item: 2nd year of Kyōhō, Year of the Rooster (1717)
　○ Although there have been previous notices regarding fire hazards, as this is the season to be especially vigilant, all persons are instructed to take every precaution to prevent fire hazards. The above intent is to be taken heed of by all, and strictly conveyed to those in their service as well. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　Last day of the 2nd month　　To all　　　Additionally, to group leaders, and to inspectors

　○ As Lord Kaga-no-kami will be passing through this area in the near future, all males are strictly prohibited from going out to view the procession. As for females, they may watch from inside their homes with bamboo blinds hung, provided they remain inside and conduct themselves in a proper manner. Take heed of the above and strictly convey this instruction to those in your service as well. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　7th day of the 10th month　　To all　　　Additionally, to group leaders, and to inspectors