【Right folio】

Item: 3rd year of Kyōhō, Year of the Dog (1718)

　○ It has been heard since last winter that there appear to be persons among the lower ranks of the domain's retainers who are engaging in something resembling gambling. As gambling has long been strictly prohibited, such conduct is utterly outrageous. Should an investigation reveal any such conduct, it will be considered a failing of the offender's master. Therefore, all persons are to conduct thorough investigations and strictly instruct those in their service not to engage in any conduct even resembling gambling. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　22nd day of the 1st month　　To all　　　　　　　Inspectors

　　　Additionally, those who have authority over groups are to strictly convey this. The above is hereby notified.

　○ Although fire precautions have been previously ordered, as the lord is currently away, it has been further commanded that fire safety measures be strictly enforced. Take heed accordingly and strictly convey this instruction to those in your service. The above is hereby notified.
　　　　　　26th day of the 7th month　　To all　　Additionally, to group leaders　　Inspectors

Item: 4th year of Kyōhō, Year of the Boar (1719)

　○ Regarding the spring changeover of servants in the lower ranks, as was previously announced [marginal note: "This is a standard periodic notice"], it has been heard recently that there are persons making unreasonable demands for higher wages in connection with the new gold and silver currency. This is the height of impudence. Regarding wages, whether in new gold or dried gold [乾金], servants are to be hired through mutual agreement between master and servant according to the previously announced wage standards. Should any person hire a servant at a higher wage, it will be considered the master's failing. Furthermore, if there are those among the lower ranks who make various complaints, the details are to be reported to the inspectors, and after investigation, strict measures will be taken accordingly. The above is hereby notified.

【Left folio】
　　　　　　21st day of the 1st month　　To all　　Additionally, to group leaders　　Inspectors
　　　Note: It is said that there has also been a notice from Edo that servants are not to be hired at high wages there either.

　○ The notice regarding fire precautions is the same as that of the Year of the Rooster two years prior (2nd year of Kyōhō). 14th day of the 2nd month.

　　　　　　Memorandum

　Item: Although it has long been prohibited to retain servants of the domain at high wages, it continues to be heard year after year that servants are seeking higher wages, which is utterly outrageous. Although this has been tolerated until now due to the confusion in the gold and silver currency, as new gold will be in circulation from next spring, wages for servants should be set in accordance with the standards that applied during the circulation of Keichō gold. However, as servants have been in short supply in recent years, this has been left as is. At the time of the servant changeover next spring, servants are to be hired with wages adjusted to the equivalent in dried gold [乾金], in accordance with the wages at which they were hired in the current spring of the Year of the Boar. Should anyone violate this prohibition and hire servants at high wages, it will be considered the master's failing. Take heed accordingly.

　Item: At the time of the servant changeover for the lower ranks, because some servants make claims of unavoidable business or arrange to withdraw from service, thereby hiding away temporarily, causing a shortage of available servants and leading some to seek higher wages — therefore, from this coming winter, it has been ordered to the town magistrates and district magistrates that, beginning from next the 1st month, any person who declares their intention to become a merchant or withdraw from service for the purpose of rest shall not be permitted to remain idle for more than fifty days, even if the person is a parent, child, or sibling of someone in service. This has been declared.

　　　Addendum: Servants who are in poor health and have withdrawn from service since spring due to difficulty in fulfilling their duties — even if they recover during the summer, their [case shall be handled as follows...]