【Right page】
　　　Throughout the year, those in the town districts must not leave their respective town areas, and those in rural areas must not leave their villages without strict reason. Those who have withdrawn from service due to unavoidable circumstances may remain in that status if their master submits a written statement of the circumstances to the relevant authority. Even if household servants make requests, no dismissal documents are to be issued carelessly without proper investigation.

　In accordance with the above orders, those among the retinue who, on account of servants demanding high wages, have chosen not to engage servants, have been ordered to employ farmers instead. In general, if there are those who act selfishly, they shall be subject to punishment as soon as it becomes known. The above intent is to be strictly conveyed to the family retainers of each household. The above.　　12th month, Year of the Boar

○Regarding the wages of servants employed by each household, while there have been previous notices on this matter, it is heard that wages have been rising year after year. Therefore, in accordance with the attached document, new orders have now been issued. This must be strictly observed. The above.
　　　　　12th month, 25th day　To all　　Additionally to groups～　　　To the inspectors

　The above is regarding what was conveyed to Arakawa Sukeemon in the presence of His Lordship on the 20th of last month: since the currency was to change to new gold and silver from this year's year-end, His Lordship anticipated that at the time of the spring servant changeover, servants would begin demanding higher wages. Accordingly, it was ordered that a notice be issued in the spring, and that any who act selfishly be firmly instructed not to demand higher wages. It was initially intended to issue the notice on the 11th day of the first month as usual, but since by that time most servants would have already privately arranged their next placements, it was submitted that it would be more appropriate to issue the notice before the year's end. Thereafter, the draft notice was circulated among the senior councillors for review, and after His Lordship's inspection was completed, the notice was issued as described above.

One: Kyōhō 5, Year of the Rat (1720)

【Left page】
　　　　　Memorandum
　One: Although notices have repeatedly been issued that lower-ranking servants should not be engaged at high wages at the time of the spring changeover, it still appears that lower-ranking servants are demanding high wages and holding back from taking positions while they wait for better offers. This appears to be the result of servants conspiring among themselves, and it is heard that some among the servants are acting as ringleaders in seeking high wages, which is utterly outrageous. Lower-ranking servant wages are to be set in dry gold equivalents, as notified last winter. While there may be some variation in wages depending on the individual servant, masters should confirm what wages were paid up until this spring and engage servants with only slight adjustments as they see fit. To ensure compliance with the established regulations, masters should also confirm the amount of wages when the servant reports to their previous master. If there are servants who misrepresent the wages they received from their previous master, this should be reported to the inspectors without delay, and punishment will be imposed. Furthermore, if a master, out of misguided sympathy for their servant, sends an excess amount to the inquiring party concerning wages paid up until this spring, that master shall henceforth be held accountable. Regardless of the type of servant, wages are to be limited to two ryō and one bu. Because the annual rise in servant wages causes hardship for masters, repeated notices have been issued on this matter. It is strictly impermissible for members of the retinue to remain unconcerned while servants make selfish demands or scheme to obtain higher wages without due thought. Each household must understand this intent and promptly report any wrongdoers to the inspectors. The above.
　　　　　1st month [enclosed in a box: "22nd day"]　To all　　　　To the inspectors
　　　Additionally: Unlike in normal years, there are no signs whatsoever of servant movement this year. Therefore, if any member of the retinue releases their current servant on the 2nd day of the 2nd month and finds themselves without help, they may simply continue to employ the same servant as before. However, if a servant has indicated their intention to go to a new master and has given proper notice, they should be released. If no replacement is available and it would cause hardship to the household, they may continue in employment as described above.