【Right page】
　　This is to be instructed accordingly. Regarding wages, small adjustments may be made by mutual agreement between the parties. If, after being informed that this should be done accordingly, there are those who raise various objections and refuse to comply, such cases are to be reported promptly to the inspectors along with the reason for non-compliance. The above.
　　　　　　　1st month　　To all　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector corps

　○Regarding the servants' spring changeover, although there was a preceding notice on this matter, it is still heard that servants are making selfish demands. This notice is therefore issued once more; take heed of its intent, and if there are any who are out of order, they are to be admonished without delay. The above.　22nd day of the 1st month　To all　Additionally to groups～　Inspector corps　[Side note to the left: "The same as above, issued together"]

　○Notice regarding fire prevention: same as the notice issued in the Year of the Dog two years prior (Kyōhō 3, 1718). 27th day of the 3rd month.

　○As Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-kami will be passing through this area in the coming days, no one is to go out to view the procession. Take heed of this intent and strictly instruct those of lower station accordingly. The above.　17th day of the 4th month　To all　　Additionally to groups～　　Inspector corps

　○It has come to our attention that members of the night watch among the domain retinue have been negligent: they do not regularly notify of the set hours, and moreover, even when there are those who have not lit torches, there are no firm measures taken to stop them or send them through the town — all of which is disorderly conduct. Henceforth, this is to be strictly observed: members of the watch are to depart at the Hour of the Rooster (around 6 p.m.) and return at the Hour of the Rabbit (around 6 a.m.). Instructions have already been issued to the night patrol members to conduct their inspections with even greater diligence. Take heed of this intent and strictly instruct the night watch members accordingly. The above.　27th day of the 5th month　　　　To all　　　　Inspector corps
　　　Additionally: It is heard that among the night watch members, there are some who have taken in persons of uncertain residence. From this point forward, only those who are householders of reliable standing are to be employed on the night watch. The above.

　○I write by letter to inform you: as it has come to our attention that members of the night watch among the domain retinue are behaving in a disorderly manner, a notice has been issued on this occasion. Therefore,

【Left page】
　　the members of the night patrol are also to be instructed to conduct thorough inspections and exercise no negligence. Please consult with the night patrol members regarding this matter. The above.　27th day of the 5th month
　　　Additionally: a notice document has also been forwarded. Please circulate it in order. The above.
[Side note: "Chief of the night patrol"] To Lord Matsudaira Gentayu　　　　　　　Inspector corps

　　　However, this notice shall not be forwarded to those without night watch duty residing within the castle district or in the town residential areas, nor to those among the senior councillors and high-stipend retainers who do not contribute servants to the joint night watch rotation.

　○From this point forward, if persons who have been banished from Matsuoka are found to have entered the castle town, they must not be given lodging of any kind or be permitted to remain even briefly. In case there are those who, having been unaware of the situation, have lent tenement housing to such persons — some of whom may have previously been subject to banishment — they are to investigate the matter and promptly expel any such individuals outside the castle town. This is to be understood accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　　3rd day of the 12th month　To all　　　　　　　　　Inspector corps

One: Kyōhō 6, Year of the Ox (1721)
　○Notice regarding fire safety: same as in Kyōhō 2, Year of the Rooster. 30th day of the 2nd month. [Note: henceforth, set as the standard text to be issued every year]

　○Regarding hunting and fishing within the territory of the domain's administered lands (御預所地): an official document was issued from the office of Honda Shuri instructing that such activities be refrained from, and this has been communicated to those in attendance. 1st day of the 6th month.

　　　　　　　　　[Notice regarding the official travel route]