【Right page】

○As Her Ladyship the Princess will be making a shrine visit on the 5th of this month, no one shall place decorative sand or make similar preparations along the route of her procession. While sweeping and cleaning of the road is permitted, no persons are to emerge from within gate enclosures, nor are they to peer through windows. The above.
　　　　　　4th day of the 8th month

One: Kyōhō 7, Year of the Tiger (1722)

○Gambling has long been strictly prohibited by domain law. Furthermore, things resembling such conduct are also to be forbidden; those holding positions over groups (組支配) as well as their retainers and subordinates are to be duly instructed. Members of each group are to make rounds, and the master himself is to conduct inspections of any places giving cause for concern. The intent of the above is to be strictly communicated in advance to all parties. The above.　16th day of the 5th month　To all　Additionally to groups～　　　　　　　Inspector corps

○Even when retainers and the like are sent to Kyoto on business, they are to be instructed not to lodge for more than a single night. Until further notice is issued, the above is to be strictly observed. The above.　28th day of the 8th month　To all　Additionally to groups～　　Inspector corps
　　　[Note:] The above was issued because a notice was sent out throughout the city of Kyoto, and word came from Yoshizawa Kanzaemon to the magistrates (奉行) stating that armed persons (帯刀の者) were strictly prohibited from lodging more than one night within the capital; this notice was therefore issued accordingly.

One: Kyōhō 8, Year of the Rabbit (1723)

○As gambling has long been subject to the strictest prohibition, even matters of minor scale that resemble gambling involving wagers are to be entirely avoided, including those undertaken as pastimes and amusements. Should it become known that any such activity has occurred, an investigation will be conducted and strict punishment will be meted out without fail. Take heed of this intent and firmly instruct all retainers and subordinates to observe this rule. The above.　9th day of the 2nd month　To all　Additionally to groups～　Inspector corps

【Left page】

　　　　　　Oral Statement [口上]

○As the ladies-in-waiting in charge are moving into the garden pond area (御泉水) today, henceforth whenever anyone ascends to the rooftop or any other elevated place, they must first report to the official attendants of the ladies-in-waiting and act according to their instructions. Strictly instruct all persons of lower station not to ascend to elevated places without permission. The above.
　　　　　　23rd day of the 8th month　To all　　　　　　　　　Inspector corps

　　Ariga Gentetsu　　Hosoi Gen'yō　Sakuyama Jūbei　Ōki Yogorō　Hahakabe Hachizaemon
　　Takaya Izaemon　[Also to the cleaning staff at the sleeping quarters]

○As gambling has long been subject to the strictest prohibition, a notice was issued this past spring to the effect that even matters of minor scale resembling gambling involving wagers — including those done as pastimes and amusements — are to be entirely prohibited. Should any such persons be found, punishment will be carried out without fail. Take heed of this intent, and strictly instruct all retainers and subordinates, down to the most junior members, to exercise firm restraint. The above.
　　　　　　5th day of the 12th month　To all　Additionally to groups～　　　Inspector corps
　　　[Note:] The above was issued because there were signs (端) that gambling activity was occurring among the domain retinue.