【Right page】

One: Kyōhō 9, Year of the Dragon (1724)

　[横折 — cross-folded notice]

○In recent years, domestic servants and laborers (奉公人) have become scarce, and moreover have come to demand higher wages. Repeated notices have been issued regarding this matter, and as a result, those in the towns, outlying villages, and the domain's entrusted territories (御預所) have observed these instructions, and for the past year or two the supply of servants has been relatively adequate. Henceforth, continue to hire without offering excessive wages. Should any difficulties arise, report them to the duty inspector (月番目付). Once an investigation is conducted, if a servant is found to be acting improperly, punishment will be administered without fail. Take heed of this and firmly communicate it to your retainers and subordinates. The above.
　　　　　　28th day of the 5th month　To all　Additionally to groups～　　　Inspector corps

　In addition to this, one further notice was issued today as a follow-up. Please also refer to the red-ink annotations on the regular notices.

【Red ink annotation】"On the 11th day of the 1st month of the following year of the Snake [1725], in connection with the above notice, it is recorded in the registry that inquiry was made to the senior councilors (御家老中) as to whether the magistrates of the four districts (四郡町奉行) should be instructed to carefully convey the content of said notice to those under their jurisdiction, and that this was accordingly communicated."

○The night watch personnel are to remain vigilant in observing the time-signal calls, and anyone not carrying a lit lantern is not to be allowed to pass. It has been heard that of late there are those who go about without lanterns. In accordance with long-established practice, instruct all retainers and subordinates, down to the most junior, to walk with a lit lantern from the hour of the fifth watch (approximately 8 p.m.). Furthermore, the night patrol officers will be conducting inspections, so take heed of this. The above.
　　　　　　28th day of the 5th month　To all　Additionally to groups～　　　Inspector corps

○I write to inform you by letter. As a domain-wide notice was issued today, I write to communicate from our office that should there be any suspicious persons or anyone not carrying a lit lantern, please conduct thorough inspections as a matter of course, with even greater care than usual. The above.

【Left page】

　　Additionally, please also communicate this to the night patrol associates. The above.
　　　　　　　Lord Matsudaira Gentayū　　　　　　Ōtani Gizaemon

○I write to inform you by letter. As there are quite a number of residences in your vicinity that have been vacated following the withdrawal from Matsuoka, I write to communicate from our office that all parties should consult with one another and establish a night watch. Please convey this to the residents of the new residences and ensure that a night watch is set in place. I write this for that purpose. The above.
　　　　　　28th day of the 5th month
　　　　　　　Lord Murakami Kiuchi
　　　　　　　Lord Kuze Shōkichi　　　　　　　　Ōtani Gizaemon

　　[Note:] The above was issued after consulting with the senior councilors (御家老中), as there were quite a number of residences at the new residential area at Sakura no Baba.

Kyōhō 10, Year of the Snake (1725)

○This time, the Shogunate (公儀) is sending inspectors (御目付) Kōriki Heihachi and Mizoguchi Magozaemon, who are expected to arrive in the domain in the near future. In preparation for this, each household is to make minor repairs to any damaged or unsightly areas of the exterior of their residences. There is no need to undertake urgent or extensive renovation work; however, any places where walls, fences, boards, and the like have fallen out or collapsed should be attended to in an appropriate manner. The above.
　　　　　　7th day of the 3rd month　To all　Additionally to groups～　　　Inspector corps