【Right page】

One: Kyōhō 11, Year of the Horse (1726)

[Latter entry] ◯Regarding fire prevention, notices have been issued previously on this matter; however, given the season, a further reminder is to be issued to take particular care with fire. Each party is to be aware of this and firmly instruct those in their charge accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　3rd month, 7th day　To all　Additionally to groups～　　Inspectors

　　　　[Note by Happyakuri]: Upon reflection, since this passage has become an annual matter from this point on, it will not be recorded individually each time hereafter.

[Former entry] ◯I write to inform you by letter. As it is the season for the turnover of servants in the lower ranks, as was communicated by written notice at the time the previous notice was issued, those under your jurisdiction should be promptly instructed accordingly. This spring, it is heard that servants are scarce, as they appear to be choosing their employers carefully. Furthermore, those under your jurisdiction are to be instructed, following proper notification, not to conceal anyone without authorization. Should there be anyone who contravenes the intent of the notice, they are to be dealt with promptly following investigation. Be aware of this and continue to issue the appropriate instructions. The above.
　　　　　　1st month, 26th day　　To: Group Heads　　Kōzuki Takezaemon

　　Following the above inquiry, this was communicated to the Kanazu Magistrate and the group heads. The text of the notice itself is omitted here, as it is a standard matter.

One: Kyōhō 12, Year of the Goat (1727)

【Left page】

◯I write to inform you by letter. As in previous years, a notice regarding the turnover of lower-ranked servants has been sent. Regarding the turnover of female servants in particular, please instruct each party to continue to observe the notice diligently and with care. As it has been heard that in recent years female servants are changing employers quickly and the situation has become disorderly, I write accordingly to inform you of this matter. The above.
　　　　　　1st month, 15th day　　To: [Name] sama　　Kōzuki Takezaemon

　　The above was communicated by letter to the retainer community and to each party respectively, as the senior councillors had instructed that notice be sent that the notice regarding female servants changing employers early in recent years should continue to be observed [marginal note: "still"] and followed [marginal note: "should"].

◯I write to inform you by letter. In Edo, the shogunate official Hosoda Yasaburō has made the following pronouncement: if there is anyone within the domain who possesses a white ox, this is to be reported immediately; furthermore, should any member of the retainer community, townspeople, or farmers happen to see a white ox being led along the road, they are to ascertain the relevant details and report them to us during our monthly duty. As the senior councillors have directed that this matter be communicated, please relay this to each party as appropriate. I write to inform you of this. The above.
　　　　　　1st month, 15th day　　To: /dono　To the retainer community and all relevant parties　Inspectors

◯I write to inform you. In Edo, the shogunate official Hosoda Yasaburō has pronounced the following: regarding the possession of white oxen within the domain, and should a white ox be born hereafter, as this is a matter of official need [for the shogunate], prompt notification is to be made. In accordance with this pronouncement, those under your jurisdiction are to be notified, and upon investigation, the results — whether or not any white oxen exist — are to be reported again to the senior councillors. Additionally, as farmers have already been instructed to report any white ox seen being led along the road by ascertaining the owner's place of residence…[text continues on the next page]