【Right Folio】

◯ I hereby notify you by letter. Regarding petitions from samurai retainers for marriage arrangements: it has been established that petitions for marriages between daughters of lower-ranking officials (ko-yakunin-kaku) and samurai wives shall not be accepted. However, we have recently seen individuals submitting such petitions. Therefore, going forward, petitions for such marriages that cross rank boundaries will not be accepted. However, if there are petitions based on established lineage or unavoidable circumstances, or petitions for a second wife, they may be reviewed and granted upon examination. The Senior Elders (Go-karō-chū) have instructed that this be communicated throughout each unit, so please take note accordingly. Respectfully. Intercalary 7th Month, 26th Day.

　　　　　　　　[To:] His Lordship　　　　　　　　Akita Sangozaemon

　　Addendum: Please also convey this matter to your colleagues. Respectfully.

The above was communicated to the monthly-duty officers (月番) and below, outside the regular duty roster. Furthermore, it was communicated by letter to the Go-rusuī (estate steward), Go-shoin-bangashira (chamberlain commanders), and Ō-go-bangashira (senior guard commanders). It was not communicated to the Shin-bangashira (new guard commanders).

　　　　(Note) At the council meeting (hyōjō) held on the 21st, Kobayashi Chūzō from Tsuneoka Anzaemon's unit submitted a written petition and oral statement expressing his wish to take the daughter of lower official Yoshiwa Kadayū as his wife. On the 25th, the petition was returned with the notice that it could not be accepted due to rank disparity.

　　　　　　　　Notice Transmitted Verbally to Each Unit

◯ It has been reported that poisonous insects have recently appeared in Edo. As these insects are said to emerge from the roots of balsam flowers (hōsenkа, Impatiens balsamina), people have been removing the plants. Therefore, if balsam flowers are found within your residence grounds, please remove them. As the instruction is to convey this to each unit,

【Left Folio】

please communicate this accordingly. Units with assigned supervisors should also be notified. Respectfully.

　　　　　8th Month, 15th Day

◯ I hereby notify you by letter. When the cormorants (御鵜) are taken to the riverbanks to be fed, those conducting river fishing (kawakarı) are positioning themselves ahead of the cormorants, thereby interfering with the cormorants' feeding. Moreover, should harm come to the cormorants, it would be most problematic. Therefore, from now on, if anyone observes the cormorants being taken out for feeding, they should refrain from fishing in the vicinity. Please convey this throughout each unit. This rule applies from this point forward, so please give strict instructions to all retainers and their subordinates down to the lowest ranks. Please convey this to each party. Respectfully.

　　　　　8th Month, 22nd Day　　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors] ～

　　　As the above instruction was issued, it was recorded in a memorandum, reviewed, reported to the Senior Elders (Go-karō-chū), and communicated to each party by letter.
　　　　Note: Regarding what the Senior Elders were informed of, a memorandum was prepared, and as the notice was circulated, the names of the monthly-duty officers were recorded and the notice was delivered house by house. For the residence of Honda Kuranōsuke, the estate steward (rusuī) was summoned and informed. Monthly-duty officer: Nakawaki Jūrozaemon

　Insert one folio earlier

◯ In recent years, as rabid/sick dogs (byōken) have been prevalent, a notice was previously issued. Since then, people have taken care to kill the sick dogs, but it has been reported that sick dogs continue to appear frequently. If a dog appears to be sick, whether it be a stray dog or otherwise (continued on the next folio)