【Right Folio】

(Continued from previous folio) Even if a dog belongs to a member of the domain household or to any other person, upon sighting it, it should immediately be caught and tied up. If a sick dog is too difficult to catch, there is no need to hesitate in killing it immediately. Please thoroughly understand the above and instruct all retainers and their subordinates down to the lowest ranks accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　7th Month, 8th Day　　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

◯ Recently, a written placard addressed to the inspectors (御目付) reading "To All Members of the Domain Household" (惣御家中) was found posted at the residence of Hahakabe Kurobēmon, having been written by Hahakabe Hachizaemon. After all had read it and it was reported upward, it was noted that if it were of benefit to the domain, there might be channels through which it could be communicated, but it was not considered the conduct befitting a samurai, and is likely the work of lower-ranking individuals. As there are such persons among the retainers of domain members, from this point forward, such written placards and the like should not be produced even as a form of amusement (and indeed ought not to have been). It is therefore appropriate that instructions be given to supervisors at each level and to their subordinates as well. As the placard was addressed to "All Members of the Domain Household," the Senior Elders (御家老中) have issued an instruction that all be informed. Please convey this so that each person may take note accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　11th Month, 12th Day　　　To All Units　　　　　　　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

[Entry] Kanpō 1st Year, Year of the Rooster (1741)

◯3rd Month, 13th Day — Official notice regarding the change of era name to "Kanpō" on the 3rd day of this month.

【Left Folio】

◯ Regarding fire safety: as has been previously ordered, night patrols, wind patrols, and similar measures have been put in place and strictly enforced by supervisors at each level. Furthermore, it has come to the attention of the domain lord that there have been reports of thieves and fires in other provinces, and that there have also been reports of thieves in our domain, causing him considerable concern. Therefore, it has been ordered from Edo that all persons remain vigilant and take further precautions without negligence. Please make note of this accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　5th Month, 2nd Day　　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

　　　In connection with the above, it has been ordered that those on night patrol and wind patrol, as well as supervisory heads, should each take additional precautions.

◯ Regarding fire safety: although notice has been given on numerous occasions, as the dry weather has continued and become particularly severe (hashiyaki tsuyoshi) of late, all persons should take especially careful precautions without negligence. Furthermore, please instruct all to take thorough care with fire sources such as mosquito-repellent fumigation (kaibushi). Respectfully.

　　　　　7th Month, 22nd Day　　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

　　　The above notice was issued because dry weather had continued for thirty-three consecutive days.

Kanpō 2nd Year, Year of the Dog (1742)

◯ Although regulations governing the wages of servants employed by domain members have long been in place, it has been heard that in recent years servants have come to receive high wages, and that masters have been employing them at such rates as a matter of unavoidable judgment. As strict economy measures have now been ordered, from this point forward, servants brought to Edo and all others shall be employed at the stipulated wage rates. This likewise applies to the employment of light-duty servants (草り取・中間 and equivalent ranks). Servants employed within the home domain should also be managed with further prudent consideration. Please also strictly instruct those servants already in your employ regarding this matter.