【Right Folio】

Please be thoroughly informed of the above. Respectfully. 　8th Month, 25th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

◯Although economy measures have now been ordered, it goes without saying that members of the domain household should not sell off items such as military equipment and horse gear. However, as it would be most improper should such a thing occur, the Senior Elders (御家老中) have instructed that there must absolutely be no such disposition of these items. Please communicate this to all domain household members so that they may take note accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　9th Month, 7th Day

◯As has been ordered in the attached document, please be informed accordingly. Respectfully.　[Marginal note: "9th Month, 7th Day"]　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

△

◯4th Month [sic: 10th Month], 4th Day — Regarding the prohibition on stilts (takaashi/竹馬) within the gate of the Lord's residence, recorded in the "Section on Gates" (御門之部).

◯Regarding the solicitation of donations (kanke) for the restoration of Tennōji Temple in Settsu Province (present-day Osaka): this matter was previously ordered by the shogunate. At that time, contributions from domain household members and residents of domain towns were expected. However, this time the matter has been settled from above (by the shogunate), so all should be aware of this. In the future, when such matters are announced, there may be occasions where domain household members and willing residents of domain towns are called upon to make donations depending on the nature of the matter. Please be prepared for such possibilities in advance, as has been ordered. 　10th Month, 14th Day

◯As the attached document from the Senior Elders (御家老中) states, please be informed accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　10th Month, 15th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

【Left Folio】

△◯On the occasion of Lord Matsudaira Sadanokami's passage through this town, men are not to come out to view the procession. Women may watch, provided they do so in a proper and orderly manner without becoming unruly. Please take note of the above and strictly instruct those in your charge accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　9th Month, 10th Day　　　To All Units　　　　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

[Entry] Kanpō 3rd Year, Year of the Boar (1743)

◯Regarding the wages of servants: as was communicated last autumn, please continue to take care that wages paid by each household do not exceed the stipulated rates. Furthermore, it has long been established by regulation that when a servant is confined to their lodgings due to unavoidable circumstances, the master is to report this to the relevant supervisory authority. Henceforth, when a servant is confined for such reasons, the matter is to be handled in accordance with the regulations, and a report should additionally be submitted to the Inspector Corps (御目付). Please be thoroughly informed of the above. Respectfully. 　1st Month, 13th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors and commanders]～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

　　　　　At the Main Keep (御本丸)

　　　　　　　Record of Oral Communication (Kōtatsu no Oboegaki)

◯Regarding hempen formal wear (asa-kamishimo) among permitted garments: as was announced last year by written notice, since hempen formal wear is difficult to use elsewhere, if one has old garments on hand they may be worn for a year or two, but new orders going forward are restricted to cotton or cloth (木綿布), with all others prohibited. However, wearing old hempen formal wear that was received as gifts (haikyō), old silk-flat (kinuhira) garments — whether received as gifts or privately owned — is permissible for a period of five years. Newly ordered garments must be of cotton or cloth. Regarding the formal jackets (haori) of domain physicians: while those of other than cotton, cloth, or paper-cloth (kamiko) have been prohibited, wearing old silk jittoku (十徳, a type of formal coat) and summer light haori for a period of five years is permissible. Regarding all other haori garments, the existing regulations are to be observed. As this has been ordered, please… (continued on the next folio)