【Right Folio】

The Senior Elders (御家老中) have communicated that this is to be relayed to all domain household members accordingly. Please convey the above by oral communication. Respectfully.

　　　　　3rd Month, 15th Day　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors and commanders]～　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

◯In connection with the current construction project (御普請御用), vanguard foot soldiers (御先足軽) are to be recruited promptly and dispatched to Edo. Accordingly, please inform those within your units and commands, and should there be any among your children or relatives who are capable of serving, please submit their names in writing to us, the current duty officers (月番), no later than the 9th day. Respectfully.

　　　　　9th Month, 8th Day　　To All Units　　　　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

　　Addendum: If there are those who shall be made to serve in this capacity, please instruct them to bring their names in writing by tomorrow. Respectfully.

◯I write to inform you as follows. Regarding the foot soldiers (御足軽) who have been called up, as I communicated earlier: in the case of the sons of those currently in service (奉公) within domain households, the Senior Elders (御家老中) have instructed that they should submit a notice of leave to their masters. Please relay this information promptly to the relevant unit supervisors and commanders. Respectfully.

　　　　　9th Month, 8th Day

△

◯In connection with the current official duty, vanguard foot soldiers are to be recruited and dispatched to Edo. Therefore, please notify those within your units and commands, and should any among your children or relatives be capable of serving, please have them personally deliver their names in writing to us, the current duty officers, by the 25th of this coming month. Respectfully.

　　　　　11th Month, 23rd Day　　To All Units　　　　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

　　Addendum: Please also instruct the sons of those currently serving in domain households to submit a notice of leave to their masters.

【Left Folio】

　　　　　In Edo, on the 7th day of the 6th month, Kasu Obitō-kata communicated the following: regarding the fire-fighting attire (火事装束) that was previously ordered by the shogunate last month, they requested that an oral communication be issued. On that occasion, matters pertaining to the unit commanders (頭中) were communicated first, and now, once again regarding the summer fire-fighting jackets (夏火事羽織), since some individuals have been making them overly elaborate, and as has been communicated previously, ostentatious attire is strictly prohibited — in particular, attaching gold-embroidered materials to collars is absolutely forbidden. Therefore, the following oral communication is hereby issued:

　　　　　　　　　　Oral Communication (口達)

◯Regarding fire-fighting jackets (火事羽織) and attire: as was communicated previously, affixing gold-embroidered materials and the like to the collars of summer fire-fighting jackets is also hereby prohibited. However, chest guards (胸当), stone sashes (石帯), and riding cords (馬乗留) made of base materials such as woolen cloth (羅紗) or scarlet fabric (猩々緋), with gold embroidery applied as decorative patterns, are permissible. Furthermore, a modest degree of ornamentation on riding cords and chest guards is acceptable as an exception, but conspicuously extravagant patterns are not permitted. In general, the use of gold embroidery as the primary fabric (ground cloth) of a garment is henceforth absolutely prohibited by order. Please take thorough note of the above. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　6th Month, 7th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors]～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

　　　　　Record of the assembly and examination of those listed in the register of newly recruited foot soldiers, resulting in the determination and notification of ninety persons.