【Right Folio】

◯In connection with this current official duty, those recruited as vanguard foot soldiers (御先足軽) and newly retained men are to receive an allowance of seven koku in nominal stipend (御擬作) and provisions for two persons (二人扶持). They are to depart for Edo on the 16th of this month, and are expected to arrive in Edo after nine days of travel, on the 24th of the same month.

　　　　　9th Month, 10th Day

　　Addendum: As provisional unit assignments (仮支配) will be ordered, please be aware of this accordingly.

　　　　Note: The newly recruited foot soldiers have been distributed among thirteen units under the vanguard unit commanders (御先物頭), and provisional custody has been ordered. Consultations with the monthly duty officer of the vanguard unit commanders have been concluded.

One item: The official courier who departed on the 3rd day of the 11th month arrived in Edo on the 10th. Regarding fire-fighting attire, although a notice had been issued previously, there was also a directive at this time that the dimensions of fire hoods (頭巾) should also be standardized. A written oral communication (口達書) was accordingly drafted, submitted for review by the Senior Elders (御家老中), and notices were issued to the relevant parties, as has been communicated to us.

【Left Folio】

One item: Enkyō 1, Year of the Rat (1744)

◯As was communicated in the spring of the past Year of the Boar: in cases where servants (奉公人) are unavoidably confined to their lodgings, masters should notify their respective supervisors and unit commanders, and this should be handled in accordance with established regulations (御定め) as before. Furthermore, the matter should be reported to the Inspector Corps (御目付衆). Since it is heard that this spring there is a particularly severe shortage of servants, it is natural that some may demand salaries exceeding the established regulations. If there are any problematic circumstances, please report them accordingly. Furthermore, as was communicated at the time of the frugality edict (御倹約) issued in the autumn of the Year of the Dog — that servants in particular should not be retained at high salaries — masters should bear this in mind all the more diligently. Additionally, as the matter of those in one's employ is something that should be handled with careful consideration, please ensure that servants are retained strictly without salaries exceeding the established regulations. Please take thorough note of the above. Respectfully.

　　　1st Month, 15th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: [to unit supervisors and commanders]～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

◯Within the home domain (御国), in connection with foot soldier duties, if there are persons who previously served as foot soldiers but are currently resting as they are unable to manage guard duties (番) and the like, they will be granted provisions (御扶持方) and called up temporarily as hired employees (御雇). If there are such persons within the various units who wish to serve, please submit their names in writing no later than tomorrow, the 12th.

　　　2nd Month, 11th Day

◯In relation to the frugality edict issued two years ago, the regulations and codes of conduct (御掟書), which were issued in detail [marginal note: "in full detail"], have reportedly been observed with considerable strictness. However, of late, it has come to our attention that even among the lower ranks — men and women alike — there are items of clothing, rain capes (合羽), attire, and the like that appear questionable (possibly in violation of regulations). Since there may well be those who are acting out of misunderstanding, this matter is hereby issued once again. Masters and supervisors are to instruct those in their charge to ensure that absolutely no questionable articles exist, and to observe the regulations strictly. The Inspector Corps will conduct examinations as before, so please be duly aware. Respectfully.