【Right Folio】

　　　　　　　2nd Month, 23rd Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: to unit supervisors, etc.～　　Inspector Corps (Metsuke-chū)

◯We hereby communicate the following by letter. Regarding the prevention of fire, strict orders have long been in place concerning this matter; however, various things have been talked about of late. Since fire prevention is a matter of utmost importance, you are hereby directed to exercise the greatest care in your instructions, even if there should be items that present some difficulty. As the Senior Elders (御家老中) have directed us to communicate that each person should exercise still greater care during their rounds, please convey this orally to all members of your unit. Respectfully.

　　　To: Sakai Heima-dono　　　Nara Gonzaemon
　　　　　　　3rd Month, 4th Day　　To: Takaizumi Saemon-dono

◯We hereby communicate the following by letter. In accordance with the directives issued [to the effect stated], during night patrols, if there are any persons of suspicious appearance, they are to be apprehended and reported to the Inspector Corps (御目付衆). Even if some precipitous action should occur in the process, this shall not be held against you. After investigation, if a person is found to be without fault, they are to be released promptly. As the Senior Elders have directed us to communicate the above, please convey this orally to all members of the night patrol unit. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　3rd Month, 4th Day　　To: Hanaki Geki-dono　　　　　　Same person (Nara Gonzaemon)

◯Same as the above.

　　　　　　　3rd Month, 4th Day　　To: Tsutsumi Shichidayū-dono　　Same person

　　　The above matters have been strictly communicated to the foot soldiers' inspectors (御徒目付) as well as to the night patrol members of each unit, instructing them — in accordance with the written notice — to conduct their rounds without negligence, and to apprehend and report any suspicious persons.

【Left Folio】

◯Regarding the solicitation of donations (勧化) on behalf of Saga Hōrin-ji Temple, since calling upon the domain retainers, townspeople, and villagers all at once in haste at this time would likely cause inconvenience, and this is in any case a modest matter, a notice is hereby issued to the effect that donations shall be collected in due course, little by little.

　　　6th Month, 26th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum [marginal note: "而"] to units, etc.～　　Inspector Corps

One item: Enkyō 2, Year of the Ox (1745)　《Double-column note: "During times of wind blowing and shutters rattling (はしやき), servants are to be sent on rounds, and suspicious persons are to be apprehended" | "Neighbors of those who remain in Edo [during the lord's travel] are to use lanterns from the fifth hour (approx. 8 p.m.) onward"》

　　　　　　　Supplementary notice attached to the annual fire prevention notice

◯As stated in the separately attached notice, fire prevention is to be observed with the utmost care. In particular, as was communicated this past spring: during the night, when going out for hunting and other such activities, it has come to our attention that lower-ranking persons, not only in the castle town but also near residential areas [marginal note: "there"], are seen smoking tobacco as they pass through, or even smoking in front of shops. From this point forward, please strictly instruct those under your charge to refrain from such behavior. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　3rd Month, 26th Day　　To All Units　　　　　　Inspector Corps

　　Appendix

◯Regarding loans with counter-endorsement (裏判借) [marginal note: "as a considerable number of years have passed since these were made"], it has been ordered that from this year onward, only the principal (元銀) is to be repaid, without interest, in ten annual installments (十年賦). This notice is issued from the Financial Office (御勘定所).

　　　　　　　10th Month, 2nd Day

◯As has been directed on numerous occasions, fire prevention is to be observed with the utmost care in all respects. In particular, as was communicated this past spring, during the night hours [continued on next page]