【Right Folio】

◯Regarding going out for hunting and other such activities [and the prohibition on smoking tobacco]: the rest is as per the notice issued this past spring.

　　　　　　　11th Month, 12th Day　　To All Units　　Addendum: to units, etc.～　　Inspector Corps

　　The above notice was newly issued this past spring; however, since this is particularly a season when there is much nighttime traffic on the slopes and roads, it was deemed appropriate that reissuing the said notice would serve well for a long time to come. This was therefore communicated to the Senior Elders, and the notice has accordingly been reissued.

　　　　　　　Oral Notice (Memorandum)　　To the Unit Supervisors (支配頭)

◯Although those who found their allocated residential plots too small have until now been granted additional land upon application, henceforth no such applications will be accepted. As orders have been given that this be communicated to each party individually, please take note accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　11th Month, 17th Day　　To All Units　　　　　　Inspector Corps

　　Addendum: Those who have persons under their supervision are requested to convey this matter to them. Respectfully.

　　The above concerns the fact that, where there were vacant lots adjacent to residential plots, additional land had until now been granted upon application. Henceforth this will no longer be the case — as communicated via Sukuroku's office.

　　　　　　　Oral Notice (Memorandum)

◯Regarding minor officials (小役人) who have biological heirs and have been called up to serve as foot soldiers (御徒): even if such persons should apply to adopt an heir intending to succeed their parent's position, such applications will henceforth not be accepted — as per the order issued. As instructions have been given to communicate this to each party, please take note accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　Intercalary 12th Month, 16th Day　　To All Units　　　　　　Inspector Corps

【Left Folio】

One item: Enkyō 3, Year of the Tiger (1746)

◯As the Inspection Officials (御巡見衆) dispatched by the Shogunal Demesne (御料) will be arriving shortly, during the period of their stay in this domain, when dispatching your servants and retainers to outlying areas, should they happen to encounter the Inspection party along the road, they are to remove their hats (笠) and lower themselves in obeisance (下座). In all respects, strictly instruct even the lowest-ranking members of your households to conduct themselves without any discourtesy whatsoever. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　3rd Month, 25th Day　　　To All Units　　Addendum: to units, etc.～　　Inspector Corps

　　[Written on] stiff paper (堅紙), in the rounded style (月成), on hōsho paper (奉書).

◯The Inspection Officials (御巡見衆) dispatched to the various provinces are expected to arrive shortly. Accordingly, during the period of their passage through this domain, please ensure that fire prevention is observed with the utmost strictness. While they are lodging in the castle town, no firearms are to be discharged. Furthermore, when sending lower-ranking servants to outlying villages, please first make inquiries in advance and instruct them not to travel in the direction of the Inspectors' route. While the Inspectors are lodging in the castle town, lower-ranking servants are not to be sent into town indiscriminately. Should it be necessary to send them out on business, instruct them strictly: no loud voices, no improper conduct, and no negligence in any matter whatsoever. Should they happen to encounter the attendants of the Inspection Officials somewhere in town, they are to step aside and defer to them. The area in front of and behind the Inspectors' lodgings is to be completely closed to passage, with members of the escort unit (押組) posted there.

　Please take note of the above and strictly instruct all those below you accordingly. Respectfully.

　　　　　　　3rd Month, 28th Day　　　To All Units　　Addendum: to units, etc.～　　Inspector Corps