【Notice (Attached Paper Communication)】

○ It has been announced every year that it is strictly prohibited to discharge foreign objects or decorative items into the upper waterways (jōsui) or the castle moat. However, it appears that some retainers have misunderstood this regulation, and it has come to our attention that there are those who dispose of such things into the upper waterways or the castle moat. Should any such persons be found, they will be subject to investigation at a later date. Therefore, please issue strict orders to your retainers accordingly. The above is hereby communicated.
　　　　　13th day of the 7th month　[Also to be forwarded to unit commanders]　　The Inspectors (Metsuke)

○ I am writing to inform you that water from your residence and garden pond/waterway should not be discharged into the castle moat; henceforth, please direct such water into the upper waterway channels. You may consult and make arrangements with neighboring households as needed. For further details, Tsuzuki Saburōuemon will be in contact. Please be duly informed. The above is hereby communicated.
　　　　　22nd day of the 7th month　　　　　　　　　Hatano Buemon
　　　　　[Sent individually to:] Nakamasu Tarōzaemon, Nakane Jūrōzaemon, Shimoyama Hikozō, Iida Sakuzaemon, Ōki Yogoemon — one copy each.

○ I am writing to inform you that when our Lord attended the castle on the 15th of this month, he was not in good health and proceeded directly inside immediately upon descending from his palanquin — a most grave state of affairs. Please inform your colleagues of this as quickly as possible. The above is hereby communicated.
　　　　　19th day of the 10th month　　　　　　　　　The Inspectors (Metsuke)
　　　　　[The above to be sent as individual letters to those on monthly duty]

○ Regarding the Young Lord, henceforth he is to be referred to as "Lord" (Tonosama). Please be duly informed. The above is hereby communicated.
　　　　　26th day of the same month　　　　　　　　　The Inspectors (Metsuke)
　　　　　[To all; also to be forwarded to unit commanders]

○ The posthumous Buddhist name (hōgō) of the Retired Lord is to be "Tokushōin-sama." Furthermore, as his remains are to be placed in a coffin here in this domain, please be informed accordingly. The above is hereby communicated.
　　　　　2nd day of the 11th month　　　　　　　　　The Inspectors (Metsuke)
　　　　　[To all; also to be forwarded to unit commanders]