The Homeless Deep Sedge Hat (Mushuku Fukamigasa)
Shochiku Special Presentation・Uta Pro Super Special Period Drama・・・
Original Story・・・・・Suimon Okichi
Screenplay・・・・・Akama Daisaku
Director・・・・・Inaba Koji
Cinematographer・・・・・Nakamura Yoshio
・Sakuma Shunosuke・・・Ichikawa Utaemon・
・Minazuki no Yasaburo・・Takei Ryuzo・
・Mandarada Goro・・・Amano Jinichi・
・Oyenma Juro・・・・Hatahira Hachiro・
・Oshino・・・・・・Utagawa Kinue・
・Her son Yataro・・・Ichikawa Utahei・
・Sayogoromo・・・・・Ogawa Yukiko・
・Second wife Ona・・・・Miyako Sakura・
◇Synopsis◇The masterless samurai Sakuma Shunosuke helped a clerk who had been cheated in gambling and went to Gongoro's gambling den for revenge, but his sword was just bamboo. Just as he was about to be killed after being wrapped in a reed mat, he was saved by Boss Minazuki who happened to pass by and was hidden in the house of the boss's mistress Oshino. A counterattack comes from Gongoro. Oshino and Shunosuke open their hearts to each other, but Shunosuke cannot disgrace his benefactor's face. Please take good care of Oshino, he says, and departs on a journey, leaving Gongoro's head as a parting gift—seven years later. At a certain post town, Shunosuke throws coins to a woman with a child playing a broken shamisen, and when he looks at her face, it's Oshino. When asked, Oshino lies that Yasaburo is at the next inn. In contrast to Oshino's touching heart, Yasaburo is a beast. Because he loves her, Shunosuke must strip the skin off Minazuki Yasaburo's face. The child and woman, and Shunosuke with his deep sedge hat—the three figures like a family disappear far into the distance on the highway.

Rogues and Geishas (Yotamono to Geisha)
Shochiku Kinema Kamata Super Special Yotamono Series Fifth Work
Original Story and Screenplay・・Yanai Takao
Director・・・・・・Nomura Hiromasa
Camera・・・・Takahashi Yokichi
〃・・・・・・・Kusano Nobuo
・Isono Harukichi・・・・・・Isono Akio・
・Mitsui Shiro・・・・・・Mitsui Hideo・
・Abe Masashichi・・・・・・Abe Masasaburo・
・Toda Seiichiro・・・・・Yuki Ichiro・
・Itoko・・・・・・・・Mitsukawa Kyoko・
・Fumie・・・・・・・Wakamizu Teruko・
・Shuryu・・・・・・・・Wakamizu Kinuko・
・Ishida Teisuke・・・・・・Sakamoto Takeshi・
◇Synopsis◇The Toda business where the three apprentices Isono, Mitsui, and Abe and the head clerk Teisuke worked unfortunately went bankrupt. The trio of Isono, Mitsui, and Abe, feeling gratitude to their master, opened ten-sen stores selling charcoal, laundry, and steamed buns respectively, working desperately to restore their master's house. The bankrupt young master Toda Seiichiro also departed for Karafuto (Sakhalin) to make his fortune. Seiichiro's sister Itoko relied on Shuryu, Isono's sister who worked as a geisha, and became a geisha herself. Fumie, daughter of the Teragawaya and Seiichiro's lover before the bankruptcy, was troubled as her stubborn father's attitude blocked her love with Toda. Seiichiro, who went to Karafuto, failed in the business he had set his sights on and returned home sick. Shuryu, who had long been in love with Seiichiro, cared for him with sincere devotion beyond what even family could provide. Mitsui, knowing Shuryu's true feelings, proposed to everyone that she marry Seiichiro, and Itoko also agreed. However, the day came when everyone understood the true feelings of Fumie, who had been suffering alone. Shuryu sadly gave up on Seiichiro and left Osaka, praying for everyone's success.

Absolutely!! The masterpiece of popular song films competing among four companies for supremacy
...The familiar "Migratory Bird of Tears" from Victor Records, which is popular and beloved with tremendous momentum in the streets and homes, is a deluxe version that can break long-run records with its magnificent extended screening in Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Nagoya, and Kobe...
...Shochiku Kinema Kamata Super Special Film・All Sound Version...
...Victor Records recording popular song・Exclusive film adaptation...
Great star...Director Nomura Yoshitei's authentic devoted work
Bright eyes...Tsubouchi Yoshiko's first starring film since joining the company
...Co-starring...
・Takeuchi Ryoichi・
・Oka Joji・
・Sawa Ranko・
・Mizukubo Sumiko・
・Takao Fujiko・
Spring is cheerful!
Now let's sing!
Don't be the same as other minor companies, with content, production team, and cast staff's luxurious Dobashi-style Shochiku tone All Sound film adaptation...Especially using Ginza Palace queen Tsubouchi Yoshiko as the heroine of this melancholy film, the big members of great Shochiku Kamata make this decidedly spring's clean hit
HIS MASTER'S VOICE【Logo】
TRADE MARK REGISTERED【Logo】
Migratory Bird of Tears
Please look forward to next week's special release