Regarding the pressing and processing methods being transported to the market, due to contractual obligations based on weight measurements and the determination of prices being constrained, there were concerns about causing troubles with low prices. However, with such investigations being conducted, merchants' bulk purchasing activities should proceed through mutual negotiation without any particular obstacles, so we believe there is no need for special regulatory measures.

Article 1: Regarding the establishment of fixed quotas for oil merchants in the city and the arrangements for sales from rural oil producers.
　However, prices should be set and regulations established to ensure there are no inconveniences in mutual buying and selling, and investigation methods should be determined.

Regarding the above article, concerning oils sent from Osaka, Hyogo, and other places to Edo, until now there have been official regulations on hand-grass and hand-pressing methods in the western provinces, and since there were no regulated plant materials, there should also be regulations for shipments to Edo. With the current dismantling of the hand-grass and hand-pressing system, there may also be discussions among oil merchants in Osaka and Hyogo. In any case, since large quantities are being circulated, there may be inconvenient aspects from individual perspectives, but regarding transactions between markets and villages in our domain, there are absolutely no such complications. Since oil merchants in markets and villages have no fixed quotas for pressing output, and townspeople are even more inclined to pursue commercial activities, there is no time to restrain rural oil merchants. Moreover, rural oil merchants also transport small quantities and use shipping routes, conducting price negotiations through direct dealings as before. They either store [oil] or sell at current market prices, and when capital investment becomes difficult, some engage in speculation by timing the market differently. Due to these various practices, market prices naturally fluctuate, and buyers act according to their individual judgment...