month. The king observes ritual purification and performs ceremonies, making sacrifices to the deities of mountains and seas as well as protective deities of the nation. Sometimes officials are dispatched to perform the rituals. The deity of Ben-dake is named Shukushuku, who is the second daughter of the Tensō clan. Sacred walls surround it on four sides, with dense groves of trees. The small gate has an inner barrier and faces south. Outside the gate are two wooden pavilions. On the left side are small stone pagodas and stone lantern stands, five on each side. Upon entering the gate, stone steps turn north then east, with several dozen steps leading to the summit. There is nothing there except burning dozens of incense sticks on a stone furnace. This serves as the place for worshipping the deity of this mountain. In front of the wooden pavilion is a wide, flat area. Facing south, one can see the ocean. In the southeast direction is a stone furnace where incense is burned. This serves as the place for worshipping the sea deity. Throughout the country, wherever there are dense groves with short walls surrounding them and small gates with inner barriers, all are called "dake" (peaks). They are like the earth deities of China. Every village has them.

【Sōgen-ji Temple - Ancestral King's Shrine】Spring and autumn sacrifices. Sometimes the king personally performs the rituals, sometimes officials are dispatched. Three days of purification. Music uses the songs of Tensō Taihei. They sing of the merits and virtues of ancestral kings and the meaning of divine spirits continuing through generations.

【Engaku-ji Temple】Incense offerings of the main sect. There are seasonal sacrifices and monthly sacrifices. 《marginal note: called Urabon Festival》Three days of purification. On death anniversaries there are special sacrifices. On new and full moon days, tea is offered. Tennō-ji and Tenkai-ji temples follow the same rituals.

Diagram of Ancestral King Shrine Spirit Tablets in Shō-Boku Order
《marginal note: Fifteenth Shō》Shō-Eki
《marginal note: Fourteenth Shō》Shō-Tei  
《marginal note: Thirteenth Shō》Shō-Hō
《marginal note: Twelfth Shō》Shō-Ei
【horizontal text】Royal uncles of successive generations who rendered meritorious service