The Buddha Hall has the central bay dedicated to Buddha worship, with the left and right bays serving as side chambers that house the ancestral tablets of former kings who have been transferred to the ancestral shrine (tiao). The right corridor in front of the Buddha Hall serves as the Divine Hall, with two halls arranged side by side. Each hall has three bays, all facing south. The upper hall has three niches; the center is for Shō-En Ryū-Keiun-kun, which is his posthumous title. He is considered the founding ancestor of the royal line. The left niche houses Shō-Shitsu, the great-great-grandfather of the current king. The right niche houses Shō-Tei, the great-grandfather of the current king. The lower hall has three niches for Shō-Shin, who was the son of Shō-En. He is considered the Grand Ancestor (Taisō) of the royal line. Together with the founding ancestor Shō-En, they are both considered permanent ancestral tablets (futiao no shu) that are never transferred. Therefore, they all occupy the central niches. The left niche houses Shō-Eki, the father of the current king. The right niche houses Shō-Jun, the grandfather of the current king. The reason the father occupies the left and the grandfather the right is that the zhao-mu positions are fixed and do not avoid having the same rank.

Inside Tennō-ji Temple, there are also ancestral tablets. The Buddha Hall faces south with three bays; the center is for Buddha worship. In the left bay are two ancestral tablets. One is inscribed "Divine Position of귀진 Shō-Shoku" - this is the father of founding ancestor Shō-En. The other is inscribed "Divine Position of Kijin Shō-Kyū" - Shō-Kyū was the father of King Shō-Hō and the third son of Shō-Gen. Both were fathers of kings but never became kings themselves, so they are separately enshrined here. The two tablets beside them are for queen consorts. In the right bay are four tablets, all for queen consorts.

Inside Tenkai-ji Temple is the ancestral tablet of Shō-I, who was the father of King Shō-Nei. The entire temple houses female tablets, serving queen consorts and the king's sisters. Those who married out but have family shrines may also be enshrined here.

After Crown Prince Shō-Eki died and was first buried, his ancestral tablet was placed in the Crown Prince's residence. Male and female officials wore mourning clothes and performed daily mourning rituals. After one hundred days, the tablet was moved to Tenkai-ji Temple. Men and women also burned incense and silk daily. After the mourning period ended and the three-year memorial transfer was completed, palace women could no longer participate in the sacrificial ceremonies. The rituals for previous former kings were all like this.