[Sacred Temple] Sacrifices are performed twice yearly in spring and autumn. In the first month of the 58th year of Kangxi, Purple-Gold Minister Tei Jun-soku petitioned. For sacrificing to Confucius, the great offering (tairo) is used; for sacrificing to Qisheng-gong, the lesser offering (shōrō) is used. The numbers of ritual vessels (shaku), silk offerings (haku), grain offerings (shisei), and ritual food containers (henzu) are illustrated in detail. For those sacrificial items not available in this country, local products are substituted. Three days before the sacrifice date, all participants observe purification and abstinence. One day prior, the ritual is rehearsed and the sacrificial animals are inspected. On the appointed day, the king sends the Purple-Gold Minister to sacrifice at the Qisheng shrine at the hour of the Ox, and sends the Legal Affairs Official to sacrifice at the Sacred Temple at the hour of the Tiger. All perform the ritual of three kneelings and nine kowtows, and the ceremony of drinking blessed wine and receiving blessed meat. This ritual was first performed in the second month of that year. Before this, Purple-Gold Ministers or Chief Scribes served as chief celebrants, performing the eight-bow ceremony. The drinking of blessed wine and receiving of blessed meat was not performed; only paper money was burned without using silk, and there was no purification or inspection of sacrificial animals. The ritual seemed too simplified, so a petition was made to establish the current proper ceremonial format.

Diagram of Sacred Temple Sacrificial Items
[First Level]
Position of the Most Sacred Teacher
[Second Level]
　Ritual cup with seasoned soup
Silk, ritual cup with clear soup
　Ritual cup with seasoned soup
[Third Level]
　Sugar cane substitutes for water chestnuts, sheep substitutes for deer
White rice cakes, black rice cakes, water chestnuts, dried deer meat
　Oranges substitute for jujubes, banana fruit substitutes for chestnuts
Shaped salt, straw-wrapped fish, jujubes, chestnuts
Millet, rice
Sorghum, foxtail millet
　　　　Sheep substitutes for deer
Leek pickles, fermented meat sauce, turnip pickles, deer meat sauce
　　Spiral shells substitute for rabbit
Celery pickles, rabbit meat sauce, bamboo shoot sauce, fish sauce
[Fourth Level]
Sheep (whole)
Cattle (whole)
Pig (whole)
[Fifth Level]
Candle
Incense
Candle