published the commentary on the Sixteen Sacred Edicts. Several sections are lectured on auspicious days of each month. According to old custom, one Purple-Gold Official supervises education. On the 3rd, 6th, and 9th days of each ten-day period, he visits the lecture hall to inspect the diligence and laziness of the students. He also manages the tributary protocols with China and assists in major ceremonies. Also, from among the naifu, tsūji, and scholars of Kume, one person proficient in literature and reasoning is selected as a lecture teacher. Also, one person skilled in punctuation and clear reading is selected as an exegesis teacher. The lecture teacher receives an annual stipend of twelve koku. A school is established within the Qisheng Shrine to teach interpreters and scholars who complete their studies. The exegesis teacher receives an annual stipend of eight koku. A school is established at the Upper Tianfei Palace to teach beginners aged seven and above.

(Shuri also has three village schools. Children of minor officials and farmers from other outer villages take monks as teachers and all learn the national script. There is cursive writing but no standard script.)

Within Lingxing Gate, in the courtyard, there is a stone stele. Official Tei Jun-soku recorded it. Its summary states: Ryukyu is far away overseas, ten thousand li distant from China. Since the early Ming, it has maintained relations with China and received royal titles. In the twenty-fifth year of Hongwu, princes and children of court officials first entered the imperial academy. [The emperor] also sent thirty-six families of Fujian people to go and provide education. During the Wanli period, Purple-Gold Official Sai Ken first painted the sacred image and led the local gentry to worship it at home. In the eleventh year of Kangxi, former Purple-Gold Official Kin Seishun petitioned to establish a temple. The king approved his proposal. He then selected land in Kumemura and ordered craftsmen to prepare materials, transporting them with axes and applying vermillion paint. By the thirteenth year of Kangxi, completion was announced. The following year, the sacred image was sculpted in the temple, with the Four Associates placed on the left and right. The king ordered Confucian officials to perform the ritual of academic sacrifice on the first ting day of the second month of spring and autumn. Having newly constructed magnificent buildings and solemnly arranged ritual vessels, how splendid it is called! Minister Jun-soku respectfully received the royal command, took up his brush to record the complete story of the construction, and had it carved in stone to preserve it for posterity. Kang-