The people of Ei (Ryukyu Kingdom), from childhood through adulthood, receive stipends and are nurtured, with teachers established to educate children. They deeply receive the state's beneficence. They should further double their efforts and not fail to repay the grace of education from above. In this there is no shame. Sai Bunpo was one of the students who entered the Imperial Academy in the twenty-fifth year of Kangxi. Therefore his words have such logical sequence.

On Official Students Entering the National Academy to Study

In the twenty-third year of Kangxi of this dynasty, envoys Wang Ji and Lin Linzhao submitted on behalf [of Ryukyu]: "Remote peoples turn toward civilization, seeking to send their children to enter schools and study." In the twenty-fifth year, King Sho Tei sent official students Ryo Seikyu, Sai Bunpo, and Gen Ishin to enter the National Academy to study. In the ninth month of the twenty-seventh year, they entered the Imperial Academy.

His Majesty specially established one instructor. Zheng of Fujian served as instructor for one year, and Gongsheng [■] Zhen of Ningbo served as instructor for three years. Xu Zhenyi taught that the three official students should be treated the same way, all following the precedent of chief interpreters. Daily they were provided with one chicken, two jin of meat, five qian of tea, and one jin of tofu. Pepper, soy sauce, vegetables, etc. were all provided. Each year in spring and autumn they were granted cotton and silk robes and outer garments, spun silk trousers each one set, one summer hat, and one pair each of shoes and socks. In summer they were granted gauze robes and outer garments, and silk shirts and trousers each one set. In winter they were provided with silk-faced sheepskin robes and outer garments, cotton socks and trousers each one set, fur hats and leather boots, and woolen socks, quilts and mattresses were all provided. The attendants also all received grants. Monthly they received one tael and five qian of silver for writing materials, all disbursed through the Court of State Ceremonial. In the twenty-ninth year, tribute envoy and intelligence officer On Inketsu and Senior Policy Advisor Kin Gentatsu arrived in the capital. The king requested to send the official students back to their country. They were granted a banquet, each given rewards of cloud-patterned silk, silk cloth and other items, and sent home by post horses.