The memorial states: When we ministers invested the King of Ryukyu, after the ceremony concluded, there was a banquet and conversation. The king ordered an interpreter to present words saying: "Our country is remotely located overseas, where crude and unsophisticated customs have become the norm. In the twenty-fifth year of Kangxi, we received the imperial edict and sent three official students including Ruan Weixin to enter school and study. Now we have gained some knowledge of literary education. For thirty years since then, there has been no follow-up petition. Fortunately, Heaven has sent envoys to our country. We request to follow the old precedent of former envoy Wang Ji's petition for entering school and studying, to clearly express the intention of remote peoples turning toward civilization. If we should be granted permission to again send official students to enter school and study, then His Imperial Majesty's literary education would spread even more widely," etc. Therefore, a memorial was prepared and submitted to the ministry.

Upon investigation, in the twenty-third year of Kangxi, the envoy Hanlin Academy Reviewer Wang Ji and others, who were dispatched for the investiture of the Ryukyu King, conveyed the request of King Shang Zhen to have retainer ministers' children go to the capital to enter the Imperial Academy and study, and this was forwarded to the ministry. Our ministry, considering what was requested, deliberated and prepared a memorial. An imperial edict was received approving the proposal. This was respectfully followed and is on record. Now, King Shang Jing of Ryukyu inclines his heart toward civilization and has already stated that if he petitions again to have official students enter school and study, His Imperial Majesty's literary education would spread even more widely, etc. We should respond as requested and permit these official students to go to the capital to enter the Imperial Academy and study. The appropriate procedures should be re-deliberated and memorialized when the time comes. This was memorialized on the second day of the eighth month of the fifty-ninth year of Kangxi, and on the fifth day of this month, an imperial edict was received approving the proposal.