Zen Buddhism

There are no Daoist priests in the country. Buddhism has two types: the Rinzai sect and Shingon teaching. The Rinzai sect belongs to the Zen school, and besides ritual recitation, they mostly study poetry composition. Shingon teaching involves praying for people and writing talismans and incantations. They particularly pray for good fortune during the first, fifth, and ninth months. Both prohibit meat and alcohol. Those residing in the various temples of Shuri are all of the Rinzai sect. Among those in Naha, only three places—Tōzen-ji, Seitai-ji, and Kōgon-ji—are of the Zen sect; the rest are all Shingon teaching.

Since the Tang dynasty, this country has had National Master Butchi Enyū. He crossed the sea to study, and thus began the Rinzai sect.

The sūtra collections they possess include only the Lotus Sutra, Vimalakīrti Sutra, Śūraṅgama Sutra, Dharma Treasure Platform Sutra, Emperor Liang's Repentance, Records of Linji, Records of Zhongfeng, Records of the Blue Cliff, etc. There is also the Collection of Three Sounds (Sanrai-shū), written by three monks: Sekioku, Chūhō, and Yūdō. All three monks were people of the Yuan period. There is also Zen Master Kōsen, originally a Min person from the early Ming dynasty, who later resided at Ōbaku-san in Japan. He wrote the Senyun Poetry Collection, Buddhist Country Verses, and Zōrin Collection. His disciple Tenchi was a Min monk skilled in calligraphy.

National law prohibits monks from crossing the sea to enter China. However, there are those who go to Japan to study. Monk robes are mostly made using silk and pongee of vermillion-yellow colors. Besides the kesa, there is another garment resembling a vest, called "danzoku" (cutting worldly ties). Hats are mostly made of felt, like the bamboo hats of China.

Monk Stipends

After monks are tonsured, if their names are recorded in the registry, this is reported to the Bureau of Buddhist Affairs (Ribon-shi). All receive rice stipends. The monks of Engaku-ji, being the location of the royal family's ancestral temple incense offerings, receive particularly substantial stipends—eighty koku annually. Tennō...