Illustration of Ancient Mirrors in the Shrine's Collection

According to one theory, the "Fusō Ryakki" records that "On the 4th day of the 5th month of Engi 2, there was an oracle from Usa (etc.) named Great Self-Sovereign King Bodhisattva." The reference to "Great Bodhisattva" forty-four years before this is questionable. In the "Shoku Nihongi" as well, both the entry for Tenpyō 12 and the entry for Shōhō 1 refer to "Hachiman Great Deity" without mentioning "Bodhisattva." While this argument has merit, this mirror was not made in Tenpyō Tsuchinoto-u (739), but was likely cast and donated later. The Tenpyō Tsuchinoto-u inscription appears to record an earlier date when the deity was enshrined. This is similar to how the "Nihon Shoki" records events of its time using later provincial names that don't match those in the "Kojiki."

Upon examination, the inscription on the Hachiman bell in Hachiman village records that during the Kanpyō era of Emperor Uda, Iwashimizu Hachiman was relocated and enshrined there. This mirror may also have been donated around that time. The style of characters does not appear to be from the Kamakura period or later.

[Upper Mirror]
Diameter: 7 sun, thickness: slightly less than 2 bu
Back inscription:

Nansembu-shū Great Japan
Sōshū Katsushika-gun, west of the provincial capital
Iyaku-san Kokubun Nunnery
Myōhōke Yakuō-hon Temple
Guardian Hachiman Great Bodhisattva
Tenpyō Tsuchinoto-u Ritual Site

Regarding the mirror donated to Hachiman by the shrine priest of Sengen Shrine, there would be no reason to forge it, and moreover, as a Shinto priest, he would not improperly use the character for "Bodhisattva." However, since it is so inscribed, it must remain as it originally was, according to one opinion.

[Lower Mirror]
Back
Diameter: 7 sun, thickness: about 1 bu (ears broken or rim missing)

At this location, there are markings like cut-in designs

Gofun coating thickness: about 1 sun 5 bu

Bottom engraving inscription: 4 sun 6 bu

[Inscription within frame]
Eiroku 12 (Tsuchinoto-mi) year
　　　　Chiba-no-suke Taira no Kunitane
Auspicious day in the 1st month

[Above frame]
1 sun 3 bu