They accomplished this task and composed folk verses to serve as the inscription, which reads as follows: [inscription text omitted]

Third year of Kanbun, in the cyclical year designation
Former Eiheiji, current Sōneiji 22nd generation, Chidō-sō (Kōshō) respectfully records
Metalworker: Okamaya Hori Yamashiro-no-kami Kiyomitsu

Mama-san Guhōji Temple: Located in Mama. Temple holdings of thirty koku [granted in the 19th year of Tenshō, year of Kanoto-u, 11th month]. Belongs to the Nichiren sect under Ikegami Honmonji Temple. One of the six branch temples (rokumonka). Principal image is Shakyamuni Buddha [made by Tokijō Jōnin. The Niō guardian kings at the tower gate were made by Unkei, entirely black in color, different from others]. Founder was Tokijō Jōnin, founding priest was Nitchō Shōnin [Iya Ajari, called Yamamoto-bō. Father was Tachibana Iya-no-kami Sadatoki, mother was the daughter of Sehara Yashirō Kunishige of Sunshū. During pregnancy, Sadatoki died and she married Tokijō Gorō Tanetsugu. In the first year of Shōan, when foster father Jōnin (Tanetsugu) died, Nitchō could not bear his grief] [On the 12th day of the 8th month he left this place and never returned. The place of his death is unknown. According to one theory, he left on the 8th day of the 3rd month for missionary work and never returned. Which is correct? His grave is at Shōrinji Temple, about two or three chō northwest of Fuji Kitayama Honmonji] ○ [In the Guhōji death register it shows: Nitchō Shōnin died on the 12th day of the 8th month, 3rd year of Karyaku, year of Tsuchinoe-tatsu, aged 86]

This temple was originally Shingon (esoteric Buddhism) and is a former site of Kūkai. Hence it is called Guhōji Temple [the statue of Kōbō Daishi is at Sōjiji Temple in Nishi-Arai] [It was probably moved during the time of religious conversion] ○ [The land of Mama also appears to have originally been within Ichikawa Village, as a document from the 11th year of Bunmei by someone named Tōyama refers to "Mama within Ichikawa"]

○ In the Genkō Shakusho [Volume 1]: "Priest Kūkai, surname Saeki, a person from Tado District in Sanuki Province. Father was Tagimi, mother was of the Abe clan, childhood name was Kimotsu. At age eighteen he entered university. By chance he met the monk Gonsō and received the Kokūzō Gumonjiho (Akasagarbha Memory Retention Method). In the 14th year of Enryaku he went east