【Upper part of the illustration】
Plan of Ichikawa Castle Site
During the Kōshō era (1452-1455), Chiba Sanekata used this as his stronghold.
According to a certain book, to the east of Sōneiji Temple, there was formerly a castle belonging to someone called Kokubu Gorō. 《and so forth》
Alternatively, it is said that "Kokubu" derives from a place name in Ōshū (northern Japan). There is a castle site of Kokubu Gorō in Ōsaki Village, Katori District, which has no relation to this area. This is probably an error.
○ In the Chiba genealogy, it states that Kokubu-gō in Katsushika District of Shimōsa Province was granted as a fief. It is unclear which account is correct.

【Lower part of the illustration】
The Karamete River mentioned in the "Record of Military Conflicts in Sagami Province" probably refers to this.

The bell inscription appears to say that a hōō (emperor who became a monk) is buried here, but this was probably not actually a burial but rather a gyakushū (pre-death memorial service). At that time, to curry favor with Dōkyō, such gyakushū graves were built at provincial headquarters throughout the country. Reasonably enough, there is a stone sarcophagus at a place called Kōnodai, and a chariot mound at Katawara. The place called Hōō-zuka (Emperor's Mound) - all these customary names probably refer to Dōkyō. And so forth.

In "Famous Places of Edo" it is considered the grave of an ancient person. It might be the grave of someone like a provincial governor who died at his post.

【Note: Gyakushū = performing Buddhist services while still alive to pray for one's posthumous salvation】

【Main text on left side of illustration】
According to a certain book, from the Kamakura period onward this became a crossroads of warfare, appointments of court nobles ceased, and elegant literary traditions were no longer transmitted. During the Bunmei era (1469-1487), Ōta Dōkan fortified it as a castle and used it as a base for attacking Usui. After the Kobow Kubō's military campaign during the Tenbun era (1532-1555), it belonged to the Hōjō, and their retainer the Kaji clan became castle lords. During the time of Kaji Gorō Arihisa, after Toyotomi Hideyoshi's attack on Odawara, it came under the Tokugawa house, and a Tokugawa retainer named Toshima became castle lord. Later, the present Ankokuzan Sōneiji Temple was moved here from Sekiyado. 《and so forth》
Based on this, the Kokubu Gorō mentioned might not refer to a member of the Chiba clan but rather to the Kaji clan. This should be investigated further.