[Kūkai] received full ordination precepts at the great temple, and in the 23rd year [of his life], he followed the Tang envoy Fujiwara no Kanō to Chang'an city, where he sought instruction from Ācārya Keika (Huiguo) of the inner court at the Eastern Pagoda courtyard of Qinglong Temple. Keika rejoiced and said: "I knew beforehand of your coming and have waited for you a long time. I shall transmit to you completely all the esoteric seals and credentials of the Two Realm mandala teachings." He also summoned court painters Li Zhen and more than ten others to draw ten sets of Diamond and Womb Realm mandalas, had metalworkers Yang Zhongxin and others newly create ritual implements, gathered scribes to copy various esoteric sutras, and [Kūkai] returned to Japan in Daidō 1 (806). He entered meditation on the 21st day of the 3rd month of Jōwa 2 (835). He was sixty-two years old.

○ Ruijū Kokushi 《Side note: 180》 On the day Mizunoe-ne of the 1st month of Jōwa 2, Great Monk Supervisor and Dharma Master Kūkai memorialized: "According to the imperial edict of Kōnin 14, I wish to have fifty Shingon monks reside at Tōji temple to practice the Three Mysteries teachings. Now the temple buildings have been constructed, but the study and lectures have not yet been initiated. I humbly request that 200 households be allocated from the 1,000 households of Tōji's official merit-earning tax households 《Side note: 50 households from Kai Province | 150 households from Shimōsa Province》 to provide for the monks' sustenance, so that they may perform purifying practices for the nation and benefit both humans and heavenly beings." This was granted. 《Side note: △ Considering these two records, although there is no evidence of establishing a temple in Shimōsa, there is text about using 150 households to provide for monks》
《Side note: Perhaps later, to repay this favor, a temple was built and named Kōbōji. This area would be within those ancient 150 households》

○ Imperial Letter 《Side note: 37》 Record of Offerings to Mama Shakyamuni Buddha
Regarding the matter of creating the Shakyamuni Buddha statue, the one mind containing three thousand realms of the original mind that has not manifested since beginningless eons...