《Therefore, the existence of "Teko no Yobai-zaka" (Teko's Night-Crawling Hill) proves this point. Since "teko" is a term that applies to both males and females, for females "na" should be added when addressing them. "Mama no Tekona" is an example of this. However, because it was commonly used, it was also written as "Ishii no Teko" (Teko of Ishii). ○Kiyonori states that regarding "okutsuki" (grave site), the Kojiki-den explains: "Oku refers to underground. Tsu is an auxiliary character. Ki is the name of a place where the dead are interred. In the Chronicles, the characters for coffin are read as 'ki,' and the Wamyōshō cites the Shishō Jien: 'A coffin is for containing corpses.' The Japanese reading appears as 'koto-kiki'"》

Rokusho Myōjin Shrine - Located in the same place《This area is called Koganeryō Hayano-shō》Shrine domain: 10 koku《Tenshō 19, year of the Metal Rabbit, 11th month. This vermillion seal originally designated Suwada Village in Inba District, changed to Katsushika District from Enkyō 14, 8th month, 12th day》The shrine's tradition states that the main hall enshrines Ōnamuchi-no-mikoto, with auxiliary halls for Izanami-no-mikoto, Susanoo-no-mikoto, Ōmiyame-no-mikoto, Furu-no-mitama, and Hikohoninigi-no-mikoto. It was established on the 5th day of the 5th month of Emperor Keikō's 41st year. Religious ceremonies are held on both the 19th and 20th days of the 9th month. The shrine priest is called Kuwahara Izumi《Nemoto within Ichikawa, Rokutanda within Kokubu, and Suwada Village are all parishioners》

○The Azuma Kagami《Volume 1》, entry for the 16th day of the 10th month of Jishō 4, mentions "Rokusho-gū of Sagami Provincial Office"《etc.》《△The Hitachi Rokusho Shrine is located about three ri south of the provincial office, in the Tsukuba area. The Kai Rokusho Shrine is said to be fourteen or fifteen ri from Fuchū. The Sanshū Meiseki-shi, Volume 5, states "The Rokusho Shrine enshrines the deities of Suwa, Inari, Yuki, and others"》

The Sōsha Denki Kōshō states: "The title 'Rokusho Shrine' was granted in writing by Urabe no Asomi Kanetsura-kyō in Kanbun 3"《The Wakun-kan notes: "The Rokusho Shrine of Shiki Saga-gō is located in Amabe District of Bungo Province. It is the Hayasui-hime Shrine, enshrining the six deities of the Age of Gods." This should be carefully considered》