[The text continues from a previous discussion about a shrine]...

Someone says that to the right of this shrine there is something called the "Koma-tome-ishi" (horse-stopping stone), which was the ancient dismounting place, and the current dismounting sign derives from that historical precedent. {{Side note: According to the Zōkai Dai Kiroku, in the second month of Enkyō 5 (1748), when petitioning for renewal of the dismounting sign along with the three-province licensed fundraising, the old dismounting sign was submitted to Ōoka Echizen-no-kami, who ordered that such old things should be carefully preserved. Length: two shaku, width: one shaku five sun and more}}

○ According to the Hōzen-ji Sen'ei-gū-sha Reconstruction Record of Kanbun 3 (1663): "Originally in ancient times, construction began in Ōan 6 (1373) and was completed in Eiwa 4 (1378) with the ceremonial relocation of the deity. When this was reported to the imperial court, during the time of Regent Enshōji Tosho-no-kami Minamoto no Ujimasa, Samurai-dokoro Hara Magosaburō Taira no Sadashige and Danjō Saemon-no-jō Taira no Ujiharu collected ridge-pole taxes from six estates in this province as monthly mutual financing and built it successively. The total cost at that time was over 1,080 kan-mon."

○ Ancient Bell, one piece {{Side note: In autumn of Kansei 5 (1793), a large zelkova tree was blown down by wind, and when digging out the roots of the dead tree, this was excavated. On the side of the dragon head is carved "Ōei..." According to Edo Meisho Zue, this was probably from when local people buried it underground during ancient warfare, fearing plunder. However, it seems unlikely they would have had time to record dates during such occasions. Upon consideration, the Genkō bell was damaged in a fire and this was probably recast during the Ōei period. However, the inscription was likely based on the original}}

Hachiman Shirazu-no-mori (Unknown Forest): Located to the south of the same place, about twenty paces square. It is said to be the ancient site where Hachiman Shrine was enshrined. {{Side note: Still maintained by Hōzen-ji temple}} In the forest there is a small stone shrine dedicated to Inari. The local people say that if a person enters this place...

[Text continues but is cut off at the bottom of the page]