○According to the Chronicle of the High Patriarch, Master Ren's surname was Nukina, and he was a native of Kominato in Nagasa District, Awa Province. His father was Jirō Shigetada, and his mother was of the Kiyohara clan. He was born on the sixteenth day of the second month of the first year of Jōō (1222). His name was Sennichimaro. At age twelve, he entered Seichōji Temple in the district and studied under Dōzen as his master. He changed his name to Yakuōmaro. At age sixteen, he took the tonsure and received ordination. His name was Renchō, with the courtesy name Zeshō. Later he changed it to Nichiren. He studied Shingon doctrine and still desired to master the learning of all Buddhist schools. At age seventeen, he went to study in Kamakura. At age twenty-one, he returned to Bōshū, then went to Kamakura again and, following Sonkai, climbed Mount Hiei and resided at Endonbō in the Eastern Pagoda complex. He studied there for twelve years. During this time, he visited Senyu-ji Temple in the capital, Mii-dera Temple, the great temples of the southern capital (Nara), Mount Kōya in Kii Province, Tennō-ji Temple in Settsu Province, Shōtoku Taishi Hall in Shinano, the shrine of Otokoyama Hachiman, and other places, studying the learning of each location and greatly grasping their essential points. Sometimes he attended lectures by Confucian scholars, and also had an audience with Fujiwara no Tameie to study waka poetry, then returned to Mount Hiei. At age thirty-one, his studies were already complete and he was about to return to Bōshū. He passed through Ise, worshipped at the shrine of Amaterasu Ōmikami, and returned to Seichōji Temple. He was then thirty-two years old. On the twenty-eighth day of the fourth month of this year, he first chanted the title of the Lotus Sutra and established four maxims, saying: "Nembutsu leads to the hell of incessant suffering, Zen is demonic, Shingon destroys the nation, Ritsu are enemies of the state." The local lord Taira no Kagenobu conspired with Dōzen to expel him. Jōken and Gijō secretly