lodged at Renbō. In the fifth month, he entered Kamakura, and in the eleventh month, the Tendai monk Jōben converted and took the name Nisshō. At age thirty-three, Nichirō became his disciple. At age thirty-seven, he lost his father. At age thirty-nine, while residing at Matsubagayatsu in Kamakura, he wrote the "Risshō Ankokuron" (Treatise on Establishing the Correct Teaching and Pacifying the Country). On the night of the twenty-seventh day of the eighth month of this year, several hundred monks and laypeople who despised the master's propagation attacked and burned his dwelling. The master hid in a nearby cave and escaped harm. He went to Shimōsa Province and lodged with the Tokiuchi family. He carved with his own hands one Buddha with four bodhisattvas and Kishimojin. At age forty, he went to Onda in Musashi Province and inquired about the secret mysteries of Shinto from Yoshida Ōhafuri Kanemasu. He finally returned to Kamakura. On the twelfth day of the fifth month of this year, Taira no Nagatoki, despising the master's preaching of heterodox teachings, exiled him to Itō in Izu Province. He was moved and resided in Wada. At age forty-two, Taira no Tokiyori pardoned the master and allowed him to return to Kamakura. He resided again at Matsubagayatsu. At age forty-three, he wrote "Shūkyō Issaku" (One Policy for Religion) and debated the relative merits of the Lotus and Shingon schools. In the eighth month, he returned to Bōshū to visit his mother. He lodged at Hanabō (Renge-ji Temple). In the eleventh month, when the master was at Komatsubara, Kagenobu, who believed in the Pure Land school, led his faction to surround the master. His disciple Kyōnin died in this incident. The master was also wounded. The lord of Amatsu, of the Kudō clan, came to rescue him and died fighting. Through this, the master was able to escape. At age forty-four, he went to Shimōsa Province, passed through Tsukuba in Hitachi Province, bathed in the hot springs of Nasu in Shimotsuke Province, and went to Utsunomiya.