Tanemori (Takeishi Saburo)

Tanenobu (Osuga Shiro)

Tanemichi (Kokubu Goro)

Taneyori (Higashi Rokuro Tayu, Junior Fifth Rank Lower)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Takakura Prince)
Nichinobu (Resided at Onjoji Temple, called Ritsujōbō. Performed prayers for Yoritomo. In Jishō 4th year, joined Prince Mochihito's army, fought valiantly and killed six men with his own hands, finally died in battle at Mount Kōmyō. After Lord Yoritomo's reign, donated Iga Yamada-gō to Miidera Temple for Buddhist services)

(According to the Nine Generations of Hōjō: eldest son was Shikibu Taifu Toki, second son was Shuri no suke Masahide, third son was Saemon no jō Yasuhide, fourth son was Rokuro Kagehide)

Tsunehide (Kazusa no suke Saemon no jō, recorded as Sakai no Heiji in the Genpei Jōsuiki)　　　　Hidetane (Kazusa no suke, Sakai Ukyō Jirō)　　　　　　Hideto (Shikibu Taiho, committed suicide like his father)

Kanshū (Kurihara Zenji)　　　　　　Tokitsune (Hanyū Jirō, also written as Ue)　　　　　　　　Hideyasu (Hanyū Shuri no suke, committed suicide like his father, also written as Kaki)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Once inherited his father's domain Hanyū-shō but Hidetane seized it from him, causing Tokitsune's despair. When he heard that Hidetane had met with disaster, he immediately entered Ōyanagi mansion and committed suicide together with his brother)

Yoshimitsu　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hidetsuna (Goro Saemon, likewise committed suicide)

[Main Text]
On the 5th day of the 6th month of Hōji 1st year, Miura Yasumura was executed. Hidetane's wife was Yasumura's younger sister. For this reason, Hōjō Tokiyori ordered Ōsuga Saemon no jō Taneuji, Higashi Nakatsukasa Nyūdō Taisen and others to attack him. At Ōyanagi mansion in Kazusa Ichinomiya, Hidetane piled charcoal and firewood on all four sides outside the mansion, and when enemy soldiers came to attack, he set fire to burn it. The power of the flames was extremely fierce and could not be approached. Hidetane had his soldiers shoot arrows, while he himself entered a room with his four sons, recited sutras, and then committed suicide.