The Kannon Bodhisattva is the protective principal image of Aihara Bungo-no-kami Tanemitsu (also written as Tanenaga, and called Sakon-shōgen). It was erected on the 18th day of the 8th month of Entoku 2 (1490), with Shūon as the temple master (Shūon was the second generation abbot of Suginomuro and later moved to Oguri Shūshin-in). This temple was originally called Shūshin-in, but during the time of Chiba Suketane (at this time, Umaka Yasutane was managing the Chiba family affairs, and documents were also issued by Yasutane. Yasutane died on the 21st day of the 11th month of Meiō 4 [1495] at age 38, with the posthumous name Gessō Jōki Daishi), the monk Jushō served as head priest (this monk originally served as head priest at Taiyū-in and from this time it became a branch temple). At that time, Ishino appears to have been the place where Tanemitsu resided. After Tanemitsu's death, his son Uemon Saburō Tanenobu renamed Shūshin-in, using his father's posthumous name as the temple name (Tanemitsu died on the 11th day of the 12th month of Eishō 5 [1508] at age 57, with the posthumous name Kan'ō Jōsen Koji. According to temple records from Meiwa 7 [1770], both the principal image and temple name were brought from Oguri Shūshin-in. It may have been a branch temple, which is why it was called Shūshin-in).

○The tree-lined avenue at Ishino is called Moku-no-shin Namiki (this area is called Moku-no-shin Shinden. This person was said to be a magistrate of the Doi family).

The Engi-shiki states: "Plant fruit trees along the roadsides of all provinces to provide rest for travelers. If there are places without water, assess the convenience and have wells dug," and so forth.

○The Kai Sōki (Volume 3) records: "According to the Bei Shi (Northern History), when Wei Xiaokuan became governor of Yongzhou, he reformed the roads, placing earthen markers every li and planting elm trees in various places as mile markers. Emperor Wen of Zhou ordered the entire realm to follow this example: planting one tree per li, two trees per two li, and one hundred trees per hundred li."