[Outside black border]
New publication, Kaei 7, Year of the Wood Tiger, 11th month

[Inside black border]
Great Earthquakes of Various Provinces

Explanation of Earthquakes
Generally speaking, earthquakes occur when the normal balance of cold, heat, warmth, and coolness is disrupted. When conditions are calm, there is safety and no strange phenomena like thunder occur. When yin energy is forced into yang energy and erupts, this is difficult to contain. Therefore, the occurrence of large and small earthquakes depends on the strength or weakness of these forces. Generally, during irregular times, there are sudden changes like thunder and earthquakes, and where these forces are most intense, there are tsunamis that pull villages into the sea, thrust large ships onto mountains, bury ancient riverbeds, cause new springs to emerge, split the earth with fire that burns homes. People should be prepared and escape these sudden disasters.

Already this time, on the 4th day of the 11th month of Kaei 7, Year of the Tiger, around 8 AM, I record in detail the provinces struck by the great earthquake and great tsunami:

Beginning with the Tōkaidō, first in Sagami Province, Lord Ōkubo Kaga-no-kami's castle in Odawara suffered some damage, over thirty storehouses collapsed in the post town, most townhouses were damaged, and there were very many injured. Hakone suffered some damage but few injuries. In Yamanaka, most houses collapsed, Mitsutani collapsed damaging the checkpoint, and though the mountains didn't shake, large rocks and trees broke. Beginning with the Yumoto area, houses were greatly toppled and damaged.

At Mishima post town, many houses collapsed, and moreover fire broke out from the bridge area of Shinmachi, burning over three blocks toward Temma-chō and Kubo-chō before dawn. The earthquake grew ever stronger, with over seventy dead and injured, even rescue horses burned to death, and some died trapped under debris—truly pitiful beyond words.

In Izu Province, Ōshima, Kōzushima, Mikura, Miyakejima and other islands shook greatly. Irogasaki, Heda, Kawazu, Inatori, Akasawa, Itō, Hōjō, Nirayama, Nitta, Shuzenji, and Atami areas all collapsed together, with many deaths and numerous injuries. In Shimoda, over 1,200 houses were swept away by tsunami, leaving only about fifteen houses, though many people escaped by fleeing to higher ground. At Ajiro, over forty large ships and countless small boats were carried off by the great tsunami, most disappeared, and many damaged boats were thrust onto mountains. Shirahama was also devastated, with over 500 houses swept away by tsunami, and many dead and injured. At Fujimi, two ships of 200-300 koku capacity were thrust 22-23 chō inland.

In Suruga Province, the castle town of Lord Mizuno Dewa-no-kami in Numazu suffered great damage with collapsed and burning houses, and the coastal area suffered tremendous damage from the great tsunami, with over 200 injured in this area alone, and even cattle and horses died. Kambara post town, Yui, and Okitsu had damaged houses but no fires, though seven-tenths burned. Ejiri post town saw all houses in Shimizu port town collapse and become a great fire with many injured, elderly and young, men and women scattered in all directions, truly like heaven and earth turned upside down, a sight unbearable to witness.

On the same day at the same time, the Fuji River banks collapsed burying over two chō, with river water overflowing. Satta Pass collapsed, Miho Pine Grove was severely affected, and the Yoshida area likewise. Most of Fuchū's castle town was damaged and burned. Around Miroku, the Abe River flooded causing difficulties. The encampment of Lord Matsudaira Tango-no-kami of Kojima domain (10,000 koku), Mariko post town, Utsu-no-ya Pass, and Mine were devastated and collapsed. Okabe post town and Fujieda post town were severely affected. The castle town of Lord Honda Buzen-no-kami at Tanaka suffered great damage with most houses collapsed and burned. The Seto River flooded and stopped up, Sangen-ya and Shimada post town collapsed. The Ōi River had unprecedented flooding rarely seen in history. Kanaya mostly collapsed, Nissaka likewise. The Ōjigoku and Kojigoku of Sayo-no-nakayama completely collapsed and shook.

The castle town of Lord Ōta Settsu-no-kami at Kakegawa suffered major damage, with much of the post town collapsed and burned, six-tenths burning. Fukuroi and Mitsuke post towns were the same, Ikeda all suffered great damage, with the Ōtenryū and Kotenryū rivers nearly becoming one, about 500 houses' worth of embankments breaking and many houses damaged. The castle town of Lord Nishio Oki-no-kami at Yokosuka suffered great damage with houses collapsed and people trapped. Fukuroi and Mitsuke post towns shook and collapsed, caught fire and three-tenths burned. Lord Inoue Kawachi-no-kami's castle and houses at Hamamatsu were damaged. Maisaka and Arai were mostly swept away by tsunami, and the seven-ri sea was rough, sweeping away most houses. Shirasuka and Futagawa suffered three-tenths damage. Lord Matsudaira Izu-no-kami's castle at Yoshida suffered some damage, with most townhouses collapsed. Goyu, Akasaka, and Fujikawa were devastated and the post towns damaged. The castle town and houses at Okazaki suffered some damage.

In the same province, the castle and townhouses of Lord Miyake Tsushima-no-kami at Tahara were damaged. Chiryu, Narumi, Miya post town, and Nagashima area were damaged. Lord Matsudaira Etchū-no-kami's castle at Kuwana suffered some damage, as did some houses. At Yokkaichi, forty-three houses collapsed and there was a great tsunami at the coast. The castle town of Lord Honda Iyo-no-kami at Kanbe and Shiroko-Ueno suffered three-tenths major damage. The castle town of Lord Tōdō Izumi-no-kami at Tsu shook greatly but damage was limited.

Kumotsu and Tsukimoto lost six houses each. Matsusaka, Kushida, Kohama, and Yamada-chō had houses and storehouses greatly damaged. Uji Bridge and Futami-ga-ura were mostly damaged, but reverently, the Inner and Outer Shrines had no problems, and people nearby were uninjured—truly something to revere. Ishiyakushi, Shōno post town, and the castle town of Lord Ishikawa Hyūga-no-kami at Kameyama were damaged with townhouses greatly collapsed. Iga Province had little damage. Owari Miya post town was mostly damaged. Twenty-three ken of coastal area collapsed, storehouses collapsed, government offices were damaged. Kamezaki and Handa had great tsunamis. Nagoya and Kiyosu had some damage.

In Settsu Province Ōsaka, the Ajigawa-guchi area, Ajigawa Bridge, Daibutsu Island, Kujō Island area houses were mostly damaged. The ship magistrate office, granaries, guard stations, and Funatsu Bridge suffered great damage. Yamada-chō, Hyōgo-chō, Minato Bridge, Rokuzaemon-chō, Minato Bridge, and Jōan area were swept away by great tsunami. In Jinbei-chō, Toko village reclaimed land, Ryōshō-chō, Jirōbei-chō, Fukushima, Tenjin, Shōsenji, Honmachi, Kitsune-tsuji, and Awaji-chō, great ground splitting occurred with sand and water spouting up, and about twenty townhouses were swept away. The Seto coast, Sumigawa road, Suita-chō, Edo-bori, Shinzaimoku Bridge, and Sanmai Bridge had over twenty houses collapse. At Aji River, the great tsunami pushed up tremendous numbers of large and small boats, thirty-eight bridges were swept away, and four or five large ships were thrust up to Daikoku Bridge. Ferry boats and small boats crashed into large ships and were mostly destroyed, with many dead and injured. Tenpōzan suffered great damage. Ikeda, Itami, Yoshino area, and Hyōgo suffered great damage. The castle town of Lord Matsudaira Tōtōmi-no-kami at Amagasaki was damaged. The castle town area of Lord Kuki Nagato-no-kami at Sanda was damaged, and Lord Aoki Kai-no-kami's encampment at Asada suffered great damage.

In Yamashiro Province, the castle town of Yodo, Fushimi, Kyoto, Yamato, and Kawachi experienced great earthquakes. In Kii Province, Kumano Bay had great tsunamis with most houses damaged. The castle town of the Kii lord at Wakayama was damaged. The castle towns of Lord Andō Hida-no-kami at Tanabe and Lord Mizuno Tosa-no-kami at Shingū were greatly damaged with most houses collapsed. Generally at Tsukumo Bay, Kuroe, Hikata, and Fujishiro, great tsunamis raised tide about three feet under floors. Likewise Hiro Bay was swept through and lost. Katō, Minoshima, and Yura port were swept away. Ōshima, Arida's Kada, and Meba area suffered great damage. Izumi Province's Kishiwada suffered great damage, and Sakai town was damaged like Ōsaka.

Echizen's Fukui castle town suffered great damage. Likewise Tsuruga area and Tanba Kameyama were the same. That entire area and all of Shikoku roads, Awa Province's Tokushima castle town were greatly damaged, and moreover the Gohyaku Rakan area was mostly damaged. Tosa Province suffered great damage, and Awaji Island had great tsunamis. The castle town of Lord Kyōgoku Tosa-no-kami at Marugame was damaged. Iyo Province had some damage. In Harima Province, the castle town of Lord Mori Etchū-no-kami at Akō was damaged. Bizen's Tanokuchi and Shimomura area, Bitchū's Kurashiki and Tamashima area, Bingo's Tomo road, Tomo, and the castle town area of Lord Abe Ise-no-kami at Fukuyama had some damage, with little damage at Tsurusaki. Higo's Kumamoto domain territory was damaged by great earthquake and tsunami. Hyūga's Nobeoka had greatly rough seas. Hizen Province had some damage, as did the Chinese (Nagasaki) residences.

Besides this, at the same time Shinshū's Wada Pass area, Shimosuwa, Fukushima checkpoint area, Agematsu, Suwara-no-shiri area were extremely severely damaged, and Iida's castle town suffered great damage. Matsumoto castle town was mostly affected, Matsushiro castle town had many collapsed houses. This is truly impossible to fully describe in writing, so I abbreviate here.