The instruments manufactured in foreign countries in the present day are convenient and easy to use. The measuring instrument called the "Quadrant" (クワトロワント) serves the same purpose as the Yuheng and Siyouyi of the ages of Yao and Shun; what is called the "Astrolabe" (イスタラヒ) serves the same purpose as the gnomon and sundial of the Duke of Zhou; and what is called the "Globus/Globes" (ガロウトボウグト) is a single instrument that combines the functions of both the Yuheng and the gnomon-sundial. All the various instruments are of this nature. Even in Japan, because people have grown tired of the cumbersome nature of the ancient water clocks and clepsydras, they have come to use the foreign-made self-striking clocks (自鳴鐘). Similarly, although Japan is a country not lacking in weapons, alongside the bows passed down from the Age of the Gods, foreign-made firearms and guns have come to be used. It is not the case that the astronomical instruments of the ancient sages are being abandoned in favor of foreign astronomical instruments. To give an analogy, just as today's

【Marginal Note at Top】
In Edo today, there are instruments called "Quadrants" used by street fortune-tellers. That is a misuse of them. It is laughable.

【Main Text, Left Page】
Japanese and Chinese physicians all practice the techniques descended from Shennong and the Yellow Emperor, and though they do not study the medical arts of Western foreign countries, they use medicinal herbs produced in foreign lands to treat illnesses of the body and the five viscera. In the same way, those who study astronomy use foreign-made measuring instruments merely to observe the sun, moon, and five planets.

Question: Why are the Dutch so well-versed in astronomy, and why are they able to sail to all nations of the world?

Answer: Among the Dutch, from the king at the top down to the common people at the bottom, they make trade their occupation. They sail in great ships to travel among all nations, carrying goods that are abundant here to where they are scarce there, and carrying goods that are abundant there to where they are scarce here, thereby obtaining profits a hundredfold. The gold, silver, and treasures of other countries...