(Continued from previous page) called night. The night of this country is the daytime of the country below (on the opposite side of the earth), and the daytime of this country is the night of the country below. In this way, the earth always has one half in daytime and one half in night. Accordingly, the twelve double-hours of day and night shift and change moment by moment following the east-west position. When two locations are separated by approximately 140 ri east to west, there is a difference of one quarter-hour (one koku). When separated by 1,150 ri east to west, there is a difference of one double-hour. The east is earlier and the west is later. When separated by more than 6,900 ri east to west, there is a difference of six double-hours; if it is the Hour of the Rabbit (around 6 a.m.) in the east, then it is the Hour of the Rooster (around 6 p.m.) in the west. If it is midnight in the west, then it is midday in the east. Next, regarding the length of day and night: countries at the middle latitudes of the equatorial temperate zone always have no difference in the length of day and night. When one degree is moved north or south from the middle latitude, that location will have unequal day and night. From there, as one proceeds further north or south, the closer to the poles a country is, the greater the difference in the length of day and night gradually becomes, until at the land directly under the poles (the polar regions), the difference between day and night becomes extreme. The details are difficult to record with brush and paper. One should consult an armillary sphere for more detail.

Heights of the Seven Luminaries and Japanese Distances
Height of the Moon's Heaven: approximately 72,000 ri from the earth's surface. Heaven of Mercury: approximately 139,100 ri. Heaven of Venus: approximately 367,100 ri. Height of the Sun's Heaven: approximately 2,467,900 ri. Mars...

[Marginal note at top of frame]
These ri measurements are taken from what is presented in the "Tianjing Huowen" (天経或問), converted into Japanese ri measurements and recorded below. The ri measurements for heights in the "Tianjing Huowen" were also, by You Yi (游芸) himself...