【Right Folio】
"...to declare Yorimasa as such made me feel such discomfort at the absurdity that I involuntarily burst out laughing — and so I received the rebuke of 'laughing disrespectfully.' However, Yorimasa may at least be counted among the ranks of archers. Kiyomori has neither martial nor literary merit, and merely has the good fortune of basking in imperial favor. To say this may seem like praising my own Buddha, but as for my own father, Tameyoshi — at the age of fourteen, he received an imperial decree and attacked and destroyed the former Governor of Mino, Yoshitsuna. Again at eighteen, when word came that the monks of Nanto (Nara) had grievances against the court and were said to be marching upon the capital, he was commanded to 'go forth and stop them.' Though it was so sudden that his forces were not yet assembled, with only seventeen horsemen he galloped to Kurisuyana and drove back several thousand mounted monks. As to what has become of him now that he has aged, I cannot say. As for my elder brother Yoshitomo — now there is a man who is truly formidable with the bow and arrow." Upon hearing this, the nobleman Tameyoshi thought, "He is engaged in a pointless quarrel and may yet bring about a terrible calamity." He wished that Tametomo would quickly show deference and withdraw, but as they were close to the royal seat, he could not bring himself to reprimand and remove him outright. At just this moment, the Minister of the Left, Lord Yorinaga, had also arrived, and hearing this exchange, he sat with a smile playing on his lips. Then Shinzei drew his knees forward and said, "Now then, eighth son. That this old man shows partiality in his decisions based on personal closeness or distance —

【Left Folio】
— who said such a thing? Yorimasa, recently, shot the strange bird that appeared night after night above the Shishinden palace hall, and thus made his name fragrant with renown. And as for Kiyomori, when he was the Assistant Captain of the Left Gate Guards, a strange bird appeared in the imperial palace, and he easily shot it down — whereupon the bird flew into Kiyomori's sleeve. When he pulled it out, it proved to be a great rat. He then had bamboo cut from the southern pavilion, enclosed the rat within a bamboo tube, and buried it on the hill of Kiyomizudera, which they called the 'Itchiku Mound.' All were filled with admiration, saying what a masterly stratagem this had been. These are all matters of yesterday and today, things that you yourself have directly witnessed and heard. They are not in the same category as Tameyoshi's past deed of attacking his uncle Yoshitsuna, who would have destroyed himself even without being attacked, or of driving back the monks of Nanto, who were poorly versed in the martial arts. Furthermore, of Yoshitomo, I have yet to hear of any celebrated feats of valor. How now — even after all this, do you still say my judgment shows partiality?" At this, Tametomo laughed all the more scornfully, replying: "Birds are caught by hunters too, and mice are caught by cats. You, sir, may be wise in the matters of written learning, but how could you possibly know anything about the bow and arrow? In any case, it is pointless to speak of this one or that one. Broadly speaking, in the present age, as for archery..."