【Right Folio】
"...When it comes to taking up the bow and arrow and driving back a million powerful enemies, I cannot imagine there being anyone who surpasses Tametomo."

Upon hearing this, Shinzei was utterly dumbfounded and for a moment made no reply at all, but then suddenly burst out laughing with a "ha ha ha," and said: "Truly, a mouth split sideways can say anything it pleases. In the arts and disciplines generally, one cannot reach the highest level without accumulating months and years — surpassing one month, surpassing one year — and piling up the merit of rigorous polishing and refinement. Even if one had learned from the very swaddling clothes, it would still be no more than a mere ten-odd years. Think for yourself. Not all men are wooden dolls. If I wish to shoot at him, he too will shoot at me. It is also said that one who shoots well also guards well. Shall I now put this to the test with an arrow?" Before Shinzei had even finished speaking, Tametomo replied: "Hōi became the teacher of the sage-king Shun at the age of eight; Hakueki oversaw the use of fire at the age of five. Wisdom and foolishness, skill and clumsiness, cannot be judged by age alone. Command me to shoot in whatever rapid succession you wish. Even if it were the arrow of Great Compassion and Divine Wisdom, I shall readily take it up and show you." Shinzei had initially intended to chastise Tametomo severely, but since Tametomo showed not the slightest sign of submission, Shinzei grew deeply enraged. Perhaps thinking to demonstrate the full extent of his authority and power,

【Left Folio】
he suddenly rose to his feet and called out: "Is anyone in attendance? Quickly bring your bow and arrows and come hither!" "At your command!" came the response, and two palace guards (*takiguchi*) named Norishige and Norikazu came forward to the vicinity of the staircase, bearing their bows and arrows. Shinzei looked at them and said: "Here is the matter — let loose one arrow at this young upstart." These two palace guards had originally served in the *musha-dokoro* (warriors' office) of the Retired Emperor Shirakawa and were expert archers. After the Retired Emperor Toba had succeeded to the throne, they were summoned as *takiguchi* guards. On a certain occasion, they were given a target of three shaku and five sun, and commanded: "Shoot down the second black ring and bring it back." Having received this command at the Hour of the Snake (around 10 a.m.), they had shot it down and brought it back by the Hour of the Sheep (around 2 p.m.). For this feat, it was said that they were already the equal of Yang You — the famed archer of ancient China — and everyone praised them extravagantly. Now, though they had grown old, their spirit and vigor were still unchanged from the old days. It seemed to all that even if Tametomo had six elbows, he could not possibly escape the arrows of these men. Even the Minister of the Left, Lord Yorinaga, could no longer watch and turned to Shinzei, saying: "Tametomo may have the appearance of a grown man, but he is, so to speak, a yellow-beaked child. Jesting too must depend upon one's opponent. This seems to me most unbecoming of you, Shinzei." And then once again, turning to Tameyoshi...