【Right Folio】
(Lord Yorinaga) turned to Tameyoshi and said: "Take that person away at once and withdraw." All this while, Tameyoshi, the Consultant (*Ason*), had remained seated in silence; but now he humbly addressed the assembly, saying: "Tametomo is already thirteen years of age — he is not so very young as all that. Should he fail to accomplish this feat when the moment has come, it would be worse than turning his back and fleeing on the battlefield. He alone is of no great loss to mourn, but what I lament is that he would bring disgrace upon the martial reputation that the Minamoto clan has built up over generations. I humbly beg your gracious pardon, and ask that you allow him to do as he sees fit." At this, the reply came: "If that is the case, then let it be as you will." Tametomo, with great delight, turned to Shinzei and said: "Norishige and Norikazu are peerless archers. To stand before their arrows is the greatest fortune I could ask for. However, if I fail to catch their arrows, my life will be instantly ended. I stake my life on you. But if I do indeed catch their arrows, what will you give me?" Shinzei smiled and replied: "If you catch the arrows well, I will offer you this very head of mine. Shinzei is a man of the Buddhist faith — even if you are shot dead this very moment, I swear I shall not treat you any more harshly in the afterlife." This attempt at deception, however, Tametomo paid

【Left Folio】
not the slightest heed to; he ran down into the open garden, gauged the proper distance for the arrows to reach him, and took his stance. The said Norishige and Norikazu were seasoned veterans, and seeing this situation, they thought to themselves: "How deplorable this is. Even the mere handling of weapons within the precincts of the Retired Emperor's palace is wrong enough — but to take pleasure in having a person shot dead? This surpasses even the wicked conduct of Emperor Buretsu. What are we to do?" As they hesitated, Shinzei stepped close to them and urged: "Quickly, quickly!" The two men, now with no choice in the matter, and having been ordered beforehand that there would be two arrows to shoot, took up their two arrows, holding them ready, and turned to face him. Not only the lord (Yorinaga) himself, but all those present wrung their hands in cold sweat, thinking that Tametomo's life at this moment was even more easily extinguished than a dewdrop on a white flower caught in the light of the sun. Then Norishige nocked his arrow to his bow, drew it back like the full moon, and loosed it with a cry — and Tametomo caught it cleanly with his left hand (*mete*). Before a moment had passed, the arrow loosed by Norikazu came flying close to his chest — and this too he received and caught with his right hand (*yunde*). "What a shameful miss! Even if we cannot shoot him dead, surely he cannot catch them this time!" — both men drew their bows together, and for a time watched closely for an opening...