【Right Page】

…the warriors [who had fought for the Retired Emperor] were all seized and had their heads exposed [on stakes]. Perhaps it was the retribution for that very act. Not long after Shinzei began his power struggle with the Middle Counselor, Lord Nobuyori, the Heiji Rebellion broke out. Reading in the stars the omen that "a blade of an inch would fall upon his neck," Shinzei fled the capital and hid himself in a pit at Daidōji, deep in Tahara, burying himself alive in the earth—only to be sought out by enemy soldiers who dug him up and cut off his head, which was then exposed on the Rokujō riverbank.

How fitting. Shinzei had played the scholar to keep others at bay, had made punishments severe without heeding the resentment of the multitudes. "The workings of karma, laid bare before our very eyes!"—so everyone of that time cursed and reviled him, it is said.

---

**Chapter Two: Losing the Way, He Stops a Battle Between Wolves; Accompanying Him Home, He Is Offered Monkey-Brewed Wine**

That same day, as soon as the Senior Retainer Tameyoshi returned to his manor, he summoned Tametomo close to him and said: "For what reason did you, one who is at the age called *shokuso* (that is, thirteen years old)—a time that should be held as sacred as the holy mountain of Hakoya—show no deference to your elders, and time and again turn your lips to answer back? 

【Left Page】

Filial piety lies in establishing oneself properly in the world. To throw your life into a moment's quarrel and present yourself before the arrows of Noriake and Norikazu—this is the conduct of a madman. Even in the arts of war it is said: 'When a general grows arrogant, he will surely be defeated.' It is said that a man of wisdom does not quarrel, and a man of ability does not boast. Shall today's behavior be called disloyal? Or unfilial? Henceforth, conduct yourself with great care and prudence," he admonished.

Tametomo bowed respectfully and replied: "What you say, Father, is entirely reasonable. Yet that lay monk Dōken—Shinzei—is a flatterer who merely resembles a wise man. He gained the special favor of the Retired Emperor Ichiin [Toba], and now attends closely upon the reigning sovereign [the Konoe Emperor]. As for others, they may do as they please—but he, mindful of his public reputation, ought to keep his distance from the Retired Emperor Shin'in [Sutoku's] faction. That he does not do so, but instead serves him intimately, is not out of genuine loyalty. He watches covertly, and should he find anything suspicious, he is a spy set to report it to the [Toba] Retired Emperor. Tametomo knew this all along—and so today, he deliberately provoked that fellow into anger, intending that he should never again set foot in the Shirakawa Palace [the residence of the Retired Emperor Shin'in]." So saying, he whispered in a most earnest and sincere manner.