【Right page】
—thrusting (the bow-staff) in and giving it a single great heave, the two wolves were caught by the powerful bow-staff and knocked sprawling to either side. They made no further attempt to spring up and fight again; instead, they licked each other's flowing blood, and in an instant appeared to be on the best of terms. After a short while, the wolves gazed intently at Tametomo, and together drew close to him. They lowered their heads as if giving thanks for his grace. "So then," he said, "they have been moved by my single word and made their peace. Men liken villains to tigers and wolves, but looking at this scene before me, these creatures show loyalty and good faith in their own way. They are not so hateful as all that." So saying, he stroked their necks with his hand. The wolves wagged their tails and lowered their ears, appearing quite tame, and presently stepped out in front of him and began to walk quietly ahead, looking back from time to time to guide his way. Tametomo quickly understood their intention, and, led by the two wolves, had proceeded some fifteen or sixteen chō when, for some reason, the wolves suddenly tucked their tails between their legs and ran back, looking as if they were afraid of something. Tametomo was deeply puzzled and stared hard ahead, whereupon a man emerged from the midst of a thick clump of pampas grass. His appearance was as follows: on his head he wore a hood of deer hide,

【Left page】
on his body a garment of taku bark-cloth, his legs were wrapped in gaiters (kyahan) of palm-bark, and at his waist he wore a long sword. He stood six shaku tall and appeared to be somewhat past thirty years of age. Though he looked like a mountain hunter, he carried no bow and arrows. Tametomo thought to himself, "This must be a highway robber who strips travelers," yet showed no sign of being at all deterred, and stood leaning on his bow-staff, watching the man. The man, for his part, seeing Tametomo, walked toward him. Speaking with proper courtesy, he said: "You must surely be the Lord Hachirō, the young nobleman whom the people of this province have lately spoken of with such praise. Seeing these wolves so well tamed, I wonder if you have kept them long? You may find what I am about to say all the more strange, but I am a hunter called Kiheiji. My grandfather was originally a man of the Ryūkyū kingdom, but one year he was cast adrift and his vessel came ashore in Tsukushi; thereafter he remained in Japan and entered service at Kikuchi in Higo. After my grandfather died, my father had reason to become a rōnin and moved here to Bungo. Having no convenient means of making a living, he spent his life in the trade of a hunter, and even I have not changed that calling. From the time of my father, we have trapped birds and beasts——"