【Right Page】
was appointed. (Mochiuji's official document is said to be passed down to descendants even today. The above is what appears in that family's genealogy. Initially, Mitsuyuki, the third son of Kagami no Tōmitsu, took the name Nanbu Saburō when the jitō (steward) of Nanbu in Kai Province was destroyed. When he later moved to Mutsu Province is not clear as to which imperial reign it was. Upon examination, the "Nanbu-ki" records that in the 8th month of Kōkoku 3, the imperial loyalists of Ōshū - Date Kunai-shōyū Yukitomo, Ishikawa, Ishibashi, Kawamura, Tamura, Nanbu, Tekiseki and others - attacked the two districts of Shiba and Iwate and executed the imperial enemies Hienuki Dewa-no-kami and his clan. Also, in the official documents of Iino Shrine in Iwaki District, it is recorded that in the 3rd month of Jōwa 5, Kira Ukyō-no-daibu Sadaie, the deputy of the north, set out to suppress the rebels of Nukabe, Tekiseki and other northern factions. Nukabe refers to the area around present-day Gonohe and Sannohe, and since Nanbu was already in that territory at this time, it was sometimes called Nanbu and sometimes Nukabe. Tekiseki probably refers to the ancestor of the present Tozawa family. According to what that family传s down, when their ancestor first came to the Sannohe region, the local people Januma (Ikaruma) and Hi(no)sawa welcomed him, and he eventually established his house there. Because of this, every New Year's Day, he would first meet with the descendants of these two men, followed by New Year greetings from clan members and retainers. Considering all this together, from when Umanosuke Shigetoki died at Kamakura in the summer of Shōkyō 2 until the Kōkoku-Jōwa period was only about ten years. I believe that after Shigetoki's death, his son Iyo-no-kami Nobunaga secretly fled east, and not long after, when the world became turbulent again, he followed the northern imperial loyalists, seized the lands of Nukabe and others, and established his house. By the time of his son Tōtōmi-no-kami Masayuki, when the northern imperial loyalists were destroyed, he submitted to the shogunal house and had his original territories confirmed. Also according to what is passed down in that family, the Nanbu family crest was originally a diamond shape, but when Daizen-no-daibu Moriyuki was fighting against Akita-no-suke, two cranes flew down and danced in formation in his allied camp. Having won the battle that day, his joy was boundless, and he changed the diamond crest to a pair of dancing cranes on his curtains, as recorded in the genealogy.)

【Left Page】
His son, Nanbu Shōji Shigemasa (or perhaps Yoshimasa), broke through the main attack at the Kamakura battle in Eikyō 11 and received the appreciation of Fukōin-dono, being granted the black horo (war banner). From Shigemasa, nine generations later, Umanosuke Yasunobu had five sons: the eldest son Hikosaburō Haremasa, second son Ishikawa Saemon-no-jō Takanobu, third son Nanbu Tōtōmi-no-kami, fourth son Kii-no-kami, and fifth son Yukie-no-jō. When the eldest son Haremasa's son Hikosaburō Haretsugu died without an heir, they adopted Saemon-no-jō Takanobu's son, Daizen-no-daibu Nobunao, as the successor. In Tenshō 18, when Toyotomi Kanpaku destroyed the Hōjō and went down to the north, Nobunao rushed to the encampment for an audience and had his original territories confirmed. (At this time, the Kanpaku bestowed a wakizashi by Raigokuni and clothing. According to one record, at this time, Nanbu's retainer Tsugaru Ukyō-no-suke Tamenobu, beginning with Kunohe Shuri-no-suke...)

(Note: 虵 is a vulgar character for 蛇 (snake))