【Right Page】
(Masazane and others rebelled against their lord, keeping the province in constant turmoil. Nobunao was besieged by rebels on all sides and was now defending only one castle, unaware even of affairs within his own domain, let alone distant border matters. At such a time, in late spring of Tenshō 18, a hawk merchant named Seizō who lived on Sanjō Street in Kyoto came down to Nanbu and said, "Even so, does my lord still not know? The one who currently rules the realm is Kampaku Toyotomi Hideyoshi, who is mustering all the military forces of the realm to subjugate and destroy the Hōjō of Kantō for not obeying the imperial command. He has now established his camp in Sagami Province. The destruction of the Hōjō is only a matter of days. After that, he will immediately proceed down to the northern provinces, as I have heard. If you quickly join his side, the prosperity of your house and the future of your descendants will be most auspicious." Hearing this, Nobunao was greatly surprised and said, "Then the realm has already been decided? In that case, if I do not go to serve Lord Hideyoshi, my house's future will be uncertain. But if I try to go, the rebels in the province will seize the opportunity to take over the domain while I'm away. I am at a complete loss as to what to do." The merchant further advised, "Then why not first select someone from among your retainers to send as an envoy to express your intention to join his side?" This seemed reasonable, so he examined his household retainers one by one, but they were all stubborn country folk who, while they might look appropriate in armor with swords and on horseback, were clumsy in their deportment—which was understandable—but their speech was nasal and groaning, hardly comprehensible to people of the world. This too seemed impossible, and he was at his wit's end when Seizō said, "What difficulty is there in this? I shall go as your envoy.)

【Left Page】
(I will report in detail the situation here and honestly convey my lord's thoughts, and obtain a written guarantee for the security of your domain." Nobunao was greatly pleased, saying "Nothing could be better than this," and sent the merchant as his envoy to Sagami Province, having him lead some of the finest horses as local products of the province. The Nanbu envoy went to the camp and reported in detail about Nobunao's inability to come personally and matters concerning Tsugaru, Kunohe, and others. When Kampaku heard this, he said, "It is commendable that you sent an envoy quickly despite the roads being blocked by rebellion in your domain. There is no objection to confirming Nanbu's hereditary territories. It is also extremely outrageous that your retainers are wielding rebellious power. By all means, Nobunao should defend his castle and await Hideyoshi's arrival," and sent the envoy back. Nobunao's joy was boundless. After the Hōjō were destroyed, on the 10th day of the 8th month of the same year, Kampaku proceeded down to the northern provinces, and Nobunao finally went to the camp. As for Tsugaru territory, since it was initially granted to Ukyō-no-suke Tamenobu, there was no need to return it to Nanbu.) When the following year (19th) came, in the summer, retainers beginning with Kunohe (various accounts identify him as Shuri-no-suke Masazane; the Gamō records call him Ukon) and Kushihiki Shōgen, along with many household retainers, rebelled against Nobunao. They gathered wandering warriors from here and there, amassing a large force, and since Nobunao could not win in battle, he urgently sent a fast horse to the capital