【Right Page】
[guarded] checkpoints such as Nunokawa (This refers to the winter campaign, as recorded in the Osaka Gubuchō. Records of the summer campaign have not yet been found).
In Genna 8 (1622), he received imperial favor and was granted Shinjō Castle in Dewa Province (with an additional grant of 20,000 koku).
(Later, an additional 8,200 koku of newly developed rice fields was added, making a total of 68,300 koku) Since Masamori had no male heir, he first adopted the second son of Torii Sakyōnosuke Tadamasa as his child and appointed him Etchū-no-kami. This person also died young, and then he made his clan member Chiyotsuru-maru his heir (Chiyotsuru-maru is said to be the son of Masamori's younger brother, though perhaps calling him a "brother" is incorrect). [Masamori] died in Keichō 3 (1598). Noto-no-kami Norimori succeeded to the house. His childhood name was Chiyotsuru-maru, and he was granted court rank on the 28th day of the 12th month of Jōō 2 (1653).

【Left Page】
　　　Tsugaru
Ukyōnosuke Fujiwara no Tamenobu had lived in Tsugaru territory for generations as a retainer of the Nambu (It is said among the people that he was from a branch line of the Konoe house, and was a descendant of a son born to someone who was exiled to Tsugaru territory at some time).
By Tamenobu's time, he had become close to the Nambu through marriage connections (he was an nephew by marriage to the Nambu; it is also said that Tamenobu's wife was the legitimate daughter of the Nambu), but as the Nambu house gradually weakened, Tamenobu's military power grew stronger day by day, and he brought all of Tsugaru territory under his control and resided at Hirosaki Castle. In Tenshō 18 (1590), when the Toyotomi Kanpaku established his camp in Sagami Province to destroy the Hōjō, before the other daimyo of the northern provinces had yet arrived, Tamenobu rushed to join the camp, and His Lordship's appreciation was considerable, so he prepared and granted a written confirmation of his original domain. The following year, 19 (1591), when the Kunohe rebels arose, he rushed to attack and fight them, and when the Korean campaign arose