【Right Page】
Therefore, following that summons, he led his military forces and joined the camp at Nagoya in Tsukushi.
In the autumn of Keichō 5 (1600), during the Battle of Sekigahara, Tamenobu joined the eastern vanguard and captured Ōgaki Castle in Mino Province (This matter is only recorded in a work called "Sekigahara Daijōshi" and has not yet been found in other various accounts).
(According to an examination of the "Mogami-ki," at this time the people of the northern provinces, led by Nambu and Akita, all gathered in Mogami district, but Tsugaru does not appear in the arrival records of these forces. If so, it may be possible that Tsugaru was not in his domain at this time but served in the eastern vanguard. This should be investigated further. Also, the year, month, and day of Tamenobu's death are still unknown)
His son Etchū-no-kami Nobuhira succeeded to the house (45,000 koku, and it is said he received an additional grant of 2,000 koku in Kōzuke. When was the castle in Kōzuke added?).
In Kan'ei 6 (1629), Nobuhira died, and his legitimate son Tosa-no-kami Nobuyoshi succeeded his father, dying at age 37 on the 26th day of the 11th month of Meireki 1 (1655). His son Etchū-no-kami Nobumasa succeeded to the house (42,000 koku). Also, Nobuyoshi's remaining domain was divided and granted to Nobuyoshi's younger brother Jūrōzaemon (5,000 koku).

【Left Page】
　　　Rokugō
Hyōgo-no-kami Fujiwara no Masanori was a descendant of Nikaido Shinano Hangan Yukitada, and the son of Danjō-chū Michiyuki. Since his ancestor was the land steward (jitō) of the Rokugō-no-shō estate in Yamakita, Dewa Province, he took the name Rokugō. After the Toyotomi house came to rule the realm, Masanori had his original domain confirmed (He was one of the seven Yamakita lords. His domain assessment is unknown). When the Korean campaign arose, he followed the summons and led his forces to gather at the imperial camp in Tsukushi. In the autumn of Keichō 5 (1600), when Lord Tokugawa was to subjugate the Uesugi in the northern provinces, the Yamakita people were ordered to advance their armies under Dewa-no-kami Yoshimitsu. Masanori rushed forward with 300 men, but at such a time, war also broke out in the Kamigata region, and it was heard that Lord Tokugawa should be attacked from both east and west in a pincer movement, so the Yamakita people hastily returned to their home domains without taking anything with them. Onodera Tōtōmi-no-kami Tsunamichi, a resident of the same province, was known as an unparalleled supporter of the western forces, so Masanori advanced against him, beginning from the same early 10th month