【Right Page】
From early November, they engaged in battle 5 or 6 times, destroying many enemies, but not a few of their own forces were also killed. Soon he rushed up to Osaka (said to be in November) and had an audience with Lord Tokugawa. After that, he was granted land in Fuchū, Hitachi Province and moved there (10,000 koku). He rushed to the battles before and after Osaka and cut off heads to present them (one head). In Genna 9 (1623), he was granted Yuri District in Dewa Province and moved to Honjō Castle (over 20,000 koku). On the 28th day of the 4th month of Kan'ei 11 (1634), he died at age 68. His legitimate son Chōgorō Masakatsu succeeded him, and on the 29th day of the 12th month of Kan'ei 17 (1640) he was granted court rank and appointed Iga-no-kami. On the last day of the 6th month of Enpō 4 (1676), he retired and passed the house to his legitimate son Sado-no-kami Masanobu. Masanobu was granted court rank on the 28th day of the 12th month of Manji 3 (1660) and received the succession from his father.

【Left Page】
　　　Mizutani
Sakyō-dayū Fujiwara no Katsutoshi was the second son of Ise-no-kami Harumochi and younger brother of Hyōbu-dayū Masamura. He was descended from Kondō Musha-dokoro Kageyori, the legitimate son of Sakon-shōgen Yoshinari, who was the third son of Nakano, the seventh-generation grandson of Chinzei-fu-shōgun Hidesato. The third son Nakanori took the name Tamura, and the fourth son Chikasane took the name Mizutani. Nakanori was appointed Iga-no-kami. His son Gyōbu-dayū Nakayoshi became a member of the Kantō hyōjōshū council. His son Awaji-no-kami Shigesuke also took the name Mizutani. Sakyō-dayū Katsutoshi was said to be a descendant of this Shigesuke. Shigesuke's descendants lived for generations in Saruda Castle in Mutsu Province (called Saruda-hiko). After Saruda was destroyed, they moved to Shimōsa Province and served the Yūki house. In Eikyō 11 (1439), after the Kamakura lord (referring to Mochiuji) was killed, two young princes (Haruō-maru and Yasuo-maru) were hiding at Nikkō-san in Shimotsuke, but when it was heard that attackers were heading toward them, they relied on Yūki Nakatsukasa-dayū Ujitomo. Ujitomo