【Right Page】
Unable to forget the old bond, he tried to welcome [the young princes] to his own castle. Mizutani Ise-no-kami (this person's name is not certain) and the leading retainers of his followers (Shibata Shuri-no-jō, the same Shōgen, Kuroda Minbu-no-jō, and others) could not dissuade him from this, so the four men cut off their topknots together and fled from the world. Mizutani saw the rebellion and said that to leave that province would not be the way of one who takes up bow and arrow, and that there was no other choice but to die in battle together. So he turned back from the road and shut himself up in the castle. Thus Uesugi Hyōgo-no-kami Kiyokata of Kamakura received the banner of the Shogun's house (Fukōin Yoshinori-kō) and led his forces to attack the castle. In the 4th month of Kakitsu 1 (1441), the castle was finally taken, and starting with Ujitomo, all the clan members and retainers were killed. However, Uesugi was deeply moved by Mizutani's conduct and sought out his descendants to let them continue the family line. (This was the person who restored this house, so he appears at the beginning of the genealogy. The Ise-no-kami's Buddhist name was probably Ryōen. Also, Ryōen's son Hyōbu-shōyū's Buddhist name was probably Dōtsū. Since these matters do not appear in the genealogy, they are uncertain.) After that

【Left Page】
his descendants first built and lived in Shimodate Castle in Hitachi Province in Chōkyō 1 (1487) (it is not certain in whose generation this was). When it came to Ise-no-kami Harumochi, he had six sons. His eldest son Hyōbu-dayū Masamura became a Buddhist monk and took the name Banryūsai. His reputation for military prowess was renowned throughout the eastern provinces, and he lived to age 76, dying on the 20th day of the 6th month of Keichō 1 (1596). The monk had one daughter who became the wife of Yūki Saemon-no-kami Harutomo (she should be the foster mother of Lord Yūki Chūnagon). At that time, there was no male heir to continue the family, so his younger brother Sakyō-dayū Katsutoshi succeeded to the house. From the time when the Toyotomi Kanpaku ruled the realm, he became his retainer and his original domain was confirmed (said to be either 25,000 koku or 30,000 koku at Shimodate). In the autumn of Keichō 5 (1600), when war broke out simultaneously in east and west, he received orders from Lord Tokugawa and defended his own castle. After that, the entire realm submitted to Lord Tokugawa, and when Lord Mikawa-no-kami was granted Echizen Province, the Mizutani, Tagaya, Yamakawa, and Iwagami clans were originally from Yūki's