【Right Page】
Because they were the four heavenly kings of that house, by order of the Great Retired Shogun (Tokugawa Ieyasu), they all belonged to Lord Mori (Tokugawa Hidetada) and moved to Echizen Province. When Katsutoshi had already reached the Kawado ferry in Mino Province, he was recalled as a direct retainer. Katsutoshi sent his nephew, also named Oribe, to serve Lord Mori. Katsutoshi again received his original domain and governed Shimodate Castle (the year and month he led this is not yet known). His son Ise-no-kami Katsutaka followed his father (governing 50,000 koku; of this, 20,000 koku is said to have been gained through land surveys) and served the Shogun's house in the campaigns before and after Osaka, presenting five severed heads. In the 12th month of Kan'ei 16 (1639), he was granted Matsuyama Castle in Bitchū Province and moved there (with the same domain size). On the 3rd day of the 5th month of Kanbun 4 (1664), he died at the age of 68. His eldest son Sakyō-no-suke Katsumune succeeded him (governing 48,000 koku and dividing 2,000 koku to his younger brother; later, with newly developed rice fields added, it became 50,000 koku). He divided territory to his younger brother Shin'uemon (2,000 koku).

【Left Page】
Nasu
Tōtōmi-no-kami Fujiwara no Takaharu was the adopted son of Sakyō-dayū Sukekage. He was actually the younger brother of Masuyama Danjō-chū Masatoshi and the maternal uncle of the Right Minister's house, initially called Masuyama Uemon-dayū. On the 18th day of the 2nd month of Jōō 1 (1652), at Sukekage's request, he was designated as the heir of that house and was reassigned as Tōtōmi-no-kami. Takaharu governed his own domain combined with the Nasu family domain (the Nasu family domain was 7,000 koku, Takaharu's domain was 5,000 koku, totaling 12,000 koku, as stated in the Jōō diary). Originally, this Nasu house descended from Sudō Gon-no-kami Sadanobu, the great-grandson of the Midō Kanpaku Michinaga-kō. Sadanobu first governed Nasu District in Shimotsuke Province. Nasu Tarō Suketaka, Sadanobu's sixth-generation descendant, had twelve sons. The tenth son, Tofukuji Jūrō Tamotaka, and eleventh son, Nasu Yoichi Munetaka, were brothers who served as Uhyōe