【Right Page】
He served Sasuke Minamoto no Yoritomo and followed the imperial court. All the other sons belonged to the Taira clan. Yoichi later changed his name to Suketaka. Following Dayū Hōgan Yoshitsune, he shot the fan target at the Battle of Hachiman in Sanuki and made his name known to both the Genji and Heike clans. As a reward, he was granted the positions of jitō (land steward) of Mika-no-shō in Tanba, Sasage-no-shō in Shinano, Tōgū-kawara in Wakasa, Ōta-no-shō in Musashi, Hihara-no-shō in Bitchū, and other estates. Also, because his elder brother Jūrō Tametaka disobeyed Yoshitsune's orders, his younger brother Munetaka inherited the Nasu house. When Munetaka died without children, by order of the Right General (Minamoto no Yoritomo), his elder brother Gorō Yukitaka inherited the house and changed his name to Sukeyuki. Since Sukeyuki had no children, he adopted a son from the Utsunomiya family, passed the house to him, reported to the Right General's house, who named him Yorisuke and made him Hizen-no-kami. His son

【Left Page】
Hizen-no-kami Mitsusuke, when the Right General's house held a hunt at Nasuno, erected a residence at Nagakura and made preparations. Mitsusuke's fourth-generation descendant, Bizen-no-kami Suketō, followed Ashikaga-dono (Takauji) and died in battle at the Battle of Tōji. His son Echigo-no-kami Sukeyo, and his son Gyōbu-dayū Sukeuji, undertook the administration office by order of Kamakura-dono (according to the genealogy, Sukeyo was appointed Shōshō and Sukeuji was appointed Fourth Rank Jijū, but this is doubtful; the permission to use the title "Nasu-yakata" may also date from this period). Sukeuji's thirteenth-generation descendant, Shuridayū Sukeharu, was the father of Sakyō-dayū Sukekage. Sukeharu initially called himself Nasu Tarō. For generations, his ancestors competed for castles and engaged in battles with Iwaki, Shirakawa, Satake, and Utsunomiya. In Sukeharu's time, on the 25th day of the 3rd month of Tenshō 13 (1585), he fought against Utsunomiya Shimotsuke-no-kami Kunikane at Usuba-ga-hara. He defeated Kunikane's large army, and riding on that momentum