【Right Page】
died and succeeded to the house, and following the Osaka campaigns, he cut off seventy-five heads and presented them. His son Mimasaka-no-kami Sukeshige received orders from the great minister's house and was granted court rank on New Year's Day of Kan'ei 1 (1624) at the age of sixteen. When Sukeshige died before his father and the family line was about to be extinguished, Tōtōmi-no-kami Takaharu succeeded to the house. (Upon examination, in the diary of Kan'ei 8 (1631) and also in the inscription on the stone lantern dedicated at the mausoleum of Taितokuin-den, there appears the name Nasu Mimasaka-no-kami Sukeshige)
(Therefore, around this time, did Mimasaka-no-kami inherit and succeed to the house from his father? Also, in the diary of Jōō 1 (1652), it states "Nasu Sakyō-dayū, domain of 7,000 koku." All the people who dedicated stone lanterns at Taितokuin-den's mausoleum were those with 10,000 koku or more. If the Nasu domain was not 10,000 koku, they would not have been able to make such dedications. These two points are doubtful. Now that the house has perished, there is no way to investigate. We must wait for someone knowledgeable to clarify this matter.)

【Left Page】
　　　Ōtawara
Bizen-no-kami Tanji Harukiyo was a resident of Nasu District in Shimotsuke Province, son of Yamashiro-no-kami Sumikiyo, and the fifteenth-generation ancestor of Harunobu. He was a descendant of one of the Musashi Seven Parties, the Tan Party, and Bizen-no-kami Tadakiyo was the first to take the name Ōtawara. (In the Buke Bunin it appears as Fujiwara clan, but according to what is commonly transmitted, Ōtawara is of Taira surname, Tanji clan)
(It is unclear how they could be both Taira surname and Tanji clan. ○Upon examination, according to the Seishi-roku, Tanhi-sukune descended from the third-generation grandson of Hoakari-no-mikoto, and also from Oshinoo-no-mikoto's descendant, the seventh-generation grandson of Otakehitakamura-no-mikoto, Goten-sukune's son Itsushima. When Prince Mizuhawake-no-mikoto, son of Emperor Ōjin, was born at Awaji Palace, when the water from Awaji's sacred well was used for the imperial bath, tiger grass flowers were placed in the bath vessel, and Iroshima-sukune pronounced the divine words of blessing and honored him with the name Tahihi-mizuhawake-no-mikoto. Later, Tahi districts were established throughout the provinces as the prince's bath towns, and Iroshima served as administrator governing the households of Tanhi District, hence they were called Tanhi and eventually made it their surname. The origin of Tanhi-su-no-mikoto is the same as above. Tanhi-muraji also descended from Hoakari-no-mikoto, but this lineage comes from Prince Ōkagayama-no-mikoto. The Seishi-roku also states that Tahi-mahito descended from Prince Kami-ehasu-ō, son of Emperor Senka. Comparing the Kugyō Bunin and Shin-hensanzu, Prince Eha, son of Emperor Senka, had a son Prince Toichi-ō, whose son Prince Tahiko-ō received the Tahihi surname using his name. This lineage produced Sadaijin Shima and Chūnagon Agata-no-kami)