【Right Page】
(He was the father of Kunaichō Mizumori, Chūnagon Hironari, and others. Hironari changed Tahihi to Tanchi. His sons Sadamine and Sadanari changed it back to Tahihi. Sadanari later changed it to Tanchi again. Therefore, though the appellations Tanhi and Tahihi are the same, their origins are different. Also, though both Tanhi-sukune and Tanhi-muraji descended from Hoakari-no-mikoto, their points of divergence are different. Tanhi should be understood as corresponding to Tahihi. Tahihi was also created corresponding to Tanchi. According to what I have heard, descendants of Hironari-mahito who were in Musashi Province were called the Tan Party of Musashi in that era. A grandson of someone called Chichibu Tan-Godaibō, Gyōbunosuke Sanehira, fifth son of Tan-Sandayū Tsunefusa, was appointed to the position of jitō of Aho-no-shō in Fujisawa District and died in battle at Uji during the Jōkyū era. From that time onward, they were called Aho. During the Jōji era, a son of Aho Shinano-nyūdō Dōsei lost his territorial lands due to factional conflicts. Later descendants who arose in Shimotsuke Province came to be called Ōtawara.)

The father of Yamashiro-no-kami Sumikiyo was called Bizen-no-kami Sukekiyo. Though Sumikiyo was the third son, he inherited the house and passed it to his son Harukiyo. In Tenshō 18 (1590), when he heard that Kampaku Toyotomi was attacking the Hōjō of Sagami, Harukiyo first rushed to Numazu in Suruga Province to have an audience. His Highness was pleased that he had come to greet him across distant borders, granted him an imperial sword, made him Bizen-no-kami (Masatsune also), and granted him territory.

【Left Page】
He resided in Ōtawara Castle. (11,400 koku ○This house had been retainers of the Nasu for generations. At this time, their lord Nasu incurred guilt from the Kampaku, and his territory was confiscated and granted to his kinsmen and retainers.)

When the Korean campaign began, he followed the summons, led military forces, and established a camp at Nagoya in Hizen. In the summer of Keichō 5 (1600), when Lord Tokugawa went down to subjugate Uesugi Chūnagon in the north, it was decided that he would first move his headquarters to this Ōtawara Castle. However, since warfare also broke out in the capital region, Lord Yūki was made the general for the northern expedition, many troops were stationed in Shimotsuke Province, and Tokugawa returned to the capital. Now, this Ōtawara Castle is situated between enemy borders and is a crucial strategic position. Therefore, Hattori Iwami-no-kami was sent as an envoy, and the people of Nasu rushed to join in defending this place. Lord Tokugawa sent a message to Harukiyo along the way, encouraging his military loyalty.