【Right Page】
However, the enemy did not advance at this time. In mid-September, when it was heard that Ishida Mitsunari was heading toward Kubota (Akita), the castle of Satake Yoshinobu, Harukiyo rushed forward with Ōzeki and others to provide rear support. However, upon hearing that Satake Yoshishige, the eldest son of Satake Yoshinobu, had sallied forth from the castle and fought fiercely, achieving victory, they turned back along the road. Since the western forces were defeated at the Battle of Sekigahara, there was ultimately no battle at this location. During the Siege of Osaka (the earlier and later campaigns), he served in the Shogun's vanguard and presented seventy severed heads. His son Bizen-no-kami Masakiyo succeeded him. (The year and month of Harukiyo's death is unknown. Masakiyo was initially called Sahyōe.) He died on March 5, Kanbun 1 (1661), at the age of fifty. His eldest son Yamashiro-no-kami Takakiyo inherited the house. (11,400 koku) His second son Chōjirō received a division of territory. (1,000 koku) Takakiyo retired on September 25, Enpō 5 (1677). He passed the house to his son Bizen-no-kami Nagakiyo, who was actually the eldest son of Oda Kojūrō. Since Takakiyo had no heir, he adopted him. (From this point, they became the Taira clan, and the Tanhi lineage was severed. This was because Ōtawara and Oda had originally been connected through marriage relations and were close.)

Ōzeki
Uemon-no-suke Tanji no Sukemasu was the third son of the late Uemon-no-suke Takamasu. The thirteenth-generation ancestor Higo-no-kami Takakiyo is said to have been the founder of the Ōzeki. (The Buke Bunin records them as Taira clan. Another theory states that the Ōzeki were originally descendants of General Toshihito and of the Hikita-Saitō lineage.)

(Ōzeki Saburō Takayuki was appointed Jūgoi-no-ge Higo-no-kami during the Kagen era. His son Higo-no-kami Tadakiyo, and his son Yahichirō Takayuki are said to be the father of Higo-no-kami Takakiyo. If so, they would be Fujiwara clan. It is also traditionally said that the Ōzeki were originally descendants of the Musashi Tan Party. Due to the original surname of the late Uemon-no-suke Takamasu, there may be confusion regarding these matters. The details are unclear.) Takakiyo's twelfth-generation descendant Yagorō Masutsugu died at the age of twenty-five. Since there was no son to inherit the house, they adopted the second son of Ōtawara Bizen-no-kami Sukekiyo, a resident of the same province, as heir. This was Uemon-no-suke Takamasu. Takamasu initially served Kampaku Toyotomi, had his original territory confirmed, and resided at Kurohaneno Castle. (19,000 koku. The Ōzeki are said to have originally been retainers of the Nasu.) Takamasu had three sons: eldest son Tosa-no-kami Masutoki, second son Mimasaku-no-kami Kiyomasu, and third son Uemon-no-suke Sukemasu.