【Right page】
His great-grandson Yamato-no-kami Ujisuke received the jitō position of Kishima in Hizen Province during the time of Ashikaga-dono. (According to the genealogy, it is also said that he received a character from Shōgun Takauji's personal name and took the name Ujisuke. However, considering that Aki-no-kami Sadayoshi had already served under Shōgun Takauji, it is questionable that his great-grandson Yamato-no-kami Ujisuke would again receive a character from the shōgun's name. Could it be possible that the Itō family went through four generations during the fifteen years of Shōgun Takauji's reign?) His son Yamato-no-kami Suketake received the jitō positions of Shinsho, Nishiura, Ura, Murata and other estates in Hizen Province. When his son Yamato-no-kami Suketaka came to power, following the directive dated the 14th day of the 3rd month of Kanshō 3 stating that all the provincial warriors of Hyūga, Satsuma, and Ōsumi provinces except for the Shimazu and Shibuya should become Itō retainers, he subdued those who disobeyed and wielded power in Chinzei. (According to the Shimazu family records, during Suketaka's time, in Bunmei 12 he destroyed the enemies among the Hyūga provincial warriors - the twelve leaders of Sadowara, Miyake, Tomioka, and Hiratahara, and died on the 28th day of the 4th month of the same 17th year at the age of 77.) His son Yamato-no-kami Sukekuni (According to the Shimazu family records, in Bunmei 17, Sukekuni together with his younger brother Saburō Sukeoki fought in the same province

【Left page】
against the enemies of Obi at Shigatake and killed tens of thousands, advanced to Kusuhara in the intercalary 3rd month, and in the 6th month of the same year fought with Satsuma forces and was killed. Sukekuni was 38 years old at the time.) His son Yamato-no-kami Tadayoshi received a character from the personal name of Kōbō Erin'in-dono. (Shōgun Yoshitane was initially called Yoshitada.) His eldest son Yamato-no-kami Sukemitsu (According to the Shimazu family records, Sukemitsu and the fourth son of his mother's family, a retainer called Fukunaga Izu-no-kami, became arrogant due to their maternal relatives' influence and committed extremely unlawful acts, so the young retainers all turned against their lord, leading to battle where the young retainers were defeated and perished. This was called the Nisshū Youth Rebellion. Suketaka died on the 28th day of the 8th month of Tenbun 2 at the age of 24.) Shortly after Sukemitsu's death, his younger brother Daizen-dayū Yoshisuke succeeded to the family headship. (According to the Shimazu family records, in the family genealogy Yoshisuke appears as if he were Sukemitsu's son, but this was probably recorded according to the circumstances of succession. Also according to the Shimazu family records, Yoshisuke was initially called Sukekiyo, and despising the behavior of Itō Musashi-no-kami Fukunaga, a family retainer, he killed that father and his four sons on the 2nd day of the 9th month of the same year after Sukemitsu's death. Sukekiyo, angered by having killed the Fukunaga father and sons due to Musashi-no-kami's licentious behavior, gathered the young retainers who had perished in the previous rebellion and killed Musashi-no-kami. Musashi-no-kami's son Sahyōe-no-suke raised troops and fought against Sukekiyo. Unable to prevail, Sukekiyo tried to escape by ship from a place called Hichiya toward the capital. The warriors Shiomi, Hichiya, Takarabe, Tashiro and others consulted with Yuge Minbu-shōyū and others to kill Sahyōe-no-suke. Unable to bear this, Sahyōe fled, relying on Mera Sannin, so on the 16th day of the 11th month of the same year, Sukekiyo...