【Right page】
They held a military council with Niwa, Ikeda, and others to attack Mitsuhide. Hidehide was assigned to the second formation. On the thirteenth day of the same month, in the Battle of Yamazaki, he charged at the forefront and defeated Mitsuhide's forces. Mitsuhide was finally killed. Since Hidehide's merit was foremost in today's battle, Lord Sanshichi (Hideyoshi) personally took Hidehide's hand and said with tears flowing, "When shall I ever forget today's attack?" {{Marginal note: At this time, Hideyoshi, while riding in a palanquin, said "Sehei, well done, well done," and immediately Hidehide, seeing this, said that the desire of the Chikuzen-no-kami to seize control of the realm was already apparent on his face.}} Soon after, war broke out between Hashiba and Shibata. In the second month of the following eleventh year, Hidehide took the side of Hideyoshi and positioned his forces beyond Shizu-ga-take in Ōmi Province, by the shores of Lake Yogo, where he was attacked by Sakuma Genba-no-jō Morimasa. Many of his soldiers were killed, and he himself fought desperately before being killed by Kondō Muichi.

【Left page】
His eldest son Tōhyōe-no-jō Hidemasa first served alongside Nobunaga's princess, received Miki Castle in Harima Province, then followed Lord Hashiba and was granted court rank, being appointed Uemon-no-dayū. {{Marginal note: This is what appears in the genealogy. In common telling, it is said that he succeeded his father and ruled Ibaraki.}} He followed in the campaigns in Kyūshū and Kantō, and in the first year of Bunroku crossed over to Korea, attacked the royal castle, built fortifications at a place called Suigen and defended it. On a day in the following second year, he took a few attendants for recreation from the military camp and went hawking for pleasure, when he was killed by Korean ambush forces. He was said to be twenty-five years old. {{Marginal note: Considering this, Hidemasa's affairs should also be found recorded in the Daimingyi tongzhi.}} The retainers were greatly shocked and frankly discussed that the Taikō's mood would not be favorable, and that their house would surely perish, so they fortified Hidemasa's strategic castle...