cloth. The cloth is spread throughout the room. When entering a room, one must remove footwear. Hence it is called "foot-stepping cotton." This is the same from the royal palace to common people's homes.

The buildings seen in Naha are all village dwellings of common people. The official relatives' and wealthy families' houses seen in Shuri have walls, fences, and roof structures that are all extremely magnificent and well-ordered. However, houses are built in single rows dividing interior and exterior, without multi-story complex rooms.

Only government offices begin by connecting eight or nine bays to construct large buildings. The column foundations of each single-bay building can number over twenty locations. Houses use oak wood to make beams and pillars. They are hard, smooth, and fine-grained, not becoming worm-eaten for a thousand years. They are also called Arhat cedar. Those produced in Oshima and Kikaijima are the finest. The price is also extremely expensive. To build a single-bay house costs up to five hundred gold pieces. Therefore, among the houses of Kume scholar-officials, even those who have served as government officials for many years still mostly thatch their roofs with grass. The great houses of Shuri all use this [wood] to construct buildings and floor them. After a long time, they become lustrous and mirror-like.

Since walls already use boards, there are no plastered walls. They mostly use burnished floral powder paper, either white in color or white ground with green flowers, which they paste on.

Bamboo blinds are extremely coarse. They are woven using thin bamboo in whole sections. They are hung around the four sides of the eaves.

The hanging scrolls in houses are all short and small, not exceeding four or five shaku. This is because the houses are small. In the case of noble houses in Shuri, the length is no different from Chinese hanging scrolls.

For characters on folding screens, sometimes four panels are used. The custom is to first write one large character at the beginning, such as spring-summer-autumn-winter or benevolence-righteousness-propriety-wisdom. Below, three or four lines of poetry are added. These do not necessarily need to correspond with the large character.