What is seen in the fields, compared to those produced in China, is particularly small. They are barely like fine black beans. Among different products there are sweet
potatoes. They are found everywhere. Seeds are planted in sandy soil and plowed. Vines grow and cover the fields. People use them as food. Their benefit
equals grain foods. Each household plants several dozen banana plants. From these they spin thread and weave it into banana cloth. Men and women
all wear this in winter and summer. The profit equals that of sericulture. The old records of Ming investiture envoys Xiao Chongye and Xia Ziyang say: The soil does
not plant cotton. The land is not suitable for tea. Now there are also some occasionally. But they say it is not extensively cultivated.
For vegetables there are Chinese cabbage, mustard greens, spinach, radish, coriander, luffa, winter melon, eggplant, sword beans,
broad beans, taro, scallions, garlic, chives, ginger, pepper, Chinese chives, celery, shepherd's purse, bracken, bottle gourd, coriander, fennel greens, garland chrysanthemum,
water bamboo, purple laver, bok choy, wood ear mushrooms, and agar seaweed. Different products include kelp, burdock, spicy
buckwheat, poria greens, and jar vegetables. There are also pine mushrooms. In the local pronunciation they are called chikura. In the ninth and tenth months,
they grow in the soil under large pine trees. The fruit is round and white. They are a type of mushroom with a fresh and delicious taste. Those produced in Gushikami
are the finest. Gray-colored ones grow in cow dung. They cannot be eaten. {{Small text: Among sea vegetables there is kelp. Also called kombu. There are also red vegetables.}}
{{Small text: Similar to agar seaweed but somewhat flatter. Found in tidal flats. There are also chicken-foot seaweed and qilin seaweed.}}
For trees there are pine, cypress, hinoki, cedar, banyan, camphor, gardenia, willow, scholar tree, palm, and boxwood. Paulownia is very scarce. Different
products include oak trees, etc.
【Oak (Keyaki)】Also called Arhat cedar. Leaves are short, thick, and triangular. Same as China's Arhat pine. The wood
grain is hard and smooth. When building houses in the country, beams and pillars all use this. Found on all islands. Those from Kikai are
the finest.
【Garcinia (Fukugi)】Leaves are like winter green but particularly large. They grow in opposite pairs. About two inches long. Shaped like kidneys. Thick