and glossy. Also called tokiwa-gi (evergreen tree). The tree grows straight up to over ten feet in length. It does not wither through the four seasons. The leaves can be
used to dye green color. It opens small yellow flowers. It bears fruit like oranges. Edible. There is also another tree. The local name is ya-
rabu. The leaves all resemble fukugi. They also grow in opposite pairs. White flowers resemble plum blossoms. They fruit in the eleventh and twelfth months.
Both are called kunshi-ju (gentleman trees). {{Small text: The leaf patterns are paired like weaving. The center edges reflect sunlight, becoming transparent and creating a golden-yellow color. Old traditions say the leaves of the tōru tree are like oranges. This is precisely that tree.}}
【Iron Tree】That is, the phoenix-tail cycad. Also called sea date palm. It has a palm body with cycad leaves. The leaves are firm and straight, emerging in pairs. The out-
line is vague like a phoenix tail. Reflecting sunlight, there is one line in the center, translucent without shadow. It does not wither through the four seasons. It is
planted everywhere.
【Crow Tree (Kuroki)】Leaves grow straight up like cinnamon. The exterior is no different from ordinary trees. The heartwood is black. However,
there are also those with white grain. There is also red tree (akagi).
【Oil Tree】Leaves resemble oranges. The fruit is like the size of oranges. Not edible. Used to press oil. There is also fukuman
tree. The tree height is several feet. Leaves somewhat resemble hibiscus but are slightly smaller. Flowers are like oranges. Seeds are clustered and red.
Edible. There is another tree. Leaves resemble winter green. Height over ten feet. Flowers are like jujube. Seeds grow in clusters. Like Chi-
na's privet seeds. Sweet and sour, edible. Can also be used to dye things blue-lotus color. Called yamamai. Also
called nomakōtō. That is, blue essence.
【Custard Apple (Kuhateishi)】Tree height over twenty to thirty feet. Leaf size like persimmon. Leaf flowers are five-pronged. Fruits in the eighth and ninth
months. Like green fruit but somewhat flattened. Taste is fragrant and sweet. Found in Fujian. Called bodo.
【Indian Mulberry (Yuna)】Tree height over thirty to forty feet. Leaves resemble paulownia. Opens flowers in summer season. Like China's autumn
mallow. Yellow petals with sandalwood center.