with two sounds. Then when the two characters "i-ro" are written together, they become the character for "color." If there is a sound but no character, then two characters are combined in writing and used through fanqie. For example, the village name "tomari" (harbor) and "tomari" in "tomari-fune" (moored boat) are both read as "tomai." This makes one character with three sounds. The village name "Kyan" (喜屋武) is read and pronounced as "kyan." This makes three characters with one sound. Much of the national language is similar to this. In the speech of the people of the country, there are very many cases where five or six characters are read as one or two characters. When they obtain Chinese books, they often use hooks and marks for marginal notation, following sentences in reverse reading. Substantive characters are placed above, empty characters are read in reverse below. Speech is also like this. In the country's official documents, one or two Chinese characters are also mixed in for use. Both above and below are national characters. At the end of the forty-seven characters, there is one character made with two dots. Its sound is "n." This is separately one character, used to connect various sounds as a notation mark. Together they are called forty-eight characters.

Tao Zongyi of the Yuan dynasty said that the memorials that Ryukyu submitted as tribute to China used water to make writing tablets. They were about eight inches high, three-tenths thick, and five-tenths wide. They were decorated with lacquer, fastened with tin, and strung with leather. Characters were carved horizontally on top. The character forms were tadpole script. He also said that within Japan there are native characters, with forty-seven character radicals. If one can understand these, one can comprehend their sound and meaning. Where they are joined together to form characters resembles Mongolian writing methods. Using their character forms to copy Chinese poetry and prose, although it cannot be read, the brush strokes are bold and dynamic, with dragons and snakes in flight, majestically retaining the legacy of Dian Su style. Now the memorial documents of Ryukyu all use Chinese writing. What Tao called "horizontal carved character tadpole script" may have been the character forms from before they were familiar with China, but this cannot be verified today. However, the current Ryukyu character radicals are also forty-seven. When copying Chinese poetry and prose with their national script, the brush strokes are