Ainame-sai Festival (held on the first day of the rabbit. This is called Ainame-sai because in the outer sanctuary, old rice is offered as morning provisions and new rice as evening provisions, thus receiving this name from the mutual tasting of new and old rice. However, the sacred offerings of the inner sanctuary consist entirely of new grain from the current year).

On the day itself (around half past the hour of the sheep), the guide (神人 role) and the thrice-participating shrine officials (wearing court dress and accompanied by one attendant) gather at the attendants' building. However, the two Kifune officials do not follow the main shrine but proceed to Kifune, open the sacred doors, and offer the inner and outer sacred provisions. The ritual follows the usual procedure (once the sacred provisions are ready, Ota first visits the shrine and inspects the sacred offering implements at the offering hall).

(However, the inner sanctuary portions, whose items are listed separately, along with portions for the fifteen subsidiary shrines, are placed in one karakuri chest and transported to Kifune by two porters and one sword-bearer. The daily offering karakuri chest is transported by people from Kifune valley as usual. The items are listed under New Year's Day entries. The two officials are accompanied by one person each, and their costume bearers follow custom)

Along with the subsidiary shrines (the locations are: first Kajitori, then Umemiya, then Shiraishi, then Shirahige, etc. After the main shrine rituals are completed, they change into fresh vestments and offer at: first the deputy shrine, then Kawao Shrine and Suzuka Shrine (offering at Kawao Shrine), then Ushiichi Shrine, then Musubi-no-kami, then Kisaichi Shrine, then Hayashida Shrine, then Hiyoshi Shrine, then Suikatsura Shrine, then Oku-Hongu and Suzu-ichi Shrine. The above fifteen shrines are served by both officials. However, while the four shrines of Kajitori, Umemiya, Shiraishi, and Shirahige should properly be served during the descent, they are now served during the ascent). After arranging and offering the sacred provisions, they withdraw.

The rotating offerers (five people), purification leaders (five people), yin-yang practitioners (accompanied by one person), administrators and deputies first gather at the shrine grounds, while the directors and head priests proceed to the offering hall (each in customary attire). After all officials have assembled, the director approaches the attendants' building to inquire about the dispatch of sacred offerings (the head priest responds). Next, the head priest and others take their positions at the earth building. Next, sacred offerings are dispatched from the offering hall: first the advance offerings, then the sacred sake vessels and below (abbreviated).

When passing through the earth building, the shrine officials prostrate themselves. Next, the yin-yang practitioner purifies the sacred offerings at the designated place. The sacred offerings are placed on the east and west offering shelves. Next, the head priest and others rise and proceed to the altar. At this time, the yin-yang practitioner purifies their bodies. Next, the shrine officials take seats to the left and right of the altar. Next, the rotating offerers and purification leaders take their customary positions (the ritual follows custom). The deputy shrine administrator takes his seat in the transparent corridor (the ritual follows New Year's Day procedure). Next, the chief administrator presents the sacred keys to the chief hafuri. The chief hafuri opens the sacred doors. At this time, the musicians make sounds (the procedure for starting and stopping music follows custom, so it is abbreviated). The head priest and others all prostrate themselves (moving from their seats). Next, the head priest and hafuri enter the inner sanctuary (their movements follow custom). Next, the chief negi and others wait on the upper and lower steps. Next, the rotating offerers rise (however, the two junior attendants wait on the hafuri side from the time the doors open, as is customary).

Next, the chief hafuri rolls up the sacred curtains. Next, sacred offerings are presented from the negi side: first the advance offerings, then the sacred chopsticks (placed on round trays as usual; the same applies below). The head priest makes the offerings (placing them toward the center of the first level of the great eight-legged table). Next, boat rice (two boats placed on wooden boards. Next, rice is placed in containers made of cypress bark, covered with lids and tied with kudzu vine. The measurements from the center and below are the same as for the Aoi Festival). Next, boat rice cakes (two boats placed on wooden boards. Flower rice cakes with a little red azuki beans added, ten pieces arranged in boats. Measurements are the same as for the rice). Next, sacred carp (one throat, lids, earthenware vessels, etc., as usual), sacred birds (same as above). Next, sacred fresh items (five throats, presented five times as usual).

(The above are offered by the head priest on the first level of the great eight-legged table, on the negi side) Next, eggplant (placed in earthenware with covers. The above has been prepared by deputies since previous generations. The arrangement method, etc. However, the deputy's annual events record states that two eggplants are to be prepared, etc. The above is offered on the second level). Next, accumulated provisions (the usual number, offered on the sacred serving tables). Next, sacred sweets (as usual, but with spoons included. However, the hafuri side has no spoons; the deputy negi unwraps them as usual and offers them on the third level). Next, salted sweetfish (placed on wooden boards on the second level; details are found in the New Year's Day section). Next...