《Note: These are portions》etc. are put into the sacred container. Also for Shingū: two sacred chopstick stands, one bowl of round rice, five bowls with one complete portion of ray, sacred sake cups《Note: two pieces with stands》. Wakamiya and Shingū are the same. All are morning sacred meal portions. The evening sacred meals for the outer sanctuary are offered by those on duty at the shrine head during the actual evening meal time. Every sacred ceremony follows this example.

For Ōta Shrine: two sets of sacred chopsticks, two bowls of cedar-shaped rice, two bowls of round rice, ten bowls with one complete portion of ray, two sacred round cakes, four sacred sake cups, two bowls of sacred tataki, two bowls of salt, two cups of thin noodles, each served in mesh-pattern earthenware. Also for Nara, Sawada, and Ujigami shrines: two sets of sacred chopsticks, two bowls of sacred rice, ten bowls with one complete portion of ray, four sacred sake cups《Note: however with stands》. These four shrines have morning and evening portions. Also Kibune Shrine has different quantities, recorded later. For the communion feast mentioned above, at Katsuragaoka Shrine's morning sacred meal, of the seven rice portions, four are for the minor deputy's communion feast and three for the imperial kitchen communion feast. The sacred rice at other shrines all goes to the imperial kitchen communion feast. The sacred vegetables are for the shrine servants' communion feast in one set. At Ōta Shrine, one cedar-shaped rice and one identical sacred offering go to the Ōta minor keeper, while the other round rice, sacred vegetables, etc. go to the woodcutters' communion feast. Every sacred ceremony is like this.

However, at Ujigami Shrine, they attach and prepare the sacred offerings of Komori Shrine. Most importantly, they offer them on the sacred serving tray. Toso (spiced sake) is not offered at any of the eight shrines except Kibune. It is ordinary sacred sake. The hafuri side accordingly divides the communion feast between both officials. If both officials do not offer, then the shrine administrator's deputy at Kajita Shrine offers. However, from New Year's Day of Kanpō 4 when it was prepared and offered at Honmiya, sacred provisions for the seven shrines were also put in sacred containers and transported by shrine servants. The items can be seen where the shrine administrator's deputy prepares and offers them at minor shrines. All are mixed and served on top of the regular sacred servings《Note: and so forth》

After offering on the sacred serving tray, the offering bearer performs one bow at the earthen platform and returns to his seat《Note: Bowing salute as at the beginning》. Next the hafuri performs one bow going up and down the steps, then returns to the worship hall《Note: Bowing salute and arranging robe hems as at the beginning. However, no seated bow when returning to seat》. Next both officials rise from their seats, perform two bows and recite the ritual prayer.

At Katsuragaoka Shrine, at this time the shrine servants loudly announce that the earth ritual is completed. At Honmiya and below, Shingū and Wakamiya, they hear the earth ritual and then recite the ritual prayer.

The words say: Reverently fearful before this great deity's sacred and broad presence, we humbly speak. For the New Year's Day sacred ceremony, we respectfully prepare and offer sacred provisions in the inner and outer sanctuaries. May you illuminate and dwell in your divine heart. May you protect and dwell for the long duration of heaven and earth and the peace of court and military. We respectfully speak. Completed.