Regarding the Divine Offerings for the Ritual Protection of Ota Shrine and Annual Ceremonies

1. The divine offerings for ritual protection shall be made twice as usual, on the 10th day of the 4th month and the 10th day of the 11th month <<However, recently it has been performed on the 11th day, but since the 10th day is designated for the sacred music ceremony, it shall be fixed on the 10th day going forward>>

1. Regarding divine offerings: Until now they have been prepared at the shrine maiden's house, but preparing them at a house of humble status is deeply concerning to the divine spirit. Henceforth, the management of divine offerings shall be prepared in turns at the residences of both officials. The details are as follows:

1. From the collected rice, 5 to (measures) shall be delivered from the shrine maiden to both officials:
   Interior: 3 to 5 sho - for divine offering expenses and management costs
   1 to - for prayer fees for officials serving in rotation  
   5 sho - for deputy offering fees <<However, there shall be hospitality at the residence of the official on duty>>

1. Except for 5 sho from the collected rice, the remainder shall be delivered to the shrine maiden's side for preparing appropriate ritual gifts

1. On the 10th day of the 4th month when presenting divine offerings, the official on duty among the two officials shall manage the divine offerings, dress in court costume, serve at noon, prepare and present the divine offerings, and recite prayers

1. The 11th month shall be the same as the 4th month

1. When ritual protection is completed, for the sacred music, when delivering 1 to 6 sho of rice in the main measure, the distribution order is as follows:
   1. 3 sho - for deputy prayer fees
   1. 1 sho - for lamp oil fees, minor deputy, and lower ranks
   Remaining 1 to 2 sho - distributed to sacred music performers

1. The ceremony of scattering coins shall be as it has been traditionally

1. The lamp oil fees shall be as they have been traditionally

1. During sacred music, shrine maidens shall wear chihaya (white ritual garments), and rhythm section performers shall wear unbleached hemp robes