【Right Page】

"Existence, non-existence, etc., should temporarily follow what is established and be explained as such" 《etc.》. This is the evidential passage.

○ If there is bilateral non-establishment, there is necessarily no indeterminacy or contradiction《etc.》

Question: The principle that bilateral non-establishment and indeterminacy-contradiction necessarily do not co-occur is unclear. First, Bodhisattva Śaṅkarasvāmin, in the six indeterminacies, regarding the method of same-part different-whole indeterminacy, says: The sound-production theorist, opposing the sound-manifestation [school], establishes "sound is not produced by effort-immediate causation, because of impermanence-nature, similar example like space, dissimilar example like pot etc." Because both proponent and opponent do not permit the impermanence-nature reason to exist in the subject sound, the commentary master himself judges there is bilateral non-establishment. How is this not bilateral non-establishment co-occurring with indeterminacy? Moreover, in clarifying the nature of deficiency faults, regarding the three characteristics of reasons: lacking two while having three, lacking three while having one. Among these, lacking the first and third characteristics, bilateral non-establishment and indeterminacy should co-occur. Lacking the first and latter two characteristics, there should be bilateral non-establishment and contradictory reason faults. Next, when the sound theorist establishes "sound is permanent, because of visible-nature, similar example like space, dissimilar example like pot etc.," why don't proponent and opponent permit the reason "because of visible-nature" to apply to sound-existence? There is bilateral non-establishment. This reason is absent in the similar example space, present in the dissimilar example pot etc. Therefore, absent in similar, present in dissimilar, committing the fault of dharma-svabhāva contradiction. How is this not a bilateral non-establishment inference having contradictory reasons? Additionally, when [saying] "all sounds are permanent, because of effort-immediate production nature, like sound-nature etc.," this reason does not apply to one part of external sounds. Therefore there should be bilateral non-establishment. When discussing in relation to internal sounds, if opposing those who permit the similar example sound-nature, pot etc. should be attached with indeterminacy fault. If opposing those who don't permit similar examples, this reason has similar-absent dissimilar-present, should have contradictory reason fault. How can these doubts and difficulties be resolved? Seeing the commentary's above text says: "What is explained above is merely the four contradictory reason [faults] of bilateral non-establishment between proponent and opponent"《etc.》. Since the four contradictory reasons explained in the treatise are immediately named bilateral non-establishment, why say bilateral non-establishment 《The six characters from "why" onward are probably superfluous》 why say bilateral non-establishment and contradictory reasons do not co-occur?

Answer: The inference methods presented in the difficulties are either questions from Dharma Master Yū of Shōgon Temple or what is述 in the Myōtō-shō. Using those inferences, according to Dharma Master Yū's intention, co-occurrence is permitted. That is, according to the present commentary's intention, regarding the three characteristics of reasons: only lacking the first characteristic is called non-establishment; lacking either one of the latter two characteristics is called indeterminacy; lacking both characteristics while possessing the first characteristic is called contradiction. Using this principle 《with》 to judge by one characteristic. In thoroughly reasoned doctrine, bilateral non-establishment, indeterminacy, and contradiction should be said to co-occur.

Above copied and written from the Monastic Director's excerpts.

The reverse writing of Dharma Master Shimizu in the two-volume private record says: Presently considering the fundamental intention of the four contradictions is decidedly not so. It does not prevent inferences with bilateral non-establishment from having similar-absent dissimilar-present. However, one should especially say that the four contradictions necessarily do not lack the first characteristic.

Question: Can indeterminacy and bilateral non-establishment co-occur?
Answer: 《Monastic Director》 Not yet definitively determined.

Question: Can contradiction and bilateral non-establishment co-occur?
Answer: 《Monastic Director》 Cannot co-occur. Because since Vasubandhu, all exclude the seventh. Above

【Left Page】

From the 30th of the second month to the 8th of the third month, studied this. On the 8th with Monastic Director Nenju.

In the winter 12th month of Kyūju first year, spring 2nd month of the same second year, participated twice in the Logic discussions. What the former master studied, what my foolish mind maintains, not leaving out a single doctrine, all has been presented completely. Not heeding future generations' criticism, only following the strict instructions of the time.
　　　　　　　　　Assistant Monastic Director Ekyō of Kōfuku Temple 《At the time seventy-one years old》

Kanki 3rd year, 6th month, 4th day, monkey hour, finished writing at Ichijō-in of Kōfuku Temple. With aged eyes, I do not know where the brush touches. Moreover, temple duties are hurried. Therefore, although difficult to see and understand, only to rest from idleness, I wet this old brush.
　　　　　Assistant Head Priest, Provisional Archbishop, Dharma Seal Great Priest Jisshin of Kōfuku Temple

This book has no other copies besides the original
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Personally collated once, finished

《Investigation: The original's back additional writing says》
This honored excerpt, I have respectfully viewed many times. Generally, logic masters since Kenryaku, partial in believing the superficial elegance of latter

【Lower Section】

learning, do not know the truth of the doctrinal way. I truly know: the nature of sea birds does not enjoy the melodies of decorated paulownia; the mouths of rustic people only find sweet the taste of goosefoot and beans. This is truly a lamentable time. Jōwa 4th year, 9th month, 18th day, recorded this during rain.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Latter student Kakushin

Safu-shō Lower Volume 《End》