Emergency adopted son
Originally from Shikano
Okuda Rikamezō

During the reign of Lord Yoriyasu
1. On the 20th day of the 11th month of Kōka 4, hitsuji (1847), adopted as requested in Okuda Kuzaemon's deathbed wish, granted succession with 40 hyō and provisions for 3 people without change, assigned according to guard unit rank order

1. On the 1st day of the 6th month of Kaei 4, kanoto-i (1851), granted permission as requested to take the sister of Fujita Gonbei, retainer of Lord Sakai Shuridayū, as second wife

1. On the 28th day of the same month, brought her into the household

1. On the 10th day of the 8th month of the same year, wife died of illness

1. On the 10th day of the 2nd month of the same 5th year, mizunoe-ne (1852), granted permission as requested to take the adopted daughter of Ozaki Risuke, retainer of Lord Sakai Jinnosuke of the Yoriai rank, as second wife

1. On the 3rd day of the 3rd month of Ansei 2, kinoto-u (1855), regarding the incident on the 1st when he was on reception hall duty: when Lord Toda Hyūga-no-kami's (a Kōke family) horse was startled and bolted, entering the gate compound, regarding the handling of this matter, both guard captain Shibata Sezaemon and he were stripped of duties and ordered into house confinement. Although reception hall matters should be managed entirely by the guard captain, there should have been proper understanding, but this was considered negligent conduct, therefore ordered into discretionary confinement. Relieved from confinement on the 18th of the same month

1. On the 2nd day of the 3rd month of the same 3rd year, hinoe-tatsu (1856), the night before last while on reception hall duty, a money box entrusted by the finance office that had been left in the rest area was lost during the late night hours, which he was unaware of due to deep sleep. Having been repeatedly given strict instructions and being aware of them, this lack of supervision was considered extremely negligent, therefore ordered into discretionary confinement. Relieved from confinement on the 16th of the same month