【Right page】
at the borders [of these provinces], fighting with the people of Date and Mogami many times. After the western forces were defeated, in the 11th month of the 6th year, Kagekatsu came to the Kanto region {{Marginal note: Regarding Kagekatsu's coming before Tokugawa-dono, what is widely transmitted in the world says it was either the 24th day of the 7th month or the 24th day of the 8th month of Keicho 6. Natsume's record states it was the end of the 11th month. Since these are all recorded by his retainers, there should be basis [for each account]. However, it is uncertain whether the character for "eleven" and "seven" were mistaken}}.

After the audience with Tokugawa-dono, he was granted the districts of Nagai and Shinobu, while the lands of Aizu, Sendai, and Shonai were confiscated {{Marginal note: Kagekatsu thereafter moved to Yonezawa and ruled 300,000 koku. Additionally, 50,000 koku was granted to Naoe}}. When the Osaka campaigns arose, he rushed forward as the vanguard of the Shogun's forces, fought and received the gratitude of both lords, and many of his retainers received rewards {{Marginal note: It is recorded that Sugihara Hitachi-no-suke, Suda Oki-no-suke, Tetsu Mago-emon and others gained fame in the Battle of Iino and received official letters as well as gifts}}. When war arose again, both lords summoned Kagekatsu to

【Left page】
the Nijo encampment, ordering him to protect the imperial capital, and he was kept in reserve, establishing his position at Hachiman. Kagekatsu died on the 20th day of the 3rd month of Genna 9 at the age of sixty-nine {{Marginal note: Details about Kagekatsu can be found in Natsume's record. Here I record the general outline}}.

His son, Minor Captain of the Left Sadakatsu, following his father, in Genna 9 held the ranks of Junior Fourth Rank Lower, Chamberlain, and Chief of the Palace Guard. In Kan'ei 3 he was appointed Minor Captain, and died on the 1st day of the 9th month of Shoho 2 at the age of forty-three.

His son, Chamberlain Tsunakatsu, came of age on the 11th day of the 12th month of Joo 2, was granted an honorary name and made Junior Fourth Rank Lower Chamberlain concurrently serving as Governor of Harima. He died on the 7th day of the intercalary 5th month of Kanbun 4 at the age of twenty-seven without an heir. Therefore, since he was a nephew by marriage, the eldest son of Kira Kozuke-no-suke Yoshihide