【Right page】
The reason that Satake uses a fan with a moon as their crest is said to derive from this story. Sadayoshi, the fifth-generation grandson of Hideyoshi, who held the title of Hitachi no suke, was appointed to Tōtōmi no kami concurrently Kazusa no suke at the beginning of the Genkō era, became a Buddhist monk and was called Kazusa no nyūdō. Following the summons of Sagami nyūdō Takatoki, he reinforced Rokuhara, and when Takatoki perished, he then followed the Ashikaga and fought against the imperial army, being an unwavering supporter of the shōgun's side. Therefore his descendants also prospered, reaching Sadayoshi's great-grandson Yoshimori, who held the title of Uma no kami. Since Yoshimori had no heir, he adopted the second son of Uesugi Awa no kami Norisada, the shitsuji of Kamakura, married him to his daughter, made him his successor, and called him Ukyō no taibu Yoshihito. The Satake retainers disliked that Yoshihito was the son of another family, so they set up Kazusa no suke Tomoyoshi, son of Yamanoiri Gyōbu no taibu Noriyoshi, who was the grandson of Kazusa nyūdō Sadayoshi, as

【Left page】
their lord. The Kamakura lord {{marginal note: this was Mochiuji}} gave command to Ishimatsu Mochikuni to attack Nagakura castle where Tomoyoshi had taken refuge. The Satake retainers could not prevail and welcomed Yoshihito as their lord. Tomoyoshi also surrendered and came to serve.
{{marginal note: From this point, Satake became of Fujiwara lineage}} In the military conflict at Kamakura in Ōei 23, Yoshihito joined Mochiuji's side, so as reward he was granted the yakta title {{marginal note: He was one of the eight yakata families of the Kantō}}. Yoshihito's son Iyo no kami Yoshitoshi, his son Saemon no suke Yoshiharu, his son Fourth Rank Minor Captain concurrently Ukyō no taibu Yoshimasa, his son Junior Fourth Rank Upper Uma no gon no kami concurrently Daizen no taibu Yoshiatsu - during the Tenbun era, siding with Lord Hareuji of the Koga palace, attacked Kawagoe castle in Musashi province and fought against Hōjō Sakyō no taibu Ujiyasu, but when his side was not victorious, he withdrew. Yoshiatsu's son Ukyō no taibu Yoshiteru, his son