【Right Page】
《Note: They fortified themselves at Mount Koma and fought for over ten years, but the Emperor finally achieved victory. Nagasunehiko was killed for the crime of killing the Emperor's elder brother, and his brother Asu was banished to the northeast, living in Tsugaru Sotohama, Andō-ura and other places, where his descendants continued. Examining the Nihon Shoki, Emperor Kamuyamato Iwarebiko (Emperor Jinmu) in the year of Kinoe-Tora personally led the imperial forces, departing from Hyūga Province to begin his eastern expedition. In that year he reached Aki Province, in the year of Kinoto-U he entered Kibi Province, and in the year of Tsuchinoe-Uma he arrived at Naniwa Cape. He crossed Mount Ikoma to enter Yamato Province, where one called Nagasunehiko came to meet him in battle at Kusae Slope. Nagasune is the name of a village used as a personal name. The Emperor's elder brother Prince Itsuse was struck by a stray arrow and died. In the winter of that year, the Emperor personally led the imperial forces and defeated Nagasunehiko. Initially, when Kushitama Nigihayahi-no-mikoto descended from heaven, Nagasunehiko believed him to be the true imperial prince and made him his lord, offering his sister Mikashiiya-hime, who bore Umashimade-no-mikoto. When it was proclaimed that the Emperor was also a child of the heavenly gods, he doubted this and defended against the imperial forces in battle. Although Nigihayahi-no-mikoto knew that the Emperor was the heavenly grandson who should rule this land, knowing that Nagasunehiko would never submit, he killed Nagasunehiko and submitted to the Emperor, for which his righteous sincerity was praised and he was shown favor. This was the distant ancestor of the Mononobe clan. Therefore, the one Nagasunehiko made his lord was Nigihayahi-no-mikoto, and Umashimade-no-mikoto was Nigihayahi's son. Umashimade and Umashimaro were his children and the same. Although it does not appear that Nagasunehiko had an elder brother, since ancient matters are often omitted from official histories, what is transmitted may well be so. ○In the reign of the tenth human emperor, Emperor Sujin, Abe no Kawabetsu-no-mikoto was sent to subjugate the Emishi.》

【Left Page】
《Note: The Emishi forces were strong and the government forces repeatedly lost advantage, but a distant descendant of Asu named Andō approached the commander saying, "Since my ancestors were banished to this place, we have long been people of the borderlands. Ah, if we could receive your pardon this time, we would sacrifice our lives to pacify the Emishi." Abe-no-mikoto reported this to the Emperor and gave Andō the vanguard, whereupon they achieved great victory in battle. The commander rewarded his military achievements by granting him his surname, so from this time they first used Abe as their surname. Also, based on their ancestor's name, they write it as Asu but read it as Abe. Considering this, in the tenth year of Emperor Sujin's reign, in the ninth month, envoys were sent in four directions to pacify disobedient lands: Ōhiko-no-mikoto went north, Takeninukawawake went east, Kibitsuhiko went west, and Taniwa-no-Michimushi-no-mikoto went south. This was the beginning of our country's generals. The one who pacified the east was Takeninukawawake-no-mikoto. Abe does not appear. Therefore, examining the Shinsen Shōjiroku, Takeninukawawake-no-mikoto was the son of Prince Hihiko, who was a son of Emperor Kōgen. Abe-no-ason, Ahe-no-omi, Ahe-no-hito-no-omi, and Abe-no-shihi-no-omi were all sons of Prince Hihiko. It should be transmitted as both Abe and Abe-no-Kawabetsu-no-mikoto. However, the descendants of Takeninukawawake-no-mikoto are called Takeuchi-no-omi. ○In the reign of the sixteenth emperor, Emperor Ōjin, when the Emishi rebelled again, a descendant of Andō named Shitō pacified them and was granted the title of general as reward. 《He took the name Kusaka Shōgun》 ○In the time of the sixty-sixth emperor, Emperor Ichijō, when the Emishi rebelled again, a descendant of Shitō named Kunitō led military forces across to Emishi territory, divided into upper and lower road forces, attacked, and finally captured three or four of their leaders and returned. He himself ate yams, gave them deer antlers, gave them black stones, and ate black beans. The Emishi were greatly...》