【Right Page】
《Note: The Emishi were frightened and all submitted. Kunitō's son Erira, and Erira's son Yoriyoshi took the name Andō Tarō and became military governors (ōryōshi) of both Mutsu and Dewa provinces. The people of the land called him Abe Shōgun. Yoriyoshi had many sons, namely Ido no Kubimoku Andō Tarō Yoshimune, Kuriyagawa Jirō Sadatō, Torinomi Saburō Munetō, Sakai Kōshi Kan'shō, Kurosawajiri Gorō Masatō, Hakuba Hachirō Yukitō, and others. In the reign of the seventieth emperor, Emperor Go-Reizei, Yoriyoshi and his sons twice rebelled against the imperial court, so they were destroyed by Minamoto no Yoriyoshi. Sadatō had two sons and one daughter. His eldest son Chiyojumaru, at thirteen years old, was killed together with his father. The daughter united with Minamoto no Yoshiie and bore Yoshikuni. The second son Manchiyomaru, when only three years old, was carried by his wet nurse and deeply hidden in a place called Fujisaki in Tsugaru. After growing up, he took the name Takakimi. His son Takaaki also took the name Andō Tarō and lived in Fujisaki. From this time, all the legitimate heirs of this house used Andō Tarō as their common name. This is because they made their ancestor Andō's name the hereditary title of his descendants. Examining the Mutsu Waki, Abe no Yoriyoshi, governor of the six districts, was the son of Tadayoshi. His ancestor Tadayori appears to have been the chief of eastern Mutsu. The places where he was called Erira and Tadayoshi are the same, but Tadayori's matter does not appear in the Gōkō. Also, the mother of Minamoto no Yoshiie's second son Yoshikuni is said to be the daughter of Chūgū-no-suke Aritsuna, but the claim that she was Sadatō's daughter is doubtful. Events after this are recorded below.》

Sanesue's sixth-generation ancestor Andō Tarō Hirosue, around the Ōei era, first moved from Sotogahama in Mutsu and attacked and subjugated the port of Akita in Dewa Province, calling himself Akita Jōsuke. His son Moresue, his son Koresue, his son Akisue, his son Sadanue《Note: For generations their common name was Andō Tarō, calling themselves Akita Jōsuke》. Sadanue had two sons: the elder was called Tomosue, the younger Yoshisue. Sanesue was the son of this Yoshisue.《Note: According to the Gōkō theory, descendant of Takaaki, Andō Tarō》

【Left Page】
《Note: In Sadahide's time, during Emperor Go-Toba's reign around the Kenkyū era, there was an occasion when many eagle feathers were presented from Korea. Because Sadahide had a reputation as a brave warrior, he was summoned to the imperial court, and two of those feathers were placed on a cypress fan and bestowed upon him. For one who takes up bow and arrow, what greater honor could there be? This should be transmitted to descendants for a long time and become the mirror of our house. So he changed the crest of lion and peony on the curtain and added eagle feathers to the cypress fan. During Emperor Hanazono's reign, around the Shōwa era, Sadahide's successor Andō Tarō Takanari rebelled against the Sagami Lay Priest Takatoki. At that time military forces from various provinces were raised to attack him. It is also said that he rushed forth following the urgings of Kusunoki Kawachi-no-Hangan Masashige. Takanari's son Andō Jirō Sadanue served the daughter of Kitabatake Gen-Chūnagon Akiie-kyō, governor of Mutsu Province. This was because Sadanue was heard to be an unwavering supporter of the imperial court. From Sadanue's eldest son Andō Tarō Moresue down to his eighth-generation descendant Shunsue's son Yoshisue, they first moved to live in Akita castle in Dewa Province. Sadanue's second son Andō Jirō Shosue also moved to live in Akita in Dewa, and when his descendants ended after nine generations, Yoshisue came to rule Akita in addition to his other domains. Generally, this house had two branches: the Andō Tarō of Minato and the Andō Tarō of Shimokuni. When it is said that Minato later absorbed the Shimokuni house, this is what is meant. Examining this theory and genealogy》