【Right Page】
was granted the district and moved to Anado castle《Note: [worth] fifty thousand koku》. On the third day of the ninth month of Keichō 10 (1605), he was appointed Akita-jō-no-suke and given the court rank of Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade《Note: What Sanesue desired was that if he could not be appointed chamberlain (jijū)》《Note: he should be appointed Akita-jō-no-suke, so he said》. In the battles before and after Osaka, he served in the shogun's vanguard and presented forty-four severed heads that he had taken. Afterwards, he transferred the headship of the family to his son Izu-no-kami Toshisue and retired《Note: Sanesue was later exiled to Asama in Ise and died there》.
《Note: According to what old people told, when Sanesue transferred the domain to his son, he gave him only ten thousand koku worth of land but made him perform the duties of fifty thousand koku, taking all the remainder for himself》
《Note: He imposed almost no taxes on the people of the district, but levied money for every single occasion - coming of age ceremonies, taking wives, marriages, and childbirth - pressing them so hard that》
《Note: the poor people naturally had their eaves sagging and walls crumbling, but could not possibly afford repairs. Though men should hunt birds and women should earn money, they lived far beyond their means, always》
《Note: living only like children. Fathers, sons, and brothers secretly grieved and suffered, and needless to say, Toshisue's lord and retainers suffered extremely》

【Left Page】
《Note: Even so, because he complained about trivial matters concerning his own son, he was finally exiled. Later, when Toshisue went up [to Edo] as castle keeper of Osaka》
《Note: he constantly requested audiences, saying they should meet face to face. His intention was to harm his son. Toshisue's retainers quickly perceived this》
《Note: so they made various excuses and did not permit the audience. Sanesue's behavior may not have been that extreme, but the people who suffered》
《Note: wanted to speak very badly of him, so they probably transmitted such stories. However, since it reached the ears of the Great Minister (Tokugawa Ieyasu) and he incurred punishment, it cannot》
《Note: be entirely》
《Note: without foundation》Kawachi-no-kami Toshisue was initially called Andō Tarō. When the Osaka campaign began, he rushed there together with his father. In the following Genna 1 (1615), on the twenty-sixth day of the first month, he was made Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade and Izu-no-kami. In the summer of that year, he went toward Osaka, and at the Battle of Tennōji, he personally took up a spear, struck down one brave warrior, took his head, and brought it to the headquarters. In the same fifth year, by order of the shogun, he was reappointed as Kawachi-no-kami, and in the seventh month of Shōhō 2, his domain