【Right Page】
Taikō (Toyotomi Hideyoshi) also initially admired their reputation and requested one character each from their family names, taking the name "Hashiba." In December of Tenshō 3 (1575), when Nobunaga was still Gon-Dainagon and Udaishō (Provisional Major Counselor and Major Captain of the Right), there was a matter of appointing his retainers to court ranks. However, Nobunaga's domains were not yet extensive, and the lands to grant his retainers were limited. Planning to first conquer Kyushu's provinces one by one and grant them to his followers, he appropriated ancient family names of Kyushu samurai and had his retainers adopt them. Nagahide also received such an order and changed his name to "Koretō" (after Nobunaga's death, he returned to using Niwa). In the summer of the same year, when Lord Oda decided to pacify Shikoku, he appointed his third son Sanshichi Nobutaka as commanding general and dispatched Nagahide and others as samurai generals (one account states that at this time Nagahide and Oda Nobutsune together became castellans of Osaka Castle).

【Left Page】
Since there were rumors that Nobutsune was siding with Akechi Mitsuhide, Nagahide consulted with Nobutaka and executed Nobutsune, also defeating the rebel forces at Itami. Just as they had reached Settsu Province, Nobunaga and Nobutada were killed by Akechi. Oda Shichibē-no-jō Chikuzen-no-kami Hideyoshi and other clan members rushed to gather at this location, raised forces, quickly executed the traitors, convened at Kiyosu Castle, and deliberated on succession matters. Since he was the legitimate grandson of the Udaijin-dono (Nobunaga), they made Sanhōshi-dono (Oda Hidenobu) the lord (later called Gifu Chūnagon), appointed the two princes Nobukatsu and Nobutaka as regents, and decided that until Sanhōshi-dono came of age, the御料 domains would be divided among the retainers to govern. Nagahide was assigned to administer Wakasa Province along with Shiga and Takashima districts of Ōmi (at this time Nagahide resided in Ōtsu in Ōmi Province, and the forces of northern Ōmi were said to belong to him. One account states that even before this, during Nobunaga's reign, Nagahide had been granted and governed the entire province of Wakasa plus Shiga and Takashima districts of Ōmi Province, residing in a castle at Harui in Wakasa).