【Right Page】
and took the name Tachibana, becoming a retainer of the Ōtomo clan. Ujiyasu's lineage remained in their home province and were called the Bungo Ōtomo. Sadanori fought at the Battle of Yōbai Higashitōin on the 11th day of the 1st month of Kenmu 4 (1337), where he killed Yūki Hangan Chikamitsu and received commendation from Shogun Takauji. 《He was granted a wakizashi by Yoshimitsu》 However, Sadanori was also severely wounded and died on the 14th of the same month. His son Sakon-shōgen Munemasa followed his father to Tachibana Castle in Chikuzen Province. Tango Nyūdō Dōsetsu was Munemasa's seventh-generation descendant. 《This is what appears in the genealogy. As for Sadamune's sons, why did the elder take the Tachibana name while the younger inherited the house? It seems that after Sadanori died, since his child was young, his younger brother Ujiyasu inherited the house. In any case, there must be a reason. With the passage of generations, the details are unclear. Also, what is transmitted in the world is that Sakon-shōgen Muneshige was not the actual son of Nyūdō Dōsetsu, but rather of Takahashi Shuzen》

【Left Page】
《Nyūdō Jōun's legitimate son. This Jōun was actually from the Ōtomo clan and had inherited the Takahashi house. The details appear in this record. Initially, at the Battle of Kama-Honami in Tenshō 9 (1581), when Betsugi Tango Nyūdō Dōsetsu saw Jōun Nyūdō's legitimate son fight at the age of sixteen, he recognized that this youth had the makings of a brave warrior, so in the following year of Tenshō 10 (1582), he requested the boy from his father Jōun and made him his adopted son. This was Sakon-shōgen Muneshige. Also, the reason Dōsetsu is called Betsugi Nyūdō is that since he was at Tachibana-yama Castle, he was called Tachibana. This does not appear in the genealogies》 Muneshige initially took the name Tōra. 《Perhaps he was given a character from the Ōtomo name》 On the 11th day of the 9th month of Tenshō 13 (1585), when the nyūdō whom he had called father—Dōsetsu—died of illness at age seventy-three in the army camp at Kōra-san in Chikugo Province, Tōra inherited the house and resided at Tachibana-yama Castle. In the autumn of the following 14th year 《In the 7th month of this year, Tōra's biological father Jōun was also killed by the Shimazu》, when the Shimazu forces advanced in great numbers toward Bungo Province and approached near his castle, Tōra sallied forth from the castle to fight, took many heads, withdrew, and again