【Right Page】
《He was the first among the twelve members of the御話の衆 (go-hanashi-no-shū, the Shogun's discussion group)》He was granted domain lands in Mutsu Province.
《It is said that he was granted 30,000 koku of land in Nangō, Ōshū in Keichō 18. According to the Sōgyōki, he was given 20,000 koku in the Kantō region. Another theory states that on the 27th day of the 7th month of Keichō 15, he was granted 10,000 koku at Tanagura in Mutsu Province. Which is true? Another theory says that Muneshige, having lost his home province, stayed at a place called Takase in Higo, and went up to the capital the following winter. After being in Kyoto for three years, in Keichō 8 he went down to the Kantō, resided temporarily at Hōshōji in Takada, and was later summoned by the Shogun's house to go to Suruga where he became head of the go-shoin-ban (personal guard). He was supposed to receive 30,000 koku, but the Ōgosho (retired Shogun) said, "Since he is a man of old merit, the amount of domain matters little. In any case, he should be given a castle," so he was granted Tanagura Castle in Ōshū with 15,000 koku attached》He served the Shogun's house in both Osaka campaigns. On the 9th day of the 8th month of Genna 6, he was granted his original domain and returned once again to Yanagawa Castle. 《108,000 koku》He was newly appointed as Hida-no-kami. In the 10th month of Kan'ei 14, for the suppression of the rebels in Amakusa, Hizen Province, he rushed forth with his son Sakon-shōgen Tadashige, and in the following 15th year

【Left Page】
in winter he retired from office, became a Buddhist monk, and took the name Risai. On the 25th day of the 11th month of the same 14th year, he died at the age of 76. Chamberlain Tadashige was Muneshige's adopted son, actually the second son of Shuzennoshō Naotsugu. He inherited his uncle Muneshige's house, initially came of age on the 26th day of the 12th month of Genna 8, received a character from the Shogun's personal name, was granted Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade, and appointed as Sakon-shōgen. When the rebels of Amakusa rose up, he rushed forth with his father, and after receiving his father's inheritance, he was promoted to Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade on New Year's Day of Kan'ei 18. In the 6th month of Shōhō 4, when a foreign ship from France arrived at Ōshima in Hizen Province, Tadashige, like other people of the western regions, assembled warships and surrounded the vessel. Since it was not a pirate ship, they allowed the vessel to return. In Meireki 3