【Right Page】
On the 27th day of the 12th month, he was appointed as Chamberlain (jijū), and in the 1st month of Manji 2, he was appointed as Hida-no-kami. On the 3rd day of the 5th month of Kanbun 4, he retired from office, became a Buddhist monk, and took the name Kōsetsu. On the 19th day of the 9th month of Enpō 3, he died at the age of 63. His eldest son, Sakon-shōgen Naoshige, was made Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade Sakon-shōgen on the 27th day of the 12th month of Manji 2, and after receiving his father's inheritance, on the 28th day of the 12th month of Kanbun 4, he was promoted to Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade and became Hida-no-kami. His second son, Danjō Sadaaki, received a division of his father's domain. 《It is said that Naoshige received over 105,000 koku and his younger brother Sadaaki received 5,000 koku》

Shuzennoshō Minamoto Tanetsugu was the eldest son of the late Shuzennoshō Naotsugu. Naotsugu was actually the son of Takahashi Shuzennoshō Shigetane, the Buddhist monk Jōun, a retainer of the Ōtomo family of Bungo Province. 《Initially he was called Takahashi Yahichirō Norimasu, but later became known as Shuzennoshō Naotsugu, as recorded in the Kyūshū-ki》 Now, the Takahashi

【Left Page】
family was a descendant of Ōkura Ason Harutane and was one of the three Tsukushi inspectors (Tsukushi san-kendan) established during the reign of Lord Ashikaga. During the Kenmu era, when Lord Takauji, having no success in the battles in the capital, retreated to the land of Tsukushi and gathered forces to attack upward again, Niniki, Isshiki, and Takahashi were retained as governors (shugo) of the nine provinces. From when Takahashi Mitsutane first received this position, his descendants continuously held the office of inspector (kendan). Since it was their namesake land, they built a castle at Takahashi in Chikugo Province and resided there. Later, the descendants chose another strategic location and moved to Naya Hōman-yama in Chikzen Province. As the Ōtomo house rose to power, the three inspector families lost all their authority, and many of the local lords (kokujin) of the western regions became vassals of the Ōtomo