【Right Page】
both were granted domains (father and son each receiving 13,000 koku). In the autumn of Keichō 5, when the Osaka magistrates and others raised troops, Echizen-no-kami Naosada complied with their summons and, like the Western Army daimyo, headed to Iga Province and captured Ueno Castle (the place where Tsutsui Iga-no-kami had resided). He remained there as a defender, but after the Battle of Sekigahara ended, Naoyori and his son offered their apologies, and having their crimes pardoned, they were exiled to Aizu in Ōshū and both father and son were entrusted to Lord Gamō. Three years later, on the 15th day of the 1st month of Keichō 9, Naoyori and his son were summoned back, and afterward were granted domains (at this time they may have been granted 17,000 koku at Asō in Hitachi Province, but the details are unclear). They constantly served in attendance in the Kantō region and served close to the Shogun house (they were called go-hanashi-no-shū). Naoyori had already become a Buddhist monk,

【Left Page】
so on the 26th day of the 12th month of the same 13th year, he was made Kunai-kyō Hōin. In the 12th month of the same 16th year, the monk Naoyori trespassed into the Shogun's hunting grounds in Shimōsa Province to hunt with hawks, was reported by the field guards, and both father and son fled. Soon they received pardon and were summoned back. The following year, on the 19th day of the 12th month of the 17th year, the monk died at age 75. In the winter of the 19th year, when the Osaka campaign began, Echizen-no-kami Naosada, together with his son Naomasa, took charge of the Shogun's vanguard and rushed up to defend the stronghold at Imazato (continuing to guard this place until the 5th month of the following year). In the battle on the 7th day of the 12th month of Genna 1, he took heads and presented them (five, or according to one account, thirteen). In the same 2nd year, he undertook the duties of go-sōsha. On the 21st day of the 4th month of the 4th year, at age 57,