【Right Page】
he died. His heir Echizen-no-kami Naoyoshi participated in the battles before and after Osaka alongside his father. After his father died and he inherited the house, his eldest son Shinzaburō Naotsune died young and there was no male heir to succeed the house, so he married his daughter to his uncle Mimasaku-no-kami Naofusa's second son Naotoki (childhood name Yasojirō, later Ichidayū) and adopted him. Later Naoyoshi had one son, but wishing that Naotoki would manage his house affairs until the boy reached adulthood, he made this request and died on the 22nd day of the 7th month of Kanbun 11 at age 64. Naotoki took charge of his father-in-law Naoyoshi's house affairs, and on the 27th day of the 12th month of that year was granted court rank and appointed Oki-no-kami. Since Naoyoshi's son Minbu Naonori had already reached adulthood, on the 9th day of the 8th month of Enpō 2, Oki-no-kami Naotoki was summoned and told:

【Left Page】
The son of the late Echizen-no-kami Naoyoshi has already reached maturity. His father's domain should be returned to him. Moreover, in recognition of your years of service in managing his house affairs, you shall be granted one quarter of his domain. From this time Naoyoshi's son Minbu Naonori inherited the house, but not long after, on the night of the last day of the 4th month of the same 4th year, he suddenly died without illness. People found this very suspicious. (What was later told to the world was that Oki-no-kami Naotoki, after taking control of his father-in-law Naoyoshi's house affairs, did not return the house management even when Naoyoshi's son reached adulthood. He would tell the senior retainers and other attendants on various occasions that Naonori was chronically ill by nature and unfit to serve publicly, lamenting this as his misfortune. People thought this might indeed be the case, but what Oki-no-kami claimed was completely false. Naonori was healthy in body and talented, truly fit to inherit his ancestral house. Pitifully, he greatly wished to receive gracious judgment and have his father's legacy returned to him quickly.)