【Right Page】
Someone remonstrated with Lord Tokugawa saying, "That Takehisa initially committed the grave sin of attempting to harm you, my lord. Even having his life spared was sufficient mercy, yet to grant him additional domains seems excessive in reward, does it not?" To this he replied, "What you say appears reasonable. However, their initial plot against Ieyasu was not motivated by personal enmity, but solely by their desire to serve Hideyori loyally. I have heard that people of old did not even censure past misdeeds. This was an error born of rash judgment - why should I condemn it harshly? Moreover, in this recent disturbance, Takehisa served as my envoy to pacify the Hokuriku region, and Harunaga also performed meritorious service for Ieyasu in the vanguard at Sekigahara. How could there be no reward for such service?" Thus he finally granted them domains. (Initially he was granted 10,000 koku in Kaga Province. Because that land was needed for falconry, an envoy came and at Toshinaga's request to Hijikata, it was changed to land in Noto. After this, Takehisa received further favor and eventually reached 22,000 koku. According to one account, he was initially granted 10,000 koku of land in Ise, and Toshinaga of Kaga was also given 10,000 koku of land. This was said to be due to Lord Tokugawa's private instructions. Judging from the domains his sons divided among themselves, Takehisa's domain was probably 27,000 koku)

【Left Page】
On the 16th day of the 11th month of Keichō 12, Takehisa died at age 56. His heir, Tango-no-kami Takeuji, divided his father's domain (10,000 koku in Mie District of Ise Province, 2,000 koku in Kurita District of Ōmi Province, totaling 12,000 koku). Takeuji initially accompanied the Tōkaidō campaign at Sekigahara, served in the vanguard for the Shogun's house in the battles before and after Osaka, and presented three severed heads. Due to physical ailments, in the 2nd month of Kan'ei 12, he transferred the house to his son Mokusuke Takataka. Since Takataka had no male heir, he adopted the son of his younger brother, the monk Rituen.