…is identical to what is recorded in the Isopo Monogatari (Aesop's Fables), and it is also stated that he was "a person from a place called Amorio in the country of Phrygia." (Note: "Phrygia" is another name for "Hellas/Greece," as will be explained in detail below. "Amorio" is likely the former name of "Amonia.") Furthermore, according to what Matteo Ricci wrote: "Aesop was a person of great wisdom and talent, but unfortunately his native country was conquered, and he himself was taken captive and sold into the household of a man named Xanthos." The story of Xanthos purchasing a tongue when entertaining guests is also derived from the Isopo Monogatari. Thus, none of the three works record in which era this person lived. The complete history of the West does not contain an account of this person. Upon consulting geographical texts, "Hellas" or "Phrygia" is called "Frygien" in Dutch (translated in Chinese as 非里雅 "Fēilǐyǎ"), and this is the name of an ancient country located within Asia Minor. The territory is divided into two parts, greater and lesser. Today, the territory of Greater Phrygia is called "Sarma," and the territory of Lesser Phrygia is called "Saricum." In this land, in ancient times, there was a famous fortified city called "Troy," which served as the royal capital of King Priam. However, from around the 2,800th year of the Western foundation (corresponding to the first year of King Kang of the Zhou dynasty in China, the year Guihai), the country of Graecia (Greece) raised armies to attack it for a period of ten years, and finally seized the fortress of Troy and completely demolished it. Afterward, Alexander the Great unified the various nations and, recognizing Troy as a famous fortress since antiquity, ordered that it be newly constructed. The Trojan War is the most celebrated event in the world, and there are a great many Western books that record things as "before the Trojan War" or "after the Trojan War," and so on. Furthermore, the land of "Ateers" to which Aesop was sold is also known as "Ateenen," or "Athena" (亜徳那), which is to say it lies within the country of Graecia (Greece). Based on all of these considerations taken together, Aesop was a person of the time of the Trojan War, and of Graecia (Greece)…