(Continued from previous page)

...they fought on that ground, and the French forces were again defeated, losing more than five thousand men. The English, pressing their advantage, captured the French city of "Mans" (Le Mans) in 1426 (corresponding to the 33rd year of Ōei in Japan, and the 1st year of Xuande of Ming, the year Bingwu), and from that point forward, the attacks on and captures of French provinces and districts increased day by day. Furthermore, Philip, the Duke of Burgundy (Holconia), also broke with France and aided England. Thus, more than half of France's territory was seized by the English, and the French king fled in defeat into the castle of "Bourges." The English mocked and jeered at him, calling him not the King of France, but the "King of Bourges." The king then further fled into the city of "Orléans." In 1428 (corresponding to the 1st year of Shōchō in Japan, and the 3rd year of Xuande of Ming, the year Wuyin), a great English army advanced to besiege "Orléans."

At that time, there was a young girl in "Orléans." Her name was "Jeanne" (Joan), and she was originally from the land of Lorraine (Attéringia), having come to reside there. She was exactly eighteen years of age. She petitioned the king to be given soldiers, and personally leading them herself, she went out and fought fiercely. At this time, the English forces suffered a great defeat, with many generals and nobles dying in battle, and many others being captured by the French. Subsequently, in two further battles, the young girl again used fire attacks to rout the enemy, and the English all fled in defeat. Through this, the French won a great victory. Pursuing further, they again carried out a fire attack on the English near the waterside at "Rouen," and the English escaped back to their country with only a remnant surviving. From this point on, the various provincial territories that had previously been lost were returned to the French king, and the entire country was once again at peace. Therefore, in order to pass down the achievements of this young girl to later generations... (continued on the next page)