(Continued from previous page) ...and placed governors and ecclesiastical officials to administer the islands. In 1484 (the 16th year of Bunmei in Japan; the 20th year of Chenghua in Ming China), the Portuguese also reached the Kingdom of Congo, located to the southeast of Guinea (mentioned in the Dutch section), and gradually opened up and took possession of that territory. At this time, there was a man from a place called "Coqueto" (also known as "Cogoreto") in the Republic of Genoa within Italy, named "Christophorus Columbus" (the name "Gelóng" found in Chinese illustrated texts is an abbreviated translation of "Columbus"). He served as a high official under the Spanish King Ferdinand. Gifted with natural intelligence, he was deeply fond of the natural sciences, and, inferring that there must be lands in yet undiscovered places, he desired to explore them. He therefore petitioned the king, boarded a great ship, set sail on the western sea in search of new lands, and finally arrived in 1492 (the 1st year of Meiō in Japan; the 5th year of Hongzhi in Ming China) at the island of "Little Spain" (Hispaniola) in the Americas, and subsequently reached the island of Cuba. Both of these islands were exceedingly vast in territory, utterly incomparable to the previously mentioned islands of Madeira, the Canaries, Cape Verde, and others. The land was fertile, and both islands produced particularly large quantities of gold and silver; moreover, they also produced considerable amounts of copper, ginger, cinnamon, sugar, frankincense, aloe, various vegetables, ambergris, hides, and other goods. Accordingly, all the native peoples of these two islands were won over and made to submit, the islands became possessions of the King of Spain, castles were built, and governors and ecclesiastical officials were installed. In 1497 (the 6th year of Meiō in Japan; the 10th year of Hongzhi in Ming China), a man from Florence (福楞察) in Italy named "Amerigo Vespucci" (written in Chinese characters as 亜墨利哥), again under the orders of the King of Spain, boarded twelve large ships and opened up a great continent further to the west. As a result, the land was named after the person who had opened it, and it was called "America," designated as the fourth...