[This continent was] called a great continent, and also referred to as the "New World." In 1501 (the first year of Genki in Japan, the 14th year of Hongzhi in the Ming dynasty), the Portuguese reached the country of Brazil in South America. This country has a warm and hot climate, and produces great quantities of sappanwood, cotton, sugar, saffron, balsam, ambergris, and various fruits. The natives were fond of eating human flesh. However, the Portuguese successfully subjugated them, securing more than 2,000 ri of coastline, establishing 14 garrison posts, and civilizing the natives, reforming their evil customs.

In 1503 (the third year of Genki in Japan, the 16th year of Hongzhi in the Ming dynasty), a man from "León" in Spain named Juan Ponce de León was the first to open up the land of "Florida" (translated in Chinese as "Flower Land" [花地]) in America. In 1504 (the first year of Eishō in Japan, the 17th year of Hongzhi in the Ming dynasty), the French also came and arrived at the great landmass of America, opened it up, named it "New France," built fortifications, installed chiefs and officials, and furthermore,

opened up the nearby land of Bacalao [Baccalaos]. In 1505 (the second year of Eishō in Japan, the 18th year of Hongzhi in the Ming dynasty), a Portuguese man named Vasco da Gama was the first to pass the Cape of Good Hope at the southern tip of Africa, opening a route to the eastern seas of Africa and obtaining much information about the countries of the eastern seas. Thereupon, the Portuguese King Emanuel examined maps and assessed the strategic situation, concluding that the island of Hormuz in Asia was a key junction connecting Persia, India, Arabia, and other countries. He therefore ordered that friendly ties be established with it, that a trading post be built on that island to facilitate trade among the nations, and he commanded the naval commander "Afonso de Albuquerque" to embark on many ships, loading them fully with trade goods and unexpected military equipment, and set sail toward the east. Upon receiving his orders, Albuquerque...