Albuquerque also sent ships to the kingdom of Malacca, forged friendly relations with its ruler, and established a trading post outside the capital to conduct commerce. In 1510 (the seventh year of Eishō in Japan, the fifth year of Zhengde in Ming China), he took advantage of an unguarded moment, raised his troops, and invaded the capital of Malacca. The king fled and died. The Portuguese thus seized the country and made it their base. They also frequently waged war against the king of the neighboring country of Johor. In 1515 (the twelfth year of Eishō in Japan, the tenth year of Zhengde in Ming China), the Portuguese also established a base in Goa in India, built a great fortress, appointed a governor as well as a head of religious officials, spread their faith, and used this as a foundation for trade with other kingdoms of India. In 1517 (the fourteenth year of Eishō in Japan, the twelfth year of Zhengde in Ming China), they finally reached for the first time the territory of Macau (Amacao), which belongs to Xiangshan County in Guangdong, China. In China, in ancient times the realm was divided among many kings, but among them the king of the state called "Shin," also known as "Chin" (that is, Qin), named "Shius" (this refers to the First Emperor), was a great hero who unified the entire country, built along its northern border a Great Wall unrivaled under heaven, and his fame and prestige resounded throughout India, eventually spreading to the Western world as well. In China itself, the dynastic name is changed with each change of regime, but in India and the Western world, the country is called "China" or "Tina" to this day. (This explanation is recorded in the account of the mission to China by a man called "Nieuhof," and it seems largely accurate. It is similar to how in Japan this country is called "Kan" [Han] or "Tō" [Tang]. The passage in the Huayan Yinyi stating that "支那 (China) means 'pensive' [孜井思惟], because the people of this country are given to much deliberation and planning" is most likely a fanciful explanation fabricated by Chinese Buddhist scholars after Buddhism entered the country.) Furthermore, in 1275 (the first year of Kenji in Japan, the first year of Deyou of Song, the twelfth year of Zhiyuan of Yuan), a man from Venice in Italy named "Marcus Paulos" (Marco Polo), at the age of eighteen, traveled to Tartary (the Mongol realm) and entered the service of the great king called "Kubilai" (who is likely Kublai Khan, personal name Hūbìliè, the Shizu Emperor of Yuan). When that king conquered China, Marco Polo accompanied him to China, and during a total of seventeen years...