[The Spanish took possession of all the land. (According to the chronicles of Peru, the Spanish annexed this country and captured its king "Atabaliba" (Atahualpa). The people pleaded for his release. The Spanish then pressed the people, saying, "If you fill this room with gold, we will release the king." The people immediately filled it. Having collected this, the Spanish further demanded, "Now fill it with silver." The people filled it once again. Only then was the king released. This room was 22 shaku in length, over 17 shaku in width, and as tall as one could reach by standing on tiptoe and stretching one's hand. The great quantity of gold and silver can easily be imagined.)]

Peru was divided into three administrative districts of "Quitosharcas" (Quito, Charcas, etc.), and a capital city was built at "Lima" within Peru. A viceroy was invited from the home country (Spain), a head of religious officials was appointed, and governors and religious officials were also placed in the provinces; schools were built and the people were educated and guided. In general, the American continent is unrivaled in all the world for its abundance of gold and silver, and this country (Peru) is in turn unrivaled within the Americas. The amount of gold and silver the Spanish obtain from this country is said to be over 12 million per year.

In 1536 [the 5th year of Tenbun in Japan, the 15th year of Jiajing in the Ming dynasty], the Spanish also opened up the country of "Chile (Shirii)" to the south of Peru.

From that time, they also annexed the country of "New Castile (Gofu de Kasteriinu)" on the northern border of South America and "Paraguay (Parakuya)" on the southern border. All three of these countries are vast and together produce much gold and silver. The land of each was demarcated and governors and religious officials were installed.

In 1542 [the 11th year of Tenbun in Japan, the 21st year of Jiajing in the Ming dynasty], the Portuguese "Francisco Zeimoto," "Antonius Mota," and "Antonius Pekitto" and others set sail, and, carried by the wind, arrived for the first time in Japan via the Eastern Seas. This is said to be the beginning of Europeans reaching Japan.

[This matter is recorded in a geographical book written by a person called "Nicolaas Doeyn." Upon examination, the Nanpo Bunshū states that in the autumn of the 12th year of Tenbun (1543), in the eighth month, a large foreign vessel arrived at Tanegashima in Ōsumi Province. There were two captains: one was called "Murashikusha" and the other "Kifushitamoota," and it is recorded that they first transmitted the method of making firearms (teppō) to Japan. "Murashikusha" is probably a phonetic corruption of "Franciscos," and "Kirishitamoota" would be "Antonius Mota." Furthermore, the Nochi Taiheiki states that in the eighth month of the 7th year of Tenbun, a Southern Barbarian (Nanban) vessel arrived at Tanegashima, and its captain "Murashikusha" first transmitted the art of gunnery. Also, in Master Arai Hakuseki's Sairan Igen, it is written that in the autumn of the 10th year of Tenbun (1541), in the seventh month, a Portuguese vessel first arrived at Jingūura in Bungo Province, and in the 12th year (1543), in the eighth month, they came aboard six large ships, one of which anchored at Tanegashima. The various accounts differ slightly from one another.]