(Continued from previous page) ...established a stronghold and built fortifications, which served as a waypoint for travel between the home country and Batavia (Jakarta).

In 1655 (Japanese: Meireki 1st year; Qing: Shunzhi 12th year), an envoy was dispatched from Batavia to China to offer tribute and request trade relations. That year they arrived at the Guangdong prefecture and stayed there; the following year they departed from Guangdong, traveled upriver, passing through Jiangxi, Nanjing, and Shandong, before reaching Beijing where they presented local products and had an audience at court. This was the beginning of the Netherlands' tributary relations with the Qing dynasty. From this point onward, tribute missions and trade never ceased. (During the Ming dynasty, Dutch ships had only occasionally traded privately with merchants along the Chinese coast, and there were no formal tribute missions. It was at this time that they were first permitted to offer tribute and conduct trade officially.)

After this, in the various kingdoms of South India—Nagapatnam, Karanikanol, Cochin (Kochi), Quilon (Koran), Purka, Cannanore, Ceylon (Sri Lanka), and others—they either built fortresses or established trading posts within the capitals of these kingdoms, gaining goods in quantities too great to enumerate. In 1668 (Japanese: Kanbun 8th year; Qing: Kangxi 7th year), they opened up the land of Suriname on the northern border of South America, building fortifications there and naming it the "Western Office of Administration." (This was named in counterpart to Batavia, which was called the "Eastern Office of Administration.") From this point on, they came to hold many of the islands of the Americas, and today there is no place in the world that they have not reached; their wealth is beyond imagination.

The nation of Russia (魯西亜) is, even within Europe, situated in the most remote and distant region, and in ancient times had never opened maritime communication with many other countries. However, during the reign of King "Johannes Vasilyevich" (Ivan the Terrible), in 1550 (Japanese: Tenbun 22nd year; Ming: Jiajing 32nd year), an English captain by the name of "Richard Chancellor" brought a merchant vessel to the port of Arkhangelsk and conducted trade there. From that point, Russia gradually began to send ships out and engage in commerce with other nations. Particularly in the case of the recent Emperor "Peter Alexius" (Peter the Great), who, heeding the counsel of his teacher "François (某)," had ships built and, heading west from the Baltic Sea... (continues on the next page)