【Right Page】
According to "Honzō Ikka-gen" (A Family's Opinion on Materia Medica):
There are three types of Kokkotsu (holly): one is Hiraki tree, one is Hige (Hire) tree, and one is Onna-hiraki (Hime-hiraki).
Also written as Holly. Hime blooms in the fourth and fifth months, while the other types bloom in winter.
Listed in works such as "Kōkokuju (Hiraki)" in "Imyō Bunrui-shō" and "Yōshi Kango-shō."

【Upper Section】
According to "Zōho Tashiki," Shrub Category:
Kokkotsu (Dog Bone)
Japanese name: Upon consideration, "Hiiraki"
In Japanese folk custom, branches and leaves are hung above gates on New Year's Eve. Also called "Torimochi-no-ki."
《Alternative name》 Myōji-shi (Cat Thorn)

In the main text, the bark of the Kokkotsu tree is white like dog bones. Its leaves have five thorns resembling a cat's shape. 《The character "zhi" in "cat" is questionable and should perhaps be written as "claw"》.
Hence it is named Myōji-shi (Cat Thorn). Wood flies exist within the leaves, wrapping them like offspring, then metamorphose into flies.

According to the "Shoku Nihon-gi," in the second year of Taihō under Emperor Monmu, a Tokoku tree eight fathoms long was presented.
In folk tradition, on the night of Risshun Setsubun, branches and leaves are inserted in gates and windows, with sea bream heads added for the Tsuina (demon-expelling) ritual.
This may be based on the idea that evil spirits fear the thorns and dare not approach.

Poem:
"Though the world counts for naught, the holly's
color makes me think of the sardine's hue"
- Tamie

【Lower Section】
According to "Yamato Honzō":
Kōkotsu 《Hiiraki》
【Miscellaneous Trees】

Ōshō-ge-bō-on
Copied

According to "Imyō Bunrui-shō," citing various considerations:
"Wa-myō-shō" lists the Japanese name for Ōgon as "Hihiraki" in the tree category, but this is questionable. Ōgon is an herb. "Honzō Kōmoku" lists Ōgon in the mountain herbs section. For Hihiraki, Tonogi (Hiniraki) should be correct. According to "Wa-myō-shō," the annotation in "Yōshi Kango-shō" identifies it as Hagetsu-ten. Hagetsu-ten is also an herb. There is no explanation for adopting this entry.

【Left Page, Upper Section】
According to "Wakan Sansai Zue," Mountain Fruit Category:
Biwa (Loquat) - Named biwa because its leaf shape resembles a biwa (lute).
When observing the leaves now, they are not as described.

Xin-ji, mid-winter, eleventh month
Copied by a rainy window

According to the loquat entry in "Yamato Honzō," there is a theory about rokitsu. Sima Xiangru's "Shanglin Fu" mentions biwa, and also states that rokitsu ripens in summer, so they are different plants.
Remainder omitted.

According to "Wa-myō Ruiju-shō":
Biwa - Kohekuhe
According to "Tang Yun":
Biwa 《The sound of biwa is "hi"; it is said the taste is "ba"》
A fruit tree that flowers in winter and bears fruit in summer

【Middle Section in Red】Tree Category
【Middle Section with Red Border】Medicinal Herbs

【Lower Section】Fruit Tree Category【Red Border】
According to "Zōho Tashiki-hen," Mountain Fruit Category:
Biwa (Loquat) 《Japanese names: Kofu, Kuhe》