【Right page】
are recorded.

For the implements of Ten Varieties Incense, one should prepare and store: paired incense burners, incense stands, fire-tending bottles, incense chopsticks, fire chopsticks, incense spoons, fire seasoning, ash pressers, silver tongs, incense brooms, nightingales, tally boxes, small boxes, silver trays, tally tubes, folding seats, silver leaf boxes, silver leaves, burner stands, incense pouches, incense containers, fire carriers, record paper, name paper, and so forth.

In enjoying incense, there is something called "kumikō" (composed incense), which appears to be arranged in various interesting ways. Among these, the names that have been transmitted from ancient times are: Ten Burnings, Mount Uji, Small Birds, Small Grass, Horse Racing, Arrow Count, Genji-Heike, Flower and Moon, Genji, Bird Matching, Cockfighting, Kemari, Burning Competition, Ten Burnings, Famous Places, Flower Battles, Go-Etsu, First Sound, Cuckoo, Hidden Incense, Smoke Competition, New Moon, Star Meeting,

【Left page】
Six Principles, Kokin, Nightingale, Four Seasons, Imperial Excursion, Genealogy, Four Districts, Three Evenings, and others existed. Now I will present two or three of these here.

Ten Burnings Incense uses four types of incense. The first, second, and third incenses serve as trials.
The guest incense has no trial. The incense master properly adjusts the fire in the incense burner and burns the trial incenses. After everyone has listened to the three types of trials, ten packets (three packets each of types one, two, and three, and one packet of the guest incense) are mixed together. Any may be selected and burned one packet at a time. Tally tubes are also provided.

The method of listening to incense is: remember the trial incenses well in your mind, and if you think it is the first incense, place the first tally; if you think it is the second incense, place the second tally; if you think it is an untried incense, place the guest tally into the tally tube, passing it around in order. After everyone has finished listening, records are sometimes written. The method of writing records is marked as follows.