【Right Page】
Frequently observing the condition is most important. When the silkworms emerge as described above, spread them out at the right time, crush mulberry leaves in your palm, remove the stems, and sprinkle evenly. When the silkworms attach to the mulberry leaves, lay rice bran in a basket, place connecting paper on top, hold the seed front and back upside down, knock them off with bamboo chopsticks, and spread over a two-shaku square area. If silkworms go around to the back of the paper, this indicates the conditions are too cold. The mulberry leaves should be cut for two days, on the third day remove the laying paper, place on the rice bran, give cut mulberry five times day and night, on the fourth day spread to three-shaku square, and as the silkworms grow larger, cut the mulberry more coarsely. The tenth day when they rest quietly should be considered the silkworms' proper condition. If they rest on the seventh or eighth day, it means it's too warm. Also, if they rest on the twelfth or thirteenth day, know that the conditions are cold. On the third day, remove the old paper once each time and spread quite thinly. Here is a good secret for removing old paper. Sprinkle rice bran over the silkworms, apply mulberry twice, tilt the basket and when rolling with a feather, it can be taken without leaving any residue.

【Left Page】
This is a good method. For the old paper from resting periods, persistently give mulberry frequently, and when it appears to be stopping mulberry, cut the mulberry slightly coarser before applying. This provides the good benefit of molting without receiving heat. However, when conditions are cold and rest cannot be managed, take the molting early and let them rest outside. Apply mulberry when all have risen uniformly. Even so, resting areas should be raised according to one's own method. During the bamboo boat period, when much molting emerges and mulberry attaches making the heads thin and pale in color, making thin mulberry that doesn't progress is bad for the final stage. Also, when boat-rising is blue and transparent with small uniform size, know this is sufficient. When knowing the reliable benefits of cultivation, in cold houses raise warmly before the boat stage. In warm houses, raise more coolly than garden-rising. Don't forget these two methods, and have this knowledge for enduring cold and heat. When silkworms are ascending, pick up the quite drawn silkworms and make them the beginning of things. First, cocoons that are large and well-tightened are good. Also, regardless of separation, those harboring young silkworms produce small cocoons with poor tightening. Or those slightly drawn in the evening should have old paper...