【Upper Section】
Document Regarding the Handling of Strange Natural Disasters
A Written Pledge Concerning Earthquake Damage

Item: Regarding myself, due to slight disturbances affecting this locality, I have disrupted and obstructed the row of houses, broken the main pillars of houses, and caused damage to Dozo-den and Kabe-yoshiden. This was entirely due to the timing of the season (earthquake period), and without any aftershocks from the preceding and following turmoil, due to the gods' anger, I was already in such distress as to nearly become grilled like an eel. Through your mediation and understanding, I pledge to firmly refrain from shaking henceforth. From the ground up, I shall henceforth restrain from any intimidating behavior. Should there be any shaking that would pulverize houses and storehouses, I will have them suppressed even with rocks using the keystone. At that time, I will not cause the stones to rebound. It will continue like the rains of May 7th.

Chishima Earthquake Return
Katatsuki-ya Damaged Branch Store
Peaceful Ten Thousand Years Without Shaking Month　　Namazu-ya
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nura Kurou
Witness: Kashima-ya
　　　　Mamosuke-den

Kashima: "While I was away for just a bit, oh dear, how light, what a troublesome fellow. I must quickly retrieve and return him to hold him down. Yes, yes, again..."

【Lower Section】
□□□□: "Since you've been talking nonsense about whiskers □□□□, I'll do it with the tip of a pole. Support from behind like this, grab and throw, ten-tsu-tsu ten-tsu-tsu"

Catfish: "Now you fellows have often called me a lazy catfish bastard and such nonsense. Since it's annoying, you youngsters are doing major construction"

"Well, you can freely talk about roof tiles, roofs, two-story houses and such, but I'll make you step on three bundles with my pulling tip. Since you put people on top, I'll give it to you. I'll break you from bone to backbone. Be prepared"

Log: "What's with you, you fool. I also lent lumber, and being called Kikumi no Marutaro, with legs, legs being erected, I become a pillar of such houses too. If you jump around too frantically, I'll turn you into catfish soup. No, don't move, stay put, you're light"

Woman: "Oh my, oh my, the catfish is rampaging! Pole-man, run away quickly! Kuwahara kuwahara (protective charm). That wasn't right. Banzai, easy going..."