【Right page, upper section】
The sutra says: "The three realms are empty, the root ignorance-store of the three realms is also empty." The interpretation says: From below explaining affliction-emptiness. Speaking of "three realms empty" refers to surface afflictions in the three realms, namely greed and such that are deluded about phenomena. Speaking of "the root of the three realms is also empty" refers to deep afflictions in the three realms, namely view-afflictions and such that are deluded about principle. Because they are the root of surface [afflictions]. Speaking of "the root ignorance-store of the three realms is also empty" refers to core afflictions in the three realms, namely knowledge-obstructions. Also saying, "three realms empty" concludes the karma-fruits above. "Root ignorance-store of the three realms" refers to view and cultivation afflictions in the three realms. According to the root, only ignorance is mentioned.

The sutra says: "The nine births and deaths of the three grounds, the remaining ignorance-habit karmic retribution in the former three realms is empty." The interpretation says: From below clarifying transformational birth-death emptiness. Transformational birth-death uses ignorance-habits as condition and obtains these fruits. Cien Tripiṭaka has two explanations. The initial nine births and deaths means that within the eighth, ninth, and tenth grounds, all have initial, abiding, and final three births. Within the seventh ground, one category reaches the seventh ground and then receives transformational birth; one category enters the initial ground and then receives transformation. Using outflow-free karma as cause and ignorance-ground as condition, they obtain three types of mind-born bodies. From initial ground to fifth ground is called "samādhi-bliss mind-born body"; the sixth and seventh grounds are "awakening-dharma inherent-nature mind-born body"; eighth ground and above is called "category co-arising effortless-action mind mind-born body."

The sutra says: "Vajra bodhisattvas attain principle-exhaustion samādhi, therefore affliction-fruits' arising-ceasing are empty, existent fruits empty, causes empty therefore empty." The interpretation says: From below explaining the reason for emptiness. Vajra bodhisattvas attain principle-exhaustion samādhi, therefore the afflictions and karma of two types of birth-death are all empty. Speaking of "afflictions" means karma-generating afflictions, namely affliction-obstructions. Speaking of "fruits" means the fruits generated by afflictions. These afflictions and karma all have arising-ceasing, generally explained as empty. "Existent fruits empty"

【Right page, lower section】
means what afflictions and karma generate—three realms transformational fruits are empty. "Causes empty therefore empty" re-explains the reason for fruit-emptiness. Because affliction-karma causes are empty, fruits are also empty.

The sutra says: "Sarvajña is also empty, afflictions were already empty before." The interpretation says: From below clarifying Buddha-fruit emptiness. First clarifying wisdom-severance emptiness, then clarifying three unconditioned emptiness. "Sarvajña is also empty" means wisdom-virtue emptiness. Speaking of "cessation-fruit empty" clarifies severance-virtue emptiness, namely expedient nirvana and such. Speaking of "afflictions were already empty before" means intrinsic-purity nirvana has been intrinsically pure from the beginning.

The sutra says: "Buddha attains three unconditioned fruits: wisdom-conditioned cessation, non-wisdom-conditioned cessation, space, sarvajña fruits are empty." The interpretation says: Unconditioned emptiness. Speaking of "wisdom-conditioned cessation" means analytical cessation. "Non-wisdom-conditioned cessation" means non-analytical cessation. "Sarvajña fruits" means explaining three types through the meaning of outflow-free unconditioned fruits.

The sutra says: "Good sons, if there is cultivation, listening, and teaching, no-listening no-teaching, like space dharma, same as dharma-nature, listening same, teaching same, all dharmas are all thus." The interpretation says: From below, according to having no listening-teaching, clarifying empty characteristics. First dharma, next analogy, then combination.

The sutra says: "Great King, bodhisattvas' cultivation of protection to attain Buddha-fruit is like this." The interpretation says: From below answering the initial question. First interpreting, then concluding.

The sutra says: "Those who protect prajñāpāramitā protect sarvajña, ten powers, eighteen unique dharmas, five eyes, five-part dharma-body, four immeasurable minds, all merit-fruits like this." The interpretation says: This is the conclusion.

【Left page, upper section】
The sutra says: "When Buddha taught the dharma, immeasurable people all attained dharma-eye purity. In nature-ground and faith-ground, hundreds of thousands of people all attained great-emptiness bodhisattvas' great practices." The interpretation says: From below explaining the assembly obtaining benefits. First clarifying small fruits, then clarifying great fruits. One explanation: attaining dharma-eye purity means stream-entry fruits and such. Nature-ground means the ground of having nature before ten faiths. Speaking of "faith-ground" means ten faiths. Ten understandings and above are called "great-emptiness." Second explanation: nature-ground means the three worthies before grounds, because they practice the three natures of the noble path. Faith-ground means initial ground and above, having already attained outflow-free and not destroying faith. Speaking of "great-emptiness" means pervasive true-suchness; eighth-ground bodhisattvas' two-emptiness contemplation-wisdom constantly does not retreat. Speaking of "great practices" means ninth ground and above practice benefiting others. Within one practice, practicing immeasurable practices. Various explanations differ and cannot be fully described.

Benevolent Kings Protecting the Nation Sutra Commentary, Upper Volume [End]

【Left page, lower section】
Benevolent Kings Protecting the Nation Sutra Commentary, Lower Volume
Mostly recording Ce Commentary, with small additions from other commentaries
Copied by Monk Gyōshin

[Note] Zōshun's catalog states "Benevolent Kings Sutra Commentary, Three Volumes, Hōryūji Gyōshin." However, the middle volume is now missing. This corresponds to the sutra's Bodhisattva Teaching Chapter Three and Two Truths Chapter Four. The Benevolent Kings Questions and Answers cites middle volume text.

Protecting the Nation Chapter Five
In interpreting this chapter, there are briefly two meanings: first, interpreting the chapter name; second, properly interpreting the sutra text. Interpreting the chapter name: according to the original record, there are two types of nations. First is worldly, namely two vehicles, ordinary beings, etc. Second is transcendent, namely ten-ground bodhisattvas, etc. Or there are two types: first external, namely robbers, thieves, birds, beasts, etc.; second internal, namely afflictions, etc. There are two types of protection: first external, namely hundreds of groups of ghosts and spirits; second internal, namely prajñā. Master Tong says: through four meanings, [one] can protect nations. First, because it is spoken by Buddha, now lecturing this sutra conforms to Buddha's intention, becomes Buddha's spiritual power, protects nations, therefore separates from seven disasters. Second, through lecturing this sutra, serving the Three Jewels, generating Mahāyāna merit-wisdom two types of good roots, able to eliminate evil karma seeds, therefore removing seven disasters. Third, because this Mahāyāna is what bodhisattvas study, through lecturing this sutra, bodhisattvas from ten directions gather cloud-like in this nation, listening and receiving Mahāyāna. Because bodhisattvas' spiritual powers are great, now seven disasters do not arise. Fourth, this Mahāyāna sutra is beloved by dharma-protecting heavenly dragons and spirits from ten directions. Through lecturing this sutra, heavenly dragons, ghosts, and spirits all seek to listen to dharma, protect nations, causing elimination of seven disasters. These four meanings can eliminate seven disasters—this is the essence being discussed.

The sutra says: "At that time, Buddha told the great king: 'You all listen well, I now properly explain the dharma for protecting nations, using you all