[The dog's head was cut off and struck down, whereupon the head flew up into the trees and bit the great serpent that was trying to swallow its master. The master, not knowing of this loyalty, regretted mistakenly killing the dog and built a temple for this reason - there are various contrived explanations like this, but they are hard to believe]

Furuwatari (Old Crossing) [Located at the southern end of the province, in Ichibe-no-shō Furuwatari, also written as Kyūwatari (Old Crossing). The Meigetsuki states: "Owari Province's Kyūwatari is the site where sea tides submerged the shore in ancient times. When I traveled eastward, I arrived here from Narumi" etc.]
This is recorded.

"Going down to the east [...] Furuwatari"
[Asukagawa Wakashū]
Since ancient times, the name unchanged, this old crossing - truly imperishable bridge pillars　by Councilor Masatsune

[In the Nihon Ryōiki, it appears as Katawa-no-sato in Aichi District, and in old copies of Konjaku Monogatari as Katawa-no-gō in Aichi District - this is the ancient name of Furuwatari. It was also called Ichijoshi Village. Long ago, a wealthy man had seven daughters, and after they grew up, he married them off to seven places. The place where the eldest lived was called Ichijoshi Village, later renamed Furuwatari Village. The places where the second daughter and below lived also became place names - Nijoshi Village, Yonojoshi Village, and Gojoshi Village still exist to the southwest of here. The third daughter's place remains in the aza of Tsuyuhashi Village and Kozuka Village, the sixth daughter's in the aza of Marukome-no Village, and the seventh is now a small village with no households, administered by Kozuka Village. All the place names where the seven daughters resided remain today. Some say these seven daughters were granddaughters of the priest Dōjō, and the eldest was the wife of Owari-no-sukune Kukuri]

Inari Shrine [Located on the west side south of Inumi-midō in Furuwatari, the enshrined deities are five seats: Izanami-no-mikoto, Ukanomitama-no-mikoto, Amatsuhikohiko-ho-ninigi-no-mikoto, Sarutahiko-no-mikoto, and the four great Sumiyoshi deities]

The domain lord Enkaku-in-dono was born at the Yotsuya mansion in Edo on September 17th, Genroku 2, and since he regarded Inari as his birth-place deity, he showed great reverence