Biwajima (also written as Biwashima. The eastern part of the river is called Higashi Biwajima, and from the western wholesale district to Futatsu Iri is all called Nishi Biwajima). Long ago, when Lord Moronaga was exiled to the village of Idota, he fell in love with the daughter of Yokoe, the village headman (the Lord was exiled to Idota village, but this matter is actually deferred to the section on Idota). When the time came for the Lord to return to Kyoto, the girl deeply regretted their parting and followed him as far as Kawarakeno village to the west of this place. The Lord, moved to pity, gave her as mementos his guardian deity Yakushi Nyorai and a biwa lute called Shiragiku that he had long cherished. However, parting in life is actually more painful than parting in death, and unable to bear her grief and lamenting the world, she soon came to resent her own fate. She wrote a farewell poem and threw herself into a nearby pond, ultimately meeting her end (the remains of this pond are now farmland, but its former appearance is preserved along the embankment of the Biwajima River and is called Biwa Pond. Also, to the west in Obatsuka village, there is an ancient mound in a forest called Biwa Mound, which is said to be the grave where her remains were buried. It is thought that the name Biwajima originally came from the abundance of loquat trees (biwa) in this area in ancient times. However, when the girl, clutching the Shiragiku biwa lute and unable to bear the pain of separation, threw herself into the pond here, people began calling that pond Biwa Pond, and since the sounds of "biwa" (loquat) and "biwa" (lute) are phonetically related, cultured people often used the character for the musical instrument).

Biwajima Bridge (the large bridge is at the border between Biwajima village and Shimo-Otai village, and the small bridge is in Shimo-Otai village). In the 8th year of Genna (1622), Lord Genkei (Tokugawa Yoshinao), the founder of the domain, ordered his officials to construct it. It is the greatest bridge in the province, with two bridges running east-west.