《Small text: Built as a votive offering, this temple possesses an old certificate from Masanori exempting the temple grounds of Enmei-ji from rice tax on the 4th day of the 12th month of Bunroku 4 (1595). At that time it was called Enmei-ji, but now uses the title "in" (院)》Principal image
《Small text: A wooden statue of Yakushi Buddha》Temple treasures: Ryōkai Mandala 《Small text: Written by Chōdenshi, donated by Masanori》 Painting of Monju Bosatsu 《Small text: By Kamakura Kei, secretary's brush》

Site of Chen Yuanbin's residence 《Small text: He lived near Ryōgaku-in north of Kuwana-machi-dōri Fukuro-machi, and also resided in Kyūjūken-machi》 Yuanbin was from Hulin County in Ming China. Fleeing the chaos at the end of the Ming dynasty, he came to Japan and received the favor of the founding lord, residing in this domain. He died on the 9th day of the 6th month of Kanbun 11 (1671) at age 85. He formed a friendship beyond worldly concerns with Genpolitsu of Fukakusa, exchanging poems and creating collections of verse. His grave is at Kenchū-ji temple, with the inscription "Great Ming Kingdom Wulin Jibai-zan Kōgaku Chen Yuanbin, died 9th day 6th month Kanbun 11, year of the metal boar." Beside it stands the monument of Hakuō Dōgen, which is the grave of Yuanbin's son, commonly called Gentarō, recorded as having died on the 2nd day of the 9th month of Hōei 2 (1705). In the Bōkyū Shisen poetry collection, under the section on poets' titles and origins, it states: "Chen Yuanbin, courtesy name Gito, also called Jibai-sanjin and Shizan Shōan. A man of Hulin in Ming China. During the Chongzhen era he failed the imperial examinations and wandered the rivers and lakes, eventually crossing the sea to naturalize in Japan. Later served the Zhang domain. The reverent temple's favor was especially deep. Died in the 6th month of Kanbun 11, aged over seventy. Had a literary collection but unpublished." 《Small text: The statement "aged over seventy" is an error》 Also, the Secret Book of Boxing Arts states...