Juhō-zan Yōrin-ji Temple (Located south of Kōmyō-ji Temple. A Jōdo sect temple affiliated with Kyoto's Hyakumanben Chion-ji Temple. The founding priest was Kyūchō from Chion-ji Temple. The patron was Hayashi Sado-no-kami Nobukatsu (originally Masakatsu, Buddhist name Yōrin), a chief retainer of Lord Nobunaga. The temple was established by Taiyū Genki in Gifu, Mino Province, later moved to Kiyosu, and relocated again here during the Keichō period) Main image (Amida Nyorai. This was the protective Buddha of Minamoto no Yoshitomo, Left Division of Horses. After Yoshitomo's unfortunate death at Uchimi, it remained at the house of Atsuta High Priest Suenori. When Yoshitsune went to the capital to pursue the Taira clan, he obtained and carried it with him, but it was later transmitted to Hōnen Shōnin and subsequently to Kyūchō, becoming the main image of this temple)

Temple treasures: Amida painting (Painted by Hōnen Shōnin's own hand on silk from Taira no Atsumori's horo and given to Kumagai Naozane, the lay monk Renshō. During the Tenshō period, Lord Nobunaga had it brought from Kurodani and made it a treasure of this temple) Sub-temple: Sesshū-in (Built in Shōhō 2)

Hōki-zan Seigan-ji Temple (South of Yōrin-ji Temple. Jōdo Seizan sect, affiliated with both Zenrin-ji and Kōmyō-ji temples in Kyoto. Built in Genki 3 by the monk Kūhan in Kiyosu, then moved here during the Keichō period. It was commonly called Sakura Seigan-ji because of a large cherry tree said to have been brought by Kūhan from Mt. Hiei. The tree withered around the Kanbun period, and now only a young transplanted tree remains) Main image (Amida Buddha, work of Eshin)

Eishō-zan Saikō-in Gonen-ji Temple (South of Seigan-ji Temple. Same sect and head temple as Seigan-ji. Built during the Daiei period by the monk Kyūetsu in Kiyosu, then moved here after the imperial relocation) Main image (The Amida statue is made from the same wood as the statue at Kyoto's Shinnyodō Temple, carved by Jikaku Daishi) Jizō Bosatsu (Work of Ono no Takamura) Sub-temples (Three temples: Hōju-in, Seihō-in, and Senshō-in)

Kimatsuyama Tokurin-ji Temple (On the north side of Tendō-machi. Jōdo sect, affiliated with Shōgaku-ji Temple in Atsuta. Built in Eiroku 11 by the monk Kūshun) Main image (Wooden statue of Amida) Jizō-son (When Lord Hideyoshi tried to build warships for crossing to Korea, he had a large camphor tree cut down from the Hakusan Shrine in Hiroi Village. Blood flowed from beneath the axe, frightening the woodcutters who reported this. That night, a boy appeared in Taikō's dream saying, "Do not be surprised that blood flows when the camphor is cut. If you carve one Jizō Bosatsu from that camphor, your wish will be fulfilled through its spiritual response. As proof, I will turn your pillow over." When he awoke from the dream, his pillow had indeed been flipped. He immediately had the camphor cut, carved a Jizō statue, and enshrined it at Gokuraku-in Temple. After that temple fell into ruin, it was transmitted to this temple, where it is still revered as the Makura-gaeshi (Pillow-turning) Jizō-son, the sacred Buddha of this temple)