Atago-zan Daijō-in Temple (Located opposite Tokurin-ji Temple. A Tōzan-ha Shugendō temple, affiliated with Negoro in Kii Province, now under the jurisdiction of Mount Kōya. Built in Keichō 5 by Lord Tadayoshi, Middle Captain of the Third Rank. The Daien-bō temple that was in Asahi Village in Kiyosu was moved here in Keichō 16 and renamed to its current name. Generally, when sumo wrestling is promoted in Nagoya, it is often held in this temple grounds, similar to the practice of holding matches at Ekōin Temple in Edo's Ryōgoku)

Atago Shrine (Enshrines Iizuna Gongen together with other deities. Also has Benzaiten Shrine and Tarōbō Shrine)

Tendō Shrine (Located in Matsubara-machi. Now called Tendō-machi due to the presence of this shrine. Originally located in Noda-machi in Kiyosu and called Asahi Tendō, it was moved here during the Keichō imperial relocation) Main shrine (Two seats: Amaterasu Ōmikami and Tsukuyomi-no-mikoto) Subsidiary shrines (Many small shrines including Hachiman, Tennō, Inari, and Benzaiten shrines) Annual festival (September 14th, with kagura performances) Shrine priest (Katō family)

Gozutennō Shrine (Located on the east bank of Hiroi Horikawa. The area is called Tennō-zaki. This land is very high to the northeast and low to the southwest, and since it was once a cape jutting into the sea, it was called Susaki Tennō. The grounds are also extensive, and the clear spring in front of the Hakkaku-dō gate across the river was originally this shrine's purification basin. Since the area was forested with zelkova, hackberry, oak, pine and other trees, it was also called Muku-no-mori) Main shrine (Enshrines Susanoo-no-mikoto, Inada-hime, and the Eight Princes together)

Subsidiary shrine: Taisan Shrine (Enshrines Izanagi and Izanami, with Toyotama-hime as an associated deity. Since Izanagi and Izanami are the father and mother of creation, and Toyotama-hime is a deity associated with birth houses, it is reasonable to make them deities of safe childbirth)

Funatama Shrine (Same deity as Funatama Shrine in Sumiyoshi District, Settsu Province. Although there are many different theories about the enshrined deity, in reality, as seen in the Shoku Nihongi entry for the 7th year of Tenpyō-hōji (762), when an embassy ship to Korea encountered a storm and relied on the ship spirit to escape disaster, the ship called Noto was granted the court rank of Junior Fifth Rank Lower, showing that this enshrines the spirit of ships as Funatama) Annual festival (June 14th-15th. In recent years, parishioners float decorated boats on the Horikawa River, similar to Tsushima's snow festival) Two shrine families (Nagata and Yoshikawa families)

Ryūkō-zan Chōen-ji Temple (Located in Nishi-kako-machi. Honganji sect, Eastern branch, affiliated with Seishin-bō in Tsushima) Main image (Standing statue of Amida)

"Visiting Chōen-ji Temple in spring and obtaining the character 'kai' — Yanagisawa Iken
The high hall is not a worldly place, full of beautiful flowers to the eye; ten thousand blossoms bloom beyond the wind, a thousand trees line the water's edge"