Uguisu Valley (Nightingale Valley)
This refers to the area around Higashihakusan in Hioki Ogawa-machi. Even today it is a lonely alley with sparse houses, so the songs of nightingales can be heard particularly quietly. Perhaps nightingales of this province have been cherished since ancient times. In Akazome Emon's personal poetry collection, in the "Song of the Forest," she composed "While the nightingale's voice sounds, I am not hurried," and in the legend of the mountain witch of Nijo Mountain in Niwa District, there appears a story of cherishing the nightingales of that place. The Man'yōshū poem "The cuckoo among the nightingale's foster children" is said to have been composed based on the belief that cuckoos are foster children of nightingales. The entry in the Shoku Nihongi and Fusō Ryakki stating "Fifth year of Yōrō, first month, day of Boshin, Owari Province reports: small birds give birth to large birds" probably refers to observations of other birds fledging from nightingale nests in this area. This also appears in the auspicious omens section of the Engi Jibushō-shiki as "small birds give birth to large birds."

Oda Tamba-no-kami
A person from Hioki and father of Kamon Tadahiro. He was a retainer of the Shiba family who governed the lower four districts. During the Nagoya battle, he sided with Nobuhide and destroyed the Imagawa family. In Sōboku's Eastern Journey Record of Tenbun 13, when he arrived in Nagoya and held a renga gathering, Takibō, Oda Tamba-no-kami, Kitano Ukyō-no-suke and others came and participated. Sōchō's notes also record that at a renga gathering hosted by Oda Tamba-no-kami, he composed "If spring never dawned, even a thousand years would be tonight," showing he was a person who loved renga.

Musan-dono-iri (Musan Lord's Entrance)
Located on the border between Hioki and Furuwatari, west of the Hori River. Matsudaira Tosho Yasuhisa, the lay monk Musan, was a member of the lord's family at the time, with great authority and substantial stipends. However, in Enpō 7, when his adopted son Tosho came of age, the family name was abolished due to certain circumstances. Musan was granted a monthly stipend of 300 koku and resided in a villa in Hioki. Following this precedent, his name remains at this entrance, and it is still called Musan-dono-iri today.

Hachiman Shrine
Located in Ōsone-machi and called Ōsone Hachiman. The year and month of its establishment are unclear. Lord Zuiryūin-dono rebuilt the main shrine's sacred fences in the eighth month of Genroku 8, and the sacred object was modeled after the Anahachiман of Takada in Edo. He also sent a man named Yamada Sokusai to Edo to learn the kagura rhythms of Anahachiman, and had him teach Keitoku Gen-no-jō Naonori, the head priest here.

Subsidiary shrines: Benzaiten Shrine, Suhara Shrine, Gozutennō Shrine, Matsuo Shrine, Ebisu Shrine, Inari Shrine, Kamo Shrine, Atago Shrine, etc.

Sacred treasures - Kagura drum: Very ancient, with characters inside the body reading "Repair patron Ōzato Sakyō-an Teizen-ni, Bunki 1, year of kanoto-tori, tenth month, 28th day, respectfully donated by Kanpuku-ji Temple, drum, etc."