《Side note: It appears so. It was originally a drum from Kanpuku-ji Temple in Kida Village, Chita District》Regular festivals《Side note: January 15th, May 15th, September 14th and 15th》Shrine priest《Side note: Now of the Oda clan》

Kōbō Well《Side note: Located at the bottom of the slope in the same place. When Kōbō Daishi made a pilgrimage from Atsuta Shrine to Ryūsen-ji Temple, he performed goma fire ritual at this site, and it is said this is the well from which he drew water for the ritual offerings (aka)》

Myōken Hall Ryōgi-in《Side note: Located in the same place. Originally called Jōju-in of the Shingon sect, but when it fell into ruin, during the An'ei era, monk Nitchō invited the Myōken deity from Nose in Settsu Province and converted it to the Nichiren sect. In the autumn of Kanpō year of the boar}}
《Side note: Based on a hokku by the venerable Bashō of Gojōbō Mokujin, a Crescent Moon Mound was built within the temple grounds. That verse is shown in the illustration above》
《Side note: Poetry collection》
Even saying "it exists"—only the faint form of the three-day moon　　　　Gyōdai

Nagaosan Tōkai-ji《Side note: Located east of Dekimachi. Shingon sect, branch temple of Koike-bō in Hase, Yamato Province. Built in Kyōhō 14, with founding priest Takuun (secular name: Hayashi clan), who was the actual younger brother of the mother of lord Kōzen-in}}
《Side note: Younger brother of Senkō-in}}Principal image《Side note: Yakushi Nyorai, donated by Kōzen-in as a devotional Buddha}}Temple treasure: Heart Sutra in cursive script《Side note: Kōbō Daishi}}
《Side note: Authentic work transmitted from the head temple Hase-dera}}Ancient alligator-mouth gong《Side note: Hanging at the shrine of guardian deity Konpira, carved with "Nagaosan Guardian Bell, one piece, patron Fujiwara no Yukikage, reverently cast for prayers, Ōei 10, year of mizunoe-hitsuji, 6th month, great auspicious day, respectfully submitted, craftsman Sukemune"}}
《Side note: carved}}

Fukujusan Dairyū-ji Five Hundred Arhats《Side note: Located on the north side of Shin-dekimachi. Ōbaku sect, branch of Manpuku-ji in Uji, Yamashiro. Built in Kyōhō 10}}Principal image
《Side note: Jizō Bodhisattva, originally a miraculous Buddha called "Rice-pounding Jizō" that was in Ahara Village, Kasugai District}}Arhat Hall《Side note: Principal image is a jōroku-sized Buddha Shakyamuni of the flower-holding pose, with Manjusri and Samantabhadra bodhisattvas, and wooden statues of five hundred arhats installed in the high halls on both sides}}
《Side note: making it one of the sacred sites of the domain}}

Hōkisan Sōō-ji《Side note: Located at the eastern end of Nagabei-suji. Jōdo sect, branch of Chion-in in Kyoto}}The mother of Lord Genkei, Sōō-in...