was built in that direction, and also enshrined Chinju Hachiman Shrine as protection for the unlucky direction (kimon), but it was moved here during the Keichō era (1596-1615). The principal deity is Fudō Myōō, created by Master Chishō, with attendant figures Kuṅkara and Seitaka. Hachiman Shrine was invited by the monk Hōben-kō of the second generation of Chōkyū-ji Temple upon receiving a divine command. Inari Shrine, Benzaiten Shrine, and Shinmei Shrine are all within the temple grounds. The sub-temple Gyūō-san Zenpuku-in is located on the west side of the front gate and has Hakusan Shrine within its grounds.

Hachijōji Shrine is located at the north exit of Shimizu-chō and enshrines five sons and three daughters, following the same custom as Hachijōji shrines throughout the country. There is a purification pond in front of the shrine, and there are also many subsidiary shrines.

The Kameo Spring gave this place its name of Shimizu (clear water), but since it was the same pronunciation, it eventually came to be called Shimizu-chō.

Nanao Tenmangū Kameo-san Eishō-ji Temple is located within the Naruse family's middle estate west of Shimizu. It is a Shingon sect temple affiliated with Chōkyū-ji, built during the Eishō era, and serves as the shrine temple for Tenmangū. The sacred image of Kan-shin (Sugawara no Michizane) appeared on a stone in the nearby mountain forest, riding a seven-tailed turtle during the Bunki era (1501-1504), so a shrine was built and the image enshrined around the time of the Eishō era change (circa 1504), according to the temple's founding records. The honchi eleven-faced Kannon was created by Gyōki, and there are many other sacred treasures.

Tori Yakushi Keishō-san Kyūhō-ji Temple is located at the western corner of Nagabei-suji and Zenkō-ji-suji, serving as a branch temple of Mizuno Jōkō-ji. This place was originally a samurai residence, but had folk tales of supernatural phenomena similar to the famous "plate mansion" stories, so no one lived there. In Genroku 2 (1689), a grass hermitage was built and a monk from Taiyō-an, a sub-temple of Myōkō-ji in Nakashima district, was invited to be the head priest. Later it became a branch of Chikudō priest of Jōkō-ji, and was rebuilt as it is now during the Hōreki era (1751-1764). Because a rooster figure was placed on top of the Yakushi hall, it is called "Tori Yakushi" (Rooster Yakushi), and also "Sara Yakushi" (Plate Yakushi) due to the plate mansion stories.

Matsuyama Tendō-gū Jumyō-in is located on the east side north of Kyūjikken-chō, belonging to the Tōzan-ha sect of mountain ascetics, same location as Seiju-in. It was founded during the Daiei era (1521-1528) by the mountain ascetic Ryūkai from Haguro-san in Dewa Province, but over the years...