Seian-in (built by Watanabe Uma-no-jō Morizuna). The rest can be known from the illustrations above (within the temple grounds is the grave of the Ming Chinese person Chen Yuanyun).

Viewing the Grave of Chen Yuanyun
Kendō - A distinguished guest from the tiger forest, residing here for over a hundred years, offering wine to commemorate this day, composing poetry moved by fragmented texts.

Genchōzan Jōmyō-ji (located east of Kenchū-ji, affiliated with Kuon-ji temple on Mount Minobu in Kai Province of the Nichiren sect. Built in the second year of Jōō [1653] through the patronage of Chaya Chōi. The sacred treasure is a painting of Takimi Kannon, which Chōi's younger brother Shinrokurō obtained during the Genna era when he repeatedly traveled to Cochin China due to certain circumstances, had an audience with the King of Annam, received it from that king, returned to Japan and kept it secretly at home before donating it to this temple. In the garden of the study hall stands an ancient pine tree, only about eight shaku in height, extending eighteen ken east-west and five ken north-south, with a trunk circumference of over five shaku. It is truly a rare and famous tree.)

Tanikumiyama Kannon-in (called Muro-dera, located on the west side of Kayachō. A temple of the Jōdo sect affiliated with Chion-in in Kyoto. The restoration founder was Priest Fukurensha Kakuyo Ton'ō. On the 18th day of the first month of Enpō 3 [1675], it was restored for the spiritual benefit of Sōfuku-in-dono, the mother of the nun Teishō-in.)
Main Buddha (Eleven-faced Kannon, created by Monju Bosatsu. During the reign of Emperor Kanmu, Ōkuchi Dairyō had the eleven-faced sacred image carved by a Buddhist sculptor. When the sculptor prayed for the divine protection of Monju Bosatsu, Monju Daishi rose from his lion seat and, together with the sculptor, performed the ritual of one bow and three prostrations, carving a one shaku five sun Kanzeon from red sandalwood, completing the work in one night. The sculptor, reluctant to place this sacred image in a distant place, again prayed to Monju Daishi for carving, and this time a seven shaku five sun sacred image was carved. This is now the main Buddha of Tanikumi in Mino Province. The one shaku five sun sacred image was personally protected and enshrined in a grass hermitage built at a place called Yanagihara near Omuro Ninna-ji in western Kyoto. During the Eishō era when this temple was established, it was requested from the head temple Chion-in to become the main Buddha of this temple.)

Matsushimayama Enmyō-ji (located on the north side of Kyūjūken-chō, directly affiliated with Higashi Hongan-ji. Founded during the Bunmei era by Itō Uhyōe-no-jō Tomitoshi, also known as the monk Dōe, the youngest son of Dainagon Kitabatake Tomotsugu. It was moved here in the seventh year of Genna [1621] from Matsugashima in Nagashima, Ise Province. Due to its meritorious service in the construction of the Eastern Deputy Office of this domain, whenever the Eastern Gate Master travels through this province, he invariably stops at this temple.)
Main Buddha (wooden statue of Amida)

Myōzuizan Daikō-ji (located on the north side of Shinmachi, affiliated with Kuon-ji temple on Mount Minobu in Kai Province of the Nichiren sect. Built during the Tenbun era, it was originally located in Nawa village in Kōzuke Province and was relocated to various places from the Keichō era onward.)