They built a rotating sutra repository and stored the complete Buddhist scriptures of the Qing dynasty, also enshrining a portrait of Ichigaku. The sub-temple is Keishō-ken.

Zuiun-zan Seishū-ji Temple (located south of Hakurin-ji Temple, same sect and branch temple) was built by Lord Nobunaga during the Tenbun era for the spiritual welfare of Hirate Chūmu-no-taisuke Masahide, with the monk Takugen as the founding priest (Takugen, at the request of Bingo-no-kami Nobuhide, named his son Kichihōshi-maru with the personal name Nobunaga).

When Nobuhide objected, saying "The reverse of Nobunaga is 'mulberry' (kuwa). Mulberry is eaten by silkworms - how can this be good?" Takugen replied, "Not so. When the character for mulberry is broken down, it becomes forty-eight. Therefore, Buddhists consider this an auspicious sign. Moreover, the original name of our country is Fusō (literally 'supporting mulberry'). He will eventually gain the realm."

Indeed, though he did grasp the realm, Nobuhide's difficult question was not in vain - shortly after passing forty-eight years of age, there was an incident caused by Akechi, who was like a silkworm (kaiko), which was truly a prophetic sign of that strange era. Also, in the fourth year of Eiroku, by Lord Nobunaga's command, the castle grounds of Inabayama and Noguchi were renamed Gifu, and it was also this Takugen who presented the seal reading "Spread military rule throughout the realm." ○ Main Buddha (Eleven-faced Kannon) Sutra repository (storing a complete set of Japanese-printed sutras in a rotating repository)

Bell tower, Hirate Masahide's grave (dharma name: Kōan Sōchū Daishi) Teishō-in Daifujin's grave (daughter of Ori Saemon-no-jō Nobumasu, secondary consort of the founding lord)

Fuhō-in-dono's grave (consort of Hirohata Dainagon Tadayuki)

Jakkō-zan Shōman-ji Temple (located south of Ōtsu-machi, a temple family directly affiliated with Higashi Hongan-ji, an affiliated temple of Harisaki Shōman-ji in Nukata District, Mikawa Province, founded during the Tenshō era) Main Buddha (standing Amida Buddha)

Tokuju-zan Shōjō-ji Muryō-in Temple (located in Yaba-machi, Korin, Maetsu, affiliated with Chion-in Temple in Kyoto of the Jōdo sect) In the sixth month of Genroku 12, this temple was moved from Tsushima in Kaitō District and granted to priest Kakuryō. ○ Main Buddha (Amida Buddha by Jōchō, flanked by Kannon and Seishi bodhisattvas)

These were originally the main buddhas of the Kō-dono hall of Byōdō-in Temple in Uji, Yamashiro, but for certain reasons were enshrined in this temple in Genroku 8. Jizō Hall (a sacred buddha known to the world as the Jizō of Yaba) Maki family graves (two stone pagodas)

The characters on the monument faces have worn away and are difficult to read. In the death register of Enpuku-ji Temple in Atsuta, there are dharma names of the Maki family: Chōsei-in Bon Amida Butsu (15th day of the 2nd month, Genki 1, year of the metal horse) and Shintoku-in Zengyō Echō Daishi (15th day of the 8th month, Tenshō 5, year of the fire ox). Chōsei-in was Maki Yoza Saemon-no-jō Minamoto...