《He died on the second day of the twelfth month at the age of sixty-six. This is the record. The contents recorded in the Head Priest Genealogy and the Gyokuyo-shū are generally the same》Tsuchi-gami Shrine《Located east of Ichino-Mimae Shrine. According to the Ise Grand Shrine Ceremonial Records, the enshrined deities of the Earth Shrine in Yamada, Watarai District, are Ōtoshi-no-kami, Tsuchi-no-mioya-no-kami, and Uga-no-mitama-no-kami, but here Haniyama-hime-no-mikoto is enshrined》Atago Shrine《Located north of Uō Shrine》Ō-Wakamiya《Located north of the treasure house. The enshrined deity is Emperor Nintoku》Asama Shrine《Located north of Ō-Wakamiya》Yama-no-kami Shrine《Located east of Tsuchi-gami Shrine》Uga Shrine《Located north of Asama Shrine》Konjin Shrine《Located west of Ryūjin Shrine. This is likely a shrine that invited the spirit of Konjin Shrine in Yamada District. It is said that Kanayama-hiko-no-mikoto is now enshrined there》Tatsuta Shrine《Located east of the main shrine》Nimyō Shingū《Located south of Tatsuta Shrine》

Kamo Shrine《Located north of Tatsuta Shrine. In the Shintō-shū by Agoi, in the section on Atsuta Daimyōjin, it is recorded: "Beside the Great Shrine's treasure hall stands a shrine to Kamo Daimyōjin. A certain woman, suffering from false accusations and lamenting that her life would be wasted, prayed at that shrine. In a dream-like vision, the deity of Kamo appeared with the divine message: 'Those I trust, if made to suffer in vain, I shall part the clouds and ascend.' Afterward, without incident, she eventually became the wife of the head priest and prospered." This poem appears in the Shin-Kokin-shū, Fukuro-zōshi, and other poetry collections simply marked as "Kamo's poem," so everyone assumes it to be a poem from Kamo in Yamashiro Province. However, since this Shintō-shū clearly records that the woman became the head priest's wife, there should be no doubt that this was a divine manifestation from the Kamo shrine that is a subsidiary of our shrine》Tsuki-no-miya《Located west of Konjin Shrine》Ninuri Shrine《Located north of Ō-Wakamiya》

Inari Shrine《Located north of the treasure house》Miwa Shrine, Komori Shrine, Kaze Shrine, Kunitama Shrine, Hachiōji Shrine, Suhara Shrine, Ame Shrine, Sumi-no-miya, Shinmei Shrine, Aburaya Shrine, Ko Shrine《The above eleven shrines are now abolished. Together with the other twenty-four shrines, making thirty-five shrines in total, these are all subsidiary shrines within the shrine gates. From here on, all are subordinate shrines outside the gates》Soto-Tenjin Shrine《Located outside Chin'ō Gate. The enshrined deity is the same as Uchi-Tenjin》Anego Shrine《There are two shrines, east and west, outside Kaizō Gate. The enshrined deity is Miyasu-hime-no-mikoto. What is listed in the provincial registers of Jōji 3 and Genki 2 as "Senior Third Rank Hikami Aneko Myōjin" refers to this shrine, and it should not be confused with the Hikami Aneko Shrine in Ōtaka Village》Imahiko Shrine《There are two shrines, east and west, in the same location. They enshrine Takeinarane-no-mikoto. This corresponds to what is listed in the provincial register as "Senior Third Rank Imamago Myōjin"》Mizumuke Shrine《There are two shrines, east and west, in the same location. They enshrine Ototachibana-hime-no-mikoto, daughter of Hozumi Oshiyama-no-sukune and consort of Prince Yamato Takeru. The main...》