《This corresponds to what is listed in the provincial register as "Senior Third Rank Mizumuke Myōjin"》Hinaga-gami Shrine《There are two shrines, east and west, in the same location. They enshrine Amaterasu-Ōmikami-no-mitama-no-kami. According to Watarai Nobuyoshi's theory, Amaterasu-no-mitama is Ame-no-Hoakari-no-mikoto, the ancestral deity of the Owari clan》Susanoo Shrine《There are two shrines, east and west, in the same location. This corresponds to what is listed in the provincial register as "Senior First Rank Susanoo Myōjin"》Aobusuma Shrine《There are two shrines, east and west, in the same location, with the western one written as Shirobusuma. It is recorded in the provincial register as "Senior Second Rank Aobusuma Myōjin." From Anego Shrine downward are called the twelve shrines east and west of Kaizō Gate. Shirobusuma Shrine is located in Tanaka-machi》Sannō Shrine《Located south of the sacred stable outside Kaizō Gate》

Four Sacred Gates　Kaizō Gate《Refers to the southern main gate. Originally called Kaijō Gate, it was renamed by imperial edict of Emperor Kanmu. The plaque is said to be written by Kūkai's brush, but it is not currently displayed above the gate. The iron lantern hanging in the center is said to be the work of Sanjō Kokaji Munechika》Shunkō Gate《Refers to the eastern gate. The plaque is written by Ono-no-Dōfū's brush. In the legends of the Song of Everlasting Sorrow, it is said that a Chinese Taoist master met with the spirit of Yang Guifei at Hōrai Palace - this refers to this place, and it is said he knocked on this gate to enter. The Noh play "Yang Guifei" and the Bunnan Dengaku Nōki's reference to "the Noh of Atsuta's Shunkō Gate" are all based on the story of when the Taoist master met with the imperial consort》Chin'ō Gate《Refers to the western gate. The Atsuran-gusa records that from the eastern side of this gate, one would worship the imperial palace from afar and pray for the long duration of the imperial reign, hence it was named Chin'ō Gate. The plaque was written by Emperor Kanmu's imperial brush but all were lost to fire. The Zoku-sen Kiyomasa-ki records that when Kiyomasa was residing in Higo Province, he gave twenty kan of silver to Baba Sakyō to rebuild the damaged western gate - this refers to this gate, and it is still called the gate built by Lord Higo》Seisetsu Gate《Refers to the northern gate. Originally located north of the main shrine, it was abandoned in medieval times, and what is now north of Hachiken-gū is called Seisetsu Gate》

Eight Sacred Torii　Geba Torii《Located south of Kaizō Gate》Naka Torii《Located on the western sacred procession road outside Kaizō Gate》Eastern Torii《Located east of Shunkō Gate》Western Torii《Located west of Chin'ō Gate in Shiratori》Hama Torii《Located on the southern seashore》Tsukidashi Torii《Located in Tsukidashi-machi to the south》Ni-torii《Located in Hataya-machi to the north》Ichi-torii《Located in Otō-machi north of Ni-torii. Height is three jō five shaku, pillar circumference is one jō, made of cypress with vermillion lacquer. In Mujū Kokushi's Zatsudan-shū it is mentioned...》