First Day of the Snake in the Second Month
○Kinen Festival (Prayer for Harvest Festival) - Grand Food Offerings at Ōmiya (On the day of the tiger before the festival day, sakaki branches are inserted at the four directional torii gates. On the day of the rabbit, sacred rice is transported in hanging boxes from the administrative office to the offering hall. For this festival, fragrant herbs from Awade Forest are献上. On the night of the day of the snake at the hour of the rat, seventy sacred meal trays are prepared. Also, temporary small shrines are erected on the left and right sides of the altar to worship large and small deities from the sixty-six provinces of east and west. Here too there are food offerings and liturgical prayers)

First Day of the Horse in the Same Month・Same Day
○Hachiken-gū Grand Food Offering Preparation　○Imperial Messenger Reception Ceremony (Takakura-gū, Hiwari Shrine, Daifukuda Shrine, Hikami Shrine, Gendayū Shrine, and other subsidiary shrines prepare food offerings. In ancient times there was an imperial messenger on this day, and this is a remnant of that custom. When the sacred food offered the previous evening is removed, Mr. Tajima serves at the imperial messenger hall, and musicians play three-pipe music while circling outside the corridors)

First Day of the Sheep in the Same Month
○Mita Shrine Rice Planting Festival (First, liturgy is read at the administrative office, and at the hour of the horse, sacred food is prepared at this shrine. Three-pipe music is played in front of the shrine, and two Shinto priests perform Yamato dance. Also, many ritual specialists accompany with drums, singing rice-planting songs and mimicking rice planting. When this festival ends, the head ritual specialist stands in the white sand area in front of Ōmiya and throws the leftover sacred food onto the eaves for crows to eat. Therefore, this festival is called the Crow Festival)

Second Day of the Third Month・Same Day
○Hachiken-gū Inner Shrine Food Offerings (grass rice cakes, peach blossom wine)　○Ōmiya Inner Shrine Food Offerings (same as above)

Same Month, Fifteenth Day
○Bugaku Court Dance (The origin of bugaku at this shrine dates from ancient times, but its beginning is not clear in detail. It was discontinued in the medieval period but was revived during the proper relocation of the shrine in the first year of Bunsei (1818), ninth month, and this day has been established as the annual fixed date. A stage is set up between the east and west music halls, shrine personnel attend, shrine officials and personnel are seated in rows in the worship hall, and the head priest family is seated in the imperial messenger hall)

Eighth Day of the Fourth Month・Same Day
○Flower Heads (Decorative festival stands are constructed in the worship hall and imperial messenger hall, small dolls are placed on them, and below are island platforms and earthenware vessels. The two head officials, keidai and hodai, hold banquet ceremonies in the worship hall and imperial messenger hall. It begins at the hour of the snake and ends at the hour of the monkey. On this day there is a basket market south of Gebaashi Bridge, and according to auspicious custom, all worshippers invariably purchase from it)　○Shiratori Shrine and Ukishima Shrine Food Offerings

Last Day of the Same Month・First Day of the Fifth Month
○Purification of Both Head Officials Keidai and Hodai (The head official on yearly duty visits Suzu Shrine, goes down to the beach, and enters ritual purification)　○Ōmiya Hachiken-gū Food Offerings

Same Month, Fourth Day
○Military Festival Service (Hachiken-gū Inner Shrine Food Offerings. Both head officials kei and ho make sacred offerings to seven shrines in total: Ōmiya, Hachiken-gū, Takakura-gū, Hiwari Shrine, Gendayū Shrine, Hikami Shrine, and Daifukuda Shrine. On this day, chimaki rice dumplings are prepared. From there, mounted...)