《Note: When asked about this, he said he only remembered that it was about the bell casting at that shrine. However, without seeing the inscription on that shrine's bell, he could not tell how many hundreds of years ago it was. If this was about the time when the Entoku bell was cast, then the strange man would have been about 180 years old in Shōhō 1. The current bell was cast in the 11th month of Genki 3 according to its inscription, which reads "Atsuta Jingū-ji main temple sponsor Keirin Keishun, patron Yoshida Yozaemon, resident of Ueda, Yamada Manor, Kasugai District, Owari Province" and so forth》

Waniguchi (crocodile-mouth bell) 《Note: The inscription reads "Great Japan, Owari Province Aichi District Atsuta Jingū-ji Main Shrine, during the period of Miyata Hata's downfall, through the grace of Right Minister Toyotomi Ason Hideyori's reconstruction, auspicious day of the 9th month of Keichō 11 (1606), respectfully offered by Katagiri Tōichi-no-kami Katsumoto"》

Guardian Benzaiten Shrine 《Note: Located in the inui (northwest) direction from the main hall》

Site of the Tahōtō (many-treasures pagoda) 《Note: The present Fudō Hall is on this ancient site. It appears in the Kyōroku shrine diagram. The waniguchi of this pagoda is now at Kameisan Enpuku-ji temple, and its inscription is the same as the main hall's waniguchi, showing the characters "Keichō 11 reconstruction Jingū-ji treasure pagoda," with the back inscribed that it was acquired with substitute money in Shōtoku 1. Besides this, there are many other ancient sites such as five-story pagoda ruins, Jōgyō-dō hall ruins, and rinzō (sutra repository) ruins, too numerous to fully describe》

Shushō-e (New Year prayer ceremony) 《Note: This is performed on the night of the 5th day of the 1st month. It is commonly called the Oni Matsuri (demon festival) of the Great Medicine Buddha and is quite a spectacle. The ceremony begins from the lower part of the hitsuji hour (around 2:30 PM) until evening, with all the temple's monks gathering in the main hall for gomaku fire rituals and various other practices. At the end, demon-shaped figures carrying torches are chased out from the rear hall and pursued around the hall's veranda three times, after which the torches are thrown into the pond in the rear garden to conclude the ceremony. Throughout this, gongs and drums are beaten noisily. The practice of chasing demon figures during Shushō-e exists at Jingū-ji temples in other provinces as well, which may be an ancient custom. The Azuma Kagami records for the 12th day of the 1st month of Jōgen 3: "Jingū-ji began performing Shushō-e. On the 14th day, Shushō-e sutra, today the ceremony concluded with demons running"}}

Geba Bridge (dismounting bridge) 《Note: A stone bridge spanning the Mitarashi River, commonly called the Twenty-five Chō Bridge. South of here, the shrine priests' quarters are called "Gosho no mae" (before the palace) and "Gosho no uchi" (inside the palace). Generally, unless it is the site of an emperor's imperial residence, or the residences of imperial princes, ministers, or the shogun's house, it would be difficult to call it "gosho." Since this is an ancient place name, it may be called so because it was the site where General Yoritomo had temporary residence due to the head priest's connections. Or it might be the site of the imperial residence mentioned in the Shoku Nihongi entry for Taihō 2, when the Retired Emperor made an imperial visit to Mikawa Province and a temporary palace was built in Owari Province. This is not certain today. Also, within Atsuta there is a place name called Ōzeko, which might also be a place name from where laborers were summoned during that imperial visit. This requires further consideration}}

Nakamori (middle forest) 《Note: Near the Seietsu Gate, also called Furuwatari Sakaki Forest and such. In Akasone Emon's personal poetry collection, it says: "When visiting a place called Atsuta Shrine in my home province in spring, hearing bush warblers singing loudly along the way, when I asked where this was, I was told it was called Nakamori"