《Therefore, calling it an inlet would not be appropriate》Subsidiary shrine《Yamanokami Shrine》Sacred treasures《One sword by Masamune, with the inscription "Genna 3rd year, Hinoto-Mi, Owari Province Chita District Ogawa resident Tsuzuki Chūbei"》Shrine priest《Kume family》

Hachiman Shrine《Located in the same place, rebuilt by Mizuno Tōshirō in Eiroku 11th year, Tsuchinoe-Tatsu, and renovated again in Tenshō 9th year, Kanoto-Mi》Subsidiary shrine《Yamanokami Shrine》Sacred treasures《One set of birthing armor from Jōkyō 3rd year, Tsuchinoto-I, on the 5th day of the first month, donated by Mizuno Sadanobu》Shrine priest《Kume family》

Ogawa Castle ruins《Located in the same village, where Mizuno Kurando Sadamori resided. His grandson Kurando Kenshō, his son Uemon-no-Dayū Tadamasa, and their descendants up to Shimotsuke-no-Kami Nobumoto lived in this castle》

Local specialty: Dried shrimp (hoshi-ebi)《Small shrimp produced in the same village. They are shipped even to distant provinces, and because their flavor is exceptionally delicious, they are known in the world as Ogawa shrimp》

Omodaka Well《Located in front of the Jizō Hall in the same village. This Jizō statue emerged from the sea in ancient times with oyster shells adhering to its body, so it is called "Oyster Shell Jizō." Later, the mother of Mizuno Sakon, who had been grieving for years over being childless, made a vow to this Jizō statue and performed hundred-day pilgrimages. On the final day, when she drew well water as usual to rinse her mouth, she saw several stalks of arrowhead plants growing in the well with an Eiraku coin resting on their leaves. Though puzzled at first, she wondered if this might be an auspicious response to her fulfilled vow, so she took the plants and coin home. Indeed, from that time she became pregnant. Therefore, this well is called Omodaka Well, and even now local people draw this water for use as birthing water. The reason the Mizuno family crest bears arrowhead plants and Eiraku coins is said to derive from this legend, as told by village elders》

Mount Uchū, Kenkon-in Temple《Located in the same village, belonging to the Sōtō sect Daigen branch, a subsidiary temple of Daitō-in in Enshū Province》Founded in Bunmei 7th year, Kinoto-Hitsuji, by Mizuno Kurando Sadamori, with Priest Kawasō as the founding abbot. Since Meiō 1st year, Kanoe-Saru, eighth month, it has been administered by rotating priests due to certain circumstances. This temple is situated far from the dusty world of human habitation, with grand halls and lofty buildings constructed among ancient pines and dense forests, with all roofs thatched.