Prince Munenaga, the First Rank General, also resided in this castle. According to the Taiheiki, on the 18th day of the 9th month of Rekiō 3 (1340), when Wakiya Yoshisuke, Governor of the Ministry of Justice, fortified himself in Neo Castle in Mino Province, he was defeated by Toki Danjō-shōhitsu and Gyōbu-taifu Yoriyasu and others. Taking seventy-three retainers with him, he disguised himself and secretly fled to the castle of the Grand Priest of Atsuta, to Hazu Point in Owari Province, where he stayed for more than ten days gathering defeated soldiers, then proceeded via Ise and Iga to the Yoshino Palace. According to the biography of Prince Shinano, First Rank Prince Munenaga spent more than ten years between Kōzuke and Shinano provinces. In the summer of Shōhei 24 (1369), leaving Mitsusuke in Shinano, he advanced to Inuyama in Owari Province, took a ship from Hazu Point in the same province, and traveled via the Ise route to ascend to Yoshino. The medical text called Reiranshū by Hosokawa Katsumoto also records that when soldiers of the castle commander at Hazu Point in Owari Province were wounded and caught cold, they were treated using Ōryūtō medicine, indicating this is an ancient castle site.

Shinojima (located about one ri south of Morozaki on the sea, with a circumference of three ri and quite prosperous households). It is said that the local people call these three islands - Shinojima, Himakajima, and Sakushima - the "Three Countries." This island originally belonged to Watarai District in Ise Province and was called Tsugihashi Village of Yamada Manor. Therefore, it contributes 360 dried sea bream annually to Ise Shrine. There are also sixteen subsidiary shrines of Ise, and the Shinmei Shrine is a very large shrine called the Aramitama Shrine, so there is a distant worship site for it at Futamigaura. There is also the Hachiōji Shrine, which is also a large shrine, and it is said that during the years of Ise Shrine reconstruction, the metal fittings from the old shrine buildings were used to construct these two shrines. Perhaps it also belonged to Shima Province in medieval times, as the Shinhōshō records "Shinojima in Tōshi District, Shima Province." To that Tōshi District it is very...