《Fuboku-shū》
Cutting irises at Susa Inlet's hidden marsh, the sleeves of the rice field workers descending there must also be wet　Emperor Go-Toba's imperial composition

《Iie's Thousand Poems》
At Susa Inlet where horse mackerel dwell, even the reed leaves show no added green - winter has come　Lord Iie

Horse Mackerel (aji) 《Caught in the eastern and western villages of this district. They are large in form and superior in taste to others, making them a specialty of this district. Particularly, the horse mackerel of Susa are famous because Lord Ietaka composed in the love poems of the Fuboku-shō: "Only in love, like the fish dwelling in Susa Inlet, floating and sinking - what a wearisome world." Originally this poem was based on ancient Man'yōshū poems, but because it was interesting how he transformed the aji bird into a fish, the Yakumo Gyoshō also notes that "aji is the name of a fish"》

Suna Tenjin Shrine 《Located in Susa Village, now called Hachiken Shrine. The year and month of its founding are not clear》This is the one listed as "Junior Third Rank Suna Tenjin" in the Honkoku-chō. The Tenson Hongi states that Umashimaji-no-mikoto's eleventh generation descendant, Mononobe no Makura no Muraji, was the ancestor of the Susa clan... If so, perhaps the place name came from the ancestral deity of the Susa clan residing here. Another theory suggests it was originally Susano Shrine, but the character "sa" was omitted from the Honkoku-chō - this theory is also not easily dismissed. ○Sacred treasures 《There is an ancient spear handle. The inscription shows the characters "Second year of Tokuji, ninth month, thirteenth day, Arakida Tsurugi Wakamaru"》

Chisui-san Shōshū-ji Temple 《Located in the same village. A Sōtō Zen temple affiliated with Tenzawa-in Temple in Tokoname. The record of its founding year is not clear》In ancient times it was called Chōmen-ji. In the second year of Kenkyū, when it was designated as Lord Yoritomo's memorial temple, a certificate stating the donation of some temple lands is still preserved at the temple. The final passage states: "This is the Hyōe-no-suke's temple; Saitō Echū-no-kami should know this"