"...performed" and so forth. There was a monogram seal at the end, but since Lord Yoritomo had already been appointed as Udaishō (Major Captain of the Right) in the second year of Kenkyū, referring to him as Hyōe no Suke seems rather contrived. Moreover, since Saitō Etchū no Kami served the Muromachi shogunal house and belonged to a different era, we shall temporarily await further investigation. ○ Main Buddha (wooden statue of Shakyamuni, attendant bodhisattvas: Shō Kannon and Jizō Bodhisattva) Tekken-bai plum tree (located within the temple grounds; when Kuki Ōsumi no Kami invaded and plundered in former times, this plum tree alone escaped the spreading flames of war, which may be why it was so named. Even now its branches and trunk continue to flourish)

Daiji-san Iwaya-ji Temple (located in Iwaya-ji village, a branch temple of Noda Mitsuzō-in of the Tendai sect. Originally written as Gankutsu-ji. The temple name derives from the many giant rocks throughout the mountain. According to the Biyō Zakki, Imperial Envoy Ōshikōji Chūnagon Naosane descended and bestowed the imperial temple name Sengan Kōji, etc.) Founded in the first year of Reiki era, established as an imperial prayer temple of Emperor Shōmu with Gyōki Bodhisattva as founding priest (according to Hongoku Meishō-shi, Iwaya Sengan Kōji was founded by Susa Kamon no Suke Nagatoshi). In the ninth year of Eikyō (year of the fire serpent), records and other documents were destroyed in a fire. However, according to tradition, Kōbō Daishi once came to this place and, finding it to be a pure esoteric training ground, performed one hundred days of fire rituals and enshrined a sacred statue of Shō Kannon in a rock cave. This is indeed the inner sanctuary of this temple, where a bridge marking the boundary for women is built, making this place the worship hall for women. It is truly a sacred site. In the autumn of the fifth year of Keichō, Kuki Ōsumi no Kami attempted to steal the temple treasures and set fire to the buildings, but they would not burn and...