"Poem on the Gandharva City"　　　　　　　　　　　　Kūkai
In the sea, rocks appear beautifully as castles and watchtowers, with horses running and people coming and going in all directions - north, south, east, and west. Foolish people see this and believe it to be real, but wise people recognize it as illusory and empty. Heavenly halls, Buddhist temples, and human mansions appear to exist but are actually nonexistent. Similar to this, what is laughable is when foolish people love and become attached to these illusions. Those who can observe clearly can quickly dwell in the palace of true reality.

This poem's description completely captures the essence of mirages. Also, what is called Kage-numa (Shadow Pond) in Hitachi province shows reflections of people coming and going on the ground, which differs from the aforementioned mirages, sea markets, hama-yū, and fox forests - it would be more like ground mirrors or shadow phenomena.

Nano Tenjin Shrine - Located in Hisa village, called Myōjin. This is the shrine listed in the Hongoku-chō as "Junior Third Rank Nano Tenjin." Local people refer to this area as Tenjin Mountain.

Gekkōzan Saigan-ji Temple - Located in Nishihata village, a Jōdo sect temple affiliated with Jōraku-ji in Naruiwa village. The main image is a triad of Amida Buddha. Temple treasures include one Ashiya kettle, one tea container (Tōshirō ware), and one saddle. These three items were possessions of Saji Bitchū-no-kami, lord of Utsumi Castle, who donated them himself. This temple faces the sea, with waves constantly washing up to the base of the main gate, creating a pure Buddhist sanctuary that cleanses worldly dust and grime, with excellent scenery as well.

On the plum blossoms in the rear garden　　　　Current Abbot
Winter plum blossoms bloom ahead of human negligence　　Sen'a

Bukkōzan Hōju-in Temple - Located in Fukikoshi village, a Jōdo sect temple affiliated with Tōryū-ji in Ōno. Founded in the third year of Genki era with Priest Garyō Jikei as the founding abbot. The main image is a seated Amida Buddha statue created by Jikaku Daishi. Temple treasures include one relic of Enkō Daishi with authentication document (calligraphy by Priest Kantsū), painting of peonies and sleeping cat (by Takuma Hōgen), painting of Shakyamuni leaving the mountain (by Sanraku), painting of Emperor Yang of Sui's banquet (by Li Song), pair of folding screens with West Lake scenes (by Kei Shoki), and ancient mask (by Kasuga). There are many others but these are omitted.