Never tiring of the sight, on the path home the scattered flowers are sent off by the spring mountain wind from behind　Hotta Baiei

Mount Akiba《Located in the same village. It is the highest mountain in the western bay area of this district, and its scenic views are particularly superior to others. Since ancient times, when the Akiba shrine was invited to be established on the mountaintop, it has come to be called by this name》
《On the mountaintop of Baba village there is a mountain that resembles Mount Akiba, so high that it seems to dive through mist and enter the gate of clouds. The eastern and western seashores lie below》
《The villages to the north and south are so close they touch one's straw sandals. Island touring》
The eighth month—　voices of pine trees on the eightfold tidal paths　　　Chikuyū

Kon'ōmaru's Footprint Stone《Located in the mountains of the same village. Nearby there was a place called Uba-uchi Valley, but now that stone is commonly called the "Uba-hari Stone." According to local legend, when Yoshitomo was killed by Osada Tadamune》
《Tadamune thought that if Kon'ōmaru remained in close attendance, it would hinder his great ambition, so he lured him to the seashore under the pretext of fishing. Kon'ōmaru went to the beach without suspicion, but soon heard of the disturbance at Osada's residence and》
《on his way back, met an old woman and asked about the facts. She answered that his lord had already been killed. At that moment, Kon'ōmaru could not contain his rage and struck the old woman with his fist, whereupon she immediately transformed into stone. The stone that Kon'ō-》
《maru stepped on is called the Footprint Stone. The stone is slightly indented but not in the shape of a foot. This story does not appear in the picture scrolls of Daigodō Temple or in ancient records, but we record the folk oral tradition as it is. This is similar to the folk tale of》
《Yura Wakadaijin's footprint stone near Matsuida in Kōzuke Province, but given the ancient origins of this story, we record it here》

Irumi Shrine《Located in Nakanogō village, it enshrines five sons and three daughters, hence it is called Hachiōji (Eight Princes)》It is the tutelary deity of the sixteen villages of Utsumi, and this is the Irumi Shrine mentioned in the Engi-shiki and listed as Second Rank Irumi Tenjin in the provincial records.
《In front of the shrine stands an ancient tree, said to be exotic wood, though its name is not clear》Subsidiary shrines《Hakusan Shrine, Kumano Shrine, Suhara Shrine, Kuwa-gami Shrine, Daishōgun Shrine, Konpira Shrine》Annual festival《August 17th with boats》
《There are trial music, staff fighting, processions, etc.》Shrine priest《Ichikawa family》