【Right Page】
The third-generation priest Denkū also received divine dreams for consecutive nights. Though he too had no particular destination in mind, he was traveling up toward the capital when he unexpectedly encountered [the other priest carrying the Buddha statue] at the post station of Baba in Ōmi Province. When the two from east and west spoke to each other in detail, their accounts matched as if joining two halves of a tally, so the two monks were filled with wonder and finally enshrined the statue at this temple. The miraculous responses have been remarkable.

The temple treasures include: a portrait of Saint Hōnen (painted by Chōdensu), a portrait of Jīvaka (painted by Emperor Huizong of Song), and two landscape scrolls (painted by Muqi). There are many others, but I omit them here.

The sub-temples include seven buildings: Rinsaiken, Fukuyōken, Kangeiin, Kanroin, Hōchiin, Jissōin, Tokuyōken, and others.

Kobayashiyama Kōmyōji Temple (located in the same village, it is a branch temple directly under Higashi Honganji)
Originally located in Kobayashi village in the same district, it was a Tendai sect monastery founded by Prince Shōtoku and served as a prayer temple by imperial decree of Emperor Go-Daigo. However, in medieval times, the priest Busshō converted to follow Saint Shinran in the first year of Katei, year of the Sheep (1235), and finally changed to the present sect. According to tradition, when Ariwara no Narihira came to reside in Arao village in this district for certain reasons, his descendants lived in this area for generations, and the priest Busshō was the son of Arao Kōhei, who was the thirteenth-generation descendant of Narihira.

Later, when Jōnen, the resident priest of this temple, married the daughter of Mizuno Tōshirō, Mizuno Shimotsuke no Kami donated temple lands of ten chō. When Saji Kōzuke no Suke ruled this area, he also granted an additional ten chō. However, later Oda Ūraku reduced this by half, and Toyotomi Hideyoshi subsequently confiscated all the remaining land. In the warfare of the fifth year of Keichō (1600), ancient certificates and temple treasures were destroyed by fire, but...