《Continued: They made him write a petition for public prosecution. Later, when public troubles arose and all those in neighboring villages involved in this matter were about to be punished, the scheming individuals claimed that it was Chōeki who had written that petition and was the ringleader of the legal case》
《Though the monk protested his innocence against these false accusations, facing many malicious opponents, he realized that lengthy explanations would be futile. Accepting the principle that all living beings must die, he finally submitted to execution. Mysteriously, when his head was severed, white vapor in the》
《form of a lotus flower appeared faintly. Perhaps the heavenly deities were angered that such a high monk was killed on false charges - afterward, many farmers in the neighboring villages died of epidemic diseases. Thinking this might be the vengeful spirit's curse, they built a mound where his head was buried》
《and planted a pine tree as a marker, calling it Wakamiya Pine, but in recent years it has withered and only the mound remains. They also built mounds at other places where his blood was spilled, and where his body was buried, the villagers erected a stone monument in Keian 3 (1650)》
《They also enshrined his statue at the local Hōkoku-ji temple. Since November 17th is his death anniversary, the crowds of worshippers on this day each year are extraordinary. When people pray at this mound for various illnesses and wishes, the spiritual responses are never in vain, so people revere it and male and female》
《worshippers never cease coming》

Hosoi Heishū《A person from the same village. The teacher's surname was Ki, given name Tokutami, courtesy name Seikei, and he took the pen name Nyoraisan-jin, commonly called Jinzaburō. Originally born to a farming family in this village, from a young age he was devoted to learning, traveled to the capital, and entered the school of Nakanishi Tan-》
《en. Later he traveled through various provinces, stayed in Nagasaki where his scholarship greatly developed. Afterward he went to Edo where he eventually established his own school and took the title Teacher Heishū. Though feudal lords frequently made respectful invitations, he did not respond to them. At the end of An'ei》
《our lord summoned him and finally granted him stipend and position, ending his career as director of the domain school. His writings were also quite numerous. One could say that a teacher like this truly enjoyed the full glory of success. Also recently, Jūgasai's "Yōshin Yoroku" in the Daikō Sōsho collection recorded the teacher's affairs, so we know his name was heard even in that distant land. The monument to the teacher was built on Tenjin Mountain in this village because it was the teacher's birthplace. The inscription is long, so it is omitted here》

Mount Nyorai《Located in Kake village. All facts and descriptions are deferred to Teacher Heishū's record, and his text is included below without additional elaboration》
　　　　《Record of Mount Nyorai　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hosoi Heishū》
《Our Owari has no mountains worthy of being named as mountains - only the mightiest of small hills. South of Mount Koya, ten-odd ri away, lies Atsuta Station. The station faces the sea, and sixty-odd ri along the southeastern edge of the sea, when viewed》
《it appears like a roc's beak. This is Chita District. That which appears like a tumor, bluish with occasional glimpses of red cliffs, is called Mount Nyorai. Twelve ri distant from here, floating through the reeds one immediately reaches the salt marsh. The village is called Kake Village》