This remained unchanged, and it was admired, as can also be seen in the "Genpei Seisuiki" which mentions "yabu ni kō no mono" (thicket pickles). According to the "Biyō Zakki" (Owari Miscellaneous Records), in ancient times this was the grounds of Shōbōji Temple, and the head priest was called Zen Master Tōgan. At that time, people who sold melons, eggplants, radishes, adzuki beans, smartweed and such would pass in front of this forest, and they would always offer one or two items to this deity before passing through. The Zen master thought "these should not simply be left to waste" and put them in jars, mixed them with salt and pickled them, which is said to be the beginning of this practice. This is generally considered to be the origin of Japanese pickles. As an auspicious custom, thirty-two varieties of pickles from this place are offered to Atsuta on the first Horse Day of the second month as divine offerings, and they are also presented on the twenty-fourth day of the twelfth month. Until recently, these were made in the thickets of Awade Grove, but vagrants would come and eat them, and eventually even brought in filthy things, so being unable to control this, they now bring them within the temple grounds and pickle them in the thicket.

According to "Shiojiri," when Middle Councilor and Middle Captain Kōsumi served as imperial messenger to Nikkō and lodged at Atsuta on the twenty-sixth day of the fourth month, when I went to pay my respects and offered boxed goods and dried foods, I also presented beach reeds from Futami-ga-ura, seaweed salt grass, and forget-me shells in an inkstone lid. He showed particular interest and said, "Last year the basket goods from Awade Forest that you presented were offered to the Imperial Court and brought pleasure. His Majesty spoke of his thoughts, and these sea products should also be presented in the same way." I never imagined that offerings from one of such humble station would reach the Imperial Court.

Your hands guide them so joyfully, divine wind - Ise's beach reeds rotting in the waves    Nobukage

"Owari Meishoki" (Records of Famous Places in Owari):
In the forest, even fragrant birds [enjoy] the pickled things    Koratake
How nostalgic, autumn at Awade with its salty flavor    Yūen

Awade Shrine: Located within Awade Forest. The enshrined deity is Yamato Takeru no Mikoto. According to the "Honkoku Shinmyōchō Shūsetsu" (Collected Theories on the Provincial Shrine Register), there is a shrine in Awade Forest called Atsuta Deity. It is suspected that this is the Kayatsu Tenjin Shrine, and because of the pickles, Kōmyōji Temple...