His achievements were unparalleled, and Lord Nobunaga's joy and admiration were extraordinary. He was granted lands worth five hundred kan and changed his name to Hachisuka Hikouemon-no-jo Masakatsu. By Lord Nobunaga's command, he was made guardian and adviser to Kinoshita Tokichiro Hideyoshi. Thereafter, he achieved fame numerous times beyond count (and so forth).

Site of Shobata Castle (Located between Shobata Village and Josai Village, measuring 120 ken north to south and 114 ken east to west. The Nobunaga-ki records: "Oda Danjodayu Nobuhide resided in the castle at a place called Shobata. Later he was called Bingo-no-kami; this was Lord Nobunaga's father" (and so forth). Upon examination, during the Eisho era, Danjodayu Nobusada first built a castle here and resided there. Therefore Nobuhide was also born in this castle, but after moving to Furuwatari Castle, this became a ruined castle. For details, one should compare with the section on the Nagoya battles in the first volume. Also upon examination, the ancient provincial governor's mansion may also have been here. The "Brief Record of Owari Provincial Governors" states that "during the Oho era of Emperor Nijo, Owari-no-kami Omi no Yasunaga resided in Shobata," which likely refers to this area.)

Netaka Jizo Hall (Located in Netaka Village, this is one of the six Jizo temples of this province and is a particularly miraculous Buddha. Also, to the south of this place, beside the road, there is an ancient pine tree that presents a most wondrous sight.)

Manba Ferry Crossing (Located in Manba Village, this is a boat crossing on the Saya Highway. The white sand of both banks is like spread silk, with clear streams flowing between them. This is the downstream portion of the Biwajima River, which flows from here through Isshiki Village and finally enters the sea—quite a large river. Five or six cho south along the river from this ferry crossing is Yokoi Mountain, where ancient pines hundreds of years old grow thickly, their reflection on the white sand creating scenery similar to Maiko Beach in Harima Province—an unparalleled scenic spot.)

Mori Yusai
The station tower connects west to Manba harbor / Spring winds on both banks, frequent boatmen's songs / White sedge hats in the boat at sunset / All are travelers praying to the roadside gods

Hattori Bokuzan
Trees at the harbor like shepherd's purse / Sunset on distant bright sands / Shallow water makes boats stick fast / Travelers help each other push off

Is it dawn? Calling to the long-serving ferryman, geese cry as they cross the winter river surface    Jusando
                                                                                           Yoshida Toro