Manba Station (The inns and lodging houses on the west side of the river in this village constitute this station. This is a station on the Saya Highway, and from here one passes through Kamori Station to reach Saya Station)

Monument to the Filial Daughters and Sisters (Located in Yatsuya Village. Long ago, there was a mountain ascetic named Zenryū in this village. His family was poor and he could not even manage three meals a day as he wished, but he had two daughters. The elder was called Kume and the younger was called Soyo. Both were naturally filial and never neglected caring for their father Zenryū. When Zenryū fell ill and took to his bed, the two daughters devoted all their efforts to caring for him, but they lacked funds for medicine and could not do as they wished. The two consulted together and committed themselves to wealthy households as servants, using their wages to provide for him. After their father died, they asked leave from their masters, and eventually the two went around the village like beggars asking for food, or went out to the castle town to receive money to serve their sick father. One time, in front of Kakuhōji Temple in the Kinshita district of the castle town, the younger sister Soyo suddenly developed a high fever and became terribly thirsty. It was July 5th, and there were watermelons in the area, so the elder sister searched her purse to buy one for her, but found only two mon coins and wondered what to do. The sick girl felt sorry even for those two mon and said, "Water is enough for us, so please give the money to father," and with these words, she died. At this time the elder sister was nineteen and the younger was sixteen. This beautiful tale of the two daughters' filial devotion later reached the ears of the village headman, who eventually had their good deeds carved on a monument erected in the village. This was during the Tenmei period, and the inscription was composed by Suga Yasusada. For details, we refer to the monument inscription; here we record only its lingering fragrance)

Sunago River (Located in Sunago Village, its general name is Shinkawa [New River]. Its source is the Shōnai River, and downstream it flows through Enokizu and Fukuda into the sea. During the Tenmei period, a certain Mizuno received official orders for flood control and first excavated the land to create a new branch channel. Being quite a large river, it has abundant fish, merchant ships come and go, and for several ri along this river, the villages on both sides escape flood damage and receive the blessing of good harvests. It is the foremost new river for benefiting the people. For further details, we defer to the flood control monument erected on the embankment at Hira Village in Kasugai District and omit them here. The long bridge built over this river is called Sunago Bridge and serves the traffic of the Saya Highway)

Kitanoyama Jishōin Temple (Located in the same village. Shingon sect, a branch temple of Shinpukuji Temple in the Ōsu district of the castle town) This temple was founded by the Bodhisattva Gyōgi in the second year of Taihō (Mizunoe-Tora), and was designated as an imperial prayer temple during the reign of Emperor Monmu. On the eighth day of the eighth month of the first year of Eiso (Tsuchinoto-Ushi)