(continued from previous page) appearing as an ancient place name.)

Wakamiya Hachiman Shrine (Located in the same village. The enshrined deity is Emperor Nintoku. The supervising temple Kōmyō-in manages it. Also, an ancient mirror cast with Eleven-faced Kannon is displayed in the shrine hall. This may be the honji-butsu of ancient times.)

This shrine was formerly a great shrine, and even now it extends more than three chō from the great gate torii to the main shrine. Ancient pines around the shrine tower high, sweeping the clouds and displaying the dignity of hundreds of years. Place names like "negi residence" and "miko residence" remain, and the shrine hall is built in a very elegant ancient style, allowing one to imagine the appearance of olden times. According to shrine tradition, it was established by Lord Yoritomo. It is commonly called "Heki no Hachiman" and is a famous ancient shrine.

○Festival ceremonies (January 15th: "kuda-gayu" - bamboo tubes containing five grains are placed in azuki bean porridge, and the year's harvest fortune is divined by how well they cook. This is called "Heki no kuda-gayu." Also on August 15th, people called the "ten-person group" of this place push horse heads. These people are said to be descendants of former shrine families. On the 16th of the same month, there is an airing of divine treasures, showing ancient bows and arrows, lion heads, and sutra scrolls to the people. There is also a Kifune Shrine near the main shrine, and on September 9th, ritual hot water ceremonies are performed.)

Hachiman-san Kōmyō-in Jōraku-ji Temple (Located in the same place. This is the shrine temple of Hachiman, belonging to the Shingon sect as a branch temple of Ōsu Shinpuku-ji. Temple tradition says it was founded by Udaishō Minamoto no Yoritomo.)

Principal image (Yakushi Nyorai, created by Bodhisattva Gyōki) Temple treasure: Dai Hannya-kyō (Over a hundred volumes exist. The paper has deteriorated and is not complete, with ancient era names written on each scroll.)

(The colophon of volume 390 records: "5th year of Kenmu, year of earth-tiger, 7th month, 11th day, at the hermitage of Jōfuku-ji in Isshiki, Heki-shō, Kaisai District, Bishū Province, scribe Anyō Busshi Kakuin," and all the other volumes similarly bear era names.)