Genji Island (located in Nishimori Village. According to the tradition of village elders, during the Heiji Rebellion, when Samanosuke Yoshitomo secretly traveled by boat from Aohaka in Mino to Utsumi in Noma, Chita District, he stopped his boat here to rest, then built up the land to create rice fields and farmland, which is why it was named thus)

Zenta River (also called Kusano River. Its source originates from Tsushima and Morokuwa villages in the same district, flowing west of Inui and Zenta villages as a large river that forms the boundary between Kaitō and Kaisai districts. This river has abundant fish, particularly carp and crucian carp, as well as whitebait, large freshwater clams, and eels, with fishing continuing year-round without cease. The whitebait produced in our province is superior to other regions, being larger in form and more delicious. The "Jiseki Gōkō" states that "whitebait produced in the river systems of both provinces is obtained from Nagoya Bay in Owari Province, etc." and Namimaru's "Kawakoromo Kikō" also records "whitebait seen in the sea between Ise and Owari beyond the waves returning to the bay," showing it to be a famous product. In the lower reaches of this river, at a place called Ōmiyo in Zenta, there are eight large weirs arranged in a row called "Yatsu-i," serving as a means to channel the river water into Nabebuta Shinden. Also within Zenta Shinden lives a certain Hattori family. This household has lived here since the time of the new rice field development and continues to this day. Their residential land has luxuriant trees on all four sides, constantly serving as a roosting place for herons and crows, visible from far and near as a large forest)

Evening frost-clouds hide the setting sun's light, and the cries of crows fade into dusk - Monk Yomi

Jikōzan Enjōritsu Temple (located in Nakaishiki Village, Jōdo sect, Kantsū branch, affiliated with Chion-in in Kyoto) This temple was originally called Saitaisan Saihōji, a great temple of the Jōdo Chinzei sect. Although the year of its founding is not clear, there are ancient stone monuments from the Ōan and Eiwa eras, so its antiquity is known. During the Keian era, Master Hon'yo rekindled the dharma lamp and made everything from the temple buildings to the ritual implements quite complete, but his dharma successor Master Shōyo applied even greater effort...