Yano Gozensa Shrine (located in the same place, enshrining Ōtoshi-no-kami)

Somin Shrine (located in the same place, enshrining Somin Shōrai. According to the "Kuji Kongen," he was a servant of Susanoo-no-mikoto, also called Gozu Tennō or Butō Tenjin. Long ago, when Butō Tenjin went to court a woman of the southern seas, night fell and he sought lodging by the roadside. At that place were two brothers named Somin Shōrai and Kotan Shōrai. The elder brother was poor while the younger was wealthy. When the deity asked the younger brother Shōrai for lodging, he was refused, but when he asked the elder brother Somin, he immediately granted it. Somin offered millet stalks as a seat and served millet rice. Eight years later, Butō Tenjin came to that elder brother Somin's house with eight divine children, rejoiced at having been given lodging for one night, and to repay this kindness told Somin to make a chinowa (grass ring). From that night, pestilence arose throughout the land and countless people died. At that time only Somin remained. Later Butō Tenjin said, "I am Hayasusanoo-no-kami." He declared that henceforth, when pestilence arises in the land, those who say "I am a descendant of Somin Shōrai" and wear a chinowa will escape this disaster.)

Chigo Gozensa Shrine (located in the same place, enshrining Wakaō-shin)
Ōyashiro Gozensa Shrine (located in the same place, enshrining Ōyamakui-no-kami)
Funatsuki Gozensa Shrine (located in the same place, enshrining Niwatakatsuhī-no-kami)
Naigū Gekū Yōhai (remote worship halls for the Inner and Outer Shrines, located east and west within the south gate)
Tado Shrine (located west within the south gate, enshrining Ama-no-mahitotsu-no-kami)
Yagorōdono Shrine (located southwest of the main shrine, enshrining Takenouchi-no-sukune. According to the "Namiai-ki," the Satahiko-no-miya is the present Yagorōdono. It has two seats: Takenouchi Daijin and Taira no Sadatsune. Sadatsune is the local tutelary deity. In the first year of Shōhei under Emperor Go-Murakami, on the 13th day of the 7th month, there was a divine vision, and Hotta Yagorō Masayasu enshrined this. People of the time called it Yagorōdono after the name of the petitioner.)
Hoshimiya (located southwest of the main shrine, enshrining Ama-no-oshihomimi-no-mikoto)
Yane Gozensa Shrine (located in the same place, enshrining Niwatsuhī-no-mikoto)
Chiri-no-miya (located west of the main shrine, enshrining Hijiri-shin, commonly called the mountain deity)
Benzaiten Shrine (located in the same place)
Inari Shrine (located in the same place)
Kyōzuka Shrine (located in the same place)
Senju Shrine (located in the same place)
Issaikyō Shrine (located in the same place)
Bishamon Shrine (located north of Yagorōdono)
Hashimori Shrine (located south of the stone bridge)
Atago Shrine (located in the same place)
Jingūji Temple (located north of Yagorōdono, housing a Yakushi Buddha and twelve divine generals made by Great Master Jikaku)
Bell Tower (located northeast of the main shrine. The inscription reads: "Bell of Gozu Tennō of Tsushima, Kaitō District, Owari Province, vowed on the 27th day of the 10th month, Ōei 10, year of the Metal Sheep")