[This describes someone who was] a descendant of Sadatsune, whose family had lived in hiding in Owari and Mikawa for generations. This castle site was granted by Right General Yoritomo as a retirement domain for Sadanō, and even when the Ashikaga family came to rule the realm, the Ōhashi clan's territorial holdings remained as specified in Yoritomo's original grant document. When Sadataka's grandson Sadami was at this castle, he sheltered Prince Ryōō, but there were no particular problems.

《Side note: According to the Namiai-ki, Prince Ryōō's father was Prince Yukinaga, Minister of Military Affairs, and his mother was the daughter of Serata Umanosuke Masayoshi. He was born at Terao Castle in Kōzuke Province. In the first year of Shōkyō, fourth month, he moved from Terao to Ochiai Castle in Mikawa village, Shimotsuke Province. In the fifth year of Eikyō, he left Kōzuke Province and headed for Shinano. When Uesugi's troops rushed to Usui Pass, Prince Ryōō entered the castle of Kido Kawachi-no-kami. On the twelfth day of the fifth month of the same year, he left Kido's castle and resided at Kaneko mansion in Kiso's territory. Chiku Gorō welcomed him from Kaneko to his own mansion. In the winter of the same year, Serata Masayoshi, Momoi Izu-no-kami Sadatsuna and others planned to bring Prince Ryōō to Tsushima in Ama District, Owari Province. Together with four families, seven name-groups, and other warriors, they arrived at Namiai on the first day of the twelfth month of the seventh year, intending to cross into Mikawa Province.

However, relatives of Iida Tarō (who had been killed by Ichinomiya Iyo-no-kami in previous years) and the younger brother of Komaba Kojirō (who had been killed by Munetsuna), along with other kinsmen, gathered in great numbers saying "The Imperial faction are enemies of our parents and brothers. We will not let them pass through this place. Strike them down as an offering to our ancestors!" and surrounded Prince Ryōō. Momoi Sadatsuna, Serata Masachika, Kodama Sadahiro and others attacked from behind the forest of Namiai, killing over 130 rebels. On the second day, they fought defensively from the hour of the Cock to the hour of the Boar. During this time, members of eleven parties including Utsunomiya, Usami, Amano, Ueda, Kuse, and Sanami retreated with Prince Ryōō to Mount Ai. Sadatsuna, Sadahiro, Noda Hikojirō, Kaji Kenmotsu and twenty-one other mounted warriors died in battle.

On the third day, Momoi Mitsumasa asked some children at Mount Ai: "Where are you children from? Didn't you hear about the end of the Namiai battle on the first day?" One of the seven or eight children answered: "I am from a village near Namiai. Yesterday, many warriors crowded into houses at the entrance of Namiai town and committed seppuku. I heard that their general also committed seppuku." When Mitsumasa asked what happened to the corpses of those who cut their bellies, the child said: "After the warriors committed seppuku, they set fire to the houses, but the wind blew fiercely and all of Namiai town burned down. This morning, some soldiers I didn't recognize, wearing hat insignias with horizontal lines, first-rank hat insignias, and vertical wood-sorrel crests, were searching the burned ruins and picking up the melted metal from armor and swords."}}