《Side note: "What pitiful events," he said. When Mitsumasa heard this and reported it to Prince Ryōō, he immediately summoned Ōhashi Shuridayū Sadamitsu to accompany Mitsumasa, sending them from Hiratani to Namiai to hold memorial services for those who had died in battle. The horizontal-line hat insignia belonged to Lord Serata, the first-rank hat insignia to Yamakawa, and the wood-sorrel crest to Hotta. All of them met with Mitsumasa and Sadamoto and wept together. Masachika had written a death poem on the shutters of a warrior's residence. Sadamoto gathered the corpses of the fallen and, finding a temple to the west of Namiai, asked the monk there to bury them. At dusk of the same day, Sadamoto returned to the camp at Hiratani. Mitsumasa displayed the heads of the wild warriors. When Prince Ryōō heard the poem left by Masayoshi, he moistened his sleeves with tears. The poem was: "Who would have thought / that having survived the depths of so many generations / I would sink here at this Namiai." Now the accompanying soldiers crouched here in such cramped conditions that even heaven and earth seemed narrow. On the fifth day of the same month, they reached Naruse village in Mikawa Province, but the villagers were suspicious of these people and would not let them enter. So Mitsumasa went to Sakai-gō, his grandfather's former territory, and sought help at Shōgyō-ji temple. Shōgyō-ji was related to Mitsumasa and was an acquaintance of Shimotsuma. Prince Ryōō stayed there for four or five days before entering Nunono Castle of Ōhashi Sadami in Tsushima, Owari, as recorded.}}

The Four Families and Seven Parties welcomed Prince Yukinaga, Minister of Military Affairs, son of Prince Muneyoshi of Myōhōin, to Kōzuke Province. This prince was born at the Iitani mansion in Tōtōmi Province, and his mother was the daughter of Iitani Ii-no-suke Dōsei. In the first year of Engen, Dōsei revered Prince Muneyoshi, Yukinaga's father, as his lord and master, welcomed him to Tōtōmi Province, raised his banner, and fought against the shōgun in Kyoto. Yukinaga was in Yoshino, Yamato Province, and after his coming-of-age ceremony became Senior Second Rank, Middle Counselor, First Grade, Sei-i Taishōgun, Right General, and Prince Minister of Military Affairs. On the eighth day of the eighth month of the third year of Genchū, he received the Minamoto surname. Then Nitta, Oda, Serata, Momoi and others, along with Imperial faction supporters from Tōtōmi and Mikawa, deliberated and used Momoi Izumi-no-kami Minamoto no Sadasato to