(This is what was later called Teijū-ji Temple. The complete history of Teijū-ji Temple's establishment is left to the "Zuibun Ōjōki" and omitted here. As recorded there, what was originally called Hyakutai-dō became as it is today with Tomo no Inohyōe as the patron)

Main Buddha (A seated statue of Amida Buddha created by Eshin Sōzu. The patron was Yūson'in-dono Enkan Kyōei Great Lay Priest. Recently, a standing statue of Amida Buddha was also created as a front display) Guardian Shrine (The Kumano-san Shōjō-den was respectfully invited. The founding priest Kantō of this temple personally gathered earth and built a stone platform, planting a single cedar tree as the divine body. He also built another stone platform and planted a single pine tree, naming it Ittoku-matsu. For details, this is left to Lord Shigetoy's written records and abbreviated here)

"May the gods protect this single cedar planted so the way of the sacred spear will not wither" - Lord Shibayama Shigetoy
"Only thinking that the name of Amida Buddha may spread, using the planted pine as a sign" - Same author

Kinshō-jo's brush mound (Located within the temple grounds. The inscription on the monument is abbreviated here)
"Leaving only the name in this world, why did one's lifespan follow the life of the brush?" - Kōchū

Tōrō-zan Kyōshin-bō (Located in the same place. Direct branch temple of Takada Hongan-ji. The founder was from Takada in Echigo Province, a man named Yamada Saemon-no-jō Dōken. He renounced the world and entered Mount Hiei, becoming a disciple of Dōshō Ajari. At the beginning of the Jōgen era, he came to this place and built a hermitage at Funado where he lived. At that time it was of the Tendai sect, but in the second year of Kenryaku when Saint Shinran was traveling to the eastern provinces, he stayed one night at this temple. The founder took refuge in the Saint's teachings and converted to the present sect. Dōken changed his name to Kyōshin-bō. At that time he was entrusted with a Namu-butsu statue made by Prince Shōtoku, a painted image of Amida Buddha, prayer beads of bodhi tree, etc., and departed for the eastern provinces. On his return, he again stopped at this temple. The Saint himself carved a water-mirror image and gave this also to Kyōshin-bō. Later in the third year of Meitoku, it suffered from fire and moved to the present location. Also in the first month of the third year of Tenshō, for certain reasons the characters were changed to the present ones) Main Buddha (Standing statue of Amida Buddha)

Hōju-zan Kōzen-ji (Located in the same place. Sōtō sect, branch temple of Sōji-ji in Noto Province. It was a great temple founded by priest Banzan Juichi in the first year of Eitoku, but after the earthquake in the thirteenth year of Tenshō destroyed all the halls, now...)