Kōyōji Temple (Located in Otsubushi village, Honganji sect Eastern branch, subsidiary temple of Kōmyōji in Ōno, Chita District. Founded in Meiō 3 by the monk Kōshōbō. Kōshōbō was originally called Suzuki Jinzaemon and was a village samurai, but when the priest Kyonyo passed through Kiyosu, he encountered his teachings and deeply believed in the dharma, eventually taking refuge with the priest, shaving his head, and taking the name Kōshōbō. At that time he received from the priest a portrait of priest Shōnyo as well as a red umbrella, naginata, saddled horse, etc. Therefore, to this day, when the head priest travels east, he is received and seen off on horseback wearing a sword.) Principal image (Amida Nyorai)

Kokuon-zan Isshinji Temple (Located in the same village, Sōtō sect, subsidiary temple of Shōganji in Mitsubuchi. Founded in Meiō 9 when Yokoi Tokinaga ruled the two districts of Kaisai and Kaitō, originally called Manpukuji, but later fell into ruin. Restored in Kan'ei 17 by Yokoi Tokiyasu. After Tokiyasu shaved his head, he called himself Isshin Hikwa Koji, so the temple name was changed to the current one.)

Hayao Ferry (Located in Hayao village, downstream on the Kiso River, north of Saya Ferry. Three convenience boats cross from Tsushima Shinden to here, with a certain amount of stipend rice for the boatmen attached. This was licensed by Hokkō Tokunaga, and the certificate still exists. Hokkō Tokunaga was the person who ruled Tsushima in those days.)

Katsuragi Old Ferry (Located in Katsuragi village). Tradition says that long ago when there was no Saya Ferry, people would cross from Kuwana in Ise Province to this Katsuragi and from there proceed to Kiyosu. Now not even a trace remains, with only the name barely surviving.

Biography of Priest Kantsū (Born in Ōnari village, his father was of the Yokoi clan and his mother of the Ojika clan). He was born on Buddha's Birthday in Genroku 9. His original name was Genkyō, later he changed it himself to Kantsū. His courtesy name was Muge, he was called Ichirenshya Kyōyo, and also separately called Unkwaishi. The priest became a monk at age thirteen, and in Meiwa 7...