Lotus Root (Renkon)
This is a specialty product of Tatsuta Waju (ring dike area). This entire area has extensive marsh ponds, almost like lakes. The lotus roots produced here are of the finest quality in both flavor and shape. Among them, those from Tokura village are considered the best. It is said that the annual harvest from these villages is worth more than 1,000 ryō. Therefore, when lotus flowers bloom during the summer months, the cool morning scenery is so beautiful that one might imagine it resembles the golden lotuses of paradise. People from distant places should be able to imagine the magnificence of these flowers from the value of the lotus roots. Also, in Okada Teishi's "Heisui-roku," it states that "in Owari Province, water village settlements are called waju." This appears similar to what is written in "Guangdong Xinyu": "All villages of Panyu are located among sea islands; large villages are called Da Kouwai, small villages are called Xiao Kouwai, meaning they are surrounded by river water on all four sides."

Site of Furukawa Castle
Located in Kami-Furukawa village. Local people传 down the story that "in ancient times, this was the site of Onoda Hikoshichi's castle."
According to the "Nobunaga-ki," Oda Hikoshichi was Lord Nobunaga's younger brother who resided in Kokkie Castle. In the eleventh month of Genki 1 (1570), when the Honganji sectarians of Nagashima raised an army and besieged Hikoshichi's castle, Hikoshichi, ashamed of the prospect of dying at the hands of peasants, climbed a watchtower on the 21st day of the same month and committed suicide. Kokkie is now a subsidiary village of Ōmori village, written as "Kokie." It is indeed a neighboring village of Furukawa village. Therefore, this Furukawa castle was the castle where Hikoshichi resided, and the local tradition of calling him "Onoda Hikoshichi" appears to be a corruption of "Oda" into "Onoda."

Kokie Village
This is a subsidiary settlement of Ōmori village. During the Kōnin era (810-824), Kōbō Daishi visited Rengeji temple in Hachisuka of this province...