Divine oracles repeatedly indicated that the deity would not be relocated elsewhere, and furthermore, in ancient times, when the Divine Lord (Tokugawa Ieyasu) was young, he resided at this Tennō-bō for about three years. Due to this intimate connection, the deity was never relocated elsewhere and remains here to this day. Thus it is worshipped and celebrated as the protective shrine of the castle and the tutelary deity of the domain. {{Small text: Children's hair-setting ceremonies and hakama-wearing ceremonies are performed here, and worshippers never cease to visit}}

Main shrine {{Small text: Facing south, enshrining Susanoo-no-Mikoto}}, worship hall {{Small text: Displays poetry plaques by thirty-six noble families featuring classical poets, painted by Miyawaki Yukei}}, middle gate, sacred fence, offering hall, treasure house, sacred well, torii gate, auxiliary shrines {{Small text: Hachiōji shrine is to the right of the main shrine, Hyōsu shrine is to the left. In the sixth year of Kan'ei, on the sixteenth day of the eleventh month of the year of Tsuchinoto-mi, Lord Genkei newly constructed these buildings. The subsidiary shrines outside the sacred fence include Inari shrine, Sun deity shrine, Moon deity shrine, Yagorō shrine, Hakusan shrine, etc., all located to the right of the main shrine}}

Sacred tree: Ginkgo tree {{Small text: Located west of the worship hall. Long ago, jealous women would frequently drive nails into this tree to perform curses, so by the lord's arrangement, in the twelfth year of Kanbun, a fence was erected around the tree. Since then, people have been unable to approach the base of the tree}}

Sacred treasures {{Small text: Many items including Sesshū's folding screen of sixteen arhats, Shūbun's bird and flower folding screens. Also ancient certificates from Oda Danjō-chū and other generals, donation records and other documents, plus many paintings of Buddhist and Shinto deities. The temple bell mouth of the worship hall bears the inscription of the twenty-fourth day of the eighth month of the first year of Genki, and the bell mouth of the honji hall is carved with "cast on a day in the first month of the eighth year of Daiei, year of Tsuchinoe-ne." Also, according to Shiojiri, the main object of the Tennō shrine is mirror-shaped, with Gozu-tennō painted in the center, Hari-jo painted above, the eight princes painted on left and right, and on the back it says "Respectfully donated, the main sacred object of Gozu-tennō, by the monk Shōson who promoted this, together with En Amida Buddha, on the eleventh day of the fourth month of the second year of Shōan, year of Mizunoe-tora"}}

The regular festival is held on the night of the fifteenth day of the sixth month, with festival music carriages placed east of the Kataha-misono gate, and numerous lanterns hung. The towns involved in this festival are