(Marginal note: loaded on carts and pulled by five or six thousand laborers. Beautiful young pages were dressed in brocade, with dozens standing in rows on the stones, while Kiyomasa himself stood in their center holding a single-edged spear and had them sing work songs)

(Marginal note: He had the merchants of Nagoya and Kiyosu selling sake, food, and fruits bought up regardless of price, distributed these to the spectators, and scattered sweets for people to pick up by hand. Thus tens of thousands of spectators all at once grabbed the ropes from end to end, raised their voices in unison to the rhythm of the work songs, and in a short time pulled the stones to the construction site. These pages')

(Marginal note: beautiful attire moved the hearts of all the lowly boys and girls who saw them. A children's song of that time went: "Though I cannot reach, I want just one branch of the flowers of Manshō-ji," sung in reference to the flowers)

(Marginal note: This is recorded in detail in works such as "Zokusen Kiyomasa-ki" and "Biyō Zakki," from which the essential points have been extracted and briefly excerpted here)

Post Horse Station Office (Marginal note: Located at the corner of Honmachi-dōri and Temma-chō, this is the official horse relay station. Two ri to Kiyosu station toward Kyoto, one and a half ri to Atsuta station toward Edo. It became a post station from Keichō 18 (1613))

(Marginal note: Inns are also located in Tamaya-chō, and being a crossroads of east, west, south, and north, both officials traveling from Kyoto and Osaka to the eastern provinces and travelers passing from the Ise route toward Shinano, whether on public or private business, all)

(Marginal note: pass through this place without exception. Also, being the center of the town, official notice boards are erected here, and about half a chō to the east, a fire watchtower is placed with guards constantly on watch)

Nyoi-zan Fukushō-in (Marginal note: Located on the north side entering west from Fukuro-machi-dōri to Honmachi. Shingon sect, subsidiary temple of Renga-ji in Hachisuka village, Kaitō District. Built by the monk Jun'yo of Renga-ji temple during the Shitoku era in Aichi District)

(Marginal note: Nakamura, moved here in Genna 3 (1617)) Principal Image (Marginal note: Yakushi Nyorai. A wooden statue of Daishō Kangiten is enshrined in the auxiliary hall. Having spiritual efficacy, many people constantly visit for worship) Tenman

Gū Shrine (Marginal note: Relocated here from Nakamura in Genna 3. Said to be the guardian deity of Lord Hideyoshi)

Kakushō-ji Temple (Marginal note: Located on the east side going up Kabayaki-chō from Honmachi-dōri. Jōdo Shinshū West sect. Originally built by the Tendai monk Ryōen in Tominaga village, Kaitō District, moved here during the Genna period)

(Marginal note: Later converted to the present sect) Principal Image (Marginal note: Amida Nyorai)