【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Fujiwara no Toshiyuki Ason
A person who copied the complete Buddhist scriptures after his revival. His mother was the daughter of Nadora. He was a descendant six generations after Minister Takechi-maro of the Southern Fujiwara branch. Grandson of Higo Governor Tamura-maro, he was a poet of the Kokinshū.
　Takechi-maro
　《Side note: Eldest son of Fuhito, Senior First Rank Left Minister, posthumously granted Grand Minister of State, appointed Minister of Ceremonial, imperial designation Shiki family》

　　Kose-maro
　　《Side note: Senior Third Rank, Minister of Ceremonial》
　　Matsukuri《Side note: Mikawa Governor, Senior Fifth Rank Upper》
　　Hayashida《Side note: Sanuki Governor, Junior Fourth Rank Lower》
　　Fuji-maro《Side note: Junior Fourth Rank Lower》
　　　《Side note: Provincial Inspector, Mutsu Governor》
　　Toshiyuki《Side note: Junior Fourth Rank Lower, Right General》
　　《Side note: Senior Secretary, Right Military Guard Commander, second line》
　　Korehira《Side note: Senior Fifth Rank Lower》

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem uses "yoru nami yoru sae ya" (waves approaching the shore, even at night) as an introductory passage. In the path of nightly dreams, one should avoid people, yet even in those dreams, following the habit of harboring secret feelings in one's heart, though appearing to avoid people, things don't go as wished - this expresses the form of lamenting "what is this situation?" It would be natural for waves to strike even high peaks. This refers to the southern sea. Particularly, the shores of Suminoe are places where rough waves don't approach, yet due to the nature of my love's pledge, my heart is startled from time to time.
In Kokinshū Volume 12, Love Poems, the headnote states it was "a poem from the poetry contest at the Empress's palace during the Kanpyō era."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Fujiwara no Toshiyuki Ason
At Suminoe's
　shore
　approaching waves
even at night
might
　the dream's pathway
　　　　　　
　avoid people's eyes?

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ise
Mother of Ritual Master Sukechika. A court lady of the Jōtōmon'in. Therefore called Ise no Taifu. The genealogy is in Ōnakatomi no Yoshinobu's section. She was a court attendant when Jōtōmon'in was Empress, etc.
In "Gyokushin" it says "The Emperor has nine gates":
　Namely: Opening Gate
　Outer Suburban Gate
　Inner Suburban Gate
　Castle Gate
　Gao Gate
　Treasury Gate
　Pheasant Gate
　Response Gate
　Road Gate

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: intending to speak of "reeds," it says "Naniwa Bay," and referring to the brief time of "sleeping with a person for just a short interval between nodes," it asks "must we spend this world without meeting?" This world also refers to a world as brief as the interval between reed nodes. It says we should spend our time without even a night's sleep. "Naniwa Bay" is spoken in general terms. There are lord and subject in five characters. These are the five characters on the lord's side. There are also cases where saying "koishi" (beloved) in concentrated form becomes "chū" (middle) - this should be carefully distinguished. The heart counts up all the feelings accumulated until now.
In love there are beginning, middle, and end. This poem expresses the heart of the end. Such poems should not be viewed superficially, etc.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ise
Naniwa
　Bay's
short
　fence
of reeds'
node intervals
　　　even
without meeting
　spend this world
should we?