【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Bunya no Yasuhide
His ancestry is unknown. His courtesy name was Bunrin. He was the son of Nuinodosuke Muneyuki.
His courtesy name was Rin. By adding the character "bun" (literary) from Bunya to this, it became "Bunrin." He was a Confucian scholar.
Ancient records state he was "a person from Emperor Yōzei's time." He was appointed to the position of Mikawa-no-jō. Nari was the son of Middle Counselor Tomoyasu.

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: As the autumn wind blows, the plants and trees wither away completely, and indeed, the character "arashi" (storm) written with "mountain" and "wind" has been associated since this time. "Mube" means "indeed" or "truly."
Originally this was a poem from Prince Korezada's house poetry competition. It is praised in the preface to the Kokinshū as being "skillfully worded at the boundary." This is a poem with many interpretations.
There is a theory that "ki-goto ni hana zo saki ni keru" uses the tree radical with the character "mai" (every) to suggest the meaning of "ume" (plum), and "mountain" crown with "wind" to suggest the meaning of "arashi" (storm), but this is difficult to accept. It is simply a rough wind.
"Mube" corresponds to the characters meaning "appropriate" or "fitting." It means "indeed."
In Yasuhide's personal collection, it appears as "nobe no kusaki" (plants of the fields). In ancient times, "arashi" was used for autumn. Considering this natural, he composed it as "plants of the fields."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Bunya no Yasuhide
Fuku kara ni
　aki no
kusa
　ki
　　no
shiorureba
　　　　
mube
　　yamakaze wo
arashi to
　　　iuran

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ōe no Chisato
Governor of Iyo, Junior Fifth Rank Upper Grade

Or Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade, Minor Assistant of the Palace Storehouse
　Emperor Heizei
　Prince Abo
　　Ariwara no Yukihira
　　Ōe no Otondo
　　Ariwara no Narihira

　　Chifuru (Junior Fourth Rank Upper Grade, Assistant Director of the Ministry of Ceremonial)
　　Chisato (Fifth son of Otondo)

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: When I look at the moon, various things come to mind, and it seems as if limitless sadness clings to my being. "Chiji" uses the character for "thousand." Though autumn is not just my own personal autumn, he says.
It is also said that since the sun has yang energy, the heart harmonizes when facing it. Since the moon has yin energy, as one gazes at it, the heart becomes clear and feelings of pathos advance. Therefore he says "chiji ni mono koso kanashikere." "Chiji ni" means countless and limitless sadness, simply composing in the style of the Bunsen (Selections of Refined Literature). This has the same heart as "chiji."
In the headnote to the autumn section of the Kokinshū, it states this was "a poem from Prince Korezada's house poetry competition." The purport states that since the sun has yang energy, the heart harmonizes when facing it.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ōe no Chisato
Tsuki mireba
　chiji ni
mono
koso
kanashikere
waga mi
　hitotsu no
aki ni wa aranedo