【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Kanke (Sugawara no Michizane)
Minister of the Right, Senior Third Rank, General of the Right
Posthumously Great Minister of State, Senior First Rank

He was a descendant of Ame no Hohi no Mikoto, the second divine child of Amaterasu Omikami. He was the son of Lord Koreyoshi. He is the present Kitano Tenjin. He was a great Confucian scholar who mastered Chinese poetry and prose, and was also skilled in Japanese poetry (waka). In the sixth year of Genkei, envoys from Balhae came and met with various scholars. When the envoys saw the Minister's poetry manuscripts, they praised them, saying "The style resembles that of Bai Juyi."

During Emperor Suinin's reign, he was granted the surname Haji no Omi. His third-generation descendant Miomi received the reformed surname Haji no Muraji during Emperor Nintoku's reign. The eleventh-generation descendant Furuhito and others were granted the reformed surname Sugawara on the 25th day of the 6th month of the first year of Tempyo.

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: This was composed when he accompanied the imperial procession to Tamuke-yama. Since this journey was in service to His Majesty, there was no time to prepare proper offerings. "Nusa" refers to the sacred offerings presented to the gods. He says that he offers the brocade of autumn leaves at Tamuke-yama just as they are. "Kami no manimani" means "according to the will of the gods."

The headnote states it was "composed at Tamuke-yama when Emperor Suzaku visited Nara." This was during the imperial procession of the Kanpyo era. While "kono tabi" could use the character meaning "time," and though the meaning should not differ, the character for "journey" (tabi) is still preferable. "Nusa" refers to sacred offerings. In ancient times, brocade was used for these. "Kami no manimani" is written as "at will" in the Man'yoshu, meaning "according to the gods' divine will."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Kanke
Kono tabi wa
nusa mo
　tori
aezu
　　
　Tamuke-yama
momiji no
　nishiki
　　kami no manimani

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Minister of the Right of Sanjo
Sadakata, second son of Interior Minister Takafuji, his mother was the daughter of Palace Interior Assistant Iyamasu

Yoshikado - Toshimoto (Palace Attendant, Kajuji Ietune, sixth son of Kanin Minister of the Left Fuyutsugu)

　　Takafuji (younger brother of Toshimoto)
　　(Kajuji Interior Minister)
　　Sadakuni (Izumi General)
　　Sadakata (Minister of the Right, General of the Left, Sanjo Minister of the Right)

　　Kanesuke (Middle Counselor)

　　Koremasa (Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade, Assistant in the Ministry of Justice)

　　Tametoki (Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade)

　　Murasaki Shikibu (author of The Tale of Genji)

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: If it lives up to the name "Osaka" (Meeting Hill), then may there be a way to come truly without breaking our promise. "Sane" means truth or reality. Sanekazura is a type of vine like ivy. From the word "kazura" (vine), "kuru" (to come) creates a word association. "Hito ni shiraredе" means he wishes there were a way to come secretly, like a vine's dense growth where one cannot tell from which direction it comes.

The headnote states "sent to a woman." Now, sanekazura, when pulled, has thick growth, so one cannot see from where it comes. Similarly, he says he wishes his beloved could come without the world knowing.

When one recalls such feelings afterward, the resulting melancholy and extreme disappointment are remnants of the morning dew on the roadside grass. That sanekazura of Osaka Hill lives on ceaselessly only in one's secret heart.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Sanjo Minister of the Right
Na ni shi
　　　owaba
Osaka-yama
　no
sane
　kazura
hito ni
　　shirade
kuru yoshi mogana