【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Teishin-kō (Lord Teishin)
Tadahira (included in the Shūi-shū anthology)
(Koichijō Daijō-daijin, fourth son of Shōsen-kō)

　Fuyutsugu (Kanin Minister of the Left)
　Yoshifusa (Chūjin-kō)
　Mototsune (Shōsen-kō)
　　Tokihira (posthumously Daijō-daijin of this house)
　　Nakahira (Biwa Minister of the Left)
　　Kanehira (Middle Counselor, Palace Ministry)
　　Tadahira

　(posthumously Senior First Rank, Regent and Chancellor, Gojō Daijō-daijin, called Koichijō)
　　　Morosuke (Kujō Minister of the Right)

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: Emperor Daigo made an imperial excursion to the Ōi River, and thinking to report that it would be a suitable place for an imperial progress, he composed this poem. "O autumn leaves of Mount Ogura, if you have feelings, please do not scatter until we await one more imperial visit," he composed.

Addressing heartless things with "if you have heart" is all due to the spirit of waka poetry, expressing elegant sentiment. The headnote states: "When Emperor Daigo made an imperial excursion to the Ōi River and declared it a suitable place for imperial progress, he composed this poem intending to report the matter."

The poem's meaning is: though the excursion has already taken place, do not scatter immediately but wait for the imperial progress. This is addressed to the autumn leaves. The meaning is clear. In the Ōkagami, it says "if even the maple leaves had feelings."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Teishin-kō
Ogura-yama
　mine no
momiji-ba
kokoro
　araba
ima hitotabi
　　　no
miyuki
　matanam

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Middle Counselor Kanesuke
Son of Left Middle Captain Toshimoto, called Tsutsumi Middle Counselor, Left Gate Guard Captain, Junior Third Rank

His genealogy appears in the section on the Sanjō Minister of the Right
He died at age fifty-seven in the third year of Shōhei

Reference poems
　Tsukikage mo kyō
　　Mimuro no hara
　　nami ni yadori se
　　　ima shibashi
　　　　　　min

　Miyako idete
　　kyō Mimuro no hara
　　　　Izumi-gawa
　kawa-kaze samumi
　　　koromo
　　　　kase
　　　　　　yama

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: he likens the endless nature of loving someone to water bubbling up, calling Izumi River "izumi-ki," overlapping "itsu" (when) and letting it flow into the river reference. When did I see and hear of you to become so lovesick? Like bubbling water, I must be thinking this way - he rationalizes his own heart to himself.

Mimuro no Hara and Izumi River are famous places. In the Shin Kokin Wakashū it appears as "topic unknown." The poem's meaning works both ways: for a lover met and parted from, or for one never yet met. "Wakite nagaruru" (flowing separately) is a related word to "izumi" (spring). This is to say "izumi-ki."

This too is a prefatory poem. The heart deeply fell in love with someone who has now completely faded from memory. Still, unable to stop these feelings, suffering from love, he blames his own heart in speaking thus. Or having suffered in love for years over someone he could never meet, looking back he asks his own heart when he saw her that made him think this way.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Middle Counselor Kanesuke
Mimuro no hara
　wakite
nagaruru
Izumi
　gawa
itsu mi ki
　　tote ka
koishikaruran