【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Fujiwara no Okikaze
According to one theory:
Provisional Governor of Shimōsa, Senior Sixth Rank Upper, Junior Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Affairs

Maro
(Called Kyōke family, posthumously granted Grand Minister of State)
　Hamanari
　(Compiled the Waka Style in three volumes)
　　Nagatani
　　(Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Assistant to the Empress's Household)
　　Michinari
　　(Senior Sixth Rank, Governor of Sagami)
　　　Okikaze
　　　(According to one theory, Okikaze was Hamanari's grandson and Michinari's son)

【Same Page - Middle Section】
This is a poem of unknown topic. After I grew old, among the various people I had been familiar with since long ago, some continue to live in this world, while others have departed before me, things have changed in various ways, and I remain alone with no one who understands friendship. The pine of Takasago has been ancient since old times, but thinking about it, this pine is also not a friend from my past - lamenting thus, he asks whom he should make an acquaintance to express his feelings to. In Sōchō's recorded teachings, it says one should understand the five syllables thoroughly. Also, Takasago is probably the general name of the mountain. However, since it says the pines of Takasago and Sumie are like Aioi (twin pines), there would probably be no mistake in seeing this as a famous place. The Takasago of "the cherry blossoms on the peak have bloomed" would not be limited to this instance.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Fujiwara no Okikaze
Tare wo ka mo
　shiru hito ni
sen
Takasago no
matsu mo mukashi no
　tomo nara-
　　　naku ni

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ki no Tsurayuki
According to the Kokin-shū:
Custodian of the Imperial Library
According to the Shinsen: Head of Palace Guards, Junior Fifth Rank Upper
A descendant of Emperor Kōgen, son of Ki no Mochiyuki
Or according to some, son of Bunkan
Childhood name: Akuso

　A reply poem to this:

The flowers at least
　bloom in the same
　　way as in
　　　the past

But the heart of the one
who planted them

　I would
　　know
　　　not

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that every time he made pilgrimages to Hatsuse and stayed overnight, he would stop by, but since correspondence had ceased for a long time, the host was resentful, so he picked a plum blossom that was there and composed this poem. Not knowing whether that person's heart was true or false, he first composed that the flowers are unchanged from their fragrance of old. He wrote "I wonder, I do not know." In the preface it mentions going on pilgrimage to Ise; in Tsurayuki's personal collection it says "long ago to Hatsuse," and in the Kokin-shū Tsurayuki revised the words before including it. Tsurayuki had stopped coming to the lodging temple for a long time, and the host resented this, leading to this situation. Tsurayuki was a child granted through a divine manifestation of Hatsuse Kannon long ago. Immediately in Kannon's divine dream vision, it was said to name him "Naibō," so Tsurayuki's childhood name was made the name from Hatsuse.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ki no Tsurayuki
Hito wa iza
　　kokoro mo
shirazu
furusato wa
hana zo
　mukashi no
ka ni
　nioi keru