【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Ukon
Daughter of Ukon no Shōshō (Minor Captain of the Right Palace Guards) Fujiwara no Suetsuna. This Suetsuna was called Katano no Shōshō.

As the woman's poem was interesting, in Lord Teika's poem:

　Abandoning
　　　myself,
　　should I pity
　　　　another's
　　life, though
　　　the oath
　　　　once made
　　　　　remains
　　in memory?

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that without thinking of my own body that has been completely forgotten, I feel sad and sorry that the life of the person who swore "I will not change, I will not forget" might die from divine punishment. Also, according to one annotation, this was composed as a reply when someone invoked countless shrines and swore that if their heart changed, their life would end. The meaning is clear. However, not resenting this person who breaks such promises and changes heart, but still thinking of that person's life - this should be a poem of the deepest pathos.
○According to seasonal notes: Rather than thinking of the pain of being forgotten, still thinking of the welfare of a fickle person - is this expressing the transience of my own heart?

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ukon
Wasuraruru
mi wo ba
omowazu
chikaite shi
hito no inochi no
oshiku mo
　aru kana

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Sangi Hitoshi
Mino Governor, Assistant Middle Controller of the Left, Director-General of the Office of Records
Died on the 10th day of the 3rd month of Tenryaku 5, aged 72
Son of Emperor Saga:
　Hiromu (Hirohashi Grand Counselor, granted the Minamoto surname at Senior Third Rank)
　Nozomu (Middle Counselor, Junior Third Rank)
　Hitoshi (Assistant Controller of the Right, Junior Fourth Rank Lower)
　Watasu (Junior Fourth Rank Lower, Awaji Governor)

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that "asajifu" is used to refer to "ono" (small field), and "shinohara" is used to refer to "shinobu" (endure/conceal). Though I think I am concealing my feelings this way, why does my lovesickness show so obviously to others? This expresses unwilling emotions. This is also a preface poem (jo-ka). "Asajifu no ono" is not a famous place. The heart of the poem is "though I endure, it overflows." It's simply that though I try to conceal my love likewise, it shows excessively even to the eye. If you know that I conceal it in my heart, then why does it overflow in my heart with longing? - this is a poem that reproaches one's own heart. In matters of love, it is natural for concealment to prevail, yet even while concealing, the longing remains. Such poems that sound simple should be savored all the more deeply.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Sangi Hitoshi
Asajifu no
　ono no
shinohara
shinobu redo
amarite
nado ka
　hito no koishiki