【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Middle Counselor Asatada
Senior Second Rank Middle Counselor
Called Tsuchimikado Middle Counselor and Right Guards Commander
Mother was the daughter of Middle Counselor Yamakage
Inner Minister Takafuji
　Sadakuni (Izumi General)
　Sadafusa (Sanjō Right Minister)
　Asatada (Junior Third Rank Middle Counselor)
　Tomoyori (Kanshuji School)

　How is it that
　　my soul being
　　　led away
　into this
　　　fleeting
　sky is being
　taken apart?

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: if meeting were something that absolutely did not exist in this world, it would rather be better. In that case, people would not think resentfully, and there would be no cause to resent oneself. Because the act of meeting and seeing exists, we suffer from love - expressing the pain of excessive longing by focusing on what is not the case. This was composed with the heart of love that meets yet does not meet. It expresses complete exhaustion of the heart. It has the same meaning as "if cherry blossoms absolutely did not exist in this world, people's hearts would..." The word "rather" is not simply inserted without purpose.
○According to Kigin, one interpretation is that though the original intention is to meet even briefly, since the pain of being thus separated is so intense, it would be better if there had been absolutely no meeting from the beginning, then there would be no resentment.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Middle Counselor Asatada
If meeting
　had absolutely
　never existed,
rather
　　　then
I would not
　resent either others
　　or myself

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Lord Kentoku
Regent of Ichijō, Lord Koremasa
Eldest son of Lord Morosuke, Right Minister of Kujō. Mother was the daughter of Tsunekuni, Governor of Musashi. Died in Tenroku 32, aged 39. When this lord compiled the Gosen-shū, he was Kurōdo Shōshō and administrator of the Poetry Bureau. Kentoku-kō is a posthumous name. Those who die while holding the position of Daijō-daijin necessarily have this. They are granted a province. Therefore since the middle ages there have been none. They necessarily decline when they are about to die.
Teishin-kō
　Morosuke (Kujō Right Junior General)
　Koremasa (Regent)
　Yoshitaka (Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Crown Prince's Assistant)
　Kōsei (Provisional Major Counselor)
Among the Three Brush Traces, called Gon-seki

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: the person who should be called "pitiful" has changed so completely as if in a dream that they are not worth mentioning, and since there is no one else who knows and would pity me, rather than my body's pain becoming nothing at all, what a regrettable end for my body - this is the poem composed with such feelings. The headnote says "A woman I had been courting later became cold and would not meet me at all." This "person who should be spoken of, I cannot think of" refers to other people. The one I love is probably not worth speaking of.
○According to Kigin, this person seems to be someone from society, but in reality must be a cold person.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Lord Kentoku
A person
　　who should be
　　　called pitiful
　I cannot
　think of,
and my body
　　will become
　　　useless