【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Izumi Shikibu
Lady-in-waiting to Jōtōmon-in
Daughter of Ōe no Masataka. Her mother was the daughter of Echū no kami Yasuhira, called Ben no Naishi. It is also said her mother was wet nurse to Princess Shōshi. She became the wife of Izumi no kami Michisada, hence called Izumi Shikibu.
According to one theory, she was the daughter of Takatō Daini Senior Second Rank Suketaka Chikuzen no kami Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade, a lady-in-waiting to Jōtōmon-in called Izumi Shikibu. Her mother was the daughter of Echū no kami Yasuhira.
Poem composed and sent by Saint Shōkū:
From darkness
　into an even darker path
　　　I am entering—
please shine from afar,
　moon at the
　　　　　mountain's edge

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that when she was unwell, she sent this to a friend. Since her time was limited, she wanted to meet once more as a memory beyond this world. She was called Izumi Shikibu because she became the wife of Izumi no kami Michisada. The preface states "sent to someone when feeling unwell." The meaning is that being so weakened and unable to live long, with life not lasting much longer in this world, they would part without meeting.
○The seasonal commentary states: "Memories of this life—my life probably won't last long either. I want to meet my beloved at least once more as a memory for the next life."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Izumi Shikibu
When I will
　no longer exist,
as a memory
beyond
this world,
　　let there be
one more
　　time
of meeting

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Murasaki Shikibu
Her mother was the daughter of Hitachi no suke and Settsu no kami Fujiwara no Tamenobu. Lady-in-waiting to Jōtōmon-in, or lady-in-waiting to Takatsukasa-dono.

Kan-in Sadaijin
　　Sixth son of Fuyutsugu-kō
　Yoshikado

　　Toshimoto
　　Takafuji

　　　Kanesuke
　　　Koremasa
　　　Tametoki
　　　Murasaki Shikibu《Author of the Tale of Genji》

　　　Kanemochi

　　　Daughter

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that after departing on a journey and traveling far before returning, while she could not yet clearly recognize a friend she knew well, that person died, and she composed this poem comparing it to the moon hidden by clouds at midnight. In Genji Hōin's commentary, it states "the manner of meeting someone and immediately parting is just like the moon." The word usage comparing a person to the moon is beyond ordinary skill. "Competing with the moon" in the preface probably means "contending." "Haberi" from "yaku" (night) could also mean "from the beginning."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Murasaki Shikibu
Meeting again
　and
　　　seeing—
but before
　I could tell
　　if it was
truly you,
　you became
like the moon
　hidden by clouds
　　in the midnight hour