【Right Page - Upper Section】
Koshikibu no Naishi
Daughter of Izumi no kami Tachibana no Michisada. Her mother was Izumi Shikibu.
Lady-in-waiting to Jōtōmon-in.

Eleventh-generation descendant of Lord Tachibana no Moroe

○Nakatō
　Michisada
　Koshikibu no Naishi

Included in Shinzoku Shūishū

Summer grasses
　have grown
　　so thick
　　　on Mount Ōe—
crossing over to Ikuno,
　the path cannot
　　　be seen

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: Koshikibu no Naishi was the daughter of Izumi Shikibu. During a poetry contest at court, when there were people who gossiped that she relied on poems her mother had composed at Ama no Hashidate and had her compose poems for her, right during a poetry contest at court, when someone pulled at Koshikibu's sleeve and asked "Did you come quickly from Ama no Hashidate?", she immediately composed this poem and dispelled people's suspicions. This poem says she has never even seen this Hashidate, much less exchanged letters through there. Because Koshikibu was young, people harbored suspicions about her.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Koshikibu no Naishi
Mount Ōe—
the path to
Ikuno is
so
　distant
I have not yet
　seen letters
from Ama no Hashidate

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ise
Daughter of former Yamato no kami, Junior Fifth Rank Upper, Fujiwara no Tsugikage. Since Tsugikage was originally Ise no kami, he named his daughter Ise.
She was an author of tales.
She also served closely under Emperor Kanpyō and bore Prince Atsaakira. Therefore, when the Genji Monogatari and Yamato Monogatari refer to "a consort like Ise," this is what they mean.

Uchimaro—Manatsu《Ancestor of the Hino family》
Hamao—Iemune《Miki Sadaiben》
《Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Assistant Minister of Popular Affairs》
Sekio
《Assistant Minister of Civil Administration, called Tōzan Shinji, author in the Kokinshū》
Tsugikage

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: When the old capital of Nara was moved to the present imperial court, upon seeing the double cherry blossoms, this is a celebratory poem saying that since the capital has moved to the present nine-fold palace, the cherry blossoms should bloom fragrantly in the nine-fold palace today.
The ancient capital of Nara lasted for seven reigns, from the 43rd sovereign, Empress Genmei, to the 49th sovereign, Emperor Kōnin.
However, in the third year of Enryaku under Emperor Kanmu, in the eleventh month, it was moved to Otokuni District in Yamashiro Province and called Nagaoka-kyō.
In the tenth month of the same thirteenth year, it was moved to the present Heian-kyō.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ise no Taifu
The double
　　cherry
　　　blossoms
of ancient
Nara capital
today
　in the nine-fold
　　　　palace
bloom
　fragrantly