【Right Page】
Shigure-oka (Time-rain Hill) - Located three to four chō northeast from the same area called Kōshin-zuka, along a small river. At the base of an old pine tree stands a thatched hall dedicated to Fudō-son. The local people call this pine "Ogyō-no-matsu" (Practice Pine). I shall omit the origin of this name for now. {Also called Shigure-no-matsu (Time-rain Pine)}

{From Kaikoku Zakki} At a place called Shinobu-no-oka where there was a pine grove,
Taking rest in its shade:
"After the frost appeared, the time-rain - even the pines of Shinobu Hill are of no avail" - Dōkō Jun'gō

{Upon reflection, Shinobu-no-oka is the old name of Tōeizan (Kan'eiji Temple in Ueno). Since this area also extends from Tōeizan, perhaps people of later generations who understood elegance named it after taking the meaning of the poem that appears in Kaikoku Zakki}

Tōyōzan Shōtōji Temple - Located in Ryūsenji-machi, this is a Zen temple of the Myōshinji sect, founded by priest Gudō in the 3rd year of Jōō. {The priest received the posthumous title of Daien Hōkan Kokushi. Naturally intelligent, he greatly inspired his peers in the Zen community. Details are found in the recorded sayings of Hōkan Kokushi} The rear garden of this temple has many maple trees. {It is said that saplings from the maple trees of Mount Takao in Yamashiro were planted here} In late autumn, poets and refined visitors gather here to appreciate their crimson beauty.

Shinkakuzan Saikōji Temple - Located in Minowa-shinmachi, this is a Jōdo sect temple founded in the first year of Chōwa. The principal Buddha, Amida Nyorai, was carved by priest Eshin Sōzu, and the founding priest was Shōrensha Ken'yo Shōnin.

【Left Page】
Senzoku-gō - The area around Ryūsenji-machi, now referring to only a small territory. Also written as Sasazutsumi. Kikuoka Senryō's theory that calls this area Sasazumi-no-sato is erroneous. In this area stands a small shrine called Senzoku Inari.

{Someone says that in ancient times, it was divided into upper and lower sections, and the entire area from around Asakusa Tennō-machi to Senju Bridge was collectively called Senzoku-gō. Upon reflection, the inscription on the bell at Sensōji Temple from the 4th year of Shitoku reads "Kinryūzan Sensōji Temple in Senzoku-gō, Toshima District, Musashi Province." Also, in the same precincts there is what is called Nishinomiya Inari, which village elders traditionally call Kami-Senzoku Inari. In ancient documents of the Odawara Hōjō family, it can be seen that within Senzoku: Asakaya-bun, Mito-bun, Ishihama and other lands were held by Ōta Shinrokurō; similarly, Ishihama Sōryō-bun lands by Ōta Daizen-no-suke; similarly, Kanasugi-bun lands by Iikura Tanshō-no-chū; similarly, Kondō-bun lands by Shimazu Yashichirō; similarly, Asakura-bun lands by Edo carpenters and others. From this we can understand the vastness of that territory}

Former Site of Kido Mikawa-no-kami Minamoto no Takanori's Younger Brother's Residence - According to tradition, the area now called Mikawashima got its name because it was the former site where Mikawa-no-kami resided. {Some say this area got its name because it was the territory of a person called Hosoya Mikawa-no-kami}

Takanori's personal poetry collection states: I lived at a place where an inlet extended into Toshima District in Musashi Province.
In front, reeds and such grew thickly, and deer constantly lived there. Being a place far from mountains, it sounded unusual, so people from the capital came down and lived in the nearby area. When I sent word asking them to wake up and listen in the deep of night, though I raised my pillow night after night, I could not hear them. Wondering if they were mistaking distant human voices for something else, I complained, and a poem from the capital people:

"The fisher children calling their boats at dawn - shall I hear their cry 'kai yo!' as deer?"
Response: