【Right Page】
"Near the eaves, thickly standing in rows like lodgings, the wait of that night proved worthwhile," as I hear.

Baika Mujinzō says: Lord Kido is called Hichō-ō and maintains the orthodox tradition of waka poetry. I was in Kyoto and had long heard of his reputation. Now we both reside in the beautiful realm of Takeno, in the upper reaches of the Sumida River, visiting each other without missing a single month. Is this not heaven's greatest blessing? Yesterday I received three poems - truly well-timed like a stone cast in darkness. I humbly compose verses to match the rhyme scheme of the incomplete poems.

Twenty-sixth day (referring to the twenty-sixth day of the tenth month of Bunmei 17, year of the Metal Ox)
"Are not snow and moon companions of old age? One recitation humbly responds to the rhymes of several poems.
The spring colors of Sumida are like waves of flowers; if birds knew, they would inquire delicately about the capital."

(According to records, Takanori's family collection mentions that in Toshima district of Musashi Province, there was a place by an inlet where good reeds used to grow abundantly. Also, in the preface to Baika Mujinzō's poetry, Lord Kido is called Hichō-ō, and it states they both resided in the beautiful realm of Takeno, in the upper reaches of the Sumida River. Considering these together, the topography of Mikawashima resembles that ancient site.)

Kido Takanori was ranked as Junior Fifth Rank Lower and called Former Governor of Mikawa. He also took the name Hichō-ō. He was a member of the Imagawa Ryōshun clan and contemporary with Ōta Dōkan, Tō no Tsuneyori, Shōtetsu, Sōgi, Shinkyō, Banri, and others. The Kamakura Ōzōshi states that Takanori was a disciple of Reizei Chūnagon Mochitame-kyō and an unparalleled poet. The same work records that in Chōroku 1, regarding the Kantō rebellion, when Samanosuke Masatomo, younger brother of the Kyoto Shogun family, received imperial orders as Kantō Shogun and proceeded eastward, Takanori's name appears among those in attendance. (In the family collection, great-grandfather Sadanori in Kenmu 2...)

【Left Page】
(became a chamberlain and then Sakon-no-shōken, pacifying the Ezo of Mutsu Province, and was granted the privilege of ascending to the palace as a reward. Also, in Kamakura Ōzōshi, under the entry for Eitoku 2 when Ujimitsu set out to subdue Oyama Yoshimasa, the name Kido-shōken Norisue is listed among the vanguard generals. The same work notes that in Ōei 23, among those who died in battle at Kokushō-ji in Izu Province under Norimoto's banner was one named Kido-shōken Mitsunori. All were likely members of that clan, but I have not yet examined the genealogy.)

Banri Koji's Residence (As previously recorded, Banri Koji resided with Kido Takanori in the upper reaches of the Sumida River, so Banri Koji's dwelling was probably also in the Mikawashima area. However, the exact location is now uncertain.)

Banri Koji's personal name was Zuikyū. He first entered Mannen-ji temple in the capital and received teachings under Monk Taikei. Possessing Zen insight and literary talent, his reputation spread in all directions. He took refuge from the Ōnin War in the region between Kōsa and Nōbi. Later abandoning monastic life, he called himself Shittō Koji and was also known as Baika Mujinzō. At the end of the Bunmei era, he traveled to the eastern provinces. Ōta Dōkan's patronage was extremely generous. After Dōkan's death, he returned to Mino Province to spend his old age. He once authored "Tenka Haku" in twenty-five volumes. There exists a collection of poetry and prose from his eastern travels during the Bunmei period, titled "Baika Mujinzō."

Atsuta Myōjin Shrine: Located in Shin-Torikoe. The deity enshrined is Prince Yamato Takeru, one seat. This shrine was originally located in Torikoe in ancient times but was moved to its present location during the Shōhō period. The regular festival is held every other year on June 15th.

Shunme Mound: Located on the south side of the same area, within someone's villa. According to tradition, during the Kōhei period, when Minamoto no Yoshiie went on his eastern campaign...

[Note: Bunmei 17 should be "kinoto-mi" (Wood Snake), not "Metal Ox"]