【Right Page】
Shunme-no-tsuka (Mound of the Swift Horse)

Shunme-no-tsuka

【Left Page】
At that time, his beloved swift horse named Aoumihara (Blue Ocean Plain) happened to fall ill and died here. The lord grieved greatly over this and buried the decayed bones beside the highway. Afterwards, the local villagers built and maintained a small shrine there, it is said. Also recently, the landowner, wishing to reveal the lord's virtuous conduct to future generations, erected a stone monument beside the mound, and the shrine was moved to the east side of that mound.

Asuka Myōjin Shrine is located in Kozukahara. It serves as the tutelary deity of this area. People commonly confuse it and call it the Minowa Tennō. The shrine's administrator is affiliated with Shōgoin Palace, called Keisekisan Shin'ōji Temple.

The enshrined deities are Ōanamuchi-no-mikoto (According to the Nihon Shoki, Kogoshūi, and other sources, Ōanamuchi-no-mikoto is said to be the child of Susanoo-no-mikoto) and Kotoshironushi-no-mikoto (According to the Kojiki, Kotoshironushi-no-mikoto is said to be the child of Ōkuninushi-no-mikoto) - two deities in total.

According to shrine tradition, long ago during the Enryaku period, when the monk Kokuchin-shi of Mount Hiei came to this area to spread Buddhist teachings in the eastern provinces, he found a small mound covered with small bamboo grass (this area was named Kozukahara after this mound). From that mound, auspicious light appeared nightly, and two elderly men dressed in white robes descended upon stones covered with thorny bushes, revealing to Kokuchin-shi: "I am the peaceful spirit of Susanoo-no-mikoto, Ōanamuchi-no-mikoto" (this is why the shrine is called Gozu Tennō). Another elderly man said, "I am Kotoshironushi-no-mikoto" (this is called Asuka Myōjin), and so forth. Therefore, in reverent worship, he selected a pure site and enshrined these deities in one shrine (Gozu Tennō is carried annually from the third to the ninth day of the sixth month to the southern approach of Senju Ōhashi Bridge...