【Right Page】
　Even when winter rain falls, Matsuchiyama never turns to autumn colors, and the cold wind blows with falling leaves as its season　　Same (Toda Yukimitsu Nyūdō)
　　《Small text: Toda Yukimitsu Nyūdō Mosui erected a stone monument beside Shōten Shrine. On the face of that monument:》
　How touching it is—those who pass by in the evening, look! At the words of poetry I leave on Matsuchi Mountain　　　Mosui
　　《Small text: Upon examination, books such as Seiga-shō and Yakumo Mishō classify the poem about Matsuchiyama by the monk Benki found in the Man'yōshū as being from Suruga Province. Saibarachi Hishō and Sōgi's Meisho Hōgaku-shō place it at the border of Yamato and Kii provinces, while Moshio-gusa includes it in Musashi Province. According to one book, Yamato has Matsuchiyama and Sumidagawa but no Ihosaki. Suruga has Sumidagawa and Ihosaki but no Matsuchiyama. Only this Musashi has Matsuchiyama, Sumidagawa, and Ihosaki all together, making it complete. However, the existence of Matsuchiyama and Ihosaki in this area is said to be the work of later people who named them after the Man'yōshū. Furthermore, in Seizan-kō's Shaku Man'yōshū, it is argued that this book does not follow the style of imperial anthologies. If so, then Benki's waka may have been mixed in and attributed to Suruga Province. This will be explained in more detail in the section on Sumida River. Kikuoka Senryō says that long ago, when the area around Honjō was ocean, this mountain served as a landmark for ships entering port from offshore. Indeed, even now this area is called Yama-no-shuku, and the area of Shin-Torigoe is called Sanya—all names related to mountains. The transformation of hills and valleys has already been discussed by ancient scholars, and they said that the topography of mountains and rivers changes over a thousand years. According to one theory, when the present Nihon-zutsumi was built, earth was dug from around this Matsuchiyama area to construct it, so this hill was probably higher in ancient times.》

Shōten-gū Shrine　Located on Matsuchiyama. The head priest belongs to the Tendai sect, Kinryūzan Honryū-in. According to tradition, it was established during the Daidō era (806-810) and is said to be the foremost sacred site of Shōten shrines in Edo. 《Small text: Books such as Wakan Sansai Zue and Edo Kanoko state that it is a sacred image deeply revered by Head Priest Saitō Sanemori》

　Benzaiten Shrine　《Small text: Located on an island in the middle of a pond at the foot of the mountain. Said to be a sacred image revered by Taira no Masako》

　This place is now only a small hill in form, but when one gazes eastward, the flow of the Sumida River flows serenely along the long embankment. Nearby are the villages of Katsushika, and in the distance the green peaks of Kōnodai, all

【Left Page】
　visible at a glance, and the scenery has the most profound beauty.

Nihon-zutsumi (Japan Embankment)　A long embankment of about thirteen chō extending from Shōten-chō to Minowa. 《Small text: Commonly called Hacchō Nawate》Built in Genna 6 (1620), the year of Kōshin, by shogunal command as protection against Arakawa River floods. 《Small text: According to local legend, it is so called because the great daimyō of Japan built it under shogunal command. Also, in a chapbook called 'Dōbō Goen' published in Genbun 3 (1738) by Shōji Shukuyu-sai, it states: "It was completed in sixty-odd days, so it was named Nihon-zutsumi." One person says there is another flood-control embankment from behind Kozukahara to the area of Hashiba Sōsen-ji. Combined with this embankment, there are two. In the manner of saying "one" and "two," it was called Nihon-zutsumi (Two-Embankment)》

New Yoshiwara Pleasure Quarter　Located below Nihon-zutsumi. Commonly called Gochō-machi. 《Small text: So named because its streets extend for five chō》During the Keichō era, as Edo became increasingly prosperous, over twenty people involved in the pleasure business heard of this and moved from the Moto-Yoshiwara post station in Suruga Province to Edo. At that time there was no established pleasure quarter, and pleasure houses were scattered here and there, so these people petitioned the government and built up the marshy land east of Kyōbashi Gusoku-machi, established an entrance on one side, called the south side Kaku-machi 《Small text: This is present-day Kyōbashi Sumi-chō》and the north side Yanagi-machi,《Small text: This is present-day Kyōbashi Yanagi-chō》and also called the central street Naka-no-chō, developing a pleasure quarter in this area. 《Small text: Even now, the north-south street between Kyōbashi Gusoku-machi and Yanagi-chō is called Naka-dōri, which is evidence that the old name Naka-no-chō has not been lost. The above is recorded in 'Jiseki Gōkō'》Later, a man named Shōji Jinzaemon 《Small text: A native of Odawara in Sagami Province, originally called Jinnai. According to another theory, he was also called Kanzaemon》obtained official permission and in Genna 3 (1617) first established the pleasure quarter, at the end of Fukiya-chō for two chō...