Nichion-in, behind this area there were Iroha tenements, all of which suffered major damage. ▲The Kannon Main Hall, mountain gate, bell tower, Zuishin gate, Raijin gate, and Sansha Nenbutsu hall in this area were unharmed. The kurin (finial) of the five-story pagoda bent slightly. In the area near Higashi Bridge and the river, although it remained unburned north to Sanya moat, there were many collapsed houses. Within this area, Matsuchiyama was safe. ▲North of Sanya Bridge in the same area, about half a block near Imado Bridge burned. Around the mint in the same area, there were very many burned and collapsed houses. ▲The eta-machi (outcaste district) in the same area remained. ▲From Sōsenji temple next to Henshōji temple to Masaki Inari shrine in the same area, there were many severely damaged houses, though the restaurants called Kawaguchi and Yanagiya were unharmed. In Sanya-chō and Asakusa-chō in the same area, and continuing to Nakamura-chō, Kozukahara-chō, and up to the great bridge at Senju post station, there were many severely damaged houses. Also in Senju there were some burned areas. This portion should be added as a supplement.

"Asakusa Area" In the Asakusa Honganji section, the main hall was unaffected. Among the sub-temples: Kyōkakuji, Senshōji, Gyokusenji, Shōganji, Enshōji, Hōyūji, Ungyōji, Raiōji, Kōenji - all others suffered major damage. In Seiganji temple gate-front district in the same area, there were many collapsed houses. Around Nichirinjimon-mae and elsewhere in this vicinity, there were many collapsed houses in total ruin, making it difficult to distinguish between districts. Half a block of Gyōanji temple gate-front district across from Kikuya Bridge burned. On the west side of the same area, more than one block burned up to Shinbori Bridge. Near Aikawa-chō in the same area, there were many collapsed houses. ▲On the left side of Komagata-chō, from the corner in front of the restaurant called Hatsu-fuji, both sides burned completely. In this area, not a single storehouse remained anywhere. Both sides of Suwa-chō burned. Kurofune-chō was the same. The plasterer's storehouse in the same area remained, and half of the rice wholesale store on the corner remained. The riverside part of Miyoshi-chō remained. The South Imperial Stables in the same area stopped at the embankment. Kuramae-dōri was unaffected.

"Shitaya Area" It burned from Shitaya Shichiken-chō, and the Bingo and Izumo residences to the south of the same area suffered major damage. Up to Daishōji, Kōshōji, and Shingyōji in the same area, and the upper residence of Lord Izumo across from them also burned. However, across from Shichiken-chō, from the lower residence of Reiunji southward: town houses, Kyūshōji, Chūkōji, Komiya, Kawamata, Asahina, and next to them Myōkenji, Seikei ジ, Tōenji burned. Half of Kitsureがwa burned. In Kaya-chō 2nd district to the south of the same area, and across from it Shōgyōji and Muan-ji, and Kyōshōji to the east also burned - the fire stopped at this point. This was from the middle of Kaya-chō 1st district to the 2nd district area. From Shitaya Sakamoto 1st district to 3rd district, everything burned. In the northern part of the same area, Kanasugi, Minowa, and around Negishi Oyukimatsu collapsed