Mannen-chō and Isshiki-chō suffered major collapse and triangular damage, with many warehouses, storehouses, townhouses, and various temples in this area collapsing. ▲On the left side of Eitai-bashi: Saka-chō, Mannen-bashi, Reiun-in, Kaibe Daiku-chō, Isezaki-chō, and Kiba - this area had many collapsed houses. Taira-chō east and west and Lord Tachibana suffered major damage. West of there, Okugawa-chō, Ensoku-ji, and Mantoku-in suffered major damage. ▲To the south along Onagi-gawa canal near Sarue, all four directions in this area suffered major damage beyond description. ▲Crossing Ō-bashi and turning right: Fukagawa Moto-machi, Lord Matsudaira Tōtōmi-no-kami's lower residence, to Saruko-bashi all completely collapsed. From the same Ō-bashi to the left, Kinoshita Tosho collapsed, but Atake imperial boat storehouse was safe. At the same location, Hitotsu-me Benten suffered major damage. The same location's Hachiman pilgrimage lodge, Saikō-ji, and Hatsune Inari - much of this area collapsed. Fire broke out from the imperial boat storehouse front street at the same location. At the same location, the Great Buddha Hall office, Tomioka Hachiman shrine, and Akiba lodging temple - many small residences south of here burned after being damaged. East of the same location, fire broke out half a block north of Rokken-bori Aikawa-ya, with flying sparks reaching south Morishita. This area suffered major collapse with burned areas. ▲Yamyō-gawa-chō, Kita Rokken-bori-chō, and rice storehouses along the same street burned slightly. At the same location's Shinmei gate-front street, the main shrine remained but this entire area burned. Lord Inoue Kawachi-no-kami burned. Starting from Tokiwa-chō, Lord Ogasawara burned, Lord Ōta's front longhouse burned slightly, stopping near Takabashi. In these four directions among what remained unburned, there were extremely many collapsed houses among the towns and residences. Miroku-ji main gate collapsed, and at the same location Yōritsu-ji and Keichō-ji both suffered major damage. East of Iyo-bashi street, Tokuemon-chō second and third districts burned, with all nearby areas suffering major collapse.

"Hon-jo Area" To the right of Ryōgoku-bashi, the stone wall of Ichi-no-hashi collapsed, and at Moto-chō Ekō-in the bell tower collapsed. At the same location, Honda Kura-no-suke suffered major damage. From Aioi-chō first to fifth district there was major collapse. The same Midori-chō first and second districts burned, stopping at the third district corner. The same fourth and fifth districts and Hana-chō burned to Shuki-bashi vicinity. Lord Tsugaru suffered major damage. North of there: Yanagihara-chō fifth district, Kayaba-chō fourth district, Kameido Tenjin pilgrimage lodging, Hon-jo Kawara-chō, Matsudai-chō fourth district, to Nakano-gō Itsutsu-bashi-chō all completely collapsed with no storehouses remaining. ▲Near Hon-jo Itsutsu-me ferry crossing, about ten houses burned then were extinguished. ▲Kameido Tenjin, Fumon-in, Kōmyō-ji, Hagi-dera, Kōzō-ji, Chōju-ji, Abe Chōtoku-ji, Kameido-chō, Yanagishima-chō, Hōshō-ji, Myōken shrine, Jōshō-ji, Oshiage village, Saikyō-ji, Daiun-ji, Tokusei-ji, Eisen-ji, Zenshō-ji, Shunkei-ji, Hōon-ji bridge street Reizan-ji, Honpō-ji, Daihō-ji, Shinsei-ji, Minami Hon-jo Demura-chō, Kita Wari-gesui, Minami Wari-gesui - many small residences in this area collapsed and storehouses collapsed in several places. ▲Along Ōkawa street: Lord Tōdō Izumi-no-kami's middle residence and at the same location Lord Tsugaru's storehouse residence suffered major damage, but Lord Matsumae Izu-no-kami and the imperial bamboo storehouse were safe. Along Komadomari-ishi street: Lord Matsuura Iki-no-kami, at the same location the great lords' lower residence Lord Mogami, Ishihara-chō Gan'un-ji, the ship inspection office, to the horse stable riverside street all suffered major damage with no storehouses remaining. ▲Half of Hon-jo Ishihara-chō burned. At the same location: Lord Mukai Shōgen, Lord Tokuyama, Ushi Gozen pilgrimage lodge, Ishihara-chō