【Right Page】

This may be what is seen. It is difficult to make this the fundamental aspect of the pure land.
　　　　　There is also doctrine regarding this matter. As in the separate commentary.

Someone says: Since this chapter already has completion, this means women will not receive [female bodies] again later. The text stating "women who practice as taught immediately go to the Land of Bliss" means they transform their female bodies when reaching the next life.

The sūtra states: "If after the Tathāgata's extinction, in the latter five hundred years, if there are women who hear this sūtra and practice as taught, at the end of this life they immediately go to the Land of Bliss, to dwelling places surrounded by Amitābha Buddha and great bodhisattva assemblies, being born on jeweled seats in lotus flowers," etc.

Question: How many years does the True Dharma last after Śākyamuni's extinction? There are two aspects.

Question: The sūtra text states "illness immediately disappears, neither aging nor dying." What does this reveal? Answer: This should be understood through the many explanations in the Compendium Commentary.

The Compendium Commentary states: "Question: The sūtra says 'illness immediately disappears, neither aging nor dying,' but conditioned existence all has illness, aging, and death. Why do ordinary beings who hear this sūtra separate from illness, aging, and death? Answer: There are many ancient explanations. One says: By having heard the sūtra, one necessarily reaches old age before dying, with no premature death, so it says 'neither aging nor dying.' Another says: The 108 afflictions are called illness. After obtaining hearing of that sūtra, one can cut off afflictions, so it says 'illness disappears.' Not arising the sixty-two views is called 'not aging.' Not losing the life of wisdom is called 'not dying.'" By hearing this sūtra, one knows that old age, illness, and death are originally tranquil, so it says "neither aging, becoming ill, nor dying." Another says: By upholding the sūtra one obtains good complexion so does not age. Obtaining longevity so says "not aging." Not becoming ill can be understood.

Question: Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna in the jeweled stūpa praises Bodhisattva King of Constellation Flowers, etc. What does this explain? Answer: As the text indicates. Regarding this, from the beginning of the two Buddhas sitting together, the entire assembly has been gazing up in reverence. Why not simply say "Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna praises King of Constellation Flowers" but bother to say "in the jeweled stūpa"? This seems to resemble other schools' doctrinal positions. How so?

Resolving: Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna originally dwells in the stūpa and raises his voice to praise the bodhisattva. It does not say "praises in the jeweled stūpa saying 'Excellent!'" Initially "Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna" correctly raises the subject who praises. Why determine textual conformity or non-conformity based on the stūpa's opening and closing? The doubt may be Master Fan's proof-intention of "not saying Buddha praises." Master of Zizhou states its impossibility, saying: "Though opening the jeweled stūpa, the Buddha is not within. Now it says Prabhūtaratna is in the jeweled stūpa, praising and saying 'Excellent!' It does not say 'the stūpa praises.'" If in the chapters from Medicine King onward, because the stūpa closes its doors, the Buddha's name is not directly mentioned, then how would one understand the text where Prabhūtaratna Buddha addresses Wonderful Sound in the Wonderful Sound chapter? Here we know other masters' proofs do not accord with the sūtra's manifest text.

The Doctrinal Decisions states: "The proof that it does not say 'Buddha praises' is inadmissible. The Medicine King Bodhisattva's Past Deeds chapter says: 'Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna, being in the seven-jeweled stūpa, praises saying: Excellent! Excellent!' Though opening the jeweled stūpa,

【Left Page】

the Buddha is not within. Now it says Prabhūtaratna is in the jeweled stūpa, praising and saying 'Excellent!' It does not say 'the stūpa praises.' One should not say the proof that it does not say Buddha praises is inadmissible."

The Doctrinal Commentary states: "From 'Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna' onward is the fourth section on Prabhūtaratna's praise. Though previously closing the stūpa, he still praises. Thus the meaning of non-extinction is manifest."

The Saddharma-puṇḍarīka states: "At that time Tathāgata Precious Jewels praised saying: Excellent! Excellent!" etc.

　　Kasuga Shrine newly constructed building, Revelation Commentary, 24th of 28 fascicles
　　Paper supervised by Great Monk Supervisor Enzenbō Gon (Jōshin'in Temple Affairs)
　　Through the minor virtue of writing merit, may I be born in Ultimate Bliss, see Buddha, hear Dharma, realize bodhi, benefit limitless sentient beings, and in facing proper mindfulness have demonic obstacles distant. Written at Matsuya.
　　Eiroku 3 (kanoe-saru) year, 12th month, 3rd day　　　Scribe (Harunobu) Kiyotane
　　Kansei 7 (kinoto-u) year, mid-spring, late third, completed one transcription
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Scribe Tamate Kunieda
　　Eitoku 3 (mizunoto-i) year, 3rd month, 5th day. Stored. Not to be taken out to other places except from our temple Fukujōin.

Lotus Sūtra Revelation Commentary, 25th of 28 fascicles

　　　Wonderful Sound Chapter
　Does this chapter demonstrate the power of ascetic practices in the conduct of teaching and converting sentient beings?
　Is the white-tuft mark called the mark of a great person? (two aspects)
　What stage benefits do the sixteen types of samādhi provide?
　Do not disparage that land (two aspects)
　My body is 6,800,000 yojanas
　The question of whether Buddha comes or not, proof is inadmissible
　Please, World-Honored One, show me and let me see
　Does the great being Wonderful Sound see Prabhūtaratna?
　How many types of bodies does Wonderful Sound manifest?
　Should Wonderful Sound manifest ordinary and sage bodies to preach this sūtra?
　Countless bodhisattvas of this sahā world also attain samādhi
　Does the great being Wonderful Sound come to this realm and bow to the various emanation Buddhas?
　　　　　　Above, twelve fascicles