【Right Page】
We went with an interpreter, and as mentioned before, one person who appeared to be a high-ranking official and about ten people who appeared to be lower-ranking officials stood lined up on both sides. At that place, we each received one package of white sugar (about one kin in weight), one package of confections (such as rakugan), and six hundred mon of Chinese coins, and returned.

First, after the farewell procedures were completed as described above, immediately on the sixteenth day around the fourth hour, five people in total - Kansuke, Jūkichi, Kihei, Yozaburō, and Chōjirō - boarded one Chinese ship (this ship was twenty-four to twenty-five ken long and about seven ken wide, and was a regular trading vessel to Japan). They departed the next day, the seventeenth. The remaining four of us - Jirōkichi, Yasaburō, and Hatsutarō - stayed until the twenty-second, and on the following twenty-third day boarded a Chinese ship in the same manner as before, departing the same day. After ten days at sea, we arrived at Nagasaki on the third day of the twelfth month. We had arrived at Zhapu in China in early September of the previous Year of the Rabbit and departed from the same place on the twenty-third day of the twelfth month, so we had stayed in Zhapu for approximately seventy-five days.

【Left Page】
First, when we arrived at Nagasaki, more than ten people including those who appeared to be magistrate inspectors, deputy officials, police officers, and minor officials came by boat and boarded the Chinese ship we were on. After they completed a thorough inspection of the belongings I brought back, namely my personal effects, we disembarked and were escorted to the magistrate's office. When we appeared in the area below the white sand court, magistrate inspectors, deputy officials, and officials who appeared to be from the petition office sat in rows. Each of us was made to step on what appeared to be a brass religious image kept in a box about one shaku square, and we were made to stand on it for a while. After the officials said "good," each of us removed our clothing, and our hair and bodies [were examined]