【Right page, upper section】
delusion. Contemplating the impermanence of mind treats the delusion of permanence. Contemplating the selflessness of dharmas treats the delusion of self. In dharma-nature empty space, one paints the picture of contemplating suffering, emptiness, impermanence, and selflessness, stopping the illusions of the four delusions.

The matter of faith patience severing the form realm 《Marginal note: [Investigation] "realm" is probably a copying error for "afflictions"》 and accordance patience severing mental afflictions

The Benevolent Kings Sutra states: "Faith patience bodhisattvas sever the bondage of form-afflictions of the three realms. Accordance patience bodhisattvas can sever the bondage of mental and other afflictions of the three realms." 《Marginal note: Above》 Śākyamuni's influence proclaims: Faith patience bodhisattvas can sever the form-afflictions of the three realms. Form-afflictions are view-delusions. View-delusions are called form-afflictions because their strength is like form. Accordance patience bodhisattvas can sever the mental afflictions of the three realms. Mental afflictions are thought-delusions. Thought-delusions are called mental afflictions because they are soft like mind. The first, second, and third grounds of the ten grounds sever view-delusions on the path of seeing. The fourth, fifth, and sixth grounds sever thought-delusions on the path of cultivation. Therefore it explains that faith patience bodhisattvas of the first and second grounds can sever the form-afflictions of the three realms, and accordance patience bodhisattvas of the fourth, fifth, and sixth grounds can sever the mental afflictions of the three realms. This is the Mahayana path of seeing and the Mahayana path of cultivation. It is not the Hinayana path of seeing and path of cultivation. Moreover, the view-delusions and thought-delusions that are the same essence as ignorance in the reward land are not the view-delusions and thought-delusions of the three realms severed by the two vehicles and ordinary beings. Zhiyi respectfully said: "If so, why speak of form-afflictions and mental afflictions of the three realms?" Śākyamuni proclaimed: "Because they resemble the form-afflictions and mental afflictions of the three realms, they are metaphorically named form and mental afflictions of the three realms. This is when flowers of dharma-nature empty space open in false imagination, relying on cultivating 《Marginal note: [Investigation] "relying" is probably "cultivating"》 emptiness contemplation to receive dispersion." 《Marginal note: Above》

The matter of the twenty-two faculties in the Teaching and Transformation Chapter

The Teaching and Transformation Chapter states: "The karmic retribution of all sentient beings' twenty-two faculties does not leave the three realms. Even the illusions

【Right page, lower section】
and transformations of the six paths. Sentient beings see illusions and transformations. Illusions and transformations see illusions and transformations." 《Marginal note: Above》 Śākyamuni's influence commands: "I formerly explained the Benevolent Kings Sutra. The twenty-two faculties that are the karmic retribution of all sentient beings. The illusions and transformations of the twenty-two faculties are: the twenty-two faculties are the six faculties of eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, mind, plus the female faculty, male faculty, life faculty, the five feeling faculties of suffering 《Marginal note: [Investigation] Below "suffering" probably missing the character "pleasure"》, sorrow, joy, equanimity, the five faculties of faith, energy, mindfulness, concentration, wisdom, and the three undefiled faculties. The three undefiled faculties are: first, the faculty of coming-to-know-the-unknown on the path of seeing; second, the faculty of having-known on the path of cultivation; third, the faculty of having-complete-knowledge on the path of no-more-learning. Regarding the six faculties of eye, ear, nose 【(probably missing "tongue")】, body, mind: sentient beings paint the illusions of the six dusts of form, sound, fragrance, taste, touch, dharmas in empty space with empty space eye up to empty space mind, arising various false imaginations and painting pictures of samsaric birth and death in empty space. Also regarding female and male 《Marginal note: [Investigation] Below "male" probably missing the two characters "faculty person"》 faculties: sentient beings with empty space male faculty and empty space female faculty, through mutual contact, arise false imaginations of desire-mind and paint pictures of samsara. The life faculty is when sentient beings purify 《Marginal note: [Investigation] "purify" is probably "grasp"》 the empty space life faculty, cherishing empty space life and arising various false imaginations. The five feeling faculties of suffering, pleasure, sorrow, joy, equanimity are when sentient beings consider empty space as suffering and arise illusory false imaginations of sorrow, grief, suffering, and distress, and also think of pleasure in empty space and arise illusory false thoughts of greed, desire, love, and attachment. They paint pictures of samsaric birth and death in empty space with no respite from the brush of false imagination. The two vehicles: when the two vehicles enter the path of seeing they arise the faculty of coming-to-know-the-unknown; when they enter the path of no-more-learning they arise the faculty of complete knowledge. They paint pictures of expedient birth and death, but through the benefit of quickly awakening to dharma-nature great emptiness, they paint pictures of samsaric birth and death." 《Marginal note: Above》

The matter of ten-ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice manifesting as ten heavenly kings to save sentient beings

The Teaching and Transformation Chapter states: "The first ground creates the four heavens 《Marginal note: [Investigation] Below "heavens" probably missing the character "kings"》, transforming all sentient beings with the mind of two truths' equality. Second ground bodhisattvas become Trāyastriṃśa heaven kings, transforming all sentient beings through the ten wholesome paths. The third

【Left page, upper section】
ground bodhisattvas become Yāma heaven kings 《Marginal note: This is Yāma heaven》, transforming all sentient beings through the four dhyānas. Fourth ground bodhisattvas become Tuṣita heaven kings, practicing the factors of the path to transform all sentient beings. The fifth ground 《Marginal note: [Investigation] Below "ground" probably missing the two》《Marginal note: characters "bodhisattvas"》 become Nirmāṇarati heaven kings, transforming all sentient beings through two truths, four truths, eight truths. Sixth ground bodhisattvas become Paranirmitavaśavartin heaven kings, transforming all sentient beings through twelve-link dependent origination wisdom. Seventh ground bodhisattvas become first dhyāna kings, transforming all sentient beings through skillful means wisdom and vow wisdom. Eighth ground bodhisattvas become second dhyāna Brahmā kings, transforming all sentient beings through dual-illumination skillful means and supernatural wisdom. Ninth ground bodhisattvas become third dhyāna 《Marginal note: [Investigation] Below "dhyāna" probably missing the character "great"》 Brahmā kings, transforming all sentient beings through four unobstructed wisdoms. Tenth ground bodhisattvas become fourth dhyāna Great Tranquility heaven kings, attaining the samādhi of principle's exhaustion to teach and transform all sentient beings." 《Marginal note: Above》 Thus the ten-ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become ten heavenly kings to benefit sentient beings and protect countries and lands. The Benevolent Kings Prajñā Sutra is explained as the Nation-Protecting Prajñāpāramitā Sutra. Generally, when ten-ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become ten heavenly kings, first they become Vaiśravaṇa heaven king, Dhṛtarāṣṭra heaven king, Virūpākṣa heaven king, and Virūḍhaka heaven king of Mount Sumeru's waist. The heavenly spirits protecting the Benevolent Kings Sutra explain the two truths of conventional and ultimate. The ultimate truth side enters the wisdom-ocean of Vairocana Tathāgata above wondrous enlightenment. The conventional truth 《Marginal note: [Investigation] Below "truth" probably missing the character "of"》 side protects day and night the sentient beings connected to the Benevolent Kings Sutra. The original vows of the four heavenly kings are truly extensive! Next, the second ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become Śakra, lord of gods of the Palace of Joy-Seeing in the thirty-three heavens at the summit of Mount Sumeru, the third heaven of the desire realm. They explain the ten wholesome actions and prohibit the ten unwholesome actions, guiding nearby unwholesome sentient beings to the six heaven palaces, and sending distant unwholesome sentient beings to proceed to the future path of Benevolent Kings prajñā

【Left page, lower section】
to the wisdom-ocean of Vairocana Tathāgata above wondrous enlightenment Buddha. Next, third ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become Suyāma heaven's Good Time heaven kings of the third heaven of the desire realm, avoiding asura armies and gaining peace and happiness. Like the fourth dhyāna of the form realm avoiding the three great disasters of fire, water, and wind calamities of the lower three dhyānas during the eon of destruction. They explain and save sentient beings who encounter disasters and calamities, sending them to the palace of constant bliss pāramitā of the ultimate truth of Benevolent Kings prajñā. Next, fourth ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become Tuṣita heaven kings of the fourth heaven of the desire realm. In the forty-nine courts' inner and outer courts, they progressively fill the various heavenly sage assemblies of the seven-by-seven courts of Wonderful Dharma Lotus courts, explaining the four foundations of mindfulness, four right efforts, four bases of supernatural power, five faculties 《Marginal note: [Investigation] "eyes" is probably "faculties"》, five powers, seven factors of enlightenment, eight-fold noble path—the seven categories of cultivation path factors, and send them to the bodhi-nirvana palace above the wondrous enlightenment of the Benevolent Kings Sutra. Next, fifth ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become Nirmāṇarati heaven kings of the fifth heaven of the desire realm. They explain the dharma gates of two truths, four truths, eight truths. Through the two truths of ultimate and conventional, they guide the delusions of conventional truth to enter the awakening of ultimate truth. Through the four truths of suffering, origination, cessation, path, they guide the delusions of suffering and origination to enter the awakening of cessation and path. Through the upper and lower eight truths, they guide the delusions of upper and lower realms to enter the wisdom-ocean palace of Vairocana Tathāgata above the wondrous enlightenment Buddha of Benevolent Kings prajñā. Next, sixth ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings prajñā practice become demon kings of the sixth heaven of the desire realm. Externally they manifest becoming evil demons, enemies of all buddhas of the three times, while internally they explain the twelve links of dependent origination, having compassion for the suffering and troubles of all sentient beings' transmigration through the three times, and send them to the wisdom-ocean-store palace of Vairocana of the ultimate emptiness of twelve-link dependent origination in Benevolent Kings prajñā. Next, seventh ground bodhisattvas of Benevolent Kings Sutra prajñā practice become conch 《Marginal note: [Investigation] "butterfly" is probably the character "conch"》-topknot Brahmā kings of the first dhyāna of the upper realm. Wearing the characteristic of blowing the dharma conch on their heads, they blow the skillful means pāramitā and vow pāra-