Hamana Natto　　Cook one to (18 liters) of beans like miso, add one to of wheat flour
　　　　　　　mix well and cover with straw mat for about 3 days to ferment
　　　　　　　then remove cover, let cool slightly, turn upside down
　　　　　　　and ferment again. When well fermented, add brine of 6 parts water to 3 parts salt
　　　　　　　stir occasionally. It will be ready in about 30 days
　　　　　　　Oral tradition: spread on wooden boards to the thickness of door frames to ferment
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　being too hot is bad

Masaki Hishio　　Soak one sho (1.8 liters) of barley in water overnight, boil until soft and drain in bamboo strainer
　　　　　　　steam. Wash 8 go (1.4 liters) of beans on straw mat, dry, then
　　　　　　　grind coarsely and remove hulls. Mix these two ingredients
　　　　　　　steam again until soft, spread evenly to thickness of 5 bu (1.5cm)
　　　　　　　sprinkle 2 go of wheat flour over it and let ferment until mold appears
　　　　　　　when moldy, break up roughly, mix with koji, add 2 go
　　　　　　　5 bu of salt and 1 sho of water to prepare. However, this koji and salt should
　　　　　　　be boiled and prepared 5 days beforehand. Then place in sunny spot
　　　　　　　and stir daily. Leave until it develops color

Shoyu Moromi　　Crack 1 sho of wheat, boil 1 sho of beans well and steam
　　　　　　　in a steamer, let ferment well. When it turns blue-green with good mold
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　sun-dry it
　　　　　　　add appropriate amount of brine

Cloudy Sake　　Wash 1 to of rice well and soak in 1 to of water, cook 1 sho of rice
　　　　　　　put cooked rice in two cloth bags and place in the soaking water
　　　　　　　after 2-3 days, taste the water - when it has developed flavor
　　　　　　　remove rice, combine bagged rice and cooked rice together
　　　　　　　steam in steamer, add 1 to of koji, prepare with the previously
　　　　　　　acidified water. Put in fermentation room and it will bubble up overnight
　　　　　　　then pour into cloth bags and squeeze out the lees
　　　　　　　　However, when preparing, if water is insufficient, add more water
　　　　　　　　if raw rice grains get in, it will immediately turn sour

Shirakawa Well Sake　Crack 3 sho of white rice, steam well and let cool, then with 5 sho of koji
　　　　　　　add 6 sho of water, knead well, strain through water bag and discard
　　　　　　　mix the steamed rice with this water and let sit. Good after 5 days

Plum Wine　　　Take well-ripened fresh plums without blemishes and place in bamboo strainer
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　from above
　　　　　　　sprinkle straw ash and pour hot water, when dried, wipe each one
　　　　　　　thoroughly with cloth, put plums in deep jar and add finest
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　aged sake
　　　　　　　enough to cover plums, put appropriate amount of white sugar in paper
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　bag
　　　　　　　and suspend above the sake level, seal the lid tightly
　　　　　　　the sugar will dissolve into water and drip down