should be there." He hurriedly boarded a ship and sailed south for several days, indeed discovering an island.
The natives wore their hair long and were as black as demons. All his followers were frightened. Tametomo
intimidated them with his bow. The islanders prostrated themselves on the ground. Tametomo led them around the island.
The islanders were afraid and competed to place cloth before Tametomo. They piled it up into
heaps. Tametomo asked the name of the island. They answered "Demon Island" (Onigashima). Tametomo said, "Then are you
descendants of demons? Are there any rare treasures on the island or not?" They answered, "In ancient times there were many treasures.
Now there is not even one." Tametomo said, "This island has many reeds. From now on I shall
name it Reed Island (Ashishima)." He then commanded the islanders to pay annual tribute to Ōshima,
took one person with him, and returned to Ōshima. The islanders submitted to him even more completely. Ō-
shima was under the jurisdiction of Izu no Daisuke Kano Shigemitsu. Since Tametomo had entered the island,

he did not permit the islanders to send tribute to Izu. Tadashige secretly sent tribute to Izu.
Tametomo became angry and punished him by cutting off six of his fingers from both hands. In spring of Kahō 2
(1170), Shigemitsu reported to the court saying: "The exile Minamoto no Tametomo has seized various islands on his own, finally
reaching Demon Island where he obtained demon children as slaves, and there is nowhere his
violence does not reach." Thereupon the court deliberated and commanded Shigemitsu, Itō Sukechika, Hōjō Tokimasa and others
to subjugate him. Shigemitsu and the others advanced against him with five hundred mounted troops and twenty
warships. In the fourth month they reached Ōshima. Tametomo's followers ran to report this. When Tametomo
heard this he said: "Even if enemy troops numbered a million, I would break them in one battle, and boarding a ship
to escape elsewhere would not be difficult. However, I once violated an imperial edict and was
exiled, and have lived here cherishing my life for over ten years. What is the reason for this?