That is precisely why I wished to continue the cherished aspiration of my house (the Minamoto) and secretly accomplish great deeds.
I have my own thoughts on this matter. To fight now and uselessly waste human lives is not what I prefer. Rather, it would be better to loose one arrow and commit suicide."
Thereupon he summoned all his followers, gave each of them gifts, earnestly instructed them, and had them disperse. His son Shimakanja Tameyori was nine years old this year, his second son was five, and his daughter was two. His wife fled and hid, taking the two young children with her. Tametomo went to the seashore.
The enemy troops came with their prows and sterns connected in formation. Tametomo shot a great arrow and struck one warship.
The ship immediately capsized and sank. The remaining forces were afraid and did not advance. Tametomo entered his residence, first stabbed Tameyori to death, then killed himself. Shigemitsu and the others landed and were about to enter the residence, but none of the soldiers dared to go first. Katō Kagenori, knowing that Tametomo had already committed suicide, advanced first and cut off his head, it is said.

One book states that Ashikaga Yoshikane was indeed Tametomo's son. Ashikaga Yoshiyasu secretly raised him from swaddling clothes and made him his son. Therefore, no one in the world knew he was Tametomo's child. Yoshikane was nine shaku and two sun tall, his physical strength exceeded that of others, and he greatly resembled Tametomo, it is said. Perhaps this is true.

Tametomo's deeds are naturally known to the world and do not necessarily require my superfluous words. Now, in compiling this History of Ryukyu Domain, I place Tametomo's biography at the beginning of the volume so that the people of that country may know of Tametomo's final fate. Some say he died on Ōshima, others say he escaped and entered Ryukyu...

[Marginal note]
Tametomo moved from Ōshima in Izu to Hachijōjima, went to Kikaijima, and crossed to Ryukyu. He established shrines on various islands for worship. He is called the island deity.