what people use." <<Najiu is Yakushima; since Ryukyu is adjacent to Yakushima, only their cloth armor is the same.>> The following year, Sui general Chen Leng and others came leading troops. Among the army were Kunlun people who understood the Ryukyu language quite well. Leng ordered them to pacify and persuade. The people of the country did not submit and resisted in battle but were defeated and fled. Leng advanced to the castle towns, burned houses and buildings, captured over a thousand men and women, and departed. From this time, the Sui ceased to come. In the same fourth year, hinoe-ne, Yakushima people came to pay tribute to our court. In this year, thirty people came continuously between spring and autumn, all dying before they could return. The tributary missions from the southern islands probably began from this time. In the third year of Emperor Jomei, second month, Yakushima people came to court. In the sixth year of Hakuho, hinoto-ushi, Tanegashima people came to court. In the eighth year, tsuchinoto-u, winter, he commanded Yamato Umakai no Miyatsuko Muraji, Kamimura no Shu Koubun and others to go as envoys to Tanegashima. In the tenth year

kanoto-mi, eighth month, Muraji and others returned leading people from Tanegashima country. They presented maps of that land. In the eleventh year, mizunoe-uma, people from Tanegashima, Yakushima, and Amami paid New Year's respects. Stipends were granted with various distinctions. In the ninth year of Empress Jito, kinoto-hitsuji, third month, he sent Mukouno Daini Bunhaku Se and Shinkouno Sange Ge Morotada to Tanegashima to seek where the barbarians dwell. In the second year of Emperor Monmu, tsuchinoe-inu, summer, fourth month, he sent Mukouno Daini Bunhakushi Gyobube no Maki and seven others to the southern islands to seek countries. He therefore supplied them with weapons. In the third year, tsuchinoto-i, seventh month, nineteenth day, people from Tatara, Yakushima, Amami, and Tokara <<Amami is Amami; Tokara is present-day Tokushima>> came following court envoys and presented local products. Tokara first established contact. Ranks were granted and stipends bestowed with various distinctions. In the second year of Taiho, mizunoe-tora, eighth month, people of Satsuma and Tanegashima defied orders and cut off the southern route. Thereupon troops were dispatched to attack and pacify them, and finally households