were registered and officials were appointed. In the fourth year of Keiun, an imperial edict was issued to Dazaifu to grant stipends and ranks to the people of the southern islands. Each had distinctions. In the sixth year of Wado, fifty-two people from the southern islands of Amami, Shingaku, and Kumi <<Amami, Shingaku refers to present-day Yaeyama, Kumi refers to present-day Kumejima>> came following Daiasomi Enkenchi and presented local products. In the fourth year of Yoro, kanoe-saru, ranks were granted to people of the southern islands, approximately 232 people in total, each with distinctions. In the fourth year of Jinki, hinoto-u, 132 people from the southern islands came to court. Ranks were granted with distinctions. In the seventh year of Tempyo, kinoto-i, Dazai no Daini Ono no Asomi Oi and Takahashi no Muraji Ushikai were dispatched to plant markers on the southern islands to record the place names, distances in ri, and locations for anchoring ships and drawing water. In the fifth year of Tempyo-shoho, mizunoto-mi, winter, Tang envoy chief Fujiwara no Kiyokawa, vice-envoy Otomo no Komaro, Kibi no Makibi, and Tang monk Ganjin returned on the same ship. They drifted at sea and reached Akonaha Island, waited for favorable winds for over ten days, then departed when they got a south wind. In the sixth year, kinoe-uma, an edict was issued ordering Dazaifu to repair the markers on the southern islands again. <<Between Yoro and Tempyo, the southern islands were made subordinate to Dazaifu>> In the third year of Junju, mizunoto-tori, autumn, monk Enchin went to Tang aboard the ship of Tang merchant Kin Ryoki. He encountered a hurricane at sea and drifted to Ryukyu. In the distance, he saw several dozen people holding spears and halberds standing on the shore. At that time the wind died down and they didn't know where to go. Ryoki lamented, saying "We are about to be devoured by the Ryukyu people. What shall we do?" Enchin prayed to Buddha and suddenly obtained a southeast wind and managed to escape. In the third year of Chotoku, hinoto-tori, southern barbarian raiders invaded the western border. The following year, Dazaifu ordered Kikaijima to pursue and capture the southern barbarian raiders. Initially, between Taiho and Wado, the various southern islands

[Marginal note on left page]
In the first year of Tencho, ninth month, Sangi Dazai no Daini Junior Fourth Rank Lower Ono no Asomi Minemori and others petitioned to transfer Tanegashima to be subordinate to Osumi Province.