Many barbarians submitted and came to pay tribute. Later, some occasionally rebelled, and during the Chokan and Joan eras, among the twelve islands, five were subordinate while some were not. Most of those that were not subordinate were south of Kikaijima. Later, when it came to the descendants of the twenty-fifth generation of the Tenson clan, customs deteriorated, aji (local lords) from all directions occupied territories and competed for supremacy, and the powerful minister Riyū monopolized national government, assassinated the ruler, and proclaimed himself the national sovereign. From this time, bandits arose everywhere and the country fell into great disorder. Aji Sontoku of Urasoe raised an army and executed Riyū. The people supported Sontoku and made him their ruler. This was King Shunten. The descendants of the Tenson clan succeeded each other for approximately 17,802 years.

Historical records of ancient times are mostly based on later people's imagination and often entrust them to wild fantasy. The early records of the Ryukyu Kingdom also follow the same pattern. Nevertheless, since there were already the appellations Uruma and Nan-Wa in ancient times, when we examine this, we can surely know that the founding of the kingdom was long ago.

Founder King Shunten
King Shunten's surname was Minamoto and his given name was Sontoku. He was truly a descendant of Emperor Seiwa, his father was Tametomo, and his mother was the younger sister of the Ōzato Aji. He was born in the first year of Jin'an, hinoe-inu. His father Tametomo was called Chinzei Hachirō. He was truly the eighth son of Kebiishi Tameyoshi. He was seven feet tall, had a heroic and generous spirit, had double ridges in his eyes, had long arms like an ape, and was skilled at archery. At age thirteen he resided in Bungo, fought repeatedly with various powerful clans of the nine provinces, and by around age fifteen had completely subdued all nine provinces. The imperial court issued an edict to Dazaifu to attack him.