He accomplished this and first taught the use of our script 《marginal note: namely the forty-seven letter-syllables》. Sontoku had a tumor on his right temple that was like a horn. He always tied his topknot to the right side to cover this tumor. When he ascended to the throne, the people admired and imitated him, and all tied their topknots askew, it is said. He reigned for fifty-one years and died in the third year of Katei, hinoto-tori, at the age of seventy-two.

King Shunba Jun'ki had the surname Minamoto and the name Sonekimi; his father was King Shunten. He was born in the first year of Bunji, kinoto-mi. In the first year of Rekinin, tsuchinoe-inu, he succeeded his father King Shunten and became king. He reigned for eleven years and died in the second year of Hōji at the age of sixty-four.

King Yoshimoto had the surname Minamoto; his father was King Shunba Jun'ki. He was born in the first year of Ken'ei, hinoe-tora. In the first year of Kenchō, tsuchinoto-tori, he succeeded his father King Shunba Jun'ki and became king. His natural disposition was weak and he lacked decisiveness. After he ascended to the throne, famines occurred repeatedly and epidemics spread widely. Many people died. Yoshimoto was greatly frightened and alarmed, summoned his retainers and said: "In the time of the former king, the country was prosperous and the people were at peace. Now I am without virtue, and famine and epidemic occur together. This is Heaven abandoning me. I am about to abdicate to a virtuous person. You retainers, choose one for me." They all said: "Eiso was born with sacred auspicious signs. Your Majesty, please try him." Yoshimoto then summoned Eiso and had him administer the government for seven years, and indeed there were good results. Yoshimoto explained to Eiso: "I was abandoned by Heaven, and when I began governing, half the people died. Since you have administered the government, the harvests have been abundant and the people peaceful. This is what your virtue has brought about. You should rightfully accept the great succession." Eiso firmly declined but was not permitted to refuse, so the throne was finally abdicated to Eiso.