and retreated to the mountains and forests. The place where he ended his life is unknown. He reigned for eleven years.

From Shunten to Yoshimoto, there were altogether three generations spanning seventy-three years. Two hundred years later, Yoshimoto's descendant Shō En restored the lineage, continuing unbroken down to Shō Tai. This is surely because Shunten's virtue was inexhaustible for all time.

King Eiso

King Eiso's father was called Keiso, who was the aji (lord) of Iso. Keiso accumulated good deeds and had virtue. He took a wife but had no children for a long time. In his later years, his wife dreamed that the sun entered her womb and became pregnant. In due time she gave birth to Eiso. On the day of his birth, brilliant light filled the house and people smelled a mysterious fragrance. From childhood he was intelligent, befriended the wise, and revered the Way. At the age of twenty, when famine and epidemic occurred together and the people's livelihood was not peaceful, Eiso thereupon received King Yoshimoto's command and administered the government for seven years. The famine and epidemic ceased naturally, and the people's hearts became peaceful for the first time. He finally received Yoshimoto's abdication and became king.

In the first year of Kōchō, kanoto-tori, he toured the fields, corrected the boundaries, and for the first time made the people's taxes equitable. Initially in the age of the Tenson dynasty there were no taxes. When there were state affairs, they levied one bundle of rice from the people. 《marginal note: The system used rope to measure around a person's head, fixing it at one shaku. With this they bundled rice, calling it one bundle》. Later they contributed one bundle every year. At this time he implemented the law of equal fields, all governmental affairs were successfully carried out, the country was greatly well-governed, and punishments were set aside and not used. The various islands of Kume, Kerama, Iheya, and Ōshima first became subordinate. Thereupon he built a public hall in Tomari village 《marginal note: the present Tomari Palace》 and established a public storehouse to its north 《marginal note: the present Tenguyama Shōgen-ji Temple》. The monk Zenkan came sailing across the sea. Eiso built a temple for him in Urasoe and named it Gokuraku-ji. This was

【Marginal note at top left of page】
First year of Kōchō, kanoto-tori
First built a tomb
in Urasoe
called Gokuraku-yama