This was the founding patriarch of Buddhist monks in Ryukyu. In the fourth year of Shōō, kanoto-u (1291), the Yuan emperor Kublai Khan dispatched sixty soldiers and commanded his retainer Yang Xiang to come and attack. During the sea voyage, they fought a battle with troops on an island, and the army's fighting spirit was broken and they withdrew. In this year, the Yuan emperor changed "Ryūkyū" to "Rukyū." In the fourth year of Einin, hinoe-saru (1296), the Yuan emperor commanded Tiemuer and his general Zhang Hao and others to come and invade. At this time, King Eiso's benevolent authority was greatly established, and his subjects and people had a strong resolve to die for their country and perish in difficulty, so [the Yuan forces] finally realized they could not succeed and departed, taking captive 130 fishermen. Eiso received the abdication and was on the throne for forty years. He died on the fifth day of the eighth month of the first year of Shōan, tsuchinoto-i (1299), at the age of seventy-one. The people's love, admiration, and mourning were like grieving for parents.

King Taiseí was Eiso's son, born in the first year of Hōji, hinoto-hitsuji (1247). In the second year of Shōan, kanoe-ne (1300), at the age of fifty-four, he succeeded his father Eiso as king. His character was gentle, respectful, and frugal. There were no worries between high and low, and the common people enjoyed their occupations. He was on the throne for nine years and died on the eighth day of the twelfth month of the first year of Enkyō, tsuchinoe-saru (1308), at the age of sixty-two.

King Eiji was Taiseí's son, born in the fifth year of Bun'ei, tsuchinoe-tatsu (1268). In the second year of Enkyō, tsuchinoto-tori (1309), he succeeded his father King Taiseí as king. He was on the throne for five years and died on the twentieth day of the ninth month of the second year of Shōwa, mizunoto-ushi (1313), at the age of forty-six.

King Tamashiro was Eiji's fourth son, born in the fourth year of Einin, hinoe-saru (1296). In the first year of Tokuji, hinoe-uma (1306), he was granted Tamashiro and was called Prince Tamashiro. In the third year of Shōwa, kinoe-tora (1314), he succeeded his father as king. He indulged in wine and women, loved hunting, and neglected governmental affairs. The various aji did not attend court, and the people harbored resentment. The country divided into three parts. The aji of Ōzato