when will the country ever be at peace? The aji of Urasoe is a benevolent man. He is truly worthy of being the father and mother of the people." Thereupon, in the 5th year of Shōhei, kanoe-tora (1370), they finally elevated Satto and made him king. When Satto ascended to the throne, he swept away all corrupt policies and governed the people with magnanimity. His benevolence and authority were greatly extended. His wife was extremely wise, and domestic administration was also well-ordered.

In the 1st year of Daichū, mizunoe-ne (1368), the Ming Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang had his minister Yang Zai bring a letter with the following proclamation. The gist was as follows: "When ancient emperors ruled the realm, wherever the sun and moon shone, there was no distinction between far and near, and they treated all with equal benevolence. Under the Yuan dynasty, political discipline was lax, and the realm was in great chaos for seventeen years. I rose from common cloth, established a foundation in Jiangzuo, and conquered the rebellious in all directions. Elevated by my subjects and people, I ascended to the imperial throne, established the dynastic name as Ming, and founded the Hongwu era. You of Ryukyu are located in the distant southeast and have not yet been informed. I now dispatch an envoy to go and proclaim this to you. You should take note of this."

Satto received this letter, and the following year sent his younger brother Taiki to pay tribute to Ming, presenting a memorial declaring himself a vassal and offering local products. The Ming Emperor bestowed the Datong Calendar and gold-woven silk brocades. He also granted clothing and silk to Taiki and others according to their ranks. Thereafter, tribute was paid annually. The Ming Emperor changed "Ruqiu" to "Ryukyu."

In the 2nd year of Tenshō, hinoe-tatsu (1376), the Ming Emperor sent his minister Li Hao to purchase horses and sulfur. In the 2nd year of Kōwa, mizunoe-inu (1382), the Ming Emperor sent his minister Lu Qian to bestow silk and cloth. When Qian returned to China and reported to the Ming Emperor, he told of how the three mountains were contending for supremacy and military conflicts within the country would not cease. In the 3rd year, mizunoto-i (1383), King Satto of Chūzan sent his minister A Ranpyō to Ming with congratulatory tribute.

[Marginal note on the left page]
In the 1st year of Tenshō, kinoto-u (1375), the Ming Emperor had Ryukyu's mountains and rivers included in the ritual sacrifices of Fujian Province.