[tribute]. King Shō Satto of Sannan also sent his minister Shija to pay tribute. The Ming Emperor bestowed gold and silver seals along with silk and cloth upon the King of Chūzan, and granted silk and cloth to the King of Sannan. The Ming Emperor also sent his ministers Liang Min and Lu Qian to command the King of Chūzan to cease hostilities. The gist was as follows: "The king has well embodied Heaven's will and performed the rites of great service, having people pay tribute every year. I commend the king's sincere devotion. Recently returned envoys report that the three kings of Ryukyu are fighting each other, abandoning agriculture and harming the people. I am deeply concerned about this. If the king ceases warfare, gives the people rest, and diligently cultivates virtue, then the state will be at peace forever." He also commanded King Shō Satto of Sannan and King Hanishi of Sanhoku, saying: "Heaven fears that people will harm each other mutually, so it produces wise men to be their rulers. Recently,

King Satto of Ryukyu sent an envoy, and King Shō Satto of Sannan also dispatched someone to pay court. This is deeply commendable. Recently returned envoys report that the three kings of Ryukyu are fighting each other, abandoning agriculture and harming people. I am troubled to hear this. I now admonish the two kings: if you can understand my intent and cease warfare to pacify the people, then Heaven will surely assist you. Otherwise, regret will be of no avail." The three kings received these commands and for the first time negotiated peace and ceased warfare. The monk Raijū died. Raijū was a person from our country [Japan]. Previously, he had come to Ryukyu and built a temple for the king on Naminoue Hill, naming it Gokoku-ji. In the 5th year of Genchū, tsuchinoe-tatsu (1388), the Ming Emperor exiled Diixunu, the second son of the captured Yuan Emperor, to Ryukyu. In the 7th year, kanoe-uma (1390), Miyako and Yaeyama together came to pay tribute. Prior to this, Chūzan's

[Marginal note on the left page]
In the 2nd year of Genchū, kinoto-ushi (1385), an envoy was sent to Ming to congratulate the New Year. Taizu granted one warship each to the two kings of Chūzan and Sannan, and granted camel-button gold-plated silver seals to the kings of Sannan and Sanhoku.