4
They adopted Takezo, the second son of fellow domain retainer Sekine Rokusaburo, as heir. Takezo was born in Tokyo in March of Meiji 11 (1878), graduated from the Literature Department (English Literature) of Tokyo Imperial University in Meiji 36 (1903), served as professor at Nagasaki Higher Commercial School and Gakushuin, and is currently the dean of Musashino Women's Academy.

[Horizontal text under photographs]　　　　　　　　　　[Horizontal text under photographs]
(Elder's wife Motoko)　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Family heir Takezo)

[Upper section]
This academy has quite a good　　[Horizontal text under photograph]
reputation even in the capital.　　(Son Masahiro, literary name Sōshō)
The Yokoyama house in Takahata
was later maintained by the Elder's
youngest sister Kosue, who died
at seventy-six, but having no
successor, it was temporarily
managed by relative Hayami
[Lower section]
Sōtarō. Later, the Elder's son
Masahiro established a branch
Ono family by adopting Sōtarō's
daughter Shizue as adopted
daughter and Torazo, second son
of farmer Kunitomo Taihei from
Toramoto village in the same
district, as adopted son to
continue the lineage.
The Elder's father Gentoku died
at fifty-six when the Elder was
fifteen, but his mother lived to
eighty-five. The Elder's eldest
sister Hamako

maintained a single life and lived to ninety-one, and his second sister Kishiko was also unmarried and reached ninety. Both women had what is commonly called a competitive nature that hated losing, with Hamako being particularly strong-willed. Kishiko also had no particular special circumstances but remained single along with her sister. His first younger brother was called Denbei, who once inherited the Hayami family but returned to his birth family and never left again. This person appeared gentle at first sight, but would never bend what he believed to be righteous principle, and once served as village headman. His second younger brother was Shaku Tōin, head priest of Dairyūin within Kyoto's Myōshinji temple, revered as a renowned monk of firm religious conviction, who also remained celibate and died at seventy-four (see Longevity Records). It is remarkable that four of the seven siblings remained unmarried, and it is also strange that they were all long-lived. The Elder's wife Motoko had a weak constitution at the time of marriage, most of her siblings died young, her brother Ichisuke also died at around fifty, and until Motoko reached forty it was thought she had no hope of longevity, but she gradually became healthy and reached eighty-three.

　　　　　　　　2. Determination and Diligent Study

In his youth while at home, the Elder read books like "Seizan Iji" which compiled the achievements of Mito Chūnagon Tokugawa Mitsukuni, heard of the achievements of Takayama Hikokurō and Gamō Kunpei, encountered the writings of Motoori Norinaga, and came to admire the movement of the faction called Ōshitsu-ke that arose in Kyoto, suddenly deepening his heart's lament for the decline of the imperial court. "Seizan Iji" is also called "Tōgen Ibun." In Genroku 3 (1690), after Mitsukuni's death, the following year his successor Tsunaeda obtained materials from Miki Yukimoto, Miyata Kiyosada, Makino Kazutaka, and others who had been Mitsukuni's close attendants. Under the supervision of Asaka Satoru (commonly called Kakubei, literary name Tanpaku, who participated in compiling Yoshikō's Dai Nihon-shi and died at eighty-two in Genbun 2), together with Nakamura Kogen, Awayama Narinobu, Shusen Hiroshi and others, they compiled "Yoshikō Gyōjitsu," but because it was in classical Chinese and difficult to read, they left...