8

lay down. Unable to endure the night cold, he removed the door and used it as bedding," which Kozan personally told me." And in Ōnuma Chinsai's poem sending off the Elder's journey to Shimōtsuke, there is the verse "Though drunk, he finds no joy, his feelings desolate. Poor and finding it hard to part, his tears flow abundantly." The Elder commented on this: "Chinrō and I experienced similar poverty in our youth. Therefore our friendship was also very close."

Chinzan (given name Atsushi, courtesy name Shiju, also styled Shōkei, alternative name Kidō Senshi) was born in Bunka 14 (1817) as the son of the Owari domain Confucian retainer Ōnuma Chikkei. Like the Elder, he was a disciple of Seigan and three years younger than the Elder. From youth he was extremely poor, wearing rough clothes with a dirty face but caring not at all, and came to Edo for diligent study. Once he knocked on the gate of the famous Confucian scholar Kikuchi Gozan and requested admission. Gozan looked at him and wondered if he was a beggar child. Chinzan indignantly straightened himself and said that though he wore rough clothes on his body, it was enough that he harbored brocade in his heart, and he took out a poetry manuscript from his bosom to show. Gozan saw it and was amazed at its skillfulness, but still pointed to a vase of flowers in the room and commanded him to compose a poem. Chinzan immediately recited a seven-character regulated verse. Gozan was greatly impressed and immediately admitted him, making him head of the school. Later he studied under Seigan together with the Elder, and they came to be called the two grand champions of the poetry world in the capital. He died in October of Meiji 24 (1891) at age seventy-four. The Elder once shared poverty with Chinzan like brothers.

The Elder wrote quite a few poems about his impoverished circumstances, and I excerpt several here:

Lodging at Gyokuike
"West of Gyokuike by Jizō Bridge. On a small gate plaque my name is written. When guests pass by, how can they fail to recognize it? Among neighbors, mine is the lowest eaves."

This is both a good anecdote and a good poem.

Sojourning at Sokyō
"At year's end returning home with smiling mouth. Simple food and drink wash away dusty cups. The teacher, bold of heart, endures ultimate hardship. He builds no ordinary platform for fleeing debt."

Alas, I Am Poor and Have No Books
"Alas, I am poor and have no books. Only two or three scattered volumes. The remaining poems of Tetsugai I sold. The remaining writings of Dongpo are worm-eaten. Reciting them I dispel worries and gloom. Facing them I pass morning and evening. If there is knowledge in the underworld. How could they not be called intimate friends? Yesterday I borrowed a book. The great writings of the Sincere Duke. True indeed are the words of the ancients. Rare books are equal to the jade of Zhao."

There is joy within moral teaching.

Lodging at Kōkei
"Zizhan mocked Ziyu. The official residence is small as a boat. My dwelling is extremely small. When I yawn I often bump my head."

Random Feelings as a Traveler, Eight Poems
"Unable to bear being a drifting traveler at the ends of the earth. Summer going, winter coming like a thrown shuttle. My worn hat through the years, poverty extreme. Three measures of turbid wine - what excitement can there be? In our time, famous names with true talent are few. Through the ages, literary works with empty discussions are many. Bah! I grow weary of hearing worldly affairs. Returning home I plan to don my old blue raincoat."

"Throughout the city songs and laughter vainly chaotic. Wine curtains in tall towers compete with strings and pipes. Vigilance gradually lost in days of peace. Famine is often found in years of great peace. The strong swallow, the weak spit for three thousand years. The conditions of the world and human feelings fill three hundred poems. I laugh at myself, a scholar with too many words. I would use the giant turtle's legs to patch the hole in heaven."