10

years. The conditions of the world and human feelings fill three hundred poems. I laugh at myself, a scholar with too many words. I would use the giant turtle's legs to patch the hole in heaven."

In the winter of Ansei 5, year of the earth horse (1858), when the Elder was forty-five years old, there was a great fire disaster in the eastern capital and he suffered from the spreading flames. More than a thousand poems into which he had poured his heart and soul for many years were reduced to nothing, and even the steadfast Elder was tormented for several days. But afterwards he gradually recalled his old works and compiled more than 130 poems, publishing them as "Poems Remembered After the Fire." The Elder wrote a preface to this himself:

"Ah, among the ancients there were those who, having once set eyes upon something, never forgot it for their entire lives. (Perhaps the Tang scholar Wang Anshi?) Now even with my own compositions, I cannot remember even two or three out of ten. Though this is due to declining health, it is also my natural disposition - how lamentable this is... (omitted) At the time my new residence was not yet completed, and I was staying in a lodging house at the Hakozaki estate. It was exactly the 28th day of the 12th month, with severe wind, rain, and cold. The nursing infant lacked milk and cried frequently through the night. Though this was quite a hardship, perhaps this too is normal for a poet."

One can imagine his hardship. Yet his poems were each like precious pearls worth multiple cities, and one can only marvel at the greatness of his memory (see the essence of poetry composition).

3. Loyalty to the Emperor and Patriotism

That the Elder cultivated a fervent spirit of loyalty to the emperor already in his youth has been described in the previous chapter. As he matured and came to receive the mantle of Ryōga Seigan, that unshakeable foundation grew deeper. When he finally established means of livelihood and first took up his brush to embark on wandering travels, it was in Tenpō 9 (1838) when he was twenty-five years old. He first climbed Mount Tsukuba, went to Mito and discussed affairs of the realm with the domain's loyalist Aizawa Seishi, then proceeded to Ōta where he paid respects at the graves of Tokugawa Mitsukuni and Zhu Shunshui.

Mito domain elder Aizawa Seishi (given name Yasushi, courtesy name Hakumin, common name Tsunezō, styled Seishisai, received special favor from domain lord Tokugawa Nariaki, served as head of the domain school Shōkōkan and district magistrate, and authored works including "New Thesis" and "Commentary on the Classic of Filial Piety" based on loyalist principles). The Elder thereafter frequently traveled to Mito, deepened his friendship with Fujita Tōko, Takeda Kōunsai and others, and came to receive the patronage of domain lord Tokugawa Nariaki.

Composed with Senior Colleagues at Master Aizawa's Gathering
"I know not who these elders are. Their refined hearts and minds far transcend the dusty world. Fine wine in a thousand cups can intoxicate guests. Lofty conversation in one gathering seeks to bring back spring. Pine peaks brave the snow, verdant and outstanding. Plum character breathes fragrance, fresh in every detail. Strange bones that endure cold - I too dare this. Joyful conversation, meeting and seeing each other, we grow ever closer."

Mito Nariaki (courtesy name Shishin, original name Keisaburō, styled Keizan, posthumously called Retsukō) was the third son of Haruki (Bukō), the seventh-generation lord of Mito domain. Born in Kansei 12, year of the metal monkey (1800), third month, at the Koishikawa estate in Edo, he was intelligent from childhood. During the Bunsei era he succeeded his elder brother Narinao. Brilliant and decisive, his profound loyalty to the emperor resembled that of his distant ancestor Mitsukuni. When the retired emperor died in Tenpō 11, he repaired the imperial mausoleum and献offered funds, saying that respecting the shogunate while serving the imperial court was the best way for a retainer. He submitted a petition to restore the posthumous naming system, leading to the title Emperor Kōkaku. He also established schools and greatly promoted imperial and Chinese learning as well as martial arts, achieving considerable administrative accomplishments. The Elder came to Nariaki's attention when he was about twenty-seven years old and Nariaki was forty-two. In Kaei 1 (1848), Nariaki donated eight volumes of "Collection for Destroying Heresy" to our Haneda Library, which was through the Elder's mediation in support of Haneda Takao's library establishment.

Generally, in explaining the history of the Meiji Restoration, no one can ignore the roles of Mito and Satsuma-Chōshū. Mito was viewed by the shogunate side as a viper in their bosom, while the Satsuma-Chōshū domains looked down on Mito as being skilled in scholarship and rhetoric but poor at practical action. When the great stage of the Restoration finally opened, Mito was busy with internal factional strife and sent virtually no founding fathers to the central government.

11