Page 28

raised an incident and died in it. His posthumous writings were published in recent years by volunteers in Kariya town, and the fact that the old man was entrusted with their proofreading was also a curious connection.

6. Official Appointment and Retirement

Thereafter, the shogunal government fell into daily decline, and it is an all-too-famous historical fact that Senior Councilor Ii was killed by Mito loyalists on March 3rd of Man'en 1 (1860), scattering like snow outside Sakurada Gate at the age of forty-six. Consequently, the shogunal government was taken over by Senior Councilors Andō Tsushimakami Nobumasa (lord of Iwakitaira Castle in Ōshū) and Kuze Yamatokami Hirokane (lord of Sekiyado Castle in Shimōsa province). Nobumasa (styled Kunshu, childhood name Tetsunoshin, also called Kinsei and Bansui, son of Nobuyoshi, was gifted with brilliant talent and excelled in martial arts, waka poetry, painting, etc.; his mother was a daughter of Yoshida domain lord Matsudaira Izunokami Nobuaki). The shogunal council first reflected on the Sakurada Incident and, following the ancient wisdom of "punishing both parties in a quarrel," prevented Mito domain lord Tokugawa Yoshiatsu from attending court while also censuring Ii Naonori (son of Naosuke), and the measures extended to over twenty domain lords and others who were dealt with accordingly.

Furthermore, the house arrest of the three domain lords of Owari, Echizen, and Tosa (see the Purge of Ansei) was lifted, and attempts were made to moderate the momentum of the anti-shogunate party by loudly advocating union of court and military government. The result was the marriage of Imperial Princess Kazunomiya, but contrary to expectations, the situation became increasingly complicated, leading to the attack on Senior Councilor Andō, Shimazu Hisamitsu's memorial to the throne, then the eastward journey of Imperial Envoy Ōhara, Shogun Iemochi's journey to Kyoto, the killing of Englishmen at Namamugi, the intensity of expulsion-of-foreigners arguments, the bombardment of British ships at Satsuma, the Hamaguri Gate Incident, the Chōshū domain's internal strife leading to the Chōshū expedition, the death of Mito Nariaki, Chōshū's bombardment of French ships, the bombardment of Shimonoseki by the allied foreign fleet, and so on and so forth. These numerous problems before and after, these overlapping waves, erupted tumultuously. Thus in the winter of Keiō 2 (1866), Tokugawa Yoshinobu succeeded to the shogunal position, but the general trend of the realm became increasingly unfavorable to the shogunate. With no means to stem the tide, on October 13th of the following third year, the political power of the warrior class that had lasted some seven hundred years was finally returned by the fifteenth shogun Yoshinobu, and the great proclamation of imperial restoration thundered across the four seas. Truly, when one considers the traces of the shogunate's decline and fall—from the disorder of its internal administration extending to samurai and commoners falling into idleness, indulging in luxury, valuing falsehood, the decline of real strength, plus the stimulus from foreign countries, and as a reaction to this, the revival of imperial Sinology and the rise of loyalist ideology—there are indeed things that cannot be overlooked. This is precisely what political economists should consider.

When the old man reached fifty-four years of age, through the well-executed schemes of his friends, the court specially transmitted a command to domain lord Nobufuru through Regent Nijō Nariyuki, urging his journey to the capital as a member of the "Investigation of Ancient Books" committee. Here for the first time he completely escaped the yoke of the shogunate, first visiting his mother at the old residence in Takahata village in Kohoku, then entering the capital. The Nijō family provided their villa as his temporary residence and entertained him hospitably for ten months. Together with comrades like Yamanaka Hōkyō (named Ken, styled Shibun, called Seiitsu or Shinten'ō, a person from Hekikai district in Mikawa, a student of Saitō Setsudō who first served Honganji temple, was summoned during the Restoration to become a administrator, and was appointed governor of Ishinomaki prefecture; after resigning from office he lived in Tenryūji village, Arashiyama, Kyoto, and died in May of Meiji 18 at age sixty-three) and Iwatani Osamu of Zeze domain (called Ichiroku Koji), he was ordered to investigate "Emergency Famine Measures" (there are theories that he was actually involved in other confidential matters as well), and through diligent effort he fulfilled his mission well and returned to his domain. Domain lord Nobufuru immediately granted him a residence of several hundred tsubo (at what is now numbers 79 and 80 on the south side of West Eighth District, where large pine trees stand). The old man called this "Shōsei Yūkyo" (Pine Voice Secluded Dwelling) and for a time used the pen name Ansei. (It is said that his son Masahiro's use of the pen name Sōshō [Twin Pines] was taken from this giant pine and the giant pine at the Jishūkan site [in front of the assembly hall]). At this time, the various domains were still divided between loyalist and pro-shogunate factions, bewildered about which way to turn, and their conflicts were extraordinary. Looking back at the situation in our Yoshida region, in essence the majority were people who firmly maintained loyalist principles, but the two provinces of Owari and Mikawa...

Page 29