【Upper Section】
About the Title
(omitted above)...Once when the Toyohashi City Educational Association newsletter was to be published, I was asked to write the title, but I thought it would be better to ask Elder Kozan, so I earnestly requested him, and he gladly accepted. That became the cover we still use today. However, now that Elder Kozan's biography is being completed, it is a mysterious fate that I have come to write its cover...
(An excerpt from a letter from Mr. Oguchi)

【Middle Section】
Table of Contents
Frontispiece: Imperial Rescript on Education (written by Elder Kozan)
Preface (by Mr. Oguchi Kichiroku, Junior Fifth Rank, Third Class Order)
Same (by Mr. Fukutani Motoji, President of Toyohashi City Educational Association)
1. Birth and Family Lineage...Page 1
2. Aspiration and Hardship in Learning...Page 5
3. Loyalty to the Emperor and Patriotism...Page 10
4. The Great Prison of Bogo...Page 18
5. Confinement at Yoshida Castle...Page 25
6. Official Appointment and Retirement...Page 28
7. Filial Care and Retirement...Page 40
8. Imperial Favor and Conferment of Rank...Page 48
9. Elegance and Social Relations...Page 52
10. Poetry Composition and True Calling...Page 61
11. Character and Virtue...Page 78
12. Longevity and Ascension...Page 84

【Lower Section】
Anecdotes: (1) Enshrining Kusunoki Masashige (2) The Elder's Name Change (3) About Prince Yukinaga (4) Lecturing and Receiving Guests (5) Treating Soldiers (6) Vigorous Writing in Old Age (7) Poems from Toyonaka Period (8) The Elder and His Birthplace - Laudatory poems and songs

Photographs: Elder's calligraphy of Imperial Rescript on Education, portrait of the Elder at age 96, his final New Year's Day poem, Usa shrine offering picture, reverent reading of Meiji Restoration edict, reading biography of Kusunoki Masashige, Kato Hishu, Mount Nikko, visit to Mito Mitsukuni's tomb, excursion to Ishimaki Mountain, Minamoto no Yorimasa (all poetry scrolls), Elder's birthplace, tomb of Elder and his wife, national anthem Kimigayo, groundbreaking ceremony calligraphy for Toyokawa Hall, portrait and calligraphy of Okochi Nobufuru, wife Motoko, son Masahiro, grandson Takezō portraits, portrait of Elder at 66 by Shōka, calligraphy at age 5, Shōshū Gakusha plaque, Heaven and Earth Righteousness plaque, Fortune character plaque, peony scroll by Shōka with Elder's inscription, two fan paintings, calligraphy by Kido Takayoshi, Toyohashi filial child calligraphy, Hyakkaen poetry plaque, Kusunoki shrine monument text by son Masahiro, Chitose-rō plaque.

【Left Page】
Imperial Rescript on Education
I believe that Our imperial ancestors founded the country with vast vision and established virtue with profound depth. Our subjects have been truly loyal and truly filial, with hundreds of millions united in heart, and generation after generation have achieved this beauty - this is the essence of our national polity, and the source of education truly lies here. You subjects should be filial to parents, friendly to brothers, harmonious as spouses, faithful as friends, modest and frugal in conduct, extending benevolence to all, cultivating learning and practicing skills, thereby developing intelligence and perfecting moral character, advancing public benefit and promoting worldly affairs, always respecting the constitution and obeying the law. Should emergency arise, courageously serve the public, thereby supporting the eternal imperial fortune. Such conduct is not only that of Our loyal and good subjects, but also sufficient to manifest the legacy of your ancestors. This way is truly the teaching of Our imperial ancestors, what descendants and subjects should jointly observe - it does not err when applied through all times, it does not conflict when applied everywhere. We hope that together with you subjects, We may take this to heart and all unite in virtue. October 30, Meiji 23 (1890). Early auspicious day of March, Meiji 34 (1901). Respectfully written by Junior Fifth Rank Ono Chōgan at age 88.

(This calligraphy was specially written when the Elder rejoiced at the reconstruction of Toyohashi Higher Elementary School, which was established on the site of the former domain school Jishūkan where he had served as supervisor. He donated it through the then mayor Mr. Fukutani Motoji, and it is still treasured at the school. Toyohashi Higher Elementary School was previously called Toyohashi School.)