(Continued from previous page) ...having simplified it, the resulting instrument is called the "Shintengī" (True Celestial Instrument). In astronomy, there are three schools: the Zhōubì, the Xuānyè, and the Hùntiān. The Zhōubì and Xuānyè have not been transmitted to the present, and what is practiced in both China and Japan is the Hùntiān theory, which is precisely what the Shintengī represents. However, since even this was considered difficult to understand, people in recent times have created a further simplified version of it, called the "Hùntiānyī Ryaku" (Abbreviated Armillary Sphere). There are also various other instruments, which will be described in due course in the text below. It should be noted that in this volume, Tasuku (the author) discusses the theories of Zhu Xi. Zhu Xi's theories on cosmology and astronomy are exceedingly detailed and precise. Yet scholars of later generations have neglected them and remain ignorant of their content. Therefore, the purpose here is to bring these theories to light.

　　Heaven and Earth

At the beginning of Heaven and Earth, there were only two things: water and fire. Fire, being light and clear, became Heaven; water, being heavy and turbid, became Earth. Earth cleaves to Heaven, and Heaven depends upon Earth. Heaven encompasses Earth, and Earth is spherical like a ball (mari), suspended at the center of Heaven. Thus, beyond and apart from Earth, in every direction — above, below, and all four sides — is entirely Heaven.

Zhu Xi states: "Thinking of the time when Heaven and Earth had their beginning, when chaos had not yet separated, one can imagine there were only two things: water and fire. That which was most extremely turbid in water became Earth, and that which was most extremely clear in fire became Heaven."

Thus, at the beginning of Heaven and Earth, there were simply these two things — water and fire — and nothing more.

Zhu Xi also states: "Heaven, by means of qi, depends upon the form of Earth; Earth, by means of form, attaches to the qi of Heaven. Heaven encompasses Earth, and Earth is simply one object within Heaven."

(Jiao) Jibian says: "Above the Earth..." (continues on next page)