[Page 124]
[Upper section]
the bed of liberation." "In this general explanation... realizing nirvana": Though previously the essential meanings of entanglements etc. in the sutra were clarified, the main intent of this sutra has not yet been explained. Therefore now it generally concludes and reveals that meaning. The textual meaning is easy to understand.

"Or various bodhisattvas... mind without entanglement": Among the two stages of the supreme preparatory practices stage, in the provisions stage one subdues the coarse active manifestations of the two discriminative obstacles. In the preparatory stage one suddenly subdues all subtle active manifestations of discriminative obstacles. Also one gradually subdues the active manifestations of innate obstacles. Therefore it says "mind without entanglement."

"In the path of seeing... without terror": In the path of seeing, one cuts off the seeds of discriminative obstacles and permanently separates from attachments. Therefore it says cutting off attachments. "According to vows quickly fulfilled" means having already attained freedom. Therefore "without terror." The five terrors are permanently left behind at this stage. "In the cultivation path... birth-death dream-thoughts": "Understanding and practice extensively increase" means wisdom increases. The ten grounds each correspondingly distance themselves from everything. "Reaching the unawakened path... explained from increase": The unawakened path is the Buddha fruit. In the four stages, corresponding to the four phrases like "mind without entanglement," these are removed. Because of increase, it is temporarily explained this way, but actually one can gradually leave all these behind.

"Also in the stage of extreme joy... because of uncontaminated wisdom": "Categories of afflictions in evil destinies" refers to discriminative afflictions. "Cognitive obstacles present there as gross impediments" refers to discriminative cognitive obstacles. These are all cut off. "Making all afflictions not manifest" means innate afflictions only subdue manifestation but do not yet cut off seeds. Therefore it says "all do not manifest." These are the superior and medium among innate afflictions. Inferior ones still arise. The eighth

[Lower section]
ground can subdue them. Therefore the first ground says "mind without entanglement." Because one first attains the uncontaminated, it says "mind without."

"Effortless signless dwelling... fruits already cut off": In the eighth ground, among inferior afflictions that obstruct non-birth patience, and the gross impediments where cognitive obstacles exist, all are permanently cut off. All other afflictions are subdued and do not appear. Therefore it says "without terror." "Terror" is the name for fruits. Previously it didn't place the word "all," now it places the word "all" - this meaning can be understood.

"Supreme fulfillment... inverted dream-thoughts": Habitual tendencies means after cutting off seeds, there are still their atmospheric components. These are cut off. Latent tendencies are seeds. This is what is to be cut off. This is a general conclusion.

The sutra says "three-bodhi."

The praise says "gaining the benefit of bodhi": Among clarifying the two benefits, this is the benefit of attaining bodhi. "Three times... not one": This clarifies the various characters in the phrase "three times."

"Sanskrit buddha... Chinese 'awakened one'": This explains "buddha." Buddha is an abbreviation of Sanskrit. Can it not be interpreted? It refers to the person who is able to attain. The attained bodhi should be clarified below. Abbreviating this as "buddha" means China abbreviates it as "buddha."

"Attain means obtain and realize... bodhi called awakening": In Sanskrit it's called anuttara-samyak-sambodhi, translated as "unsurpassed perfect complete awakening." "Marga means path but this is not the name": Some people translate bodhi as "path," but the Sanskrit for path is marga. Therefore it shows that bodhi is not the meaning of path. This

[Page 125]
[Upper section]
does not say marga. Amoghavajra, Yixing and others translate bodhi as path.

"No dharma can surpass... perfect awakening": This explains the meaning of the character "person." The textual meaning is easy to understand. "Mahāprajñāpāramitā-śāstra... both called prajñā": To show that buddhas of the three times realize wisdom and reach emptiness through practicing prajñā, first quoting text from the wisdom treatise establishes the meaning that principle and wisdom are both called prajñā.

"Awakened ones of three times... called attaining perfect awakening": This is the meaning of the conventional gate. Temporarily distinguishing principle and wisdom, understanding able-attainer and attained, so it's not the ultimate gate.

"Or only emptiness-nature... therefore the dharmakāya": This is the buddha of the ultimate gate.

"As appropriate the words...標 with buddha-name": Emerging from birth-death with wise awakening, like awakening from dreams, clarifies fundamental wisdom. Conforming to dharma-nature and expounding extensively, like flowers blooming, is subsequently-attained wisdom. Combining these two wisdoms, accomplishing true-conventional wisdom and possessing self-other awakening clarifies self-awakening and awakening others. "Wisdom-practice both fulfilled" is awakening-practice perfected. "標 with buddha-name" is the conclusion. "Awakening-wisdom perfected... depending on prajñā": Explaining the character "depend" in the sutra has two meanings. In this meaning, depending on prajñā is not for self-cultivation. Maintaining this wisdom without abandoning it to liberate sentient beings, therefore called "depending on prajñā." Or "depending means cultivating... attaining perfect awakening": This explanation means pointing to past causal stage practice and calling it "depending on prajñā." Through such past cultivation, one now attains buddha-fruit.

"This manifests five dharmas... attained fruits": The five dharmas are the principle of dharmakāya and four wisdoms. Esoteric schools call them five wisdoms. Now clarifying the principle of dharmakāya. "Now attained" means revealed-attainment. Appearing

[Lower section]
as attainment is not initial attainment. "The other four wisdoms... attained fruits": This clarifies the self-enjoyment body.

"For great bodhisattvas... called other-enjoyment": Great bodhisattvas are tenth-ground bodhisattvas. Pure characteristics are pure lands. Great buddha-body is the ten-fold Vairocana body. This is the other-enjoyment body.

"For two vehicles etc.... called transformation": Taking different births, pure characteristics are the preparatory stage. Transformation bodies and provisions stage can have long-duration pure lands. Because manifesting bodies of indefinite size, they're called "indefinite buddha bodies." These are all transformation bodies because they appear through causes benefiting others.

"Self-enjoyment body... unshared real virtues": Buddha's virtues are all possessions of the self-enjoyment body. However, other-enjoyment and transformation have similar virtues.

"All tathāgatas... all-种 wonderful wisdom": The above are 140 unshared buddha-dharmas. Each dharma-gate is listed like a catalog.

"And eight liberations... cannot exhaust by explanation."

"Other-enjoyment body... virtues": Regarding the various buddha virtues explained, the two bodies of other-enjoyment and transformation have similar virtues.

"Conditioned virtues... called bodhi-severance": All conditioned virtues explained above are included in the four wisdoms. In buddha-fruit, wisdom is primary, therefore this is called "bodhi-severance."

"As contract-sutras say... invasion called bodhi": This is proof that both principle and wisdom are called bodhi. Quoting