【Page 24】
【Upper section】
Regarding bodily and verbal karma, it states "this is the flesh eye" in the explanation, but is there no dispute about this? How should this be understood? Some say: In other Buddha lands, names and phrases are established based on form. Contemplating the forms of those lands is just like the sounds of the Sahā world. Therefore the divine eye can perceive conventional verbal karma. Though it is not vocal sound, can it be called verbal karma? Some say: At the stage of mutual function of the sense faculties, the five roots mutually illuminate other sense objects. Why would those roots at that time not illuminate vocal sounds?

Question: The sutra text of this chapter mentions "such Buddha Bhagavats." If so, do these Buddha Bhagavats refer to present Buddhas? It continues: The commentary mentions "past and future Buddhas." Regarding this, examining the sutra text according to the explanation, above it states "taking refuge, bowing, present in the ten directions, all Buddhas" and completes the reverent worship. "Such Buddha Bhagavats" etc. are words concluding the reverent worship. The Buddhas mentioned do not change before and after. Why call the Buddhas above and below separate? Moreover, sutras such as the Ratnakūṭa, Kuśalaśīla, Vinayaviniścaya, and Bodhisattvapiṭaka all worship accomplished Buddhas and praise their testimony. The present chapter's teaching contains this. Why would it include testimony of unaccomplished Buddhas? Accordingly, in the Dream Confession chapter it states "present in the ten directions, eternally dwelling Two-Footed Honored Ones." This example should be considered equal. How should this be understood?

I say: Facing the doubt and difficulty, it seems hard to reconcile. Stepping back to examine the sutra text, Zizhou's definitive judgment most accords with the sutra text. Above, "present in the ten directions, all Buddhas" means after completing worship of present Buddhas, next "having already attained anuttarā samyaksaṃbodhi" means after praising the virtues of self-benefit and benefiting others,

【Lower section】
it says that Buddha Bhagavats who possess such virtues also bow in refuge with body, speech, and mind. If this "such Buddha Bhagavats" refers to the above present Buddhas, would the words of reverent worship be repetitious? Saying "wholeheartedly worship those Bhagavats" seems useless. The commentary master's interpretation deeply grasps this meaning. However, using other sutras and other chapters as examples - the meanings of various sutras are not uniform. Why criticize them all equally? The Bodhisattvabhūmi states "worship past, future, and present all Buddha Bhagavats," and the Treatise on Generating Bodhicitta states "worship boundless future and present Buddhas" - all worship the Buddhas of three times. Corroborating examples also exist in other teachings. The doubt and difficulty are quite useless. Therefore there is no fault. Also: Ancient punctuation of sutras sometimes reads "such Buddha Bhagavats as well." This is probably that meaning.

Question: The sutra text mentions "that Ratnarāja Mahāprabhāsa Tathāgata now exists there." Which of the three bodies is this? It continues: "Because the reward and dharma bodies permanently exist, it says 'presently exists.'" Regarding this, the self-nature body is the principle of eternal constancy, separated from birth, death, arising, and cessation. The self-enjoyment body is the realm only of Buddha and Buddha, a body pervading the dharma realm. Why point to a location and say "presently exists there"? Moreover, the Dharma teaching has benefits from three assemblies, all achieving arhat fruition. How could this meaning exist in the reward and dharma bodies? Here we know this is not the reward and dharma bodies. How should this be understood?

I say: Truly this matter is greatly puzzling. However, it is a question and answer in the commentary. Answering this: "The manifestation of transformation and response, appearing and disappearing follows beings' capacities; the reward and dharma bodies permanently exist, therefore it says 'presently exists.'" Though this answer exists, the meaning is hard to grasp.

【Page 25】
【Upper section】
First, to accomplish this meaning: That Buddha has three bodies. During Śākyamuni's three asaṃkhyeya kalpas, that Buddha's uninterrupted [existence] refers to that Buddha's self-enjoyment and dharma body Buddha. The transformation body and other-enjoyment body, following beings' capacities, have indefinite existence during the three asaṃkhyeya kalpas. At that time's assembly, what is seen during Śākyamuni's time is that Buddha's transformation body Buddha. At that time, since beings' faculties have matured, [the Buddha] teaches according to their capacities and exists. Whether interrupted or continuing to teach Dharma, it is not like the reward and dharma bodies. The explanation's meaning should be accomplished thus. The repeated meaning says: At Śākya's time's assembly, seeing that Buddha's body is that Buddha's transformation body. At that time, because [the Buddha] teaches Dharma in that world realm, one sees this, not seeing the self-enjoyment and dharma bodies.

Question: The sutra text mentions "reaching non-retrogression, one-life-away from Buddhahood." If so, how does Master Zizhou explain the stage of non-retrogression? It continues: "From the second to ninth grounds." Regarding this, examining the sutra's beginning and end and investigating the stage of non-retrogression: during the three great asaṃkhyeya kalpas, regarding the pre-ground stage, it mentions a hundred great kalpas; in the second kalpa, it says "attaining patience of non-arising"; emerging from the initial Ground of Joy; in the third kalpa, it mentions the initial eighth ground, saying "reaching non-retrogression"; at the completion stage, it says "one-life-away from Buddhahood." Should the non-retrogression stage be called the eighth ground? Moreover, in the conventional study of sacred teachings, the Immovable Ground is named non-retrogression. Establishing this name from the second ground - its proof has not been seen. How should this be understood?

I say: This matter is most puzzling. It should not be casually resolved. First, turning my foolish consideration: In the commentary's understanding, within the establishment of seven grounds, the pre-ground stage is called "initial arousal of aspiration abiding"; the enhanced intentional joy abiding says "attaining patience of non-arising";

【Lower section】
the ground of practicing correct practices enters the sutra's words "reaching non-retrogression." It shows from the second to seventh grounds. From the second ground, cutting off wrong practice obstructions and separating from mistaken transgression ignorance, it is the stage of practicing correct practices. The definite ground and definite practice ground are the eighth and ninth grounds. "Reaching non-retrogression" refers to this. One-life-away from Buddhahood reaches the ultimate ground - the tenth ground's ultimate position of causes. The lineage ground and Tathāgata ground are omitted. Therefore "immediately reaching non-retrogression" explains the definite ground and definite practice ground. "The seven from second to ninth grounds" explains the ground of practicing correct practices. Among the nine grounds from second to tenth ground, it means up to the seventh. Originally, the ground of practicing correct practices takes from second to seventh grounds, so the meaning is that from second to ninth grounds, it refers up to the seventh. If so, the name non-retrogression does not refer to from second to ninth grounds. This is probably mistaken reasoning. If following advanced analysis, saying "from seventh to ultimate position, namely the tenth ground," from seventh ground to ultimate position is called ultimate of causes, called the tenth ground.

Question: The sutra text does not clarify the heavens of the form realm. First, does the fourth dhyāna have cloud-ground support, or how should this be understood? There are problems on both sides. If it exists, the fourth dhyāna heaven is called the Cloudless Heaven. We know the fourth dhyāna has no cloud-ground support. Accordingly, in sutras and treatises, it is determined there is no cloud-ground support. Also, the present commentary explains "dwelling apart from clouds." If following this interpretation of non-existence, the master judges in other places that "there is cloud-ground support." How should this be understood?

I say: The dwelling places of various heavens, according to superior and inferior karmic results, have separate locations with different levels.