【Page 28】
【Upper section】
There are two views. There are problems on both sides. If it is not named "mental karma-path," when externally manifesting body and speech while internally activating mind, why wouldn't the impulse-initiating superior thought that manifests body and speech be considered mental karma-path? According to this, in the present commentary it states "what is able to manifest body and speech is precisely mental karma." This interpretation undoubtedly considers it mental karma-path. If this is so, the Consciousness-Only Treatise takes deliberative-decisive thought as mental karma-path and relates impulse-initiating superior thought to bodily and verbal karma. Also, the Yogācāra Treatise names thought that does not initiate body and speech as "mental karma." It is known that this is not named mental karma. Both sides are unclear. How should this be understood?

The Suvarna Commentary Volume 6 states: "From 'arriving at the Honored One' in the sutra onward,礼讃 is expressed. First is bodily reverence, then verbal praise. This is the beginning. What is able to manifest body and speech is precisely mental karma. The praise of the three karmas expresses deep respect." The Second Lamp states: "Within mental karma, do the ten virtues and ten evils produce formless [karma]? There are two explanations in the chapter. However, the Essential Collection states: 'According to one interpretation, the Tripitaka Master explains: The text of fifty-three only discusses mental manifest karma regarding present activity. According to this, formless [karma] is established based on seeds. Now examining the Tripitaka Master's meaning: body and speech manifest and transform, therefore they are named manifest karma. Thought-seeds do not manifest, therefore they are called formless. Mental karma only manifests itself, therefore it can be called manifest. Seeds do not manifest themselves, therefore they are also named formless. The Dharma Garden has two explanations. One says it produces formless [karma], the other says it does not. The latter explanation is correct. The Tripitaka Master's meaning maintains the former explanation. This explanation is not so. The Dharma Garden's two explanations can be used as one wishes. This does not definitively determine the latter explanation's meaning. According to present understanding, it definitely produces formless [karma]. Since bodhisattva precepts completely prevent the three karmas, surpass the two vehicles,

【Lower section】
and extend to the end of future time, how could they not produce supreme formless [karma]? The previous two explanations spoke about ordinary cases, not about disciplinary rules."

The treatise states: "However, depending on thought-vows and the limits of good and evil, provisionally establishing formless [karma] also has no contradiction. This means it is established either based on the position where good and evil thought-seeds that manifest superior body and speech increase, or based on present thought that stops bodily and verbal evil within concentration. Therefore this is provisionally existent. ○ Thought that can move the body is called bodily karma. Thought that can manifest speech is called verbal karma. Deliberative-decisive thought, because it corresponds with mind and activates mind, is called mental karma."

The Second Commentary states: "The treatise's 'or depending on within concentration' ○ Regarding this mental manifest karma, what is presently active is named manifest. However, what should be explained is: what great elements create the two types of formless [karma], etc. This is like the explanations in fifty-four and sixty-six, etc., and like the commentary explanations in Volume 7 below. The reason why the three karmas' formless [karma] are all provisional is like the explanations in Buddha Land Volume 4 on karma accomplishment, etc."

Kasuga Shrine New Building Ten Volumes, Third Section
Completed one collation using manuscript
[The manuscript states]
Paper preparation completed. Zen-bō Gon-shō (Jōshin-in administrator) Monk Administrator's oversight

【Page 29】
【Upper section】
First year of Eiroku (1558, Year of the Earth Horse), seventh month, eleventh day. Scribe: Harunobu Kiyotane.
Eliminating sins and producing virtue 〻〻〻〻

【Lower section】
Table of Contents for Saishō Mondō-shō Volume 4

Volume 4
Question: The sutra states "seven-jewel flower pools, eight-merit water overflowing." In the present flower pools, do four-colored lotus flowers grow together?
Question: The sutra states "not obtained now obtained, attachment and ignorance." What dharma does "not obtained now obtained" refer to?
Question: Regarding the bodhisattva's five types of vows, first, should there be birth-receiving vows in both good and evil destinies?
Question: Did Brahmā King and Indra request the four noble truths dharma wheel practiced in common by the three vehicles?
Question: The sutra states "neither arising nor ceasing, neither existent nor non-existent." Does this explain the dharma body?
Question: Is the sutra's "sixth ground non-characteristic contemplation" the aspects of subsequently-attained wisdom?
Question: Why is the fifth ground named "Extremely Difficult to Overcome Ground"?
Question: Is the sixth prajñāpāramitā fundamental wisdom?
Question: Is the sutra text's "ignorance that initiates various karmic activities" cognitive-obstruction ignorance?
Question: The sutra states "At that time, Lion-Mark Unobstructed Light-Flame Bodhisattva." Based on what supreme virtue did he obtain this name?
Question: Does the arousal of aspiration before fruition-attainment take the ground of resolute understanding?