【Right Page】
1. Heavy soil mixed with small stones is good for cocoon silk. Land with sand or alluvial soil mixed in is good for mulberry trees used for seed collection. This is called "honba" (main field). Alluvial soil refers to soil found near rivers, mixed with sand left behind by river floods. It is also called "hena soil."

1. For soil to grow mulberry seedlings, fields mixed with sand are good. In hard soil locations, many rotten roots will spread extensively. Also, seedlings cultivated in stony ground or hard soil locations are said to take root well. Sometimes mice or moles may attack the seedlings. In such cases, split thin bamboo in half and drive it into the ground near the seedling at the soil surface. The length should be about four to five sun.

1. For the aforementioned second-year seedlings, in the spring of the following year, place them about one shaku four to five sun from the soil surface, cut off the new shoots, cultivate and dig the field to knee height, place abundant fertilizer, plant on top of it, cultivate and fertilize during summer and autumn, and whenever weeds grow, remove them repeatedly so that nutrients are not taken by the weeds.

【Left Page】
This should be done properly. With these third-year seedlings, this is called "kama-ire" (sickle cutting). At this time, when cutting the tree, cutting from bottom to top is bad. Insert the sickle from top to bottom in a splitting cut. Even when the tree becomes thick, cut it all at once, taking care not to damage the bark. Before kama-ire, abundant strong fertilizer should be applied.

【Illustration】
1. For mulberry nutrition, there is a method called "kokasu" where mulberry manure is soaked in urine and used. Also, chicken manure, sake lees, rice bran, stable manure - anything is good. Kitchen wastewater is also good. However, if there is salt content, insects will attach to the mulberry.

1. There is something called "white insect" on mulberry trees where the trunk becomes white. This indicates that disease has entered the mulberry tree. If left alone, it will gradually grow larger and the tree will die the following year. Very carefully...