【Right Page】
　and also mulberry leaf leftovers. This should be done daily. At this time, the mulberry should be hung with branches intact. If done this way, the silkworms will attach to these branches, so they can be taken out as is, and during that time the bottom can be cleaned.

1. For silkworms, first scatter coarse rice bran, place the silkworms on top of it, then hang mulberry leaves. Since these insects feed on mulberry from the middle upward, if moved directly to another container, it saves labor.

1. Before silkworms make cocoons, the insects become translucent. Following this stage, they should be put into ebira (cocooning frames).

1. Cocoons should not be dried - fresh cocoons will produce silk with luster (silver shine) and good weight, which is very good. Dried cocoons have no weight and poor silk color.

1. Likewise, in evaluation, when held in the hand and examined, some appear glossy. Others are blackish or too white. Some appear thick at both ends. Those that are blackish or too white are bad. Those that are too hard are "wind-blown cocoons." One sho (measure) contains approximately 350-60 to 400 cocoons.

【Left Page】
1. Good silk cocoons are those that are slightly blue-colored, with some shrinkage, and smaller in size.

1. The number of days to completion: if the weather and season are good, it finishes in about 44-45 days. When the weather is bad with rain, it may take 50-60 days. The reason rain delays the process is that there is much dew on the mulberry leaves, and since there is no time for them to dry, feeding the silkworms cannot be done as intended.

1. Method of boiling cocoons: when first bringing to a boil, all of the boiled water should be ladled out without leaving any. This is called "boiling water." When water is added and brought to a boil again, the cocoon threads are taken and stirred, making the water turbid, so it should be ladled out again. Next, add water and when boiled to the right temperature (tested by hand), the silk will have good luster (silver shine). If the turbid water is not ladled out, the silk will have poor luster and become blackish.