【Right Page】
　In particular, clean water should be used, and mixing it with used water is extremely
　bad.
1. When silkworms ascend to cocoon (jōzoku), if hard mulberry is hung, the cocoons will be hard; if soft mulberry is hung, the cocoons will be soft. From the beginning, when hanging mulberry leaves, they should be sifted through a basket with holes the size of azuki beans. As the silkworms grow, the mulberry should be cut larger. Particularly, the cutting method should be diagonal to the veins, which is the traditional way.
　There are four varieties of silkworms:
　　Shirako: Easy to handle and reliable, so considered good
　　Hikochi-shu: Produces hard, small cocoons. Considered the finest grade
　　Yamabushi-ko: Completely black, like a caterpillar
　　Yellow cocoons: These produce yellow-colored cocoons. Second to Hikochi-shu

【Left Page】
1. Summer silkworms become cocoons in about 44-45 days. Spring silkworms become cocoons in about 60 days. Since summer silkworms require cutting mulberry twice, this damages the mulberry for the following year and the budding becomes poor. However, since this is after rice planting when there is a brief lull in farming, they are raised again. Even when they become cocoons, they are thin cocoons of poor quality. Generally, summer silkworm cocoons are not used for silk thread but for silk floss.

1. If mulberry is cultivated in a 100-step field and planted about four shaku (feet) apart in each direction, this is just right for one sheet of silkworm eggs.

1. When silkworms ascend to cocoon, putting in straw is called "attaching to mabushi." The straw is made into triangular shapes and arranged in about twelve rows each. One piece of straw matting (komo) for mabushi can accommodate about five square trays. Too thick is not good. Making the container from straw matting is called "ebira." After finishing defecation and urination, they attach to the mabushi and begin making cocoons. They can be seen through (translucent). Those with blackness at the rear are