【Right Page】
　When the thread twisting is completed as described above, wind it onto small spools. The threads should be connected and wound gradually. When winding by hand with moisture, it creates unevenness in the thread, which is bad. There are oral teachings about this.
　　　Thread Refining Method
1. For thread weighing one kanme, cut and loosen five empty straw bags, burn them all at once in a single burning, and before the fire goes out, sprinkle a little water to extinguish the fire. If the burning is insufficient, the refined thread will turn yellow. If over-burned, the ash will not work well. It should be burned so it burns completely. Also, it should not be burned so much that it becomes white. Attach a spout to a four-to barrel, insert cedar leaves from inside, put in the aforementioned ash, add water to about one inch below the rim of the barrel, and after two or three days, remove the spout and collect the lye water.
1. Put the lye water into a kettle, add the thread, put about a handful of soybeans in a cloth bag, and boil the soybean bag together with the thread.
【Left Page】
　Start boiling from the sixth hour of morning (around 6 AM), and if boiled until the fourth hour (around 10 AM), it will be refined to a good degree. At this time, take out the beans from the bag and pinch them with fingers - the degree at which the beans crush with a "soft" feeling is considered the optimal degree. After refining, lift it out and rinse with clean water. Well water is bad. Rinse thoroughly with running water. After rinsing, thread poles through the top and bottom, wring it out, and dry it in the sun. After that, it is dyed. If two people twist the upper and lower poles, it wrings out well. It should definitely be hung to dry. Next, reel it back onto spools and set aside.
1. When refining, the fire should be kept burning continuously so that it is always boiling. The kettle should definitely be covered while refining.
　　　Thread Twist Shrinkage Measurements
1. For tezara thread, when twisted from below, it shrinks by one jo two shaku. When combined and twisted, three...