【Right Page】
One: Cotton planting methods and care should vary according to climate and soil, but first and foremost, the selection of male and female plants
　should not change regardless of region. There are three types: early-ripening varieties, medium varieties,
　and late-ripening varieties. Those with large white flowers are early-ripening. Those with yellow flowers that later turn
　pale red are medium varieties. Those with purple flowers mixed with yellow flowers are late-ripening
　varieties. Moreover, there will be variations depending on the land. Besides these, there are varieties like turmeric-colored
　and cherry-colored types, all of which are early-ripening varieties. One should select and cultivate
　those suited to the local conditions. Among these, the yellow-flowered variety is superior. The stem is
　blue-green and the leaves have a slightly blackish tint. Also, if one prefers beautiful cotton,
　one should cultivate the white-flowered variety. When made into thread, it has luster. Also, when classifying cotton quality
　by flowers into superior, medium, and inferior grades: large white flowers are superior, yellow is medium,
　and purple is inferior. Now, for seed selection, first learn well to distinguish male and female plants,
　and during flowering season, mark the female plants whose characteristics do not change
　and leave them. When collecting seeds, those from the base are poor. Cotton from branch tips is even worse.
【Left Page】
　When you see cotton that has opened about halfway, during peak blooming, store by branch.
　The first and second branches are poor. Branch tips are also poor. From the third and fourth
　branches, select cotton that has fully opened and is thick. Also, when examining seed
　quality, take them in hand and rub them - good seeds are
　pale black. Poor ones appear red. Judging by the size
　of the fruit is the ordinary method, but it's difficult to determine the very best quality. Also, when
　twisting seeds to examine them, seeds with edges that don't roll when rolled
　are considered superior. Poor seeds roll easily. Those without edges are male, and those with edges
　are female seeds, so they should be used. Even when sowing female seeds like this, both male and female
　plants will emerge, so when they reach the two-leaf stage, keep the female plants and remove the male ones.
　Females grow slowly. Males emerge first and grow quickly. Male seedlings are
　thick and tall. Females have somewhat weaker seedlings with a smaller appearance,
　looking delicate from the beginning. Therefore, tall seedlings are all