【Right Page】
　That is how it is done. However, this cotton is called "one makuri" (one bundle), weighing about two hundred fifty
　me each. Generally, beating one shime of cotton by weight is set as one person's work,
　and one shime of cotton is made into four makuri.
One: When beating gradually from right to left, there is a place called "yama" (mountain) that
　catches cotton waste. This mountain becomes high with cotton waste.
　Cotton is beaten well over this mountain to fly to the left side. Waste is caught at this mountain. At one time,
　two hundred fifty me are beaten. However, if much cotton is beaten, the mountain becomes
　high and waste increases, making cotton hard to fly, so
　the mountain should be cleared at appropriate intervals. This mountain is also beaten. Good cotton
　catches on the string and flies across, while waste remains. Also, when this waste
　is beaten in reverse and tangled on the string, seeds and other debris
　fall down below. Also, what is beaten back is called "middle cotton."
【Left Page】
One: "Ageuchi" (lifting beat) means beating the initially beaten cotton once more, as in the beginning.
　Also called "kaeri" (return), beating in reverse from left to right, then
　rubbing the cotton with the back of the bow and pressing it down with a board.
　This makes it into thread cotton. However, when beating "kaeri," it is done at the tip area of the basket.
　It is not beaten on top of the basket. For ageuchi, two hundred
　fifty me are beaten into three sheets.
One: "Kagoshita" (under basket) refers to cotton that falls under the spreading basket. It contains soil and seeds
　mixed in and is very poor quality cotton. This is sifted through
　a large-meshed basket, soil and seeds and other debris removed, lightly beaten, and put into horse blankets, etc.
One: "Tobiwata" (flying cotton) scatters and accumulates mostly at the tip area of the basket on the left side.
　It cannot be produced in large quantities. It is extremely
　top-quality cotton. It is good for any use and is very beautiful.