【Right Page】
　When doing this in bad weather, it does not dry well and becomes blackish with poor color.
1. First, soak the safflowers in water for a night, then put them in a cloth bag and knead them well in the river until no more yellow water comes out. Squeeze and lift them out, roll them up and set aside. From here, boil water, lay paper in a colander, add lime to camellia ash, filter with boiling water, and knead out the safflowers. Keep the first extraction separate, then knead out a second time with boiling water and keep it separate. The third time is the same as above. For all of these, filter through cloth and add good vinegar to the kneaded red water. It should be added to the best degree possible. Separate the cloth for this vinegar-added red water from first to third grade, and while there is water, knead it into hemp cloth, and bleach that cloth in lukewarm water until the yellow juice stops coming out.
1. Next, add a little camellia ash water to boiling water from the beginning 《marginal note: intending about half the original weight》, lay paper in a colander to filter, put the first cloth in this water, and take vinegar in hand

【Left Page】
　and add two shakes, knead it out very well and put it in a separate bucket. Also add boiling water and up to three times as above, keep the red water from first to third grade separate. Filter this kneaded red water through habutae silk, add appropriate amounts of plum vinegar and rice vinegar, judging by the condition of the red water and adding by estimation. If done this way, all the red will remain on top of the habutae silk, and the water will drain through to the bottom.
1. For 100 monme of safflowers, add approximately 65 monme of camellia ash and 6 monme 5 bu of lime in proportion, adding by estimation.
1. For 100 monme of safflowers, use 1 sho of superior vinegar; for plum vinegar, soak 1 kin of dried plums in water.
　　　Method of dissolving rouge and dyeing method
1. First place the rouge on habutae silk, and when lye water is poured from above, the rouge disperses. Of course, if you take the silk and shake it, it comes out. The technique of handling by hand