The relationship between topographical elevation and depression with respect to animals is likewise the same as with plants. Therefore, my earlier statement that "mountain ridges obstruct the distribution of living organisms more than the vast oceans do" is by no means an exaggeration.

Although the laws governing the distribution of animals and plants are broadly the same, one point in which animals such as birds, fish, and mammals differ from plants is that they sometimes migrate great distances in pursuit of water and food. One must not, however, confuse this concept of "migration" with the nature of horses, cattle, sheep, dogs, and pigs in becoming domesticated and obedient to humans. "Migration" here refers to a change in habitat within the same temperature range for the purpose of seeking food, whereas domestication refers to a transformation of the creature's constitution itself, independent of climate.

Among all animals, humans are the ones most broadly distributed across the surface of the earth. This is not only because the human constitution is widely adaptable to various climates, but also because human intelligence enables people to make clothing, construct dwellings, kindle fires, and store provisions, thus providing sufficient means to resist the forces of climate. For this reason, it is entirely reasonable to say that there is no land where humans cannot survive, and no land where they cannot achieve the purposes of life given some degree of civilization.

While the general public regards humankind as a single species, naturalists have divided humanity into several races based on their distinctive physical characteristics. Ethnologists have further expanded this discussion and subdivided it even more finely, based on minor differences in appearance, language, and so forth — such as lineages and tribal groups. The theory that the inhabitants of a given region naturally acquire characteristics suited to that land the longer they reside there is reasonable enough; however, the claim that differences in local dialect, skin and hair color, the shape of the nasal bridge and the parietal bone, and so forth, all serve as evidence for such fine subdivisions, cannot escape the charge of being contrary to reason. As for the important discussion of race, it shall be addressed in the chapter on ethnology.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Proofread by Kubo Yoshito

Physical Geography — End