Record of the Inner Palace Sleeping Arrangements for the Year of the Dragon

May (29 days), June (29 days), July (30 days), August (29 days), September (30 days), October (29 days), November (30 days), Intercalary November (30 days), December (30 days)

[Calendar entries listing specific dates for each month arranged in columns]

[Note below:] Items at His Lordship's discretion are listed on the front page.

Tenpō 3, Year of the Water Dragon (1832)
Tenryōin-sama's third residence in the domain. Chamberlain: Ōmiya Tōma. Senior Attendants: Atsumi Shinuemon and Kumagai Kohei.

1. On the 9th day of the 5th month, at Imajō, he awakened around 9 o'clock the previous evening, departed after half past 9, and around 7 o'clock at dawn entered the Sabaha rest station where he partook of the morning meal. Between Wakimoto and Imajuku, torches were lit, and around half past 5, he entered the Mizuochi midday rest station, where he used his comb and toothpick. He departed around half past 4, and at half past 9 (with the water level at 2 sun 5 bu), he arrived at the castle in increasingly good spirits. ○ The ceremonial proceedings followed the usual protocol; after the garden ceremony concluded, he entered the small reception room and performed his hand-washing ritual. The off-duty personnel then withdrew, the small reception room was sealed off, and he partook of his second meal.

1. Hayashi Tetsujirō was dispatched from Teishōin-sama until midday and appeared for an audience at the time of departure.
　　　Gift list: 200 gold pieces　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Tetsujirō
　This was received from the secretarial office as a formal presentation and delivered by the senior attendant.

1. The senior attendant was excused from overnight duty as in previous years and withdrew after making his evening report at 7 o'clock.
　　　Fish offering fee: 200 gold pieces
　This was sent to Princess-sama via tonight's first express messenger service through the inner palace, while for Young Lord-sama and Princess Tsutsushimi-sama...