Sixteen medicated plasters for moxibustion points　　Kurisaki Dōhaku
The above was presented as it was previously offered to the previous lord

1. On June 21st, kemari (court football) was played at the main castle's horse grounds, and secondary kemari was also ordered
　　3 shō of sake　　　Those summoned from both duty rooms, both on-duty and off-duty personnel  
　　1 shō of sake　　　Inner daisu (tea ceremony stand attendant)
The above was bestowed due to kemari being frequently ordered. However, for the daisu, it is only bestowed to both rooms during the initial presentation ceremony, not bestowed repeatedly each time

[Written in red ink]
1. Morning glory pot　　Hosoi Gentoku
The above is frequently presented for his lordship's entertainment
1. One soapstone seal for献上 (presentation)　Ōno Kogenta
1. Departure tomorrow, audience　Yoshida Ittei

1. June 23rd
　　Due to years of diligent service, maintaining current duties while being appointed to seat-determined guard duty outside regular rotation　　Kumagai Kohyōe

[Written in red ink]  
1. On the 25th at 5 o'clock, during the move, received gratitude for retiring without incident
　　　　On the 27th, presented 200 mon as fish money

27th day
1. Fish money, 500 mon in gold　　Omote Chōshōji Temple
　The above presentation was submitted by the chamberlain
1. Fish money, 200 mon in gold　Inspector　Tsuda Yataroku　Presented due to being appointed to an honorable position
1. On the 28th at 5:30, during the move, received gratitude at the family temple, prayer temples, and others
1. On the 28th, after horseback riding at the main castle's horse grounds, regarding the horse that was to be kept for this kemari session, viewed horses presented by Sasaji Daigaku, Matsudaira Shuma, Ōtani Tange, and Hasegawa Gen'noshin

1. On June 29th, entered the Minamigawa cormorant fishing river, and when the hand-trained cormorants were sent out today, they responded very well to his wishes, putting him in exceptionally good spirits. With utmost joy, all attendants were appointed to partner cormorant fishing, for which we are most grateful
　　Bestowed: confections, three pieces of Kyoto kosode, three small account books　Sakai Hanjūrō
　　5 gō of sake, half block of tofu　　　Fujita Yogorōemon　
　　5 shō of the same　　　　　　　　　Boatmen
　　2 shō of the same　　　　　　　　　Cormorant masters  
　　2 shō of the same　　　　　　　　　Bird watchers
　The above was bestowed according to precedent for the first cormorant fishing

1. [Red ink: sweetfish 94] Hand-trained cormorant sweetfish [Red ink: 376, with 3 remaining] Side cormorants [Red ink: plus 2 additional sweetfish] 467 [Red ink: 35 sweetfish each to 5 people] Senior councilors [Red ink: 30 each to 2 people] Middle councilors [Red ink: 18 each to 9 people] Chamberlains
　[Red ink: 50] Bestowed to inner palace ladies and others. The above follows the precedent of the first cormorant fishing of the year of entering the domain. Since these were sweetfish caught that day, this was communicated to the chamberlains and distributed under their management [Red ink: 20] Nakazawa Hayato also received some according to precedent, delivered by Shingohyōe

1. On the last day of June, after viewing the airing of books in the study hall, entered and viewed all the senior councilor rooms and other rooms without exception

[Written in red ink]
1. One openwork iron tsuba (sword guard)　Presented by tsuba craftsman Takahashi Kinai, received by middle councilor and presented for viewing
1. One pair of scoters　Presented by falconer Yahyōe from Imajō, submitted by Kishi Gorozaemon for viewing