[The right page is on the previous frame]
This should be sent around to the Edo kitchen quarters and delivered to Sakuzaemon

[In red ink] One item: 9th day - During falconry in the Kamigata direction, one side white heron was caught by Tanabe Gotayū. He was immediately ordered to receive it as a gift. This is generally how it usually goes.

[Red ink on attached paper] One item: 12th day, courier departs
Small dried flounder, 100 pieces in box
The above for Princess-sama
Same, 60 pieces  
The above for Koto Princess-sama
Same, 30 pieces with accompanying letter
The above for Kin Princess-sama
Young kelp, 100 pieces
The above for Tentokuji head priest via the Great Interior
One wild goose caught by hawk
The above for three middle-ranking retainers of the residence

[Written in red ink below] 12th day
One item: Fresh confections, one box, offering - Senshōin
The above was bestowed upon Shin'emon and others in the page quarters [up to here in red ink]

12th day
One item: Sake lees pickles, Moriguchi radish, one tub - Mikaniya Den'emon
Since this person had served as a purveyor in previous years, he wished to make a private offering, so the kitchen head presented it to the meal service for inspection

[Written in red ink below]
13th day  
One item: Castle town rounds, attendant Kobei's overnight stay excused [up to here in red ink]

One item: 15th day of 2nd month, his lordship's birthday celebration. The senior retainers had audience in the firearms room. However, at the time of this audience, although Shin'emon was on duty, since he had accompanied the falconry yesterday and was excused from evening duty, he did not appear due to morning service duties.

[Red ink on attached paper]
One item: 15th day, relay courier departs at the hour of the horse (around noon)
Yesterday's hawk-caught wild goose, one bird, with salt and red bean stuffing arranged by meal service
The above for six middle-ranking ladies and one page of the residence
Additionally, there is said to be one attendant on duty before his lordship. Whether it would be appropriate to include them among those receiving gifts - instructions were given to consider and arrange this matter through correspondence from the domain elders to Edo [up to here in red ink]

One item: 16th day of 2nd month
One item: Today falconry at Sokokui area
Chicken eggs, one basket, offering - Kitchen quarters, Tensugao village, Zensuke  
Appointed to physician rank with ladle, ordered to serve in Edo this autumn - Rear physician rank, ophthalmologist Murakami San'etsu

[In red ink]
One item: 18th day, after straw target archery practice, Iijima Shinzaemon was ordered to perform ceremonial shooting for observation. After completion, three rounds of ceremonial shooting practice were performed [up to here in red ink]

One item: 19th day of 2nd month
One wild goose caught by hawk
One direct letter
The above were sent to Matsudaira Sahyōe-no-suke-sama's domain at Akashi. However, arrangements were made with the magistrate beforehand, to be sent out tomorrow by town messenger. This morning, minor equipment assistant Kawasaki Gensuke brought it to the accounting office. ○ A letter from the head retainer was attached and sent to their side attendants.

[In red ink]
One item: 20th day, seventh memorial service for Saijuin-sama. Temple visit to Unshōji with tea ceremony and sutra arrangements as invited, wearing formal attire with ceremonial sash. Regarding this, instructions were issued that falconry should not be sent out ahead, and from now on, even in normal years, falconry should not be sent out ahead on the 20th day of the 2nd month. However, in normal years, the granted hunting grounds are not announced.

20th day, courier arrived
One item: Confections, one box, from Princess-sama
One item: Reply letter from Matsudaira Kunai-no-taiyu-dono  
One item: "Wa-Kan Inkstone Manual," three volumes, Takadaya Bunkichi
The above are items presented to accompany the Arima inkstone offered last winter

[Red ink on attached paper]
One item: 21st day
"Fortune-telling Manual," three volumes, Hanihara Jirōemon  
The above were sent from Himeji domain, offered as usual each year. One volume each was presented to Kengorō-sama and Teishōin-sama, and circulated to Koemon and Shirōzaemon [up to here in red ink]

One item: 23rd day of 2nd month
Five ryō in gold - for internal use rounds - Hanaki Sakae