This was dedicated.

[In red ink] When the above-mentioned head priest was residing in Shinmei-machi, he was ordered in the 7th month of the previous Tiger year, after inquiry, to conduct smallpox healing prayers for the lord and Kengorō-sama. In the Horse year, both lords recovered from light smallpox, and on the 5th day of the 12th month of that year, by the will of Itoku-in-sama, he was ordered to succeed to the current shrine family. Based on this lineage, he made this request [up to here in red ink]

First offering silver, 2 pieces - Oka, Saikō-ji Temple
The above requested through a written petition to the side attendant head that they wished to organize a memorial hall lecture and permanently serve without negligence at Shibata-kō's image hall and regular festivals. Particularly since last spring, when proxy worship was ordered during the distant memorial service and there were also matters of first offering donations, there was a donation from his personal funds.

[Upper section entry]
Small ducks from falconry, one each
- Kojima Chisaku
- Ōhashi Sakei
- Tamamura Nyotaku
The above were received by gracious will
Side attendant head added letter
and had them delivered [up to here]

One item: From tonight on the 9th, night duty is excused
One item: 10th day of 3rd month, Shin'emon and Kobei's night duty excused during 10-day rest. Although it was ordered the spring before last to inquire about duties at evening 7 o'clock and then withdraw, from this year it was announced by the chamberlain to inquire at 8 o'clock and then withdraw.

[Upper section in red ink]
11th day
One item: Butterbur, one stand
The above was presented as a product from Kengorō-sama's tea garden

12th day
One item: Reply letter to Princess-sama
One item: Same to Matsudaira Kunai-no-taiyu-dono

15th day
One item: Appointed to lowest rank outside regular roster
- Kiyota Tanzō
One item: This evening before 8 o'clock, with attendant assembly, went to Teishōin-sama's residence to take leave, presenting formal clothing, silk wrapping cloth, and court dress as follows:
Assorted fish, one box - however, due to shortage of fresh items, presented 3 salted cod
One item: Taiping Guangji, one set - lacquerer Gohei
The above was offered, having been presented together when the Daming Yitongzhi was offered last winter
[up to here in red ink]

One item: 12th day of 3rd month, there was an invitation from the senior councilors, as usual
One item: 13th day of 3rd month, sake was granted to officials ○ In the morning he heard about caretaking duties and wore silk formal crested hakama
During caretaking, garden assistant - rear guard junior seat Katō Dosaburo
During caretaking, library assistant - personal attendant Takahata Ichirōemon
The above was announced in the secretaries' quarters

By gracious will, to appear periodically to inquire about well-being - Flag magistrate
On such occasions, to wait in the middle gate passage long hearth room - Yamashina Hachijūrō
For other duties, to appear through the front entrance as before, it was announced - however, this was announced in the secretaries' quarters

One item: 15th day of 3rd month, after formal greetings there was a ceremony for completion of training, same as two years ago. Eleven people - Ichihashi Gunbei, Iijima Shirōzaemon, Idebuchi Heibei, Ihara Genbei, Takano Sōzaemon, Nakamura Ichiemon, Kiyota Tanzō, Hasegawa Takeemon, Takahata Kinzaburō, Akashi Bungorō, Hanaki Eiu - received gifts. This year there were also private instructions, with one sake cup and one pair of fans each granted. The rest received the usual gifts as before.

One item: After the training completion ceremony ended, Akashi Bungorō presented the secret transmission of cutting paper techniques. He took his seat in the main room, Bungorō brought the cutting paper scroll, prostrated in the second room, and received gracious words. Bungorō directly presented the scroll before his lord and returned to his seat. At this time the page head appeared, opened five cutting paper scrolls and presented them on the viewing stand. Here Bungorō appeared at the regular seat, gave a lecture and finished, went down to the second room and told the chamberlain about the school's cutting paper techniques, expressing gratitude for completing his duties. The chamberlain responded with gracious words, and after another response from the chamberlain, he withdrew. There were written oaths from all those in formal dress serving in his presence.

One sake cup and one pair of fans each - Kishi Rihei, Nomura Katsugorō
The above were granted by gracious will for their exceptional diligence since last year, delivered from the falconry department

One item: 16th day of 3rd month

[Below in red ink]
One item: At 8 o'clock with attendant assembly, went to Teishōin-sama to take leave, also went to Kengorō-sama and they had a face-to-face meeting

Sent to Matsudaira Shume's household by gracious will with attached letter
Assorted fish: 2 grey mullet, 2 abalone
Corbicula clams
The above were presented by the same residence

Sake and soup
Fish dishes with prepared pufferfish, sweets - the above were presented as congratulations

Fish money gift list
The above was presented to the same residence through Great Interior handling