The above was presented as usual for the birthday celebrations. The meal attendant made arrangements.
　　From the same residence　Mixed delicacies　one tray　was presented

Item: At the second meal, celebrated with lotus rice received as mid-year gifts, the meal was the birthday celebration meal presented by the Young Lord, followed by tea tasting.
　　From Lord Kaigoro　Grapes　one basket　garden produce was presented

Item: July 29th, memorial service visit for Lady Ryūhōin's death anniversary month, worship at Unshōji mausoleum.
　　Meal portions given　　　To Ōmiya Tōma
　The above was given by special consideration as he had been confined due to illness during this time. The chamberlain's head sent it with an accompanying letter.

Item: August 1st, assembled at 5:30 for individual audiences. A courier departed today.
　　To Princess　Makiya tobacco　two boxes　presented with a letter

Item: August 3rd, for the postponed Hassaku celebration, audience ceremonies were held alternately in the inner palace. Entered in formal dress. Lord Kaigoro did not enter; Zenshirō announced the audience.

Item: After 4 o'clock, entered the former sitting room archery range for gunnery practice. Frequently.

Item: Evening, gun viewing at the archery range, ordered for the chamberlains. Frequently.

Item: August 4th, courier arrived.
　　From Princess Koto　a letter was presented

Item: August 5th, assembled at 5:30 to observe Hasegawa Buemon's disciples, viewing together with Lord Kaigoro as usual.

Item: August 6th, with escort assembled before 7 o'clock, entered Lady Teishōin's residence.
　　　　　　Watermelon　three　presented for the comfort of the attendants

Item: August 8th　Weir-caught sweetfish, one basket of 50　presented　from Iijima village
　The above was announced by the administrator, ordered to be salted, and arrangements were ordered to present them to the Princess as well.

Item: August 9th, courier departed.
　　To Princess　Red and white rice crackers　one box
　　To Princess Koto　Reply letter

Item: August 10th
　　Antique manufacture
　　　White boar reverse cheek quiver　one set　　　　　Yoshida Mozaemon
　The above was secretly presented through the chamberlain administrator, as it was said to be newly made for inspection when he and his son came previously to request hall archery.

Item: August 11th, assembled before 7 o'clock for polo, senior retainers' sons, castle deputy's sons, and second and third sons of senior retainers observed, altogether senior retainers

【Red ink notation】
Inner Palace
Inner Palace sleeping quarters in August
5th　6th　8th　18th　20th　21st　22nd　23rd
24th　27th　28th