To Princess:
　　　Confections: Chinese rice crackers, one box
　　　Snow seaweed: two boxes - presented due to cold season
　　　Letter
　　　True duck from hawking, one (sent with letter from chief attendant) - to Lord Niimura Tōbei

1. December 21st
　　Bestowed items:
　　　(Two sword cord sets, one sake cup) - to Chief Falconer Kuze Hachizaemon
　The above was granted in recognition of previously submitted falconry ground maps. Delivered by the chief attendant.

1. After nine o'clock, Iijima Shirōemon and his son appeared to present archery instruction. [The lord] took his seat in the practice hall. Two archery manuals were first delivered by Shirōemon to the chief attendant in the anteroom, then presented when [the lord] took his formal seat. There were [the lord's] words (regarding father and son's names and school's midday [practice]). At this time, Shirōemon expressed gratitude to the attendant for the lord's gracious words, the attendant responded appropriately, and again there were congratulatory words from [the lord]. Then Shirōemon approached [the lord's] side and explained the six essential points of archery, his son Shinzaemon demonstrated these techniques for viewing, and it concluded with the usual gracious words.
　[The lord wore] formal silk fukusa and court dress, one practice supervisor wore court dress, all others wore ordinary clothes.

　　200 mon - Iijima Shirōemon  
　　100 mon - same, Shinzaemon
　The above was granted. Handled by the attendant, soup and sake were bestowed in the long hearth room. Also, during this instruction, with people cleared away, one attendant, one chief attendant, and one practice supervisor were present.

1. December 22nd - Only celebration of completed moxibustion treatment; two fans each bestowed upon all physicians.
　　Small heron from hawking, one - to Kiyota Tanzō
　The above was privately bestowed by [the lord's] gracious thought. Sent via the chief attendant.
　　Sea bream, two (privately presented and consumed) - Kawamura Bunpei

1. December 24th - Courier arrived
　　From Princess:
　　　Letter and reply letter
　　　Confections, one box - due to cold season
　　　Tea fiber hakama fabric, one roll - for year-end
　　　Protective amulets and talismans - for next year's unlucky year
　　　300 mon