1. February 21st - Express messenger dispatched, the following presentations and grants made:
　　Small dried shellfish one box　100 pieces　　to Princess
　　Same　　　　　　　　　　　30 pieces　　to Young Lord
　　Same　　　　　　　　　　　same　　　　to Princess Kin
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　50 pieces　　to Princess Koto
　Young kelp one box each　50 pieces each contained　to nuns residing at the residence《marginal note: Chigainin｜Hongenin》

Since this year's count was completed　residence　secretary
　　Female hawk　one bird to　　　attendant's office
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　clothing room
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　same rank

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Lord Tanaka Sōzaemon
　　Same　female hawk　one bird to　Lord Ōyagi Tōzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Elder Hirata Dōyū
【In red ink】By direct agreement made before departure last spring
　　　　To be handled through Ōoku via Tagawa and then
　　　　to proceed to residence elder

　　　　From Iida Sakuzaemon to Hayashi Hachiuemon in Edo
　　　　to be circulated and handled

　　　　Return courtesy presented to Lord Matsudaira Ukyōtayū
　　　　Direct handwritten reply
　　　　200 sheets of torinoko paper《marginal note: 100 five-color gems｜100 uchikumori》

　　　　100 pieces gold for fish offering, declared excellent and献上　Nakane Shinzaemon
【Up to here in red ink】

1. February 24th
　　15 monme silver　private contribution　retired falconer　Okada Oriemon
　The above, previously presented rice longevity cakes to your hands through Kuze Hachizaemon, so granted and delivered
　to Hachizaemon

1. February 27th
　Due to years of faithful service, granted 100 koku increase　Sakai Yosazaemon's group
　The above announced in the formal sitting room and granted ceremonial gift

　　New stipend 100 koku granted　　　　　　ceremonial affairs administrator　Kawasaki Shigetayū
　The above announced in the gun room

1. March 3rd
　　Exchange fish offering　one box　　　　　　　　Sakai Yosazaemon's group
　The above, due to recent salary increase granted, presented through messenger from secretary's office, but this morning courtesy
　before salary increase courtesy received in formal sitting room and granted ceremonial gift

1. March 4th　Ihara Genbei transmitted five-article catalog in private audience

【Below in red ink】
2nd day
1. Falconry at Niwakui area
　　　　Fresh sea bream two pieces　　Tensugō village　Zensuke
　The above presented due to kitchen service

Same express messenger arrived
1. Sweets in presentation box　to Princess
Same
1. Reply letter　from Princess Koto
Same
1. Sweets one box　from Kurahashi and others

　　　March 11th granted as petitioned
　　1. 29th day Shinemon petitioned for partial withdrawal loan from official stipend, oral statement
　　　　Kobei brought and submitted to council chamber
　　1. Yesterday falconry at Teramae area　yam　　Shibi entrance
　　　　The above presented due to kitchen service　■■ temple【damaged by insects】

　　Monkfish one　abalone two
　　　The above presented to Lord Keigorō