Various tribute items were used for tonight's entertainment in the form of a lucky draw (fukubiki) conducted in the lord's presence in the audience chamber. Following the recent precedent for lucky draws, only those on duty went before his lordship to receive lottery tickets. Although there were various attendants present tonight for moon viewing who had been summoned, those not on duty did not participate in receiving lottery tickets.
　　Kaifuku Sezaemon, Honda Kutayu, Yamashina Hachijuro
　　Nakazawa Hayato, Takamura Shingobei, Maeda Hikojiro
These six men received lottery tickets together with Kobei who was on duty.

One　For tonight's moon viewing banquet, following precedent, Senior Councilor, Domain Officials, Formal Protocol Officials Yamashina Hachijuro, Maeda Hikojiro, Kiyota Tanzo, and Takano Sozaemon were summoned. Those below the Formal Protocol Officials were contacted by letter from the Chamberlain Chiefs, with only chamberlain staff on duty attending. However, two groups of personal attendants went, along with one senior councilor, about half the domain officials, and about half the tea ceremony staff. The remaining portion will be summoned on the thirteenth night. Small implements assistants, inner monks, etc. attended as usual. Kitchen Head Yamaji Chobei and others among the outer monks who perform komai dances were summoned. Formal Protocol Assistant Hayashi Tetsujiro was to be ordered to perform noh chanting and was summoned, but did not attend due to illness. The moon viewing banquet began before 4 PM and concluded after 7:30 AM.

　　Formal presentation of delicacies　Tribute　　　　Senior Councilor
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Domain Officials
The above were presented for tonight's moon viewing. Some were ordered to be consumed, and the remainder became tonight's gifts. These were presented as initial offerings.

　　Fresh flower arrangement formal presentation　One set　　Chamberlain Chiefs (three people)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Formal Protocol Official (one person)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamashina Hachijuro
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Maeda Hikojiro
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　All pages
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　All personal attendants
The above was similarly presented as tribute. However, this was arranged through the Kitchen Head, prepared by mountain caterers, costing twelve momme of silver.

　Presentation of six pieces　Ten ryo gold　　　　Hosoi Senpaku

One　Meal leftovers (rice and side dishes)　Nakazawa Hayato
The above was bestowed by his lordship's consideration due to continued illness recently. Arranged by the meal staff.

One　Fifty weir-caught sweetfish each　Tribute　Tochizumi Village, Shihi Sakai Village
The above were presented by Sakai Hanjuro to the meal staff and offered for presentation before his lordship during tonight's moon viewing banquet.