All three were damaged and could not be completed. Among the daytime performances, one buried cannonball remained. It was announced that this portion would be viewed again at another time.
　　1,500 mon in gold from private funds　　　　To those who presented fireworks
After the fireworks concluded, Matsuyama Sendayu was summoned by service boat to the lord's boat, and while Sendayu waited in the service boat, the Chamberlain Chief passed this to him from the lord's boat.

One　August 22nd　Instruction for improving spear technique　Nakamura Ichiemon (wearing formal dress), Kamisaka Renkichi (same formal dress)
attended and the instruction was completed without incident. Practice was to be conducted, but due to slight abdominal disorder and feeling unwell, there was no practice before the instruction. His lordship wore hemp formal dress. The practice supervisor was Fukuda Hachiemon, wearing formal dress.
　　Certificate gold　300 mon　　　　　　　　　　To Nakamura Ichiemon
The above was bestowed. In the long hearth room, sake and soup were granted to Ichiemon and Renkichi.
　　One crested summer kimono　　　　　To Senior Councilor Trainee Nagami Tonomo
The above was personally bestowed because he departs tomorrow, having made various efforts regarding this first appointment.

[Vermillion text]
23rd day
One　Meal granted　To Nakazawa Hayato
The above was bestowed according to his lordship's wishes

One　August 25th
　　Nine fireworks launched (two daytime, seven nighttime)　Presented by Ashida Zusho's retainer　Utsunomiya Katsutaro
The above was the remainder from before. Today it was performed at Funabashi lower riverbank and viewed from Shiouten Matabei's place. When the daytime portion was completed, Matabei was granted an audience and received words (name only), with the Senior Councilor handling arrangements. When all was finished, at Matabei's place Katsutaro was granted an audience and received words (the fireworks were well executed), with the Senior Councilor handling arrangements.
　　500 mon in gold from private funds　　　　　　To Utsunomiya Katsutaro
The above was arranged by the Senior Councilor and bestowed in the waiting room.
　　50 chicken eggs
　　2 sho of ceremonial sake　　Presented by　　　Shiouten Matabei
　　1 roll of bleached cloth　　　　　　　　　Same person
The above were bestowed for repeated visits, passed through the Chamberlain Chief.

One　August 27th　At 5:30 with attendants assembled, moved to the main castle, observed Ogino Okada archery, returned to castle after sunset. When there are many arrows, one should be prepared for the attendant assembly when moving. Kobei.

[Vermillion text]
26th day
One　1 barrel (5 sho) of ceremonial sake　　Utsunomiya Kanden
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Akita Un'nosuke
The above were gifts from the recent weir viewing excursion, bestowed to the accompanying Senior Councilor and domain official.

Same　1 barrel (5 sho) of sake　　Maeda Hikojiro
The above was bestowed as a courtesy response for previously presenting tea.

Same　1 barrel (2 sho) of ceremonial sake　Kiyota Tanzo
The above was bestowed from among the gifts.

Express messenger dispatch
One　1 box of chestnuts　The above were items brought during the weir viewing　Presented to Princess
Same　1 box of dried confections　To Princess
One　100 mon each for fish expenses　To Kan-hime, Kengoro, Tsutsushi-hime, Teisho-in, and Koto-hime