The above, being according to precedent, was presented for viewing, then immediately taken down and given to Shiroemon to become altar decorations.
　　Gift list　200 hiki in gold　　　　　　　　　Iijima Shiroemon
　　Same　　　100 hiki in gold　　　　　　　　　Same, Gentaro
The above were bestowed through the domain official's arrangements, and sake and soup were also bestowed.

One　For the above archery initiation, the completed shelving and purification desk, etc., were bestowed to Shiroemon according to precedent.

One　This morning at five o'clock, with the retinue assembled, His Lordship departed the palace for an inspection tour of Mikuni and Kanazu. Kobei accompanied him. Tonight he stays at Kanazu Tea House. However, records of the inspection tour are recorded as an appendix at the end of this year's entries.

One　September 3rd　Lodged at　Yoshizaki Nishi Hongan Temple branch
One　September 4th　Lodged at　Kitagata-ura Anraku Temple  
One　September 5th　Lodged at　Mikuni-minato Saiko Temple
One　September 6th　Lodged at　Same location
One　September 7th　Returned to the palace at half past six in the evening

One　September 9th　The matsutake mushrooms sent from the Togo and Kitagata hunting lodges, as well as those presented by Daian Temple, were gradually distributed as gifts as follows:
　　　Seven pieces, nine pieces each　　　　　　Family temples
The above were sent to the inner quarters and distributed as gifts through arrangements by the senior ladies.
　　　Senior ladies of the inner quarters and others　　Chief retainers and close retired officials
　　　Middle-ranking retainers　　　　　　　　　　　Domain officials and close retired officials
　　　Kanazu magistrate and other officials and close retired officials　Chamberlain military heads
　　　Those appointed as close attendants　　　　　　Ceremonial domain officials
　　　Chamberlain chiefs and both departments　　　　Escort commanders
　　　Physicians and retired physicians　　　　　　　Tea ceremony masters
　　　Courtesy gifts to those who presented yam bulbils, citrons, chestnuts, etc.
　　　Inner quarters　Dried matsutake
The above were handled in consultation with the meal supervisors; details are recorded with the meal supervisors.

One　Souvenirs from the inspection tour were bestowed to the chief retainers, middle-ranking retainers, domain officials, chamberlain chiefs and both departments, escort commanders, physicians, and tea ceremony masters. As there were extras remaining, to the officials