[The kelp] was presented and the outer page withdrew. At this place献上物 (offerings) were brought out, the abbot came out to sit again and was seated at the black-edged area of the left lower platform. At this time there were greetings《Note: seasonal matters》, the abbot withdrew and the offerings were removed.
When this was completed and [the lord] removed his hakama, there was an inquiry from the domain official and permission was given to remove the shoulder garment. From this time forward, everyone appearing in hakama was at [the lord's] convenience. After finishing his meal, after a while he partook of confections and fine sake. Of course there was no dining companion. Soon the retinue assembly was ordered and he returned to the palace《Note: past six in the evening》. His attire upon returning to the palace was hakama. When returning to the palace, the abbot came out to the rest area to see him off and there were greetings《Note: today was leisurely》.
If the weather had been good, he might have entered the garden mountain area, but today being rainy he did not enter. Also, he had Kiyota Tanzō accompany him and ordered poetry composition, and this poetry was bestowed upon the abbot and delivered by the attendant chief.

One　October 10th　Ordered this morning, at eight o'clock with retinue assembled, under the pretext of touring the castle town, he entered the residence of Tsubota Izumi, shrine priest of Matsumoto Tennō. He viewed the fireworks of Matsuyama Sentayū and returned to the palace at half past five in the evening.

One　The three daily meals were taken as light meals at Izumi's residence.
　　　500 hiki gold　From private funds　　　　　　　　　　　　Tsubota Izumi
　The above was bestowed as he stayed until evening. Delivered by the attendant chief.
　　　100 hiki gold as first offering to Tennō　Ceremonial item　　　　　　　　Head priest　Iō-in

　The above was offered as he entered the shrine grounds today. Handled by the foot inspector.

One　October 11th
【Written in red】《Note: 100 steamed buns, one stand of persimmons》　Offering　　　　　　Tenryū-ji Temple
　　　　　　　　　The above was received by both attendant shifts【End of red writing】　　
　　　200 monme silver　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Note: Bestowed upon Matsuyama Sentayū and others who presented fireworks as compensation for the trouble》
　The above: Sentayū was called to the sitting room and it was delivered by the attendant chief.
　　　Black pills　Weight 3 monme 8 bu　　　　　　　　　　　To Nakazawa Hayato
　The above: For his long-standing malaria, this being a specialized medicine for this time, arrangements were made to bestow it after reporting to the senior councilor.

【Written in red】
Courier departs
《Note: One　Letter and private letter
One　100 sheets of torinoko paper》　　To Princess
Same　One　Reply letter and private reply letter　To Koto Princess【End of red writing】

One　October 15th
　　　Confections　One box
　　　Fine sake　Two kin
　　　Miso-pickled sea bream　One tub
　The above arrived at the main citadel from Matsudaira Hyūga-no-kami via messenger Kawai Gentayū.
　There was an audience beginning with Koma Tachi-no-kami and others.

【The following three lines in middle section】
16th day
《Note: Bookkeeper head【Red insertion　retired today】Sakai Jūnosuke's successor, handover position, Nagami Kohachirō's successor》Domain official　Ōmiya Tōma
《Note: Domain official trainee, due to illness requested release from duty》　　　　　　　　　Associate　Sasa Chikan　

【The following four lines in lower section】
《Note: For years of faithful service, two-person stipend increase within his allowance, total of seven-person stipend bestowed》　Physician rank　Utsumi Genkō
Appointed inner physician　　　Outer physician　　Tsujioka Tōan
《Note: For years of diligent service, granted inner physician rank》　　　Inner acupuncture physician　Motoyama Shun'an
Appointed inner eye physician　Outer eye specialist　Murakami San'etsu　

【Written in red in upper section】
16th day
One　Soba noodles in steamer basket　Internal offering　Consumed　Honda-ji evening
Same　One　Tobacco tray　One box of dried confections
The above
　Were received from the Shōgun via message when the Princess visited the castle
Same《Note: One　Cord ties　One box　Including one black set
One　Dried confections　One box》　To be sent to Ken'gorō, sent via 28th day post
　From the Shōgun's wife, same as above

【Written in red in lower section】
18th day
《Note: Appointed successor to bookkeeper head Nagami Kohachirō, handover position, Ōmiya Tōma's successor, stipend increase of 50 koku》　Domain official　Tenkata Magohachi
《Note: Attendant role, domain official trainee》　 　　　　Associate　Sakai Hikoroku

【Written in red in upper section】
21st day courier arrived
One　200 hiki fish money　Residence ceremonial official　Fujita Kazaemon
One　Same　Same　Upper residence ceremonial official　Haniwara Yagorō
　As both of the above were appointed to good positions, offerings were sent around.

One　22nd day　Martial arts were observed
　All viewing completed

【The following two lines in lower section】
October 23rd
　　Appointed to personal attendant shift　　Great guard　Suzuki Nitayū

【The following one line in red in lower section】
25th day　100 hiki fish money　District magistrate　Ōtani Ichiemon　《Note: Internal offering as he was appointed to a good position this time》

One　October 26th
　　Released from comb duty　　　　　This year's attendant　Permanent residence　Page　Shirai Tomenosuke