Ordered to practice comb arrangement, and later　　　　　　　Personal attendant　Nakamura Kyūzō
　　　Expected to be formally appointed to comb duty　　　　　　　　　　　Yamada Tōbei
　The above was communicated to the head page and head of personal attendants.

【Written in red in upper section】
28th day courier departs
One　The confections previously received via message for Princess were divided and presented as follows:
　Princess　Kan Princess
　Koto Princess　Ken'gorō
　Kin Princess　Teishō-in
Same　One　Cod milt in small tub　The above was presented to Echigo-no-kami via message from Koto Princess【End of red writing】

【Written in red in lower section】
From private funds
One　15 monme silver　　　　　　　　　Falconers　Okumura Yasokichi　Kanai Heitarō
　The above was bestowed as they served as beaters during falconry at Yoshie area on the 16th of last month and worked hard. Sent to Kishi Gorōzaemon via the attendant chief.【End of red writing】

One　November 2nd
　　　By special consideration, ordered to tour Mikuni and Kanazu　　　　　　Nakazawa Hayato
　　　Three nights' stay, departed this morning　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Companion　Zen'ya
　　　However, as previously sent on attendant rounds, five or six days prior　　　　　Fujii Kansai
　　　reported to the domain official and contacted Kanazu magistrate, and the　　　　　Shindō Onokura
　　　attendant chief also sent word. This was reported to the monthly inspectors.

【Paper attachment in upper section】
《Note: Personal attendant chief, also meal service》　　　　Ogino Nabehachirō
Sword administrator　　　Ihara Jōsuke
Inner storehouse, Jōsuke's successor　Nakamura Hachidayū
Page, Hachidayū's successor　Kishida Matazō
Inner service, Matazō's successor　Katō Gonjūrō
were appointed.

One　Same　As attendant service for spring Edo attendance was ordered, attendant chiefs【Red insertion】《Note: Tashiro Dōgen　Yamamoto Masunori　Misaki Sōan　Sasaki Kazuari　Farewell escort Tsumaki Eisuke》physicians【Red insertion】《Note: Eleven others plus one permanent resident》personal attendants had audience ceremony before the lord, handled by domain officials. However, no pages were included.
　　《Note: Spring Edo attendance service was excused, remained at this location》　　　　　　　　　　　　Takamura Shingobei
　The above was announced via senior councilor Nakane Magoemon.

【Written in red】
Spring attendance service through autumn appointed　　　　　　Kiyota Tanzō
Spring attendance service appointed　　Small equipment assistant　Wada Harusaemon【End of red writing】

One　November 3rd　The day after tomorrow, 5th day, falconry in upper regions was ordered. Shingobei was to serve as attendant on duty, but due to illness aftermath, he had requested to be excused from both near and far attendance service temporarily. As Kobei would be on duty tomorrow and attend the day after, creating continuous service, Shingobei would serve duty today and tomorrow consecutively, and Kobei would not serve tomorrow's regular duty but would serve the day after tomorrow's 5th day duty and attendance. When Shingobei requested this arrangement, it was approved as requested, and Kobei was told he need not report for duty on the 4th but should attend duty on the 5th day.

　　　Appointed to falconry service　　　　　Personal attendant chief, meal service　Ogino Nabehachirō
　As he had been in this service until now, but due to transfer on the 2nd, he was reappointed.

【Written in red】
《Note: Longevity sake, grape wine》One kin each to Honda-ji evening　The above items arriving from Matsudaira Hyūga-no-kami were bestowed. Presented to senior councilor in sake bottles.【End of red writing】

One　November 4th
　　　Appointed temporary falconry service　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōno Kogenta
　　　《Note: Appointed to falconry service. However, as he had been in this service until now but due to transfer, reappointed》　　　　　　　　Page　Kishida Matazō

One　November 6th　
【One line in red】Courier departs　Decorative sand　Previous transfer presented to Princess
　　Small duck caught by hand　One bird　　　　　　　　　　　Bestowed upon domain official Sano Kotarō
　According to the precedent of Itoku-in, birds caught by hand were received up to the senior councilor level, and two or three birds were bestowed upon all domain officials. Of course, they were presented up to the senior councilor and definitely received, as Nakane Magoemon explained.