The duck on the right shall be presented to the Middle Elder tomorrow morning. However, from now on, birds from hunting shall frequently be given to the chamberlains.

November 7th: On the　　day of last month, when Princess visited the castle, two boxes of dried confections were bestowed by order of the Shogun and his wife. However, the precedent of Lord Itokuin was as follows:

Inner quarters: 1 person
Senior retainers: 5 people　　　　Middle elders: 2 people  
Chamberlains: 10 people　　　　Side attendant chiefs: 3 people
Page chiefs and others: 13 people　Close attendant chiefs and others: 23 people
Physicians: 23 people　　　　　Total: 62 people

Assistant small items handlers: 2 people　Tea ceremony staff: 3 people
Inner quarters monks: 10 people　　Night watch: 4 people
Kitchen head inspectors: 4 people　Same subordinates

It was ordered that [confections] be received as above. However, the numbers vary according to circumstances, and the side attendants also receive extra portions. The meal service staff handled everything, and on the 28th of last month, a courier was dispatched, and portions of the aforementioned confections were presented to Princess, Princess Kan, Princess Koto, Lord Kengoro, Princess Tsutsushimi, and Lady Teisho-in.

[In red ink]
Courier arrived on the 11th
Direct letter, paper tobacco cases (3), presented by Princess Koto, small duck from hunting (1) bestowed, Amemori Denzaemon

November 8th:
One box of confections as consolation offering　Temple duties　Saikawa Gozaemon
Three-panel hanging scroll painting of Japan's three scenic views by Itaya Keii　Kawamura Bunpei
These were bestowed with special consideration for their long and faithful service during the previous lord's reign.

November 14th:
Courier dispatched [in red ink] To Princess: ceremonial box with snow seaweed, To Princess Koto: reply letter, To Princess Tsutsushimi: one real duck from hunting

100 coins for confection expenses　　To Jusen
This was bestowed to inquire about Jusen's nephew who recently died of illness. To be delivered through Okano of the inner quarters administration.

November 15th: This morning's tea ceremony opening, tea was served to the senior retainer, Kochi, middle elder, and caretaker, so there was no monthly attendance.

[In red ink] 16th day: Boiled buckwheat noodles, three layers <<献上 from inner quarters, consumed>> Kokenji Temple

This morning's tea ceremony opening and viewing of the sword, hawk, and horse bestowed during the summer leave were ordered. The ceremony was as follows: Assembly at 5:30, seating in the main audience chamber. From Honda Kuranosuke's group, senior retainers, castle administrators, middle elders, and caretakers took their seats in order and were granted audience. At this time, the tea master came forward, brought out the tea jar displayed in the alcove, performed the opening ceremony for viewing, then withdrew. At this time, there was an order to view the sword, hawk, and horse bestowed during the summer leave, and [the lord] withdrew to his rest chamber. Here the sword in the alcove was viewed. The sword bearer came forward and completed [the ceremony], and both types of confections were served...