Ceremonial gift, one set of available items - to Maeda Hikojirō
The above was personally bestowed by his lordship

1. For the first calligraphy of the year, the three characters "Kanjōraku" (Joy of Returning to the Castle) were written and given to the meal attendants to be displayed on the New Year decoration shelf.

1. The auspicious New Year entertainers (manzai) who came to the main castle kitchen were summoned to the lord's quarters by his wish to be viewed. Lunch was provided to the entertainers, handled by Kawai Gonzaemon. However, the ladies of the great interior did not observe.
　　　　　100 mon each　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Seigoro, Kinsaburo)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Two groups of manzai performers
By his preference: 2 shu each　　　　　　　　　　　　(Wasuke, Yaemon)　

1. January 3rd: awakening at 7 o'clock, with the 6 o'clock entourage assembly moved to the main castle, received formal greetings without rest, returned to the palace after 7:30, immediately entered for the great interior audience, then in the audience chamber performed the three-献 ceremony and celebration.

[The following three lines are written in red ink below] 1. Asakusa seaweed, 5 bundles - to the five senior councilors
　　　　　　　　　　　　　1. Long-life candy - to the two middle councilors
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The above were bestowed by his grace

1. January 4th: awakening after 5:30. Tonight a courier departs.
　　　　　New Year direct letter　1 letter
　　　　　Dried sweets　1 box
　　　　　Illustrated ceremonial paper　1 box containing 100 sheets
　The above were sent to Princess as New Year greetings by first messenger
　　　　　200 mon in gold
　The above were sent to Princess Kan likewise
　　　　　200 mon in gold
　The above were sent to Lord Kengoro likewise
　　　　　100 mon in gold
　The above were sent to Princess Tsutsushi likewise
　　　　　Crested ceremonial paper, half-cut, 100 sheets in box
　The above were sent to Lady Teishōin likewise
　　　　　Direct letter
　　　　　Crested ceremonial paper, half-cut, 100 sheets
　The above were to be sent to Princess Koto, but were not sent with this messenger; a relay courier will be dispatched the day after tomorrow, the 6th.