To be sent

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Page　　　　　　Uesaka Tōsuke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Page　　　　　　　　　Takamura Arajirō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same　　　　　　　　　Suzuki Hayashi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same　　　　　  　　　Hanihara Sanjūrō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Personal Attendant and Meal Attendant　Naruse Sōuemon
　　　　　　　By request　　Inner Guard　　　　　　Ōno Kogenta
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Back Service　　　　　　Miura Seizō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same　　　　　　　　　Murata Jūtarō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Personal Attendant　　　Asami Shichirōsuke
The above persons requested to participate in the sagicho ceremony, and when informal inquiry was made, permission was granted as requested, and this matter was conveyed to Maenami Tanosuke.

[The following line in red ink] 1. On the 5th, the first hawking of the year at Katsumi area

1. January 6th: awakening at 6:30, with the 5:30 entourage assembly moved to the main castle, received New Year greetings from the family temple and others, returned to the palace after 9 o'clock.

[The following five lines in red ink below]
Courier arrived
1. Hakama fabric
　The above was sent by Princess as a year-end gift
1. Sake barrel money 500 mon　1. Fresh sea bream, one box
　The above were sent by Princess Mutsu as congratulations for the engagement

1. From 5:30 today, wearing hemp formal attire. Tonight is New Year's Eve, but no formal attire worn - this is recent custom. Formal attire is worn for the first practice session.

1. After 9:30, a fire broke out from within the vacant room of the hawk quarters, only the hawk quarters burned down. However, a small portion of the western end was demolished. The fire was extinguished in a short time, and there were no problems with the office areas. Most importantly, all hawks were safely removed with no problems. Shimazu Kitarō came to report this, and there was a report from the officials. Due to this fire, the personal attendants led by Kumagai Kohei and all others came to inquire about his lordship's well-being, and this was reported.

1. Today at 8 o'clock assembly, the first practice session was held. With ceremonial silk and hemp in the audience chamber, lectures were given. Maeda Hikojirō, Ihara Genbei, and Akashi Jinzaemon attended. However, when Hikojirō and Jinzaemon departed, their sons also attended and received his lordship's words, with officials coordinating and expressing gratitude. Kiyota Tanzō also attended likewise. However, no lecture was given. Then entering the practice hall, Hasegawa Buemon and his son, Iijima Shirōemon and his son attended. No techniques were performed, but his lordship gave words, with similar coordination. Then nine spears【insertion】striking partner Ichemon【end insertion】were used【insertion】when first attending, his lordship spoke, inquiry【end insertion】Nakamura Ichemon attended, used these, and Ichemon handled the remaining five〇When completed, there was no "rest" command, inquiry. Six swordsmanship【insertion】striking partner Heibei【end insertion】were used, Debuchi Heibei attended, Heibei handled the remaining nine. When this was completed, in retirement Takabatake Jinzaemon and Takabatake Kinsaburō attended, followed by Ichihashi Gunbei appearing with his lordship's words...