Returned to sit in the antechamber next room, and when evening came the meal was served and finished. Here refreshments and sweets were served during the withdrawal. During the withdrawal, hakama was worn when entering. All the above was handled by the chamberlain.

1. February 24th, courier arrived with gift box of sweets
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The above was sent from Princess
　　　100 hiki of gold
　The above was sent from Princess Kan as payment for Jōshi soup and sake, issued from the inner palace

1. February 27th, at 8 o'clock assembly for Honda Kuranosuke's groundbreaking ceremony. Sake, soup, and evening meal were bestowed upon senior retainers, middle elders, chamberlains, officials, and intimate retired retainers. The procedure was as follows: reported that Honda Kuranosuke's party and others had assembled, assembly was ordered. From Kuranosuke's party to senior retainers including Honda Rojū, all seated in the second room of the audience chamber. This was reported and entry to the upper chamber was made 《side note: however wearing hakama》 for audience 《side note: chamberlain leading》, seasonal greetings were exchanged, then immediately withdrew. At this time, starting with Kuranosuke, they moved up to the audience chamber and upper room with seating arrangements. Tobacco trays and tea were served here. Middle elders, chamberlains, officials, and intimate retired retainers gradually appeared, proceeding from the second room around the front and hanging in the spear-hanging room, all seated in rows with tobacco trays and tea served. Continuing with soup service, sake cups and two sake bottles, then triple-set sake cups were brought out with three kinds of appetizers, gradually partaken. Meanwhile, entry to the upper room 《side note: no escort, not wearing hakama》, brief conversation and at an appropriate time words 《side note: at leisure》 were spoken and withdrawal made. Before evening, sake, appetizers, and soup dishes were cleared and evening meal trays brought out, all partaken and tea served. Again entry to the audience chamber 《side note: chamberlain leading. At this time hakama should have been worn, but due to declination from senior retainers, hakama was not worn》, all offered thanks. At this time words 《side note: humble》 were spoken, withdrawal made and all departed. However, there was accompaniment by one spoon-bearer and physician. Today's service was by the close attendant guard. While the lord had withdrawn, the service for the spear-hanging room was joined by inner monks. The duty physician also appeared to assist. During the above reception, the chief attendant appeared to offer sake and arrange appetizers, arranging all service etc.

1. February 28th, reading lessons suspended from today. One four-tier steamer of buckwheat noodles 《side note:献上召上り presented and consumed》 from Honda Rojū

[Written in red ink]
29th day, courier dispatched
1. Direct reply letter - the delayed portion from before
1. Fifty pieces of light-baked sweets - sent to Princess
Same 1. Direct reply letter - same as above - sent to Princess Koto  
Same 1. One wild goose from hawking - bestowed upon palace middle court lady [Up to here in red ink]

1. March 3rd, at 8 o'clock assembly for conclusion of practice sessions at the spear-hanging room
　　Words 《side note: diligent service since last year, much obliged》 were spoken
　　Personal gifts from his hand 《side note: three tobacco pouches, one pair of fans》 were received　　　　《side note: Maeda Hikojirō, same Shinshirō》
　　　However for the above sons, palace guards delivered them, at this time the chamberlain offered thanks
This being completed, entry was made, again □ same place