15 monme of silver　　　　　　　　　　　　　To all cormorant masters collectively
　　　Red and white sugar in 2 jars　　　　　　　　Utsunomiya Kageyu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakane Magoemon
　The above items were presented by the princess, and after inquiry, one jar each was bestowed

1. Tomorrow, the 9th, there will be a departure, so for congratulations tonight the following was bestowed:
　　　3 shō of sake　　　　　　　　　　　　To the chief page attendants
　　　2 bowls of cooked fish　　　　　　　　To the page quarters
　　　Yakko tofu with bonito flakes　　　　　To the close attendant quarters
　　　100 sesame steamed buns
【Red ink】
1. One box of fans containing 10 fans
1. 2 sheets of colored paper in a box
　With hanging board and purple tassels　　Mori Niemon
　The above was presented through chamberlain handling【Up to here in red ink】
1. March 9th: Awoke just before 6 o'clock, at 5 o'clock the retinue assembled and departed in even better spirits. This was extremely joyous

Supplementary Records

【Upper section】
January 21st
　　One wild goose　　　　《side note: Nakazawa Hayato, Shimizu Jibei, Kondō Onokura》　
was bestowed by gracious will

【Middle section】
January 23rd: Express messenger dispatched
　　1. Reply letter　　　　　　To the princess
　　1. Same, 1 box of young kelp　To Princess Koto
　　1. Same　　　　　　　　　To Kengoro-sama
　　1. One box of young kelp　　To Teishoin-sama

【Lower section】
1. January 23rd: First moxibustion treatment, the physician received sake and fish offerings before his lordship as usual. However, for the first moxibustion, from the physician to the retired physician, all present were bestowed 2 fans each
23rd day: 5-person stipend foot soldier position was created and bestowed　　Palace acupuncturist　Sasaki Ichiyū
　　　　For the above, there was gratitude expressed before his lordship
26th day
　　1. Direct letter, 1 jar of sea urchin (5 gō)　To Matsudaira Rakuō-sama via the great interior
　　1. Same as above, same　　　　　　　To Matsudaira Kunai-no-taiyu-sama. For this, a relay messenger was dispatched

【Upper section】
February 4th
　　One white heron each was bestowed　　　　《side note: to Nakazawa Hayato, Takamura Shingoibei》
Same day
　　One box of large wild geese　Presented by　　Six performers of celebratory dances
　The above was brought from Kaga Province
Tonight express messenger dispatched
　　1. Caramel in a stacked box　To the princess
　　1. One real wild goose　　　To Teishoin-sama
　　1. Same as above　　　　　To the residence's senior lady attendant
February 18th: Express messenger arrived
　　《side note: 1 travel safety amulet, 1 fish offering fee》　《side note: from the princess and other ladies》
　　《side note: 1 direct letter, 1 box of pottery》　　　From the princess
　　《side note: 1 direct letter, 1 box of dried sweets》　From Princess Koto
　From the Shogun:
　　1 box of dried sweets
　From the Shogun's wife:
　　1 box of dried sweets
　　7 sets of sword cord
　　　　　　　　　Received through transmission when the princess visited the castle on the 3rd
【Red ink】This box of sweets □ was divided and sent via messenger dispatched on the 22nd to《side note: Princess, Princess Koto, Princess Tsutsumi, Princess Kan, Kengoro-sama, Teishoin-sama》