Formal audience was held before the ceremony in the audience chamber, then withdrew, and after that official business began.
1. Regarding the Chief Page Attendant's duty station being designated as near the north veranda side of the small sitting room anteroom, Senior Councilor Amagata Magohachi conveyed this instruction.
1. On the 22nd day of the 5th month, it was ordered that Kengoro-sama should enter the main castle after an interval of two days to have an audience. This matter was communicated to Matsuda Zenshiro and Nakane Shinroku. Regarding the timing, it was ordered that he should enter between 4:00 and 4:30 in the morning.

【Red ink】
22nd day
1. The retired intimate retainer Honda Michi first paid his respects in the evening, had an audience in the audience chamber, received words, and wore formal hakama.
1. At 9 o'clock the retinue assembled and entered the garden pond area.
　《Side note: one tobacco pouch, one pipe case》　Presented by Teishoin-sama
During the 5th month the great interior retired early
　23rd day
　24th day  
　27th day【Up to here in red ink】

1. On the 23rd day of the 5th month at 7:30 in the evening, the great interior lady-in-waiting Sodeno and others arrived, so the small sitting room was closed off and an audience was ordered. After completion, they entered as far as the lock entrance, and an audience was ordered for the ceremonial hall stewards and those standing by. On this occasion, everyday hakama were worn.【Red ink】Today first shrine visit and general temple visits.

1. As the lady-in-waiting Funaoka Ryoi and her entourage arrived, an audience was ordered in the small sitting room.
1. On the 24th day of the 5th month, the third meal was taken with the front area closed off. Henceforth this was established as the regular procedure.
1. Today in the audience chamber, domain administrative business was heard. During this private official business, the pages and attendant guards were instructed by the steward to wait outside the front lock entrance, and the meal duty and interior duty stations were kept closed.

1. 25th day of the 5th month
【Red ink】
1. Meal remnants《Side note: everyday meal, bellflower eggs, wheat gluten, pot-grilled small birds》　　Senior Councilor Nakane Magonemon
The above was given by gracious intention due to his long illness and confinement
A letter was attached and sent【Up to here in red ink】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Attendant Guard Kondo Naojiro
The above was ordered to relocate to the domain, traveled the Tokaido route, departed Edo on the 11th, stopped at his family home among the Kuwana retainers to meet his birth mother, requested to stay two nights, and upon arriving today was immediately granted an audience in the small sitting room.

【Two-line red ink】1. One load of steaming baskets　　Offered by the great interior　　Kogenji Temple
　　　　　　　　　1. One tier of rice cake sweets　　Same as above　　　　Unsho-ji Temple
　　　2nd day　4 o'clock　　　　　　　　　　　　Takano Sozaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ihara Genbei
　　　12th day　Same time　　　　　　　　　　　Takano Sozaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Akashi Jinzaemon
　　　22nd day　Same time　　　　　　　　　　　Ihara Genbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Akashi Jinzaemon
　　　2nd day　8 o'clock　　　　　　　　　　　　Idebuchi Heibei
　　　7th day　Same time　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakamura Ichiemon
As ordered above, storytelling sessions will be heard starting from the 2nd of next month, and other activities include reading and horseback riding.

【Red ink upper section】
24th day
1. One bolt of purple mountain cocoon vertical stripe crepe　Purchased at Arimatsu
1. One small chest in chestnut lacquer　Purchased at Hakone
　The above were presented to Teishoin-sama when Sodeno went to the garden pond today
26th day
1. One bolt of Arimatsu tie-dyed light green crepe  
1. One additional bolt　Since two bolts were presented in previous years, this was purchased additionally in Edo to make two bolts total as in previous years
1. Ten bamboo craft red-lacquered interior soup bowls　Purchased at Hakone
　The above are to be presented to the Princess

【Red ink middle section】
26th day
1. One bolt of Arimatsu printed tea-colored crepe
1. One natural wood wax-colored tobacco tray
　The above were presented to Kengoro-sama
26th day
1. 100 pieces of gold for fish offering　献上　Kuwayama Kaeshige
27th day
1. 100 pieces of gold each for fish offerings《Side note: Makino Mokuya, Kotsuki Kyuemon》