Third river seine net　Takamura Arajiro　　　　　　Fourth river cast net　Sanada Genzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　Suo Kisaburo　　　　　　　　　　　　Seine net　Head cormorant master
　　　　　　　　　　Head cormorant master　　　　　　　　　　　Three cormorant master's children
　　　　　　　　　　Three cormorant master's children

1. After the meal, by his lordship's will, Takeso Gondayu and one cormorant master's child were sent to net fish at Nashinoki-warise.

1. Also by his lordship's will, the gunners in the retinue were ordered to shoot birds.
　　　　White heron, one bird　　《Shot at Togo
Given to the personal attendants》　　　　Sugiura Yuzo's group, Ueda Rokuemon

1. Total catch: 579, consisting of 474 sweetfish and 104 miscellaneous fish
　　Of these: 30 sweetfish【Red ink: one bucket】for the Princess via express courier【Red ink: departing on the 14th, salted】to be sent to Edo
　　　　　　20 sweetfish　　　　for Kengoro-sama, sent via Nakane Shinroku's residence
　　　　　　20 sweetfish　　　　for Teisho-in-sama, sent via Tsuda Shiro-zaemon's residence
　　　　　　30 sweetfish　　　　to Honda Kuranosuke's residence
　　　　　　20 sweetfish each　　to the five senior retainers, communicated via stewards and submitted to the secretarial office
　　　　　　137 sweetfish　　　　to the pages《Uesaka Tosuke, Takeso Gondayu, Takamura Arajiro》given for their participation in the hunt
　　　　　　52 miscellaneous fish　to the attendant guards《Naruse Soemon, Suo Kisaburo, Sanada Genzaemon, Takahata Ichiroemon》given for the same reason
　　　　　　《37 sweetfish and 52 miscellaneous fish》to《Head cormorant master Takama Shiro and the cormorant masters' sons》given for their participation in the hunt

1. Since today was the first river fishing of the season, bestowed sweets were given to Head Bird Keeper Takae Matagoro and Head Cormorant Master Takama Shiro.

1. On the 10th day of the 7th month at 8 o'clock, he entered the former residence to listen to Kengoro-sama's noh chanting. Kozuki Kyuemon appeared and chanted "Yumi Hachiman Chu-iri" in unison with his lordship. After the introductory chant and solo performance were completed, he performed a solo of "Yutani First Piece" according to his preference. When finished, Kyuemon was ordered to perform solo pieces of "Setsu-getsu-ka," "Horo," and "Eboshi-ori." One tier of dried sweets was brought, which his lordship partook of, shared with Kengoro-sama, and the remainder was all given to Kengoro-sama.

1. After this was completed, he entered the archery range to observe Kengoro-sama's archery practice. Five practice bows were brought out, and according to special preference, he observed Kobayashi Sakusuke's archery technique.

【Red ink】
12th day
1. One tier of steamed sweets　　Offered by the inner quarters　　　　Unsho-ji temple【End red ink】

1. On the 13th day of the 7th month, the framed "Laws for Military Houses" that had been hanging in the audience chamber of the former residence was moved to hang in the audience chamber of the main castle.

【Red ink】
1. 50 sweetfish offered　breakdown:《15 for Kengoro-sama, 10 each for the two junior senior retainers, 5 each for the three senior attendants》Sugita Mondo【End red ink】

1. As customary, in the morning he paid respects to the inner quarters in informal dress, and again at evening he put on formal dress to pay respects to the inner quarters. During the Bon period, from today's third meal until the second meal of the day after tomorrow (15th), he will observe vegetarian diet. From today, all practice sessions are suspended during the Bon period. From tonight, sleeping in the outer quarters was ordered.

1. On the 15th day of the 7th month, he was seated in the audience chamber when Matsudaira Shume's representative appeared. From the young lord【Insert】celebratory gifts on the 11th day of the 8th month【End insert】celebration of the living soul