The two tea ceremony practitioners received tea. However, this occurred frequently thereafter, and tea preparation was also performed regularly.

1. On the last day of the 7th month, there was official business with the senior retainers, and the suggestion box was used frequently thereafter.

【Written below in red ink】
1. Today at the practice hall, Yokoyama's swordsmanship was assigned to Buso Gondayu and observed. Jutaro, Kisaburo, and Heiemon attended.

1. On the 1st day of the 8th month, all practice sessions were suspended as was customary each month.

1. On the 2nd day of the 8th month, castle construction was assigned to Hara Heihachi, and this was observed for entertainment.

1. On the 3rd day of the 8th month, firearms practice by disciples of Hasegawa Takeemon was observed. Kengoro-sama also entered and observed from the same seat. Tobacco trays were offered to both parties. Also, until now screens had been set up at the viewing area during firearms observations, but from this year this practice was discontinued as announced by his lordship's decision. ○ The shift changes, which had been at 5:30 until now, were changed to the customary 4 o'clock for all attendants due to the move to residence in the main castle this year.

1. Initially, only his lordship entered the main hall viewing area and took his seat, then the chamberlain announced to Kengoro-sama who then entered. During rest periods too, his lordship entered first, followed by Kengoro-sama. When the viewing concluded, his lordship entered first, and after discussions and consultations in the firearms room were completed, Kengoro-sama entered and they met in the small sitting room before departing.

【Red ink】
4th day
1. One carp given to Tenpo Magohachi
1. One crucian carp released into the moat - live fish - today's catch when Kengoro-sama entered the lower river【End red ink】

1. On the 5th day of the 8th month at 8:30, the retinue assembled and Teishoin-sama entered to view various entertainment items. However, formal hospitality was declined, and fresh sweets, tea, and thin noodles were served. Kengoro-sama also entered. His lordship's attire consisted of a sleeveless jacket and hakama.

【Red ink】
1. Three watermelons
1. Round pressed tofu
The above were presented by Teishoin-sama
6th day 1. Mukago (bulbils) privately offered by the meal attendants - Fujii Kyusai
Same day 1. Red and white sugar pellets sent to the Princess by this courier
Handled by the meal attendants, submitted to the inner quarters, sent from meal attendants to the secretary department. Addressed to《marginal note: Suzuki Hyakusuke, Hikosaka Matabei, Daito Sukekura, Naruse Soemon》
6th day 1. Twenty-one sweetfish - these were the catch from Kengoro-sama's reserved river
6th day 1. After horseback riding, he entered the former residence and observed Jutaro's gun firing【End red ink】

1. On the 7th day of the 8th month, during the castle town tour, a brief rest was taken at Iouji Temple《marginal note: 100 gold pieces given privately, one box of dried sweets offered》

1. In the Peacock Room, decorative bows【red ink insertion: bedroom decoration】five sheaves【red ink insertion: hung in the second room】ten spears were displayed from today, all received by the inner attendants from the armory officials.

【Red ink】
9th day courier arrived
1. Sweets presented by the Princess
1. Residence fees, six gold pieces, 100 coins presented for the young lord's birthday celebration【End red ink】

1. On the 11th day of the 8th month, for the living soul celebration:
    To Teishoin-sama: formal meal, sake, soup, one box of side dishes were presented
    From the same: 【red ink insertion: received by duty attendants in rotation】one box of side dishes was presented
    The above gift list was announced in the inner quarters
    The young lord, Princess Kiku, and Princess Tsutsushi also presented the same through formal gifts

【Red ink】
12th day
1. Dried sweets presented as a gift when observing Kengoro-sama's archery practice this evening【End red ink】

1. On the 13th day of the 8th month at 5 o'clock assembly, to celebrate the young lord's birth last year, soup and sake were served to senior retainers and all samurai. First, he took his seat in the formal room and celebrated with soup and sake, with senior retainers, castle governors, tutors, and junior senior retainers in attendance. After concluding, he took his seat in the firearms room, and after audiences with high-ranking retainers and nobles, he withdrew to the formal room. Again taking his seat in the firearms room, after audiences with chamberlains, attendants, and inner physicians, he entered the small sitting room. Again taking his seat in the firearms room, immediately after Utsunomiya Yasaburo's audience, he entered the main hall, and after audiences with all officials from the advisory council to those in long hakama, he entered the small sitting room. Again entering the main hall, after audiences with all from various commanders to the lowest ranks, he entered the small sitting room. Again in the main hall, from the library guards to the new guard rank

【Four lines in red ink】
13th day
    Department attendant, chief attendant Kozuki Kyuemon
    The above departs tomorrow
    Audience was granted in the small sitting room