The above was presented by Hime-gimi-sama for the moon viewing.
【Red ink】
《marginal note: 1. Direct letter
1. Castella cake》　Presented by Koto-hime-sama.【End red ink】

1. 21st day of 8th month: As Kengoro-sama was unwell, close attendant guard Kobayashi Sakusuke was sent to inquire after his health.

1. The celebratory meal for Hassaku was postponed, and today the second celebration was held. This morning when entering the inner quarters, there was an exchange of Hassaku gift lists. There was an expression of intent regarding visits.

1. This evening for the ball game, all officials were ordered to observe the side unit commanders. Thin mats were laid in front of the horse viewing area, and for the ball game in his lordship's presence, observation was from above those mats. For the subsequent ball game, observation was from above the horse viewing area. Three steamed buns each were bestowed and distributed by the meal attendants in the waiting area. The duty chamberlains and partner chamberlains each received five steamed buns.

【Red ink】
1. Today archery practice with straw targets was conducted. As a considerable number of straw target rounds were completed, Shiro Uemon reported that it would be appropriate to use regular targets from now on.

1. One hanging scroll in Ryuho-in-sama's calligraphy: The above came into Koto-hime-sama's possession some time ago, so mounting was ordered and it was presented. Ofuji Sukezo brought it on this occasion.

1. Assorted fish: twenty small fish, one abalone, one sea bream - presented due to arrival from Teisho-in-sama and received as gifts.

22nd day
1. One stand of persimmons: Presented for his lordship to take when entering the garden this evening.【End red ink】

1. 24th day of 8th month: Due to receiving the river fishing rights today and tomorrow, both rooms' duty attendants changed at 5 o'clock.

【One line in red ink】1. Three volumes of "Comprehensive Rhyme Guide to Tang and Song Poetry" - presented by Nakane Magouemon

1. 25th day of 8th month: At the archery range in the former seat area, target practice was conducted for the first time. The arrows shot in his lordship's presence were handled by the inner Buddhist monk officials, while the subsequent arrows were handled by garden staff.

1. 26th day of 8th month
Pine mushrooms - one stand
The above were presented from Daian-ji Temple, and by the chamberlain's report and his lordship's gracious intent, they were bestowed upon the senior retainers and sent to the secretarial office. 【One line in red ink】1. On the 27th, all procedures for the Awaga pilgrimage follow those of the year before last.

1. 27th day of 8th month: The Awaga pilgrimage was conducted. For this purpose, purification examination was conducted from the previous evening.

1. 28th day of 8th month: Construction magistrate Matsubara Sasuke reported that all construction of the garden archery range was completed. It will be used from tomorrow.

Appointed to succeed magistrate Kaga Jiroemon【Red ink: 100 hiki fish offering, presented internally on 19th day of 9th month】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Side Attendant Kawamura Bunpei
Appointed to succeed cedar-pattern spear magistrate Shimoyama Jinbei【Red ink: 100 hiki fish offering, presented on 3rd day of 9th month】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Palace Guard Leader and Meal Attendant Hikosaka Matabei
Appointed to succeed palace guard leader Hikosaka Matabei with duties unchanged
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Close Attendant Leader and Meal Attendant Naruse Soemon
Appointed to succeed close attendant leader Hikosaka Matabei　　　　Meal Attendant Iwaki Shozaburo
Appointed to succeed meal attendant Hikosaka Matabei　　　　　　　Inner Guard Hiki Rokuroemon
Appointed to succeed inner storehouse keeper Hiki Rokuroemon　　　　Inner Duties Miura Seizo
Appointed to succeed inner duties official Miura Seizo　　　　　　　Library Official Kato Dosaburo
Appointed to succeed library official Kato Dosaburo　　　　　　　Close Attendant Guard Sanada Genzaemon
《marginal note: Appointed sword magistrate for the young lord
Also appointed to serve the formal lord》　　　　　　　　　　　Page Suzuki Hayashi
Appointed to succeed page Suzuki Hayashi　　　　　　　　Close Attendant Guard Hara Heihachi
Appointed to succeed close attendant guard Hara Heihachi　　　　　Great Guard Kuwayama Matakichi
Appointed close attendant guard　　　　　　　　　　　　Same　　　Morita Yabei
Appointed close attendant guard attached to Kengoro-sama　　　　　Same　　　Sukagayama Kumegoro