Same as above　　　　　　　　　　Koma Tachito
　　　《marginal note: Black raku tea bowl　one
Picture of Sumida River　one》　　　　　　　Matsudaira Shume
　　　《marginal note: Short cloth　two packages
Lid rest　one》　　　　　　　　　Koma Mokku
　　　《marginal note: Red raku patterned tea bowl　one
Picture of Sumida River　one》　　　　　　　Okabe Sazen
　　　《marginal note: Short cloth　one package
Towel hanging cord　one》　　　　　　　　　Amagata Magohachi
[Above in red ink]
14th day
　Arrived last evening and granted audience　　　Tsuda Yataroku
[Below in red ink]
14th day
1. Roof-raising rice cakes, two-tiered　　　　　　　Kogenji Temple
　The above were offered from the great interior and bestowed upon both office chambers
15th day
　　　《marginal note: Bundle of books
Sacred amulets》　　　Thanks for entering temple　Daicho-in
[Above in red ink]
15th day
1. Dried pine mushrooms
　The above were sent to the princess by this courier
16th day
1. One box of tea, three varieties packed　　　Tsuda Yataroku
　The above were brought from Edo and offered
Same 1. Two bags of tea　Shin'emon　The above were offered by request to the meal service [end red ink]
1. 16th day of 9th month - From today began reading the Comprehensive Mirror for Aid in Government
1. 17th day of 9th month - At 6 o'clock retinue assembled for worship at Daicho-in, returned to the residence at 7:30. Up to the completion of the 2.5 sun worship was the same as in the year of the boar. When this was completed, he again took his seat in the study, kelp was presented, and the front page attendants immediately cleared it. Here Daicho-in appeared and had audience, the chamberlain announced it but there were no special words and it concluded. Changed attire, here dried confections were offered, brought out by the close attendant guard and announced by the chamberlain. At the appropriate time a meal was ordered and completed. He partook of steamed confections and departed with the retinue. During the journey, until now both Anwaga and Daicho-in wore plain garments, but from this year all wore hakama during the journey. However, during Daicho-in's audience, the side attendants wore swords.
[Red ink insertion] The inner guard sent word to Shin'emon so he immediately reported for duty, consulted with monthly duty chamberlain Sano Kotaro, and after 4:30 wrote a letter and sent it to advance guard Kohei
1. This morning around 5 o'clock lady-in-waiting Sato went into labor, and after 7:30 safely gave birth to a baby boy

　The above labor situation was reported from the great interior, so Shin'emon came on duty from his off day, sent a letter to Kohei at the outing location, it reached him around Omori on the return journey, and was immediately sent via palanquin attendant Tanabe Gotayu to be viewed inside the palanquin. ○Due to this birth everyone wore hemp formal dress ○The newborn prince completed his first bath and was moved to the great interior's main room, and after a while entered for a face-to-face meeting in hakama ○The ceremonial arrows were performed at the practice hall by Iijima Shiroemon and his son ○During birth pollution period, front lectures and other practice activities including reading were suspended. However, last year lectures were attended, but this year everything was suspended ○During birth pollution period there were no proxy worship services ○Hair shaving could be performed without issue
[Red ink]
18th day
1. Kengoro-sama entered for congratulations and had a face-to-face meeting during the formal dress restriction period. However, since Kengoro-sama frequently entering the great interior at this time is not appropriate, it would be better for the face-to-face meeting to occur after the newborn prince moves to the fountain garden, according to Teisho-in-sama's wishes, and this was conveyed to Zen'shiro and Shinroku
1. One basket of persimmons　to Teisho-in-sama　presented for entertainment [end red ink]
1. 18th day of 9th month - At this time the great interior was cramped so entry was through the front restriction ○Teisho-in-sama entered at 8:30 with retinue and had a face-to-face meeting with the newborn prince in the great interior, then had a face-to-face meeting through front restriction and returned at 7:30 ○The three daily meals are customarily taken during restriction, but since the great interior is short-staffed at this time, front meals were ordered during the seven-night period
1. 19th day of 9th month - The newborn prince took milk for the first time this morning and drank well, as reported by Sodeno and heard by his lordship　Departure tomorrow　Audience in the main room　Ceremonial cloth bestowed　　　Okabe Sazen's group
[Red ink]
19th day　
Courier arrived
1. One box of tea, five varieties packed　　Princess Kiku, Princess Kin jointly presented
Same
1. One bottle of tide water　Item previously ordered　Submitted by Ogiwara Chobei