The supervisor conveyed to the masters
　　Sea bream grilled beach-style　1 bowl
　　Celebratory sake 2 shō
　　Additionally, 1 biwa (lute)
The above was bestowed from private funds upon the arrival of Okano from the great interior women's quarters
1. The close attendant supervisor rested for 10 days in the form of leave, completed by the 6th of last month, and thereafter was assigned third-shift duty. Kobē, Hayato, Shingobē in rotation
　　Fish money 200 hiki　　Sugar　separate
The above was presented by Princess-sama as congratulations for arriving at the castle, as the courier arrived today
　　Same　　　200 hiki
The above was presented by the same lord for the first correspondence
　　Same 100 hiki
The above was presented by Princess Kan for the same reason
　　Same 100 hiki

The above was presented by Kengorō-sama for the same reason
　　Same 100 hiki
The above was presented by Teishōin-sama for the same reason
　　Same with letter and sweets　separate
The above was presented by Princess Koto for the same reason
　　Same
The above was presented by Princess Tsutsushimi for the same reason
1. June 12th, it was announced that falcon hunting would take place on the coming 16th, so it was conveyed to falcon observer head Shimazu Kitarō that the location should be examined and reported. Kobē
【Red notation】
1. On the 12th, Maeda Hikojirō and Akashi Jinzaemon came for lectures
1. Direct letter from his lordship
1. 200 sheets of uchikumo-toriko paper　boxed　with upper box
The above to Lord Matsudaira Kunaino-taifu
Presented as a courtesy

1. June 13th, courier departs tonight
　　100 hiki in gold　　Fish money presented for first correspondence
　　Same 200 hiki　Same for arriving at castle
　　Direct letter　　Delivered to chief retainer
　　200 hiki in gold　Fish presented for direct letter

【All below in small text in lower section】
June 8th
　Close attendant guard　Front page　Yamada Tōbē
　Same　　　　Great guard　　Sanada Genzaemon
Same day　The above appointments were made

　By his lordship's will, name change　　The matter of Tōbē
　Was ordered but due to illness　Hayashi Kyūtayū
　The official conveyed this to the supervisor

Same day
　Palace physician　Inner physician　Nakarai Chūan
　　　　　　Front physician
　　　　　　　　Funaoka Ryōi
　Inner physician　Same　Misaki Sōan
　　　　　　Same　Hosoi Gentoku
The above appointments were made

June 12th　
　Arrived last evening,
　Audience in the sitting room
　was granted　　Kiyota Tanzō
【Lower section red notation】
1. Kisen tea　1 jar《note: new tea》　　Kiyota Tanzō
　　　The above was presented, brought from Kyoto
1. 10 abalones　　　　Sasaki Kazuari
　The above献上 was bestowed to the great interior women
　　　　　　　　　　　　arrangements made