1. Regarding clothing for duties outside the gate: As before, but preferably use plain clothing, and using domestic hosho silk is acceptable
　The above was conveyed through a written notice from monthly inspector Oida Kinai, with instructions that this not be leaked to both inner quarters' subordinates

Great Interior retirement in 11th month:
　2nd, 3rd, 4th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 27th, 28th, 29th days

1. 1st day of 11th month: At Kogenji Temple, for the seventh memorial service of Lady Itokuin to be held early next year, the head priest personally performed tea ceremony memorial services, presenting the following:
　　　Rice cakes　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kogenji Temple
　The above was sent from the Great Interior. As the chief ladies-in-waiting and others requested to visit and pray, and there being precedent, the following was given to the chief lady-in-waiting after inquiry:
　　　Confection money: 200 hiki
　The above was offered before the spirit altar

2nd day:
1. Letter of condolence
1. One box of confections: caramela
　The above was sent with correspondence to Princess Koto

1. 3rd day: Though it was a day for Kengoro-sama's audience, it was canceled due to snow. This will continue similarly in the future.

1. 4th day of 11th month:
　　　22 gold ryo　　　　　From 21 temples of the Higashi Honganji sect temple families' inner sanctuary side chambers
　The above was presented to his hands as gratitude money, reported by the senior councilor

1. 5th day: There was an error in the morning hair arrangement, causing delay, with preparations finishing just before 4 o'clock
Same day: One copy of the Classic of Filial Piety was presented when Kengoro-sama entered for audience

1. 7th day of 11th month: The following appointments were made with formal thanks before his presence:
　　Maintaining current duties, lowest outer rank　　　　　　Page chief: Maenami Tanosuke
　　Succeeding page Kawase Yasugoro, appointed next year's Edo attendance　Near attendant: Kobayashi Sakusuke  
　　Succeeding near attendant Kobayashi Sakusuke　　　　　　Great guard: Mioka Jirotayu
　　Appointed to physician rank, duties as physician　　　　　Inner physician: Mashimo Soen
　　Inner acupuncturist　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Outer acupuncturist: Motoyama Shuneki

1. One duck caught by falcon, male, weight 510 monme
　The above was given by his thoughtfulness　　Matsudaira Shume's quarters

Courier arrived on 9th day:
1. Direct letter, one pipe case and tobacco box: sent from Princess
1. From letter box, red and white sweets: sent from Princess Koto to Kuninosuke-sama  
1. Similarly, two haori coats, two head coverings: sent from Young Lord to his counterpart

1. 9th day of 11th month: For the 49-day lectures, if the Analects are completed by the 14th, from the 19th Mencius group reading will commence, with side attendants also appointed as companions and partners, as announced, communicated to both quarters' chiefs

1. 12th day of 11th month:
1. Tea: one jar of Kisen tea arrived from main family Kurobyoe-dono, presented by Atsumi Shinemon
　　　Court dress practice was ordered　　　　　　　　　Inner guard: Murakami Sakuemon
　　　Announced by senior councilor　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakamura Hachitayu
　The above concerns the visit to Unsho-ji Temple on the 24th day of 1st month next year for the 200th memorial of Taitokuin-sama, when court dress hitatare will be worn, so consultation with Matsuura Yuzo was ordered by the senior councilor, who also spoke with Yuzo