To Princess Tsutsumi:
    Ink-flow half-size paper, 100 sheets

1. 5th day of 1st month: At 9:30 AM with attendant retinue, he entered the residence of Lady Teisho-in, returning to the palace just before 6:02 PM.
However, whereas until now when entering Lady Teisho-in's residence at the fountain estate, court physicians and acupuncture doctors accompanied him, from now on the accompaniment is discontinued and advance guards will go instead, as announced yesterday and conveyed by Kohei to chamberlain Amemori Denzaemon.

    Mixed seasonal fish, one box: 2 gurnard, 5 small sea bream, 3 anglerfish
    Picture half-size paper, 100 sheets
The above were presented as gifts to Lady Teisho-in.

    Mixed seasonal fish, one box: 5 gurnard, 10 small sea bream, 1 flounder
    Pipe case [Red ink: This fish was given to the chamberlain by his thoughtfulness and presented to the calligraphy office]
    Tobacco pouch
The above were presented from Lady Teisho-in.

1. 6th day of 1st month: 5:30 AM assembly. Thanks at family temple in the great hall, Nagasaki Shonen

[Red ink] Before 4 o'clock, going to the administrative office. Sakon-kata shortly
Temple thanks took place. From this morning's shift change until the completion of the above thanks, formal dress was worn, and again formal dress was worn for the evening's first practice session. However, although tonight is year-end, plain clothes as per recent custom.

1. 8 o'clock assembly. First practice session. Formal silk dress. Seated in the sitting room. No worship with hanging scrolls of sacred images on the ceremonial platform.

                                                        Ill: Maeda Undo
The above came forward. ○There was a gracious word and he was appointed for the first ceremony, expressing gratitude, with the chamberlain handling arrangements before departure.

                                                        Ill: Ito Yunoshin
Same as above.

                                                        Ill: Takano Sozaemon  
The above ○came forward with a gracious word, then gave a lecture which was completed, was appointed for the first ceremony expressing gratitude, with the chamberlain handling arrangements before departure. At this time the sons of senior councilors and castle deputies were in attendance.

                                                        Ill: Hanaki Sakae
The above came forward, was appointed for the first ceremony expressing gratitude, with the chamberlain handling arrangements before departure.

                                                            Ihara Genbei