The above received ○ gracious words, similarly gave a lecture which was completed, was appointed for the first ceremony expressing gratitude, with the chamberlain handling arrangements, and at this time departed together with adopted son Gensuke after appearing together.

Akashi Bungoro
The above gave a lecture which was completed, with the same handling arrangements before departure. After all the above was completed, he entered the practice hall and took his seat.

Both men came forward and received gracious words, there were father-son names, he faced the auspicious direction, knelt formally and performed reading practice which was completed. Hasegawa Takeuemon
Handled the thanks ceremony, departed in the same manner. Same Kichitaro

Both men came forward with the same gracious words, performed two makiwara exercises which were completed, same as above. Iijima Shiroemon
Same Gentaro

At the appointed time, he briefly entered the small sitting room, cleared away the makiwara equipment, brought out practice tools, made preparations, and re-entered the practice hall to take his seat. Nakamura Ichiemon, Izubuchi Heibei, Ichihashi Gunbei, Renzaburo, Takahata Kinzaburo, and Bunya came forward in order and completed as in the year of the boar.

1. 7th day of 1st month: 5 o'clock assembly <<formal dress worn from shift change until completion of thanks ceremony>> Various messengers in the sitting room finished, then beginning with Honda Kuranosuke's group, the senior councilors' daily thanks ceremony was completed. Honda Rojaku and Hikoma Tadashizu gave New Year thanks with gracious words, and ceremonial gifts were bestowed. In the Tartar room, Ogino Yuzan and Akashi Uchu gave thanks. In the gun room, standing attendance, Hozoin Ise returned from proxy worship for an audience. In the great hall, townsmen representatives and elders completed their thanks ceremony, then he entered the small sitting room, and again in the gun room all the retired people gave unified thanks with gracious words <<in good health>>. In the great hall, townspeople from Yoshie, Matsuoka, Mikuni, and Kanazu finished likewise, then in the gun room town doctors gave thanks which was completed, before 4:15.

1. 7 o'clock: Worship at the garden shrine and the former main hall garden shrine <<chamberlain accompanied, advance guard Shinemon>> as in late winter.

1. 8th day of 1st month: 5:30 assembly. However, formal assembly was announced and temple shrine thanks took place, finishing before 9:30.

1. Courier arrived. On the 28th of late winter ○ at the castle, through special consideration, a loan of 6,000 ryo in gold was announced <<proxy Otawara Hida-no-kami>>
8th day courier arrived

1. White sugar from Princess
1. Return letter, 1 Matsue sea bass (2) from Lord Dewa
1. Ryukyu raw silk, 1 box from Lord Matsudaira Hyogo-no-kami with return letter attached
1. Mackerel roe, 1 box from Lord Matsudaira Kunai-no-taifu, presented likewise

9th day
1. White barrels (2) from Kamikai-ura, Zenbei
1. Dried codfish (2) from Koniu-ura, Tone Mohei
The above were offered as per annual custom, handled by the meal attendants, with dried codfish being presented for inspection then given to the kitchen head inspector according to precedent.

<<1. 9th day: First tea ceremony of the year, thereafter occurring 4-5 times per month>>

1. 11th day of 1st month: 6:30 assembly. Celebration of armored rice cakes in the sitting room, with senior councilor in attendance, then after finishing, ceremonial rice cakes and gifts were personally bestowed upon the senior councilor's son, castle deputy's son, tutor, middle councilor, and chamberlain. In the gun room, Jufuku-in New Year thanks. In the great hall from Kochi to meal attendants personally received rice cakes. In the Tartar room, pages likewise. Rest period, new guard shift finished, after the second meal small officials finished. In the gun room, personally bestowed upon Utsunomiya Yasaburo. From court physicians to Hanaki Sakae received gifts, then children's ceremony was completed, and after 8 o'clock ○ received thanks from rural headmen in standing attendance.

12th day courier arrived
1. New Year letter, 1 confections, 1 hand warmer (porcelain) but greatly damaged in transit, 1 mirror money 100 hiki from Princess
1. Same, 1 package of ganpi paper half-size from Koto Princess  
1. New Year calligraphy and paintings, 1 crafted bookmark from Tsutsumi Princess
1. Kokubu tobacco in straw wrapping, 1 fish money 100 hiki each from Kurahashi, Yamaoka, Sekiura
1. Buckwheat noodles offered for consolation upon arrival from Sodeno-kata