[Same as frame 3, right page]
"The Dancing Girl of Izu"
...The sacred fire of the island, red with camellias, Izu is the land of fire in the evening glow...
...Weeping wet in the hot spring valley's fragrant steam, even the red camellias scatter...
Shochiku Kinema Kamata Super Special Contemporary Film
Original Author: Kawabata Yasunari
Screenplay: Fushimi Akira
Cinematography: Ohara Joji
The talented director Gosho Heinosuke's authentic emotional film
Like the water of Izu's quiet harbor, flowing along, the life of traveling performers whose tomorrow is unknown like dewdrops, spring has budded and a young beautiful dancing girl has learned of love. With white powder and rouge on her cheeks, living the traveling life of this floating world, the eternal lamp of Shimoda Port illuminates a fleeting romance.
Starring: Tanaka Kinuyo, Ohikata Den
Co-starring: Takeuchi Ryoichi, Arai Jun, Wakamizu Kinuko
Kobayashi Jukuji, Sakamoto Takeshi, Hyodo Shizue
HIS MASTER'S VOICE [Logo]
TRADE MARK REGISTERED [Logo]
(Victor Records Recording - Theme Song)
...Opening Soon...
Song of the Dancing Girl (Lyrics: Nagata Mikihiko, Music: Nakayama Shinpei)
With white powder and rouge for mother,
Crossing this floating world to the sound of shamisen,
Tired from dancing, tearful,
The distant light of Shimoda Port.
I am drifting grass, at the mercy of waves,
In the prime of maidenhood, traveling pillow,
Night after night of lodging, even in awakening,
The flowers of love and emotion bloom.
Even the man I loved, just one night,
Crying at parting, east and west,
Like a migratory bird, wandering,
The loneliness at journey's end, traveling sky.
Burning Black Hair (Lyrics: Nagata Mikihiko, Music: Machida Kashō)
Izu is the land of fire, in the evening glow,
Cross the mountain pass and clouds arise,
In the hot spring valley's fragrance, weeping wet,
Even the red camellias scatter.
Wet lips, disheveled hair,
The heart of an Izu maiden in love,
Burning and yearning, through the deepening night,
Gazing at the island's sacred fire.
When Amagi clouds over, tears rain,
The distant roar offshore, of the Kuroshio,
Memories vanishing into the distance,
The autumn wind blows, hot spring steam.
Taisho-kan Weekly Report - Keijo Sakurai-machi - Taisho-kan - Published by Fukuzaki Hamanosuke - Edited by Nakamizu Tomonosuke - Sakai Koichi - Printing House - Printed by Nishio Printing