【Right Page】
"The Dancing Girl of Izu"
...The island's sacred fire, camellia red, Izu is a land of fire in the sunset...
...In the hot spring valley, wet with tears from the fragrant waters, red camellias also fall...
Shochiku Kinema Kamata Super Special Contemporary Film
Original Author... Kawabata Yasunari
Screenplay by... Fushimi Akira
Cinematographer... Ohara Joji
・Brilliant talent・Director Gosho Heinosuke's authentic emotional film
Like the waters of Izu's quiet harbor, wandering traveling performers whose lives flow uncertain as dew, their tomorrow unknown, spring budding forth, a young beautiful dancing girl has learned of love, with powder and rouge on her cheeks, living the traveling life of this floating world, the eternal light of Shimoda Port illuminates a fleeting romantic love story
・Tanaka Kinuyo・Obinata Den...starring・
Takeuchi Ryoichi・Arai Jun・Wakamizu Kinuko ・co-starring・
Kobayashi Tokuji・Sakamoto Takeshi・Hyodo Shizue
HIS MASTER'S VOICE【Logo】
TRADE MARK REGISTERED【Logo】
(Victor Records recording・theme song)
...Coming soon to theaters...
Song of the Dancing Girl (Lyrics by Nagata Mikihiko, Music by Nakayama Shimpei)
For mother, with powder and rouge applied
Crossing this floating world, to the sound of shamisen
Tired from dancing, tears welling up
The distant light of Shimoda Port.
I am drifting grass, at the mercy of waves
Spending my prime years, traveling pillow
Even in the awakening from overnight stays
Flowers of love and passion bloom.
Even the man I loved, only for one night
Crying as we part, east and west
Like a migratory bird, wandering
How lonely at journey's end, the traveling sky.
Burning Black Hair (Lyrics by Nagata Mikihiko, Music by Machida Kashō)
Izu is a land of fire, in the sunset
Cross the mountain pass and clouds well up
In the hot spring valley, wet with tears from the fragrant waters
Red camellias, their flowers also fall.
Wet lips, disheveled hair
The heart of an Izu maiden in love
Burning and yearning, through the deepening night
Watching the island's sacred fire live.
When Amagi clouds over, tears like rain
The distant roar of the open sea, the Kuroshio Current
Memories that fade away at its end
The autumn wind blows, steam from the hot springs.
・Taisho-kan Weekly Report・Keijo Sakurai-cho・Taisho-kan・Fukuzaki Hamanosuke・Publisher・Nakamizu Tomonosuke・Editor・Sakai Koichi・Printing House・Nishio Printing House

【Left Page】
Migratory Bird of Tears
Acclaimed = Special screening decided for next week
On rainy days, on windy days
Living in tears
I am a migratory bird of this floating world
Don't cry
Don't cry
...If you cry, even your wings won't obey you
That dream, and this dream
All scattered apart
I am a traveling bird of tears
Don't cry
Don't cry
...Crying won't bring back yesterday
The nostalgic homeland's
Sky is far away
I am an aimless traveling bird
Don't cry
Don't cry
...Tomorrow too, let's cross over that mountain
...Shochiku Kinema...
Taisho-kan Weekly Report