They wear robes with rhinoceros horn and white jade belts. All of these follow the Ming dynasty system. Although they now receive investiture from the Qing dynasty, they have not changed their traditional court dress and caps. Below first rank, there are eight grades of caps, four grades of hairpins, and four grades of belts. The general outline is as follows:
First rank wears gold hairpins, brocade caps with woven patterns, brocade belts, and green robes.
《Envoys who come to Edo are of first rank, but as they represent the king, they wear the king's court dress》Second rank wears gold hairpins, 《Junior second rank has heads made of gold, with silver shafts》
purple silk caps, yellow belts with dragon coil patterns, 《Those with merit are granted brocade belts》and deep blue robes. Third rank wears silver hairpins, yellow silk caps, with belts and robes the same as second rank. Fourth rank wears red belts with woven dragon coil patterns, with hairpins, caps, and robes the same as third rank. Fifth rank wears varicolored flower belts (belts with patterns in colored thread), with everything else the same as third rank.
Sixth and seventh ranks wear yellow silk caps, with hairpins and robes the same as third rank, and belts the same as fifth rank. Eighth and ninth ranks wear flame-red crepe caps, with everything else the same as seventh rank. Minor officials wear red silk caps, with everything else the same as seventh rank. Those who wear copper hairpins and red cotton caps, or green cotton caps, are village heads (nanushi) and bailiffs (shōya).
Those who wear blue cotton caps are peasant headmen. All official robes are longer than ordinary clothes and are fastened with belts from above. They are worn very loosely, and paper cases, tobacco pouches, etc. are carried in the breast, just like in Japan. Children's clothing has side openings of about three to four sun, which are sewn closed at the coming-of-age ceremony. The matter of coming-of-age is described below. Women's clothing is not significantly different. They wear outer garments as uchikake and walk pulling the collars with both hands. The system of nightwear is the same as Japan's. There are fine garments called fusuma