[Title - Content doesn't match but…]
Great Earthquake Complete Map of Burned Areas

[This frame should have only required transcription of the title, but the following entered portion is left as is. The main text has been transcribed in frames 2 and 3.]

The residences of Lord Okabe, Lord Toda Ōi, Lord Toda of Hongō, Lord Tango-no-kami, and Lord Matsudaira Buzen-no-kami were heavily burned.
Lord Sakakibara Shikibu-dayū's residence half-burned. Lord Koide Shinano-no-kami's residence heavily damaged. In this area, the samurai residences were burned. Kaji Bridge
Street and Hitotsubashi Street samurai residences damaged in various places. From there, the Iidamachi area was damaged. Around Kudan slope and Banchō, the samurai residences
suffered no particular damage. ○Around Reiganjima, Bakurōchō, Yokoyamachō, Hamachō, and Tomizawachō areas, and also around Honchō, Ishichō, and Ginchō areas suffered minor damage.
○Also, in the northern part of the city, Senju post station was heavily damaged. All the brothels in Kozukahara were burned. Also, in Shin-Yoshiwara,
all five districts were completely burned, but fifty houses west of the Great Gate remained. From there, Tamachi, Takemon, Tanaka, and Mitani
areas were heavily damaged. Yamano-shuku was damaged. Shōtenmachi heavily collapsed. Umamichi theater district's three neighborhoods
were completely burned, and about ten houses in a row from actor Onoe Kikujirō's house remained. From there, the Hanakawado
area was heavily damaged. Asakusa Main Hall was safe, but the grounds were damaged in places. Two or three houses
collapsed from Kinryūzan mochi shop area. However, only the top of the five-story pagoda tilted slightly. Denpōin Temple
was slightly damaged. Also, Namikichō was damaged in places. Fire broke out from Komagata and burned to Kurofunechō, Miyoshichō, and the riverbank
street. The first fire brigade extinguished it at this location. Also, Okuramae Street was slightly damaged. From there, around Asakusa
Abekawachō, temples were heavily damaged. Kikuya Bridge corner and Shinboribata were slightly burned.
Various places within Higashi Honganji grounds were heavily damaged. The east and west gates fell. The main hall was safe.
From there, Shitaya Kōtokuji Street's temples, townhouses, and residential areas were heavily damaged.
In this area, Lords Tōdō and Tachibana, and other major and minor daimyo residences were damaged in places. Shamisen-bori
Lord Satake had no particular issues. Also, Shitaya Sakamoto 2-chōme was slightly burned. Minowa Kanasugi
and also Ueno Kurumazaka Street's various storehouses and tile-roofed buildings were heavily damaged.
○Similarly, on Shitaya Sanmaibashi Street, from Iguchi River to Itō Matsusakaya burned. The aforementioned Matsusakaya had twelve storehouse fronts collapse.
From there, in Okachimachi, Lord Inoue's residence was half-burned. Lord Ishikawa's was heavily burned. Lord Kuroda's was half-burned. Lord Ogasawara's was heavily
collapsed. Lord Hori's mansion was damaged. Chōjamachi and Uenomachi areas were completely burned. Daimonchō burned. The Onari highway
burned up to Izumi Bridge Street. From Ikenohata Kayamachi Street to Muen slope burned. Lords Izumo and Sakakibara's residences remained.
Yushima Tenjin Shrine was slightly damaged. The approach from Kuromon-chō to Sangumi-chō was heavily damaged in places. On the back street,
in front of Reiun Temple, lattice rooms cracked and holes about three feet opened in the main road. From there, Tsumakoi slope
Inari main shrine's storehouse was slightly damaged. Not a single house in the district had any problems. From there, Kanda Shōhei Bridge
Lords Iga and Tatebe were heavily damaged. Lord Mizoguchi was half-collapsed. Lord Naitō's front row houses were heavily damaged.
From Dōbōchō, Odokorochō, Kanazawachō inns, east to the Onari highway, west to Hongō, south to Shōhei Bridge,
various places were damaged. Hongō Street had no particular issues, and around Lord Kaga's residence, various places were damaged.
Around Maruyama and Komagome, various places were damaged. Both districts of Nezu were damaged. Around Yanaka Dangozaka Street and Zenkōji slope,
various places were damaged but nothing particularly serious, and also around Ōji, from Inari to Jūjō, various places were damaged.
○Also, beyond the east bridge, Lord Matsudaira Suwa-no-kami's mansion burned, fire broke out from Honjo Ishihara, and from Benten
Alley to Hōonji Bridge to the same location's canal, Lord Tsugaru Etchū-no-kami was heavily damaged.
Around here, small residences were heavily damaged. From there to around Kameido, various places were damaged. Also, on Tachikawa Street, fire broke out from Aioi-chō
2-chōme and burned from Midorichō to Hanamachi. Around Koume, various places were damaged with some fires. Also, in Fukagawa,
around Ofunakuramaechō was heavily damaged, fire broke out and Saikōji Temple partially remained, Lord Ōkubo's residence was half-burned,
and the storehouse was half-burned. Also, from Hachimangawachō to Rokken-bori Naka-no-hashi, from Morishitachō to Takahashi, the fire was contained.
Also, at one entrance, from Aikawachō to Ichinohashi Street, Ōshimachō, Hamaguri-chō, and the east side (riverside) of Kuroemachi, half remained.
Hachiman Shrine had no problems. The front gate and torii were damaged. Sanjūsangendō had no problems.
Around the lumber yard, various places
were damaged. Around Reikanji Temple gate, Ōgibashi area, and Onagigawa area were damaged in places. ○In Yamanote, Yotsuya