October 13th
Ansei 2nd year, Year of the Rabbit
October 2nd | Classification of Fire Outbreak Locations in the Great Edo Earthquake
Night, 4th hour　　　　　　　　　Hyōbandō

At the time of Ansei 2nd year, October 2nd, at the 4th hour of the night, a great earthquake suddenly occurred. Outside the castle at Kanda Bridge and inside at the residences of the great lords and palace buildings, various places suffered heavy damage. The residences of Lord Sakai Saemon-no-jō and Lord Ogasawara Sakyō-dayū were damaged, and both Lord Sakai Utano-kami's main and secondary residences burned. Lord Morikawa Dewa-no-kami's residence burned. Inside Tokiwa Bridge, Lord Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami suffered major damage, and Lord Toda Uneme was damaged. From there, inside and outside Wadakura Gate, the ground cracked greatly. Lord Matsudaira Higo-no-kami's secondary residence and Lord Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami's residence burned. Lords Naitō Kii-no-kami, Matsudaira Iga-no-kami, and Matsudaira Kenba-no-kami were damaged. Below the Western Citadel, the stables of Lords Makino Bizen-no-kami, Honjō Aki, Honda Etchū-no-kami, and Sakai Ukyō suffered heavy damage, and the Babazaki Gate guardhouse burned. From there, on Daimyo Alley, Lords Oda, Masuyama, and Hizen were damaged in this area, and Lord Endō Tajima-no-kami burned. Lord Ogasawara Saemon-no-suke's long houses were damaged and partially burned. Also, the fire brigade residences burned. Lord Inaba's secondary residence burned. Lord Matsudaira Sagami-no-kami's northeastern long houses burned. From the front gate, the southern palace buildings remained. From there, Lord Matsudaira Awa-no-kami's front gate was damaged, and Lord Matsudaira Tosa-no-kami was damaged. From there, Lord Matsudaira Ukyō-no-suke's front gate was heavily damaged, and the southern corner burned slightly. Lords Nagai Tōtōmi-no-kami and Honda Nakatsukasa burned. The southern part of Lord Doi Ōi-no-kami's residence burned slightly. On Outer Sakurada Street, the front long houses of Lords Uesugi, Itakura, Aki, and Kuroda were heavily damaged. Inside Tora Gate, around Kasumigaseki, the great daimyo residences suffered heavy damage. The front long houses of Lords Matsudaira Ichimasa, Toda Sutejirō, Matsudaira Shinano-no-kami, Abe Inaba-no-kami, Sōma Daizen, Nishio Oki-no-kami, Mizuno Dewa-no-kami, Kuchiki Ōmi-no-kami, and Kamei burned partially. The small retainer residences' western long houses of Lords Arima Bingo-no-kami, Nambu, Hōjō, Matsudaira Toki-no-suke, Itō, and Satsuma burned. The Dotenabe Nabeshima residence was slightly damaged but remained. From there, Lords Karatsu Ogasawara, Sanada Shinano-no-kami, Ishikawa Tonomo-no-suke, Hōjō Mino-no-kami, and Ōoka Echizen-no-kami in this area suffered heavy damage. On this day, outside Hibiya Gate, Lord Matsudaira Hizen's footwear storage and Lord Mōri burned slightly. Outside Tora Gate, Lords Kyōgoku, Inaba, and Kinoshita, and from this area through Atago-shita Street, Lords Yabu Katō, Akita, and Matsudaira Oki, the major and minor daimyo in this area suffered minor damage. Also, at Nagata Baba, Lords Kuki, Niwa, Ōmura, Hosokawa, and Ii, the major and minor daimyo in this area suffered minor damage. Sannō Shrine was safe. From there, around Kubochō in Kanebōchō, Hongō Daichi, Kajichō, Bizenchō, and Fushimichō, this area was heavily damaged. Around Karasumori Inari, the major and minor daimyo suffered minor damage. Also, around Shinbashi there was minor damage, and both sides of Shibai-chō completely burned. Rogetsu-chō, Udagawa-chō, Shinmei-chō, and Mishima-chō were heavily damaged. Shiba Zōjōji Temple and its grounds were unharmed. Around the middle gate front, Hamamatsu-chō's four blocks were slightly damaged. From there, Kanasugi Bridge Street was damaged, and from there Shinzeniza, Shinamichō, and the Shiba waterfront area were all damaged. Also, Lords Sendai and Wakisaka were slightly damaged. From Tamachi's nine blocks and Ōto to around Shinagawa suffered minor damage. Also, around Nihonbashi, on the eastern side from Yokkaichi to around Edo Bridge suffered minor damage. From around Kobuna-chō to around Koami-chō, and from there to around Reiganjima, most of the storehouses were damaged. From around Kayaba-chō to Shinkawa and Shinbori, various places were damaged, and from there one side of Reiganjima Shiomachi burned. From there, around Hatchōbori suffered minor damage. At Teppōzu, around Minatomachi and Akashichō were heavily damaged, and Lord Matsudaira Awaji-no-kami burned.

[The following duplicates the next page]
From there, all the major and minor daimyo throughout Tsukiji were damaged, and the Honganji temple grounds were damaged but the main hall was safe. From there, around Odawara-chō was heavily damaged. Around Kobiki-chō suffered minor damage. Hama Palace was damaged in various places. Tsukudajima burned. Around Kyōbashi, Minami Tenmachō 2nd and 3rd blocks, Tatami-chō, Gorobei-chō, Gusoku-chō, Yanagi-chō, Tokiwa-chō, Kaga-chō, Minami Daiku-chō, Inaba-chō, Nakadōri, Suzuki-chō, and Takegashi all burned. From there, to the south, from around Ginza-chō to around Owari-chō, various places were damaged. Also, north of Nihonbashi, from Muromachi to around Imagawa Bridge, various places were damaged. Kanda Street was damaged in various places in a cross pattern. Sujikai...