【Right Page】
Rice Flowers

"Yamato Honzo":
　It is the chief of the hundred grains, upon which human life depends
　Those that are not sticky are called:
　　　　　glutinous rice (kō)
　　　　also called japonica rice
　　　　　　Japanese name:
　　　　　　　　Urushine
"Wamyō Ruijushō" states:
　　Rice - "Guangzhi" says there are purple-awn rice and red glutinous rice. Now examining, rice ripening has early and late varieties
　　　　Taking their names: Japanese name for early rice is "wase," late rice is "okute"

【Right bottom - red square seal】Grain crops

【From right page upper left to left page】
"Wakan Sansai Zue" grain section states:
　　Glutinous rice (urunokome) sound: kō, japonica, Japanese name: urushine
　Tang sound: ken　　　Early rice (Japanese name: wase)
　　　　　　Medium rice (Japanese name: nagate)
　　　　　　Late rice (Japanese name: okute)

　In the Ryukyu Kingdom, rice ripens twice a year, called Ryukyu rice
　This is so in the south; in Fujian fields ripen twice a year, and reaching Lingnan, they harvest three times. Also in India, due to humid ripening, rice ripens four times a year

【Left page, right bottom】
Mizunoto-hitsuji year, Nanryo month, 8th day
Sketched

"Zōho Tashikihen" hemp, wheat, and rice section states:
　Rice (tō) Japanese name: mochiyone, now examining: mochigome. Alternative name: glutinous rice (tō) sound: to. Glutinous (nō) also written as 𥻟
　Japonica rice (kō) Japanese name: urushine, now examining: kome. Alternative name: japonica (kō) same as glutinous rice

Grain (sound: valley, Japanese name: tanatsumono) follows grain radical and rice radical (sometimes follows rice to make grain, same meaning). Following wood radical makes grain (sound: valley) - paper mulberry, a tree that can be used to make paper.
"Guang Bowuzhi" states: the god of millet (name) Xuji (surname) Yongtian. The god of wheat (name) Fuxi.
The god of millet (name) Shūneilankaku. The god of beans (name) Lingzhi (surname) Le.
"Bencao Gangmu" states: Ancient people did not eat grains, gnawing fur and drinking blood. Shennong emerged and first tasted plants, distinguished grains, and taught people farming. He also tasted plants to distinguish medicines to cure people's illnesses. Xuanyuan emerged to teach cooking and created prescriptions, and only then could people achieve the way of health preservation. "Zhouguan" has names for five, six, and nine grains; poets have verses about eight and hundred grains - truly the varieties of grains are numerous.
Five grains: hemp, glutinous millet, millet, wheat, beans
Nine grains: glutinous millet, rice, wheat, adzuki beans (adding these to the five grains makes nine grains)
Three grains: foxtail millet, rice, beans
Today's five grains: rice, barley, wheat, soybeans, adzuki beans
The so-called nine grains in "Youyang Zazu" and others have similarities and differences with the above.

In our country: Ōnamuchi-no-mikoto is the guardian deity of the hundred grains - this is Miwa Daimyōjin.
Generally for grain crops: planting them is called "ka" (sound: ga), harvesting them is called "shoku" (sound: shiki). "Ka" is like marrying off a daughter, having a place to give birth.
"Shoku" follows the granary; when grain matures it can be harvested and stored. A granary is a place to store grain (ideographic compound).