【Right Page】
"Yamato Honzō" states in the commentary on perilla:
　　Flowering perilla
　　　　　　Also called huihui-su (foreign perilla)　Should be investigated
　"Hanato's explanation"
　　Autumn field grass (Akino-tamurasō)　Mouse-tail grass (Tamurasō)　【Using mouse-tail grass for misohagi is questionable in various texts and may be an error, should be investigated】
　　　　　　Separately there are field grasses with white flowers,
　　　　　　and purple-flowered ones. Called deigonai,
　　　　　　they are different species. Mouse-tail grass is
　　　　　　　a type of horse-whip grass,
　　　　　　　　　another name

【Lower right】
Both flowers, Kinoe-saru year, 7th month, 22nd day
True copy

【Red square seal】Grass category

【Upper left】
"Bencao Gangmu" commentary on perilla, Shizhen says:
Now there is one type of flowering perilla. Its leaves have fine teeth
densely arranged, like cut and shaped forms. Fragrance, color, stems, and seeds
have nothing different. People call it huihui-su. "Yamato
Honzō" states this perilla exists in mountains and fields. Its form,
nature, and taste do not differ from perilla. Only the leaves are fine
and stems and seeds are also fine. The fragrance is even more
intense compared to ordinary perilla. This should be Shizhen's so-called flowering perilla.

【Left of diagram】
According to my examination and observation, the
explanation matches well. When striking the fragrant branches,
they are very pungent.
The rest also matches well.
However, considering further, it may be
a type of horse-whip grass with intense fragrance.

【From right page left to left page】
"Dijin-shō" states:
　　Star grass (Hoshi-sō)　Also called grain-essence grass

"Bencao Gangmu" says:
　　Star-wearing grass　Script-star grass
　　Shooting-star grass

Shizhen says: Born from the residual energy of grain fields, hence called "grain."
White flowers resemble stars, hence the various names
with "star-wearing."

"Yamato Honzō" states:
　Grain-essence grass

"Zōho Tashiki-hen" records in the marsh grass category:
　Grain-essence (Kokusei) grass【Japanese name】【Now considering it to be Wasegusa】【Alternative name】Shooting-star (Ryūsei) grass　【Supplementary alternative name】Star-wearing grass【Kaihō】Script-star grass

【Lower right of final line・Red square seal】Medicinal herbs