【Right Page】
"Wakan Sansai Zue" fragrant herbs category says:
　　　Giba-sō (Kiba-sō) 【Rūda】　Gei-sō【pronunciation un】commonly called ryūuta, which is barbarian language. It treats skin diseases well and repels harmful insects. It is commonly called giba-sō.
　"Yamato Honzō" says:
　　　　Rūda grass　This is barbarian language. This is called rūta by the southern barbarians
　　　　　　　　　Also commonly called giba sanrei-sō

　　　　　　　　　Also said that kan-ren-sō also has the name giba sanrei-sō

　　　　　　　　　This grass is effective for various diseases, its functions are abbreviated here

【Right bottom】
Both grasses
　Kinoe-saru year, Isoku (7th month) 25th day
　True copy
【Red square seal】Miscellaneous herbs

【Upper center】
"Honzō Ikka-gen" says:
　Ga-shitsu-jitsu　namely gei-sō
　　　　　ryūuta-sō
　　　　　Also called jūri-kō
　　There are two varieties. One variety is called kata-ryūuta

"Sansai Zue" commentary says:
　　During the Tenshō period, barbarians brought this grass
　　Named ryūuta
　　"Jihui" says gei is a fragrant grass that can repel
　　bookworms. When harvested and placed on mats, it
　　removes fleas and lice. "Erya-yoku" says in mid-
　　winter month gei begins to grow, resembling ja-kō but
　　fragrant and edible - this is probably this grass.
Shen Kuo says gei resembles peas, making small leaves. Its
leaves are fragrant, and after autumn there is slight whiteness like powder between the leaves. Now this is called
shichi-ri-kō. However, this explanation is not correct and should be examined.

　　"Yamato Honzō" says:
　　　Goma, shiba-ma, shi-ma, kyoshō-shi are all alternative names for goma
　　　　　　Zhang Qian of Han was sent to the Western Regions and brought back these seeds. Since they came from the Hu country, they were named goma

　　"Wamyō Ruijushō" says:
　　Tao Yinju's herbal notes say　Goma　【pronunciation goman, corrupted to say ukosue】　Originally from Dayuan, hence the name

【From upper left of right page to left page】
　　"Kyūkō Honzō" says:
　　　Yushi (sesame) seedlings

【From lower right page to left page】
"Zōho Tashiki-hen" hemp, wheat, and rice category says:
　Goma【Japanese name】【kosue】　Leaves are called sei-jō【pronunciation hako】
　　　Stems are called ma-kai【written as kei】Others are alternative names recorded
　　　later, so abbreviated

【Red square seal】Grain category

【Lower left page】
"Honzō Wakai" says:
　Goma　Alternative names　Kyoshō　square stem
　　　　　　　Ku-shitsu　yu-ma
　　　　　　　Shi-ma
　　　　　　　Also called shiba-ma, but this is incorrect
　　　　Japanese name　Go-sue

　Goma has three varieties: white, black, and red
　Those with four, six, seven, or eight ridges
　depend on the fertility of the soil. Black ones have
　leaves like duck feet