【Page 2, Upper Section】
Essential Texts of the Four Schools, Volume 1

Compiled by Master Nisso of Mount Enzan　　　　　　Supplemented by Later Student Eien

○The Pure Land School establishes its teaching based on three sutras and one treatise.
Contemplation Sutra, 1 volume. {Note: Two assemblies at the royal palace and Vulture Peak} Translated by Kalayasas of Liu Song {Note: Western Regions}.
Infinite Life Sutra, 2 volumes. {Note: One assembly at Rajagriha, Vulture Peak} Translated by Sanghavarman of Cao Wei {Note: Western Regions}.
Amida Sutra, 1 volume. {Note: Teaching of one assembly at Jetavana} Translated by Tripitaka Master Kumarajiva of Yao Qin {Note: Western Regions}.
Treatise on Birth in the Pure Land, 1 volume. Composed by Bodhisattva Vasubandhu. Translated by Bodhiruci of Great Tang.

Patriarchs:
○{Note: India} Tripitaka Master Bodhiruci.
○{Note: China} Dharma Master Tanluan composed Commentary on Pure Land Treatise, 2 volumes. {Note: Various sutras are the difficult practice path like walking on land; the three sutras are the easy practice path like riding a boat on water}
△Luan was born 1,425 years after Buddha's parinirvana and died at age 67. Initially he followed the Three Treatise school and lectured on the Four Treatises. Later he encountered Bodhiruci, received the Contemplation Sutra, and established his own school.
○{Note: Second Patriarch} Chan Master Daochuo. Composed Collection of Peace and Bliss, 2 volumes. {Note: Various schools and sutras are the path of sages with not one person succeeding; the three Pure Land sutras are the Pure Land gate that can be entered}
△Chuo was born 1,521 years after Buddha's parinirvana and died at age 84. Initially he belonged to the Nirvana school, but in his later years saw Luan's stele inscription and converted to Pure Land. {Note: Because he resided in Xihe, he is also called Xihe}
○{Note: Third Patriarch} Great Master Shandao. Composed Five Commentaries in 9 volumes. {Note: Various sutras are miscellaneous practices with not one in a thousand succeeding; Amida is correct practice with one hundred out of one hundred being reborn} The Five

【Page 2, Lower Section】
Commentaries are: {Note: Dharma Service Hymns, Birth Ritual Hymns, Contemplation Methods, Pratyutpanna Hymns, Commentary on Miscellaneous Good Acts - totaling 9 volumes}
△Dao was born 17 years after Tiantai's death. Initially he practiced the Lotus and Vimalakirti sutras. Once he closed his eyes and searched through the tripitaka, obtaining the Contemplation Sutra. Therefore he specialized in the sixteen contemplations. He also met Master Chuo, received the Contemplation Sutra, and greatly expanded it.
Chan Master Huaigan composed the Treatise on Various Doubts and judged the entire Buddhist teaching.
Dharma Master Xiaokang.
○{Note: Japanese Founder} Master Honen composed the Senjaku-shu, 2 volumes. {Note: The difficult, sacred, and miscellaneous like the Lotus should be abandoned, discarded, closed away, and cast off; the easy, pure, and correct is one-thought rebirth through Amida Buddha}
△Honen was named Genku and born in Inaoka, Sakushu. {Note: Corresponding to the 82nd year of the final dharma age, the 7th day of the 4th month of Chosho 2, year of the ox} At age 15 he ascended Mount Hiei and served Eiku of Kokutani. He read through the three major works and perused the tripitaka five times. At age 43, he saw Eshin's Collection of Essentials for Birth and abandoned the Tendai school to establish the Pure Land school. He resided at Yoshimizu and promoted it extensively. At one time he incurred imperial displeasure. On the 28th day of the 2nd month of Kenei 2 {Note: Changed to Jogen}, his name was changed to Fujii Motohiko and he was exiled to Sanuki. {Note: According to the Wakan Sansai Zue 71: (20th day) Juren was executed at Mabuchi in Goshu, Anraku was executed at Rokujo riverbank. Above. Shinran also had his name changed to Fujii Zenshin and was exiled to Echigo} At age 80, he died on the 25th day of the 1st month of Kenryaku 2. He propagated the teaching for 37 years. He once wrote the Senjaku-shu for Chancellor and Minister Fujiwara no Kanezane. After his death, the printing blocks were burned and destroyed at Mount Hiei. Fifteen years after his death, on the 26th day of the 6th month of Karoku 2, year of the dog, the Gion dog-spirit people were commanded to dig up Honen's corpse from Otani and cast it into the Kamo River. However, Honen's biography says that his disciples

【Page 3, Upper Section】
heard the deliberations at Mount Hiei, and Horen, Kaku-a and others secretly hid the remains at Koryuji Temple in Saga, then later cremated them at Awono in the western mountains. This matter is hard to believe. What contradicts the Mount Hiei account is that even now after death they would sever the dead bones, and this is also testimony from disciples. Moreover, biographies are generally full of fabrications. Generally, from Honen's lifetime in Genkyu 1 until Ninji 1 after his death - during these 37 years, imperial edicts of banishment occurred five times in total. {Note: See the 36 examples listed in the records} The above matters are recorded in detail in Honen's biography, the Chronicle of Imperial Reigns, the Azuma Kagami, etc. One should go and examine them.
In Genkyu 1, Mount Hiei deliberated on expelling the nembutsu practice. When Honen heard this he was shocked and immediately wrote down seven articles of precepts to show his disciples, and also wrote an oath on one sheet of paper to submit to Mount Hiei, earnestly apologizing. However, that text contradicts the Senjaku-shu in many places. The Chusei-ron {Note: 9th volume, 47th section}, Keiju-roku {Note: 6th volume, 39th section}, Keimo {Note: 3rd volume, 26th section} and others refute this. Go and examine it. While Honen was at Shofuku Temple in Sanuki Province, he carved an image of Seishi himself and inscribed a verse on the back of the image saying: "Honen's original ground body is the bodhisattva Mahasthamaprapta. In order to save sentient beings, he manifested and established this sacred place. My daily spiritual influence protects those who take refuge. I will surely guide them to the Pure Land. If I do not fulfill this vow, I will never attain perfect enlightenment." {Note: From the 7th volume of the biography}
○The Ten Stages Vibhasha Treatise {Note: Composed by Nagarjuna, translated by Kumarajiva}, Chapter 5 on Easy Practice, says: "What you call the stage of non-retrogression - this dharma is extremely difficult and can only be obtained after a long time. If there were an easy practice path by which one could quickly reach the stage of non-retrogression, this would be the words of the cowardly and inferior, not the teaching of a great person's aspiration. If you

【Page 3, Lower Section】
insist on hearing this expedient means, I will now explain it. The Buddha-dharma has immeasurable gates. Just as worldly paths have difficult and easy aspects - traveling on foot by land is particularly painful while riding a boat on water is pleasant - the bodhisattva path is also like this. Some involve diligent practice and vigorous effort, while others use faith as an expedient means for easy practice and quickly reach the stage of non-retrogression." {Note: Text}
○The Commentary on the Treatise on Birth in the Pure Land, Volume 1 {Note: Beginning} says: "Respectfully examining Bodhisattva Nagarjuna's Ten Stages Vibhasha, we see that for bodhisattvas seeking non-retrogression, there are two kinds of paths. The first is the difficult practice path. The second is the easy practice path. The difficult practice path refers to the difficulty of seeking non-retrogression in the five turbidities world during a time without buddhas. This difficulty has many aspects - roughly speaking five or three to show the meaning. First, the apparent good of non-Buddhists confuses the bodhisattva dharma. Second, the self-benefit of sravakas obstructs great compassion. Third, evil people without consideration destroy others' excellent virtues. Fourth, inverted good results can destroy pure conduct. Fifth, relying only on self-power without other-power support. Such matters as these meet the eye everywhere. It is like the suffering of walking on foot along a land route. The easy practice path means that by simply having faith in Buddha with the same conditions, aspiring to be born in the Pure Land, and riding on Buddha's vow-power, one can immediately be born in that pure land. Through Buddha's power and maintenance, one immediately enters the assembly of those in the correct determination of the Great Vehicle. Correct determination is precisely non-retrogression. It is like the pleasure of riding a boat along a water route. This Infinite Life Sutra Upadesa is the ultimate reach of the supreme vehicle, the sailing vessel of non-retrogression." {Note: Text}
△The original treatise merely clarifies that in the practices of bodhisattvas reaching non-retrogression, there are two paths - difficult and easy. But why does Tanluan interpret this in terms of the five turbidities world without buddhas? Alas, what a grave error