【Page 30, Upper Section】
like the moon shining brightly, with the tuft of hair between the eyebrows whiter than crystal snow, and thus adorned approaching you, you should examine and determine the truth or falsehood of this. After you have awakened to this knowledge, you should subdue [such apparitions]. World-Honored One, even demons can transform into Buddha form. How much more can they transform into the four kinds of bodies such as arhats? Due to this cause and condition, I do not generate faith in my heart regarding this. Even if there are teachings, I cannot respectfully receive them, nor do I revere and take them as refuge." The sutra text is like this. Why does Ran [Shinran] not reflect upon this?

In the Nirvana Sutra (Northern Version), Bodhisattva Kāśyapa asks about monastic life and sexual desire, maintaining or breaking [precepts]: "World-Honored One, if there is a bhikṣu who engages in sexual desire in dreams, does this violate the precepts or not?" The Buddha said: "No. One should generate thoughts of foulness regarding sexual desire, and not generate even one moment of pure thoughts. One should stay far from the troublesome thoughts of love for women. If one engages in sex in dreams, upon awakening one should generate regret."

The Brahmā Net Sutra states: "All males are my fathers, all females are my mothers. In life after life, I have received birth from them without exception. Therefore, sentient beings of the six realms are all my parents. Yet to kill and eat them is to kill my parents and also kill my former bodies."

【Page 30, Lower Section】
Essential Texts of the Four Schools - Volume 2
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Composed by Venerable Nisshō of Enzan
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Later scholar Eien compiled and supplemented

　Zen School
　　┌Laṅkāvatāra Sutra, 4 volumes (translated by Tripiṭaka Master Guṇabhadra of India) - Dharma's heart-dharma
　　├Śūraṅgama Sutra, 10 volumes (translated by Pramiti of Tang)
Based on┼Diamond Prajñāpāramitā Sutra, 3 volumes, 3 translations (Kumārajīva of Qin, Bodhiruci, Paramārtha of Chen) - Hongren's heart-dharma
sutras　├Sutra of the Non-Activity of All Dharmas, 2 volumes (translated by Kumārajīva) - Sengcan's heart-dharma
　　├Platform Sutra (Created by the Sixth Patriarch Huineng during the Zhenguan era of Tang. Called a sutra.)
　　└Perfect Enlightenment Sutra

　Patriarchs
　　Twenty-eight patriarchs of the Western Heaven. This is a falsely established foundation.
　First Seven Buddhas　　　　Four. Upagupta
　1. Kāśyapa　　　　　　　　Five. Dhītika
　2. Ānanda　　　　　　　　 Six. Miccaka
　3. Śāṇavāsa　　　　　　　 Seven. Vasumitra

【Page 31, Upper Section】
　8. Buddhanandi　　　　　19. Kumārata
　9. Buddhamitra　　　　　 20. Śayata
　10. Pārśva　　　　　　　　21. Vasubandhu
　11. Puṇyayaśas　　　　　 22. Manura
　12. Aśvaghoṣa　　　　　　23. Haklenayaśas
　13. Kapimala　　　　　　　24. Siṃha
　14. Nāgārjuna　　　　　　 25. Vāśasita
　15. Kāṇadeva　　　　　　　26. Puṇyamitra
　16. Rāhulata　　　　　　　27. Prajñātāra
　17. Saṅghanandi　　　　　 28. Bodhidharma
　18. Gayāśata

The Seven Buddhas are: Vipaśyin Buddha, Śikhin Buddha, Viśvabhū Buddha, Krakucchanda Buddha, Kanakamuni Buddha, Kāśyapa Buddha, and Śākyamuni Buddha.

Six Patriarchs of the Eastern Land
Great Master Bodhidharma
　　　┌Nun Zongchi - Skin ("Severing afflictions, realizing bodhi." Master said: "You have attained my skin." Tiantai Distinct Teaching)
　Three disciples┼Daoyu - Flesh ("Delusion is afflictions; awakening is bodhi." Master said: "You have attained my flesh.")
　who received└Huike - Bone ("Originally no afflictions; fundamentally this is bodhi." Master said: "You have attained my bone." Transcends Distinct and Perfect.)
　the Dharma

【Page 31, Lower Section】
Great Master Huike, Dhyāna Master
Sengcan Jianzhi, Dhyāna Master  
Daoxin Dayi, Dhyāna Master
Hongren Daman, Dhyāna Master
　Two disciples┬Shenxiu - Within Teaching ("The body is the bodhi tree, the mind like a bright mirror stand. Always diligently polish it clean, let no dust accumulate.")
　who received└Huineng - Outside Teaching ("Bodhi originally has no tree, the bright mirror is also not a stand. Originally there is not one thing - where can dust accumulate?")
　the Dharma

Huineng Dajian, Dhyāna Master

△Five streams of the Zen school: 1. Oxhead school, begun by Farong (disciple of Daoxin). 2. Northern school, begun by Shenxiu. 3. Southern school, with Huineng as patriarch. 4. Heze school, Shenhui (disciple of Huineng). 5. Hongzhou school, begun by Huairang. The Southern school divides into five streams: Linji school, Weiyang school, Caodong school, Yunmen school, and Fayan school. In Japan, the Linji and Cao[dong] two schools are transmitted.

△The Record of Buddhas and Patriarchs states: "King Xiangzhi of South India had three princes: Yuejingduoluo, Gongdeduoluo, and Putiduoluo. Puti is namely Dharma. After leaving home, he met the 27th patriarch Prajñātāra and received the great Dharma from him. [Prajñātāra] said: 'Sixty years after my death, you should go to China to spread the teaching.' After Tāra died, the master propagated the Way throughout the country. Long contemplating that conditions in China had ripened, he went to the seashore, took passage on a merchant ship, and in the first year of Datong of Liang (formerly called the eighth year of Putong), reached Guangzhou in the South China Sea (corresponding to the 476th year of the age of semblance Dharma). Entering Wei, he stopped at Shaolin Temple on Mount Song, practicing wall-gazing all day. Facing the wall for nine years. Again turning to address Ke, he said: 'The World-Honored One entrusted the Treasury of the True Dharma Eye to Kāśyapa, transmitting it in succession, so that