【Right Page】
Soul-Breaking, Phlegm-Releasing Powder, ta..., Henbane, various character variants
Various character variants for tobacco

　　　　　Regarding Japanese Language
Razan says that "tabako" (tobacco) and "kiseru" (pipe) are all foreign words. Kaibara (Ekiken) says that "tabako" is a dialect of foreign countries. Someone says that when it first came to Japan, since the powder was cut out from Tanba Province, it was called Tanba powder. This theory is false. Also it is said that tobacco is called "tabako" in both Beijing and among the Tartars, so it is not a Japanese word.

Upon examination, the historical facts of when tobacco first came to Japan are difficult to know clearly. Fortunately, in Ming and Qing medical texts there are three forms: "danbagu," "danbagu," and "danbagu," and now let us examine the pronunciation based on these. These three forms all have the same pronunciation. This is probably where Chinese people attached phonetic characters corresponding to foreign language. When Japanese people read these phonetic characters as they appear according to their pronunciation, it becomes

【Left Page】
"tanbako." However, the "n" is abbreviated to make "tabako" and the "ha" is voiced when called. For this reason, Japanese people write it as "tabako," "tabako," "tabako" (using different characters). Even so, when Japanese people call it "tabako," it is difficult for Chinese or foreign ears to understand. When it cannot be understood, what country's language should it be considered? Here I think that "tabako" is a transformation of foreign language and should still be called a Japanese word. It is like the relationship between form and shadow. However, I hear that Chinese people simply call it "smoke."

　　　　　Evaluation of Names
The seven forms "smoke fire," "smoke flower," "smoke leaf," "tobacco fire," "smoke," "fragrance," and "cut fragrance" are all natural names and though their meaning is not particularly clear, they appear in Ming and Qing medical texts so I include them here. However, I hear that even in foreign countries, recently the appellations have been simplified to simply calling it "smoke" and "fragrance."

"Golden thread smoke" and "golden thread grass" refer to cut tobacco whose form resembles cut [material] not yet woven into gold brocade