【Right Page】
【Spine Title】
　　　　Tobacco Record
Even people in the imperial court found this strange and obtained it. One book relates that there was a woman from Nanban country called Tambako who suffered from phlegm disease, but as she aged, she was able to cure herself by smoking this plant. Therefore it was named Tambako. Another book states that to the east of Japan there is a country called America, and in this country there was one beautiful woman named Tambako. The men of the entire country who fell in love with and yearned for this woman were exceedingly numerous. Even after her death, there were many people in the world who fondly remembered her. Once, when a man visited her grave, autumn day ended early, so he held a vigil there through the night. Late at night he became very hungry, so he searched around the area and found a fragrant grass. Taking one leaf and eating it, his hunger immediately ceased, his body became warm, cold winds could not affect his skin, and it protected against miasma like drinking alcohol. For this reason it is called Nanreisō (Southern Spirit Grass).

　　　　Prohibition and Permission
【Left Page】
The Butsuri Shōshiki states that during the Chongzhen period, tobacco was strictly prohibited but could not be stopped. Another book states that an edict from the 11th year of Chongzhen of the Great Ming declared: "Anyone who secretly sells tobacco to foreign barbarians shall be beheaded regardless of the amount." The Hakugaku Isho states that during Chongzhen, the previous emperor prohibited it and even killed tobacco sellers as a warning. In his later years, the emperor issued an edict and for the first time instructed both within and without the realm, lifting the prohibition, so that children and women throughout the realm all exclusively used it. Another book states that around the Genna and Kan'ei periods in Japan, edicts were issued throughout the realm prohibiting the smoking of tobacco. However, it could not be stopped and eventually surpassed tea and alcohol in popularity. Those who do not like it number only two or three out of a hundred. Although it is said to have minor toxicity, those who frequently indulge suffer no harm. Dutch, Korean, and Ryukyu people also all favor it. Considering this, which place among India and the various barbarian lands does not have it? From the beginning, it spreads quickly from nearby places.