【Right Page】
Idle Thoughts on Tobacco

In idle moments, when there is no fire, one turns to flint and steel to transfer fire to tinder.
When one somehow smokes away meaningless chatter, it mysteriously produces a fragrance.
Though I am accustomed to it, having been born in this present age, tobacco is surely something to be desired.
The noble rank of tobacco - the substance is very fragrant, and at the tip of bamboo lies nothing other than human pleasure.
The appearance of those who smoke incessantly goes without saying, but when someone is told to stop,
their mouth appears detestable, yet even after that, though it resembles quitting, it remains the same. From then on,
those who occasionally put on airs of remembering may think themselves admirable,
but it is quite regrettable. Only monks should not smoke, but thinking they won't be regarded by their patrons
like mere pieces of wood, they smoke with追笑戯言 (mocking jest), which is indeed quite true.
With vigorous and noisy behavior, thinking it hateful, somehow the
stubborn advice given, though the forbearance may be painful, goes against Buddha's teachings, so taking one puff

【Left Page】
it would be better to refrain. Still, letting my brush run free and writing idle words,
I find it quite interesting to observe.

Tobacco Single-Sheet Oath

The benefits and harms of tobacco that various doctors in China and our country discuss are not just one, two,
or three. Nor do I speak definitively about historical matters through scholarship. In ordinary
life, for entertainment, when we speak of tobacco, it undoubtedly provides
health benefits - thinking and taking this view, there are no other particular reasons for smoking. However, the powdered tobacco that costs three or four mon is all definitely given at tobacco shops when asking "how much does this cost?"
If one knows more ancient matters than this, it was not included in Shennong's tastings and
is omitted from the Honzō (pharmacological texts). Those who believe the two characters 莨菪 (hyoscyamus) are the true characters for tobacco, even if they
study for a lifetime, should consider themselves completely ignorant and, being the same as ignorant practitioners,
should not behave as doctors but should simply focus entirely on being tobacco sellers.