Anshin Kaname-ishi (The Reassuring Keystone)

Elderly person: Namu Kaname-ishi Daimyōjin (Hail to the Great Deity Keystone), I am grateful to have escaped from this great disaster. Since I am already elderly, I don't have much desire to live long, but if I were to be crushed by shaking or burned in a fire, I would be mortified by people's reproach. Please protect us from earthquakes for the two or three hundred years I have left to live. Keystone-sama.

Carpenter: My customers have been calling me with all sorts of urgent requests, making it feel like the busiest season. Since all of you are valued customers, I want to serve everyone well, but my body just can't keep up. Please grant me the strength to work like ten men. Kaname-ishi Daimyōjin.

Theater actor: My wish is this - last year too, the theater suffered from fires and was closed for a long time, and this year again with this disaster, we don't know when we can perform. I am truly saddened. Please protect us from earthquakes and fires from now on. I promise to worship you devotively.

Pottery merchant: Namu Kaname-ishi-sama, thanks to your daily blessings, this time I only broke a few plates and bowls, with no other damage. I am truly grateful, knowing this is entirely thanks to you. Please ensure there are no earthquakes in the future, and if there should be any, please give us advance warning. Namu Kaname-ishi-sama, please hear this prayer. Kaname-ishi Daimyōjin.

Entertainer: We performers live in the shadow of entertainment, so if the world is not peaceful, we cannot make a living. When things become like this recent disaster, even if they say the shamisen is cursed, we have no memory of doing anything to deserve such misfortune. Please protect us so that the world remains calm and free from earthquakes.

Person from Yoshiwara: In our quarter, we use "earthquake" as a metaphor in our trade, but this time it was a real sudden disaster that crushed and burned us out, causing extreme hardship. Moreover, there are few places to restart business, and everyone is suffering. Please let things settle quickly and protect us from such earthquakes in the future.

Brave commoner: Kaname-ishi Daimyōjin. I'm not one to fear great troubles. They say "thunder, fire, and fathers" are the three most frightening things, and I don't think much of those, but somehow, when this earthquake goes "rumble-rumble," my courage suddenly crumbles and I can't eat for ten days. Moreover, my mother is also terribly frightened, so please protect us from earthquakes from now on.

Doctor: Due to this recent disturbance, people with injured hands and feet come for treatment in great numbers. I work hard to treat them, but when it takes many days, I cannot manage everything. Please grant that they heal quickly and can be discharged. Namu Kashima Kaname-ishi.

Rationalist: Seeing such disturbances occur, it seems there are neither gods nor buddhas. Moreover, this deity is said to suppress earthquakes and protect us, but how is that so? Mysteriously, the stone has a voice and says: "Indeed, that is quite reasonable. To explain this principle clearly is not easy. Accept it as human endeavor and divine intervention. Now, everyone's wishes are of utmost importance. If I move even one inch this time, I'll give you stone's revenge." With these words, everyone's peace of mind is the foundation of great peace - how auspicious!