【Right Page = P20】
This place called [Sabutan] had about one hundred houses built along the beach, all thatched huts with simple roofing. The men were like the fishermen mentioned earlier, and the women had long hanging hair and were naked except for a piece of cotton-like cloth wrapped around their waists. At this place we saw horses with long ears and large builds. They ate pigs, wild cattle, sheep, cattle, potatoes, vegetables and such, but had no rice at all. Since we were not provided with other foods, we requested and ate potatoes. There were three types: sticky yam, taro, and sweet potato. When we put food down while eating, dogs and cats would immediately come and eat it. The local people would eat even the leftovers from what the dogs and cats had eaten without any disgust. The next day, they explained the arrangements for sending us on. Leaving four elderly men behind, we ten were invited by the local people to travel about one ri along the beach, where we were led up a steep mountain. The Sabutan people chanted as they

【Left Page = P21】
ran up, but we had to grab onto tree roots and rock roots to barely climb up. When we reached a somewhat flat area, they told us to have our midday meal there. They gave us potatoes and steamed fish for lunch and we crossed over, then came to a very steep slope. The Sabutan people chanted and gestured that we should descend quickly, but since we did not understand, we gestured that we could not do the chanting and descended slowly, reaching the beach around seven o'clock. Across the way we could see about ten houses with white walls, among which was the residence of the Sabutan headman. We arrived a little before that area and waited for a while. While the Sabutan people were explaining things, the four people who had remained in Sabutan were also brought over by Sabutan people, so all fourteen of us were assembled. We were then handed over to the people of that place, and the Sabutan people returned to their village. From Sabutan to this place was probably about three ri.