【Right Page = P32】
Since the language did not get through, they appeared to think it would not be appropriate to keep us there, and sent the Chinese people away. We stayed at this place for forty days, during which officials accompanied us and we frequently went out to see the town. During our stay, just as in Luzon, guards were assigned day and night, and they would check our breathing and occasionally shake us awake. For meals, they fried everything - beef, pork, fish, vegetables, lotus root - in pork oil. After forty days, we departed at night. During the day the ship would anchor, and we would sail after nightfall. On the third day we arrived at Canton in China. When we asked why they sailed only at night during this period, they said it was because "there are places that must not be seen by people from other countries." At the entrance to Canton there were many Chinese ships, and this place appeared to be a large port on the mainland of that country. On the fourth day we disembarked and were taken to the Canton government office. When they inquired about our shipwreck through written documents, Jinsuke

【Left Page = P33】
wrote up an account of our circumstances to make them understand. At this place too, language did not get through at all, so we responded entirely through gestures. From China there are two sea crossings to Japan per year, in spring and autumn, but since the spring ships are late, they said they would send us on an autumn ship. The people of this region shave around their heads, leaving hair in the center which they braid and let hang down the back. They wear long garments with wide sleeves like gun-barrel sleeves. Some women sometimes decorate their faces with rouge and white powder. They do not shave their eyebrows or blacken their teeth. They consider very small feet to be desirable, so from birth girls have their feet bound so they will not grow naturally large. Even when they age, their feet remain small and walking is difficult, so wealthy women have servant girls hold their hands while walking. The lower the social class of women, the larger their feet. Throughout all of China at that time