【Right Page = P34】
This appeared to be the custom. During our seventy-day stay, guards were assigned day and night, coming to check on us sleeping at night and listening to our breathing, just as in Luzon and Macao. At this place we were shown a calendar for the first time. For meals, in Luzon, Macao, and Batavia we were given three meals a day, but in Canton alone it was limited to twice a day, eating around the fourth hour of morning and the seventh hour of evening. The rice was Thai rice. At this place too they offered pork and beef, but we firmly declined, so afterwards they gave us carp, white fish, unfamiliar fish, lotus root, butterbur, winter melon, tofu, and such. The fried foods were fried in nut oil. During what seemed to be around the Bon festival period, throughout the town glass lanterns and crystal lamps were lit in great numbers, and houses held very lively banquets. The whole area was prosperous, with countless thousands of ships moored at the river mouth. The town was also very large,

【Left Page = P35】
and the houses were beautifully built. During our stay, we were sometimes taken to see theatrical performances at the local theater. The theater was about two ri from the Canton government office, but still within the town. When we watched the performance, it was in the style of Japanese theater, with joruri pieces as well, and many musical instruments like shamisen, drums, bow harps, flutes, large drums, and the musical accompaniment was excellent and wonderfully entertaining. When we first entered the theater, the actors and all the spectators stared at us, and no play was performed, which was awkward. Also, even while watching, we couldn't understand the language so we became bored and left after a short while. When it became August 19th, we were given bedding and padded garments with wide sleeves by the people and wore them. On the 20th, we departed that place by river boat, going downstream for two days, then going back upstream. There were two boats, with one high-ranking official on one boat