[Right Page = P42]
The ship from Beijing (Peking) informed us that due to bad weather, they would put in at Siaf (Quanzhou Prefecture). Since the wind conditions were very unfavorable, they told us that our ship would also have to return to Siaf first. Though we were surprised, there was nothing to be done about it. Therefore, everyone on the ship prayed to the ship deity, and we were also told to pray for the ship's safety, so I prayed to Konpira Daigongen. Eventually the wind changed and became a tailwind, so everyone rejoiced and raised the sails. In celebration of this joy, we cooked forty to fifty chickens, ducks, and pigs and held a festival for the ship deity. Gradually leaving the muddy sea, we seemed to be approaching Korea and came to white seawater, where we spotted the mountains of Korea. The next day, on the night of the 16th, we spotted the mountains of Gotō and everyone became excited. What appeared to be a signal was given, and gongs were frequently struck throughout the ship. Afterward, about fifty chickens and about ten pigs were cooked,

[Left Page = P43]
and offered to the ship deity. One of the sailors changed into ceremonial clothing and waved a six-shaku staff in the ship, while the captain bowed and withdrew. After that, the captain worshipped the ship deity and threw all the offerings into the sea. That same night, fires were lit on the ship and lanterns were illuminated in celebration of safely reaching Japan. On the night of the 17th, we arrived at Nagasaki harbor. On the morning of the 18th, interpreters and officials came to inspect the Chinese ship, and after introductions, we also accompanied them ashore. Lord Jinsuke and the other seven had landed on the night of the 15th, while the people from Satsuma landed more than thirty days after us. Our ship had departed fifth from Siaf, but arrived third, which pleased the captain greatly. After landing, we were summoned to the Nagasaki government office, examined for any physical ailments, and placed in the ageya (quarantine facility), where