【Right Page Upper Section】
Saltpeter and flame powder are the same and catch fire easily. They are also used in firearms. Mirabilite and tooth saltpeter are medicinal stones. They have the ability to remove phlegm, moisten dryness, and facilitate urination.

○Magnetite: Mountains that produce iron on their southern side always have magnetite on their northern side. This is because the two substances share the same qi. It is something that attracts needles well.

○Arsenic is arsenic stone. It is highly toxic. The refined form is called arsenic frost. It is a stone used in surgery to eliminate toxins from swellings and cure malaria. Like cantharides, it is poisonous.

○Agate is a type of jade. It is one of the seven treasures. This stone's color resembles a horse's brain, hence it is named "horse brain." Its color is yellow.

【Left Page Upper Section】
comes from Etchū Province.

○Copper is red metal. There are yellow copper, brass stone, and true brass. Purple copper is Chinese bronze. Brown copper is the same. White copper is mixed metal. Purple gold is red copper. Both come from mountains.

○According to the Shuowen dictionary, the radical of the character for "money" has one halberd character above and one halberd character below. Money is something that kills people, but people do not realize this. "Square hole," "blue copper," and "goose eye" are all alternative names for money.

○Pearls refer to gems that come from the sea. They include coral pearls and genuine pearls. Freshwater pearls are gems from shellfish. Dragons, fish, insects, and snakes all have pearls.

○Jade refers to gems that come from mountains. Beautiful stones are called jade. Uncut jade is raw stone that has not yet been polished.

【Illustrations】
Brocade　Cotton　Embroidery《embroidered items》　Velvet《velvet》　Safflower dye

Kaga silk　Crepe《crinkled silk》　Acome　Satin
Twill《patterned weave》　Silk gauze《cool fabric》　Damask《donsu》

Jade《gem》　Alum　Cinnabar《cinnabar　mercury vermillion》
Sulfur《hot spring foam》　Fire starter　Saltpeter　Mirabilite
Tooth saltpeter　Magnetite《needle-attracting stone》
Arsenic《poison stone》　Agate　Tortoiseshell
Arsenic frost