【Right Page Lower Illustration】
Sea salt《salt》　Lime《lime}}

【Right Page Upper Section】
○Dan (satin) refers to donsu. There are flower satin, brocade satin, wool satin, and gold satin.

○Silk is produced in Kaga Province, and ken from Tango refers to double silk, also meaning silkworm thread.

○Thread (sen) refers to twisted thread, read as "ito-suji." Sen is the same. It is said that palace ladies of the Han dynasty noted that days grew longer after the winter solstice by the length of one thread.

○Thread (shi) is what silkworms produce. Sho is thread end, rui is thread knot, ro is thread strand, kei is warp thread, i is weft thread. Macho and cho refer to hemp, ro refers to hemp fiber.

○Jo refers to braided cord. Flat ones are called kumi, round ones are called shun.

○Cotton is obtained by raising silkworms. The refined type is called men (silk floss), the coarse type is called jo (cotton wadding). Men refers to silk wadding, jo refers to cotton.

【Left Page】
○Hachijo-jima is textile woven on Japan's Hachijo Island and offered as tribute to the shogun's family. Others calling themselves Hachijo-jima are all imitations.

○Felt (sen) refers to matting. There are wool felt, thread felt, and flower felt. Superior wool felt is called sansui (landscape).

○Gold leaf is gold beaten thin, hence called haku (leaf/foil). Haku is read as "thin." Silver and copper foils are the same.

○Mercury has a cold nature and is poisonous. Purslane also contains mercury. It can also be written as ko and is extracted from cinnabar.

○Korai-ori (Korean weaving) is woven in Kyoto's Nishijin district.

○Hide (hi) refers to animal skin with fur still attached. Examples include tiger hide, leopard hide, bear hide, fox hide, and deer hide.

○Leather (kaku) is animal hide with fur removed. Raw hide is called nama-kawa, processed hide is called i (tanned leather).

○Iron wire refers to wire. Copper wire is copper wire, also called copper thread.

○Rock crystal refers to water-capturing gems, beautiful stones from water. Same as crystal. Glass is also a water-capturing gem, called bidoro.

○Verdigris is also called stone green, referring to copper rust, also called copper green. It is refined by water-flying and used as pigment by painters.

○Fire crystal refers to fire-capturing gems, same as kasai. Taking this fire for moxibustion cools false heat.

○Mica refers to kirara, extracted from Mount Lu. It comes in five colors, white being best. Taking it for ten years causes cloud qi to constantly cover above. It is mixed into plasters or applied to backing paper.

○White powder (face powder) is lead powder, made by burning lead, called tonoko. Silver powder is haraya powder, and powdered frost is roasted white powder. It was first created by a person named Shoshi for Rogyoku, daughter of Duke Mu of Qin.

○Chalcanthite (sekitan/tanban) comes from places with copper and is made by decocting and refining stones.