【Right Page Upper Section】
○Tō (lamp) is the same as hi (light). Tōsan refers to oil dishes. Tōshin is also called tōshu. Tōka refers to the burnt wick tips.

○Tōkei (lamp stands) include chōkei (tall stands) and tankei (short stands). There are also those called tōdai (lamp platforms) and tōka (lamp frames).

○Shokusen are what we now call shinki (wick trimmers).

○Yuhei are what we now call aburasashi (oil pourers). They are also called yuchū.

○Tōrō (lanterns) are also called shokurō or tōkyū. They are also called tōkō.

○Round chōchin (lanterns) are commonly called hōzuki chōchin. Those covered with gauze are called sharyō.

○Hōdō are what we now call andō (floor lamps). They are called hōtō because they are square-shaped. Those covered with gauze

【Left Page】
are called sharyō. ○Teitō are what we now call chōchin (portable lanterns). They are also called kenka. ○Enka are fireworks. They are also called kahō. They have names like chiso, kaji, ryūsei, and sōsen. ○Hakuhan are what we now call binzasara (clappers). They are also called hōshi. ○Kōro (incense burners) are also called kunro. They also have names like kōtei, kōkei, and kōō, with names varying by shape. Kōkyū are commonly called mawari kōro (rotating incense burners). ○Kōkyū refers to those shaped like temari balls and are rotating incense burners. Those made in the shape of ducks are called kōō. ○Kōgō are incense boxes. They are made from lacquer boxes, porcelain boxes, and gold, silver, copper, tin, etc. ○Kōan are what we now call shoku (tables). They are also called kōki. ○Senkō (stick incense) - sen means thread-like. It is incense that is thread-like. It is also called shukō. It came from Nanjing. ○Jōhei are for holding fire chopsticks. Fire chopsticks are called "koji." They are for inserting and grasping fire chopsticks. ○Kunrō are what we now call fusego (wicker baskets for warming). They are also called karō or ikō. ○Haikō are what we now call nioi no tama (scent balls). They are worn at the waist. Kōnō are scent pouches. ○Kyūjō are modeled after Chiyū's head and struck at New Year. They are also called tamakiharu. ○Kūshō are spinning tops. They are also called tokugaku. They are children's toys. ○Kōhei are what we now call tandon (charcoal balls). They are also called tanhei. They are for maintaining fire. They are also called tangeki or tanrin. ○Tōko is a Chinese archery method. It involves throwing arrows into a pot. ○Bakuchiku refers to the sound of bamboo burning in fire. Since evil spirits fear this sound, bakuchiku are set off at the beginning of the year. Also, when Chinese people brought Buddhist scriptures from India, they placed Buddhism on the left and Taoism on the right and set fire to them. Since the Buddhist scriptures did not burn, it was said that the left teaching prevailed, hence it is also called sagichō.

【Right Page Lower Illustration】
Firecrackers《sagichō》　Stilts《bamboo horses》　Paper kites《kite flying》　Puppets《dolls》
Pinwheels《wind wheels》　Tops《Musashi tops》