【Right Page Upper Section】
governs. The color is blue.
If one drinks vinegar, the sinews loosen
○Hair (ke) is the surplus of blood. Gō
is the same. It is what the lungs govern
Cowlick (tsumuji), skin (kawa), epidermis (hadae),
wrinkles (shiwa)
○Skull (ro) is the cranium. Skull meeting (rokai) is
the crown of the head, skull (dokuro) is a skull,
brain (nō) is the brain
○Bone (kotsu) is the core of flesh. Corpse (gai) is the same. Marrow (zui) is
bone fat, joints are articulations
○Abdomen (hara), supraclavicular fossa, chest (mune), ribs, solar plexus,
navel (heso), lower abdomen, breast (chi), flanks, male genitals, penis,
scrotum resembles fat
○Back (senaka), nape (unaji), shoulder (kata), shoulder tip, shoulder blade, back muscles, waist (koshi),
lower back, hip bone, buttocks (shiri), buttocks, backbone, spine

【Left Page Upper Section】
○Hand (te), palm (shō) is the palm, arm (wan) is
the forearm, upper arm (hi) is the elbow, elbow (chū) is
the elbow tip, upper arm (kō) is the upper arm
○Leg (ashi), foot (soku) same, crotch (ko) is the groin, thigh (tai) is the thigh,
knee (shitsu) is the knee, shin (kei) is the shin, front shin (ren) is the shin bone,
back of knee (koku) is the back of the knee, calf (hi) is the calf, instep (fu) is the top
of the foot, sole (seki) is the sole of the foot, heel (shō) is the heel
○Fingers (yubi), thumb (taishi) is the thumb, thumb (bo) is the same, index
finger is the index finger, middle finger (chūshi) is the middle finger
or it's also called leading finger (shōshi), ring finger (mumyōshi) is the ring
finger, little finger (shōshi) is the little finger, or it's also called last finger (kishi)
○Fist (ken) is bending the hand. It is a
clenched fist
○Breast (chi), in "Setsuman" humans and birds giving birth to offspring
is called nursing (nyū). For beasts it's called
birth (san). Nei and nai are both the same

【Right Page Lower Section Illustration】
Leg, thigh, back of knee, calf, inner ankle, heel
Inner shin, instep, sole of foot
Hand, upper arm, elbow tip, elbow, wrist, palm

【Left Page Lower Section Illustration】
Fist, ribs
Finger, heart (chest heart) [lung system, spleen system, liver system, kidney system], lungs
Breast, spleen