【Right Page】
The color is blue. It has seven lobes. It is where the soul hides. ○The gallbladder is a bowel belonging to the liver organ. It is under the liver.
When the gallbladder rises up, people generate anger. ○The small intestine is a bowel belonging to the heart organ. Its color is red. Urine
passes through this and emerges into the bladder. ○The large intestine is a bowel belonging to the lung organ. It is in the lower back.
It has sixteen turns. Its color is white. What is called "intestines" is this. ○The stomach is a bowel belonging to the spleen organ. It transmits food
from the spleen and sends it to the large intestine. It is the excrement bag. ○The pericardium is the heart pericardium. It is below the gate of life
and above the right kidney. What is called the heart pericardium - its bowel is called the triple heater. ○The bladder is a bowel belonging to the kidney organ.
It is the urine bag. At the water division point, it separates water and grain, so grain goes to the large intestine and water goes to the bladder.
○Organs and bowels: Heart, liver, kidneys, lungs, and spleen are called the five organs. Small intestine, large intestine, stomach, bladder, triple heater, and gallbladder are called the six bowels.
○The womb contains the unborn child. The Five Organ Theory says: In the first month it is like pearl dew, in the second month it is like peach blossoms,
in the third month male and female are distinguished, in the fourth month the form is complete, in the fifth month it becomes sinews and bones, in the sixth month hair grows,
in the seventh month it is endowed with soul - the child can move its left hand well, in the eighth month it is endowed with spirit -
the child can move its right hand well, in the ninth month it turns three times, in the tenth month it has received sufficient qi.

【Left Page】
《Title: Illustrated Dictionary for Beginners with Supplementary Headnotes, Volume 6》
　　　Clothing and Garments《This section contains garments, caps and sashes - all types of things to wear》

【Left Page Upper Section】
○The ceremonial crown is the emperor's cap. It has twelve hanging strings.
What hangs in front is to prevent seeing
evil things. At the sides there is something called yellow silk floss.
This is to prevent hearing slanderous words.
○"Crown" means "to pierce through." It pierces through and wraps the hair, as
seen in "Explaining Names." Since the crown is on the head,
it follows the "yuan" (head). Since there are legal regulations, it follows the "cun" (inch).
○The Japanese crown is lacquered and made of gauze. What
covers the hair is called "koshi." What stands up
in the back is called "ra." What pierces through is called "kushi"
(comb). It is also called "kanzashi" (hairpin).
○The cord is what hangs from the back of the crown.
Now it is called "swallowtail." It is made of gauze.

【Left Page Lower Section Illustration】
Ceremonial crown
《jeweled crown》

Tang dynasty cap
《jeweled crown of official rank》

　　Crown
　　　　　　Pin
　　　　　　　　Cap
　　　Hair cover　　　Crown
　　　　Hairpin

　　　Tassel
　　　Cord