【Right Page】
of juice. This is chalcanthite (tanban). ○Pumice (floating stone) is also called water flower. Water foam transforms into pumice. It comes from the western provinces. ○Heated stone, also called black talc, exists in both Japan and China, coming from mountains with sulfur. Genuine ones are rare. When heated by fire and used for ironing, it effectively cures chronic diseases and disperses stagnant blood.

○Talc stops dryness and promotes urination. When sprinkled on oil-stained items, talc removes the oil. White-colored ones are best. ○Tortoiseshell (bekko) refers to large sea turtles. When the shell is peeled and made thin, mottled patterns emerge. This is made into combs, hairpins, incense boxes and other vessels. Tortoiseshell (taimai) is the same. It is also used medicinally. ○Qilin blood is said to be the blood of qilin, but qilin beasts do not commonly exist. It is horse blood and is good for stopping bleeding. ○Sacred streamers (hei) can also be written as "nigte." Those made from ramie are called white waved streamers, those made from hemp are called blue streamers. They are ritual purification tools held with skewers before deities. The meaning derives from "grasping in hand." ○Cotton sashes are sashes worn when taking streamers. They are cotton braided cords. In ancient times, streamers made from paper mulberry bark were called white cotton. ○Sea salt is edible salt. Seawater is drawn and boiled in furnaces to make salt. It enters the kidneys and hardens teeth. Ro is coarse salt, rokyu is salt residue, and enban is salt kiln. ○Lime is made by burning stones with fire to create ash. It is toxic and treats all kinds of swellings. It is also used as white earth for plastering walls.

【Left Page】
《Title: Expanded Annotated Illustrated Encyclopedia for Children's Education, Volume 8》
　Implements　《This section records weapons, farming tools, and other daily utensils》

【Left Page Upper Section】
○Paper is made from paper mulberry wood. A person called Cai Lun of the Later Han dynasty is said to have first created it. Since things were written on silk in ancient times, the character for paper includes the silk radical.

○The writing brush was first created by a person called Meng Tian of Qin. Because Meng Tian was enfeoffed at a place called Guancheng for this achievement, the alternative name for brush is Guanchengzi.

○The inkstone was made by the Yellow Emperor using jade.

【Left Page Lower Illustration】
Paper《paper》　Paper《same》　Writing paper《paper, thin paper》
Brush《brush》　Brush handle《brush shaft》　Brush cap《brush sheath》
Ink《ink》　ink　　Inkstone《inkstone》　Grinding stone《same》
Writing《document》　Book《same》　Horizontal scroll　Booklet　Mounting《cover》