defeat, but though I hate Kō no Moronao's actions, that hatred is futile. I thought I might as well chase him to the underworld and
accompany my lord, drawing my sword to commit seppuku. But suddenly I thought, what merit do I have to accompany
him, and with what face could I meet my lord to make my apologies? No matter how I think about it from all angles, there is no
way forward. Secretly exploring and listening to the situation, I learned that Ōboshi father and son, with Gōemon as their head, want
to avenge our lord's grievance and are consulting to raise an enterprise. I too was not banished
by my lord. I only
seek connections to meet Yuranosuke and join the ranks of our comrades,
risking life and death for honor. Suddenly meeting you is like gaining fire in a dark night. I earnestly implore
your arrangements. Looking upon the face of an old friend, I rely entirely on your good conscience." He immediately fell to both
knees on the ground, regretting his former faults. A pitiful valiant man raised his voice
and wept loudly. Yagoro heard his comrade lamenting and regretting his past wrongs, and though he understood
his circumstances, he could not hastily reveal the situation, so he deliberately said, "Kanpei, I only
think that for you to make excuses for your
past errors, why do you speak such rambling nonsense,
long-winded stories? What foolish talk is this? There is no such consultation
as that. Yuranosuke has urgent business and has sent me to Gōemon's place to handle
affairs. This is about everyone wanting to build a tomb monument for our deceased lord,
but now we are all masterless retainers without silver coins for
construction. Moreover, people in the world will point to it and say this is Lord Enya's tombstone, and it will be transmitted
to future generations. For this reason, we must arrange the gold and silver for expenses to build it
magnificently, selecting people who were indebted to our deceased
lord to contribute to the expenses. Therefore we dare not openly reveal this great matter. If you
feel the benevolence of your deceased lord and can discern the situation, then subtly, in this way,
just using this as a pretext, secretly wrapping Yuranosuke's stratagem, letting him obtain