He said to his hand, "This money pouch contains the leftover change from buying straw sandals in the previous village, money for my lunch. Also, my daughter gave me stomach medicine and revival pills so I wouldn't suffer from cholera, and other than that I have nothing. Please forgive me." As soon as he finished speaking, he hastily took it off. Sadakurō chased him to his face and cursed, saying, "You fool, you don't understand anything. I don't wish to inflict cruel treatment that would make you suffer. If you just listen well to what I say, you get uppity. Empty out all that gold and bring it out. If you delay, I'll give you one sword stroke." He immediately drew out a large sword two feet eight inches long and slashed straight down from the top of his head. The old man cried out once, "Ah, what misery!" No sooner said than done—at that moment, swiftly and straight he slashed down. But the old man quickly gripped the back of the blade with both hands and said, "Do you absolutely intend to kill my life?" Sadakurō said, "Don't say nauseating things. This is just business for the gold. Don't chatter about details. Die quickly!" And he tried to thrust the sword into his chest. The old man said, "Wait a moment, I'll tell you the real situation. This is certainly the gold you saw, but what can I do? I have only one daughter, and compared to this daughter's life, there's still a precious son-in-law who cannot be replaced. I was going to give him this gold. This son-in-law, due to some circumstances, had his status stripped and became a masterless samurai. My daughter always says that if we investigate the root cause of why he lost his status, it originated from us. If we could skillfully arrange things and restore him to his former position for advancement, that would be good. She appeals to us parent and child day and night with tears. Originally I am poor with no means to manage. My old woman and I consulted together, and without letting the son-in-law know, we three—parent and child—truly shed tears of blood and made my daughter a widow, selling her to a pleasure quarter. We placed her in that pit of fire. This is her ransom money. If you take this ransom from me, what will become of my daughter?"