"I come with hands clasped in prayer and bow to you. Please, I beg you, spare my life. I can see that you, elder brother, are also from a samurai family background. Warriors are supposed to help each other in times of urgent need. If there were no gold, neither my daughter nor that son-in-law could face people - this good son-in-law matched to my beloved daughter. How could I lack a heart of affection? Elder brother, you are still young and surely have no children yet, but when in the future you raise a young master or young lady, then you will be able to understand my story and save this one life. My grass hut is only one ri away. After I give this gold to my son-in-law, then you may kill me as you please. I only wish to see my daughter's joyful face before I can die." He cried out and called to heaven, but there was no human response before or behind him - he could only hear in vain the echo of the mountain valley.

Sadakurō said, "How pitiful. I'll let you cry and wail as you wish. You inconvenient old fool. When I use this gold for my advancement, through this virtuous deed, your son too will achieve success. If you accumulate hidden virtue, there will surely be visible reward." Speaking on one hand, he thrust with all his strength the finishing blow with his sword. The old man cried out "Agony!" once and writhed in all directions. Indeed:

The mad wind whips up rain in the dark night / Heaven darkens and at times one sees the blue of demon fires
How many people's white bones are buried in this place / Blood stains soak the grass, still reeking to this day

Sadakurō saw him breathing his last with hands and feet flailing wildly, kicked him down to fall on the ground, and said, "Poor thing, it must hurt terribly, but just don't resent me. I kill you because you have gold. If there were no gold, I would never come to kill you. So you and the gold are enemies. Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō." He stabbed wildly with his sword many times. Looking at the ground, it was mixed red and blue, with blood dyeing the fragrant grass. Pitifully, a sixty-four-year-old man had his life taken while still alive.