"How can such a person continue to live? This living bandit who killed his father-in-law in this way - if he is not made to suffer hardship, then the gods and Buddha are neither wise nor efficacious. I beseech you both, please cut this villain into pieces and reduce him to powder. Please let this old woman truly faint from distress." Having finished speaking, she collapsed to the ground and wailed loudly.

Hearing this, the two men were greatly alarmed and, taking their swords in hand, pressed in from left and right. Yagoro shouted sternly: "Kanpei! I never said you should repay your debt with ill-gotten gains to atone for your crimes. Does a person with a human face but beast's heart like you not hear the words of samurai at all? You killed your father-in-law as you would your own father, stole his money, and this grave crime, if judged by official punishment, would result in your body being skewered on a long spear like grilled tofu. I will pierce your body through with this sword. You should test what I have prepared in my hands. Open your eyes wide!"

Goemon said: "Since ancient times it is said, 'Even when thirsty, one does not drink from the stolen spring.' Having killed your father-in-law and seized his money, how could this be used for our late lord's tombstone expenses? We already surmised your naturally disloyal and unrighteous character, so we have returned to you the money you forcibly obtained. This is precisely Yuranosuke's far-sighted wisdom. What is truly lamentable is that this incident has been exposed to the world, and when people hear and speak of it, saying 'Hayano Kanpei, retainer of Lord Enya, committed such unrighteous acts,' it will not only be your personal shame, but our late lord will also suffer disgrace in the underworld. You fool! You too are naturally unable to understand this principle. Surely like stories of arhats thinking of emotion and Chang'e longing for marriage, when pressed by dire circumstances, you desperately grasped at virtuous conduct and brought about such an incident. Ultimately, you must have been bewitched by evil spirits and demons. With eyes wide open and tears in them, they made him listen to reason and pressed him."

Unable to bear being pressed by them any longer, Kanpei forcefully stripped to the waist, drew his sword, and thrusting it toward his belly with all his strength, said: "Before you gentlemen, I have completely lost face. I am..."