She embraced the corpse and wept loudly, then stood up again and called to her son-in-law: "You too, please take me to the underworld with you." Holding Kanpei's corpse, she wailed and cried. Looking east, he was gone; calling west, he was gone. She cried endlessly to heaven, cried endlessly to earth, raised her voice in wailing, unable to bear the sight before her eyes.

Gōuemon stood up and said to the old woman: "Grieving is natural, but I will tell his Lord Ōboshi about the complete circumstances of Kanpei's death. When I go and personally deliver the money to him, how could he not be satisfied? Moreover, the money around Kanpei's neck is for the merit-making ceremonies for his old father and son-in-law for the seven-times-seven forty-nine days - one hundred pieces for both together, for the hundred-day memorial service. We must solemnly perform memorial services for both of them." Having said this, he stood up and left through the gate.

The old woman moved her steps and saw them off with tears. Gōuemon and Yagoro looked back as they departed, shedding tears as they parted. What will happen in the future is unknown - let us listen to the explanation in the next chapter.

Chapter Seven
Ōboshi indulges in pleasure and deceives his enemies; Ono's greed betrays his former master
Leaving behind the purple-rusted sword at his waist, when he sells his flaws, the villain becomes arrogant
Opening accounts with hands that strike tigers and slaughter dragons, first beating the cat that steals roasted meat from the kitchen

The story tells that Yuranosuke, wanting to avenge his lord's grievances, immersed himself in the pleasure quarters, disguising himself with a dissolute lifestyle, morning and evening indulging in wine and women, exclusively engaging in diversions. This was a stratagem to make his enemies drop their guard. This Gion district was a famous pleasure quarter, neatly arranged with gold and jade intermingling, full of brilliant light like the Pure Land of Amida Buddha. No matter how iron-hearted a person might be, they could not avoid having their heart and mind changed. There is a poem as testimony:

The spring colors of five streets under the evening sun's sky; Beautiful women like flowers fill the silk banquet mats