Poking holes in paper doors to spy on drunken guests; Using hairpins to tend the lamp flame while waiting for the young man to sleep
Where nightingales sing quietly, string music ends; When there's rowdy fighting, laughter continues
Even married women like Rafu don't speak amorous words before their lord

There are also four verses describing the atmosphere, well expressed:
Screens separate and block the pleasure quarters; The eastern pavilion has spring passion, the northern pavilion is boisterous
Separately there are drinking games with penalty cups; Students of the Pear Garden often come to boast

Just then someone quickly arrived and called out at the gate: "Is the master in? I need to request an escort inside." The wine keeper said: "I thought it was some new guest, but it's Master Kudayu. Why are you being so formal in asking me to escort you? Please come in." Kudayu said: "I've brought a newly arrived guest who wants to have a couple of drinks. I see there are many guests here - is there another private room available?" The wine keeper said: "Of course there is, but tonight Master Yura has brought many courtesans and pleasure women, so the main guest rooms are full. There's only one room in the separate upstairs building." Kudayu said: "I'm afraid that empty room probably has many spider webs." The wine keeper said: "There you go with the complaints again." Kudayu said: "I'm an old man who fears falling into the web of beautiful women." The wine keeper said: "Oh, how amusing! You cannot sit downstairs. Please go upstairs, sir. Attendants, light the fire and prepare the wine cups."

All that could be heard was the lively noise from inside the main room - drums beating and strings playing. Kudayu said to Ban'nai: "Look at Yuranosuke's conduct - is it good or bad?" Ban'nai replied: "From what I see of that fellow, he's truly acting like a madman. Even though you have secretly reported to our lord many times before, he wouldn't believe such behavior from him. That's why he called me to do this spy work. If there's anything..."

[Upper margin note] Ban'nai is loyal to his lord. Alas, being a retainer of the Enya clan means...