"drinking sake, unconscious of worldly affairs - even if we meet him, it will likely just be incoherent babbling." Jutaro said: "Well then, you go and speak to him for us." He agreed and departed. Jutaro said: "You two, did you hear what he said?" Yagoro replied: "I heard it and I'm astounded. At first I thought he was putting on this act to make our enemies lower their guard, but who would have thought he'd actually become a dissolute rake given to pleasure and drink. I fear he may ruin our great cause." Kitahachi said: "In my humble opinion, hasn't his very nature changed? We should just storm into the parlor and see what he's up to." Jutaro said: "Let's wait here a while and observe the situation carefully." Yagoro said: "Indeed, it's better to wait here."

While the three waited, Yuranosuke was playing blind man's buff with the jesters and entertainers. It was a game where whoever got caught had to drink as punishment. Everyone came running out, calling and shouting: "Head toward the sound of clapping!" They clapped their hands as a signal. Yuranosuke, blindfolded, caught someone and made them drink, then cried out: "I caught you! Quick, bring the wine bottle and pour!" Jutaro said: "Lord Oishi, I am Yama Jutaro. What will you do now that you've caught me?" Yuranosuke cried out "Alas!" The jesters and courtesans said: "Oh, how pitiful!" Speaking to Yuranosuke, they said: "Looking at these several gentlemen, they seem to be upright men like Ryuka-kei, steadfast in character. Are they your stubborn companions?" Yuranosuke said: "I don't know why, but being with these three men, my expression has changed." Jutaro said: "Everyone, we have important business to discuss with Lord Yura, so please withdraw." The entertainers said: "In that case, we'll retire to the back rooms. Please, master, come into the parlor quickly."

Having said this, they bid farewell to the three men and departed. Jutaro said: "Lord Oishi, please recognize us clearly. Yama Jutaro, Takemori Kitahachi, and Chizaki Yagoro have come together to meet you. Please sober up." Yuranosuke said: "How grateful that all three of you have come together. Don't you still have any concerns...?"