Katsukaji said: "In the future, wanting to read everything through to the end without omission, we unconsciously gazed at each other, and then began love talk, wanting to pay the ransom to let me return home."

Heiuemon said: "If that's the case, it's clearly understood. Even though you're my sister, I cannot forgive you. I must take your life," and immediately drew his sword and swung it down.

Katsukaji quickly dodged to one side and said: "Elder brother, what crime have I committed that you would kill me? I have a husband at home, and father and daughter are also in the house. How could things go as I wish? This time leaving the pleasure quarter's duties to return home, meeting everyone, how much joy there would be in my situation. Even if there were something wrong, I would apologize to you countless times. Please spare my life," and faced him with joined hands, pleading while crying.

Heiuemon threw down his sword, struck his body and fell to the ground, holding back tears and said: "Poor sister, without knowing any reason. Father was killed by someone on the evening of the twenty-ninth of the sixth month."

Katsukaji heard this and cried out in anguish.

Heiuemon said: "Don't grieve yet. Kanpei, whom you want to return home to and be united with, also committed seppuku and died."

Katsukaji called to heaven and earth, her soul scattered, and she wailed loudly.

Heiuemon said: "If I were to tell the detailed circumstances it would be too long. To summarize briefly, the most pitiful is mother, who cries when speaking of it and weeps when remembering. She told me not to inform you. If you knew, you would cry continuously and wouldn't be able to preserve your life. I originally shouldn't tell you, but ultimately your life cannot escape. What I mean is this: Lord Yura is a person who exclusively maintains a loyal heart. If he didn't know you were Kanpei's wife, there would be no reason to redeem you. Nor is this lustful behavior. I'm certain that he only fears being seen reading the secret letter, and plans to pay the ransom to redeem you and then kill you to silence you. Even if it weren't so, since ancient times they say 'walls have ears.' Even if discovered through other means, you would still be killed as your crime. It would be better to die by your own hand."