"Rather than dying by another's hand, it would be better to let me do it. And you have learned of important matters. Even though you are my sister, you cannot be forgiven. I want to inform Lord Yura of this achievement and join the group of avengers. If someone of my lowly status doesn't demonstrate meritorious service that moves people, how could I be trusted to join their ranks? You must accept being killed by me."

Katsukaji heard this, her heart in panic and chest tight, and said: "Usually I never heard news from my husband, and only thought he had departed using the ransom money as travel expenses. I resented that he didn't come to bid me farewell. How could I have known of the suffering that befell both of them? Father died a violent death in his old age, and even sadder is that my husband died in his thirties, in the prime of his working life. How sorrowful it must have been. Surely at the moment of death, he too wanted to see me. Why wasn't I allowed to meet with them? Not knowing of father and husband's life and death, unable to fulfill filial piety or righteousness - this is all my karmic retribution. Where is there reason to cherish life? If elder brother kills me, surely mother will resent you. Wait a moment for my suicide, cut off my head and make it your achievement."

Saying this and bidding a distant farewell, she took the sword to kill herself when a loud voice called "Wait a moment!" This person was none other than Yuranosuke, who came running out and restrained her. Heiuemon saw this and retreated in alarm.

Katsukaji said: "My lord, let me be killed."

Yuranosuke firmly held her body and wouldn't release her, saying: "Now I know the true feelings of both siblings completely. There is no more doubt. The brother is permitted to accompany us to the Kamakura region. The sister shall remain behind and perform memorial services for those in the other world."

Katsukaji said: "I only want to die and join my husband in the land of the yellow springs. This would not be inferior to the merit of memorial services."

She again tried to seize the sword, but Yuranosuke firmly restrained her and said: "Your husband, though included in the number of our oath, has not killed a single enemy. When he meets our lord in the underworld, how will he make excuses? Let him explain..." and right there restrained her.