First　Same 5th year, 5th month, 5th day　　　　　　　
[Case of being overtaken but not ruled a loss]
　　　　　　　Left　Palace Seamster Yasufuku　《Interlinear note:　【Was this wrong?】｜Left violated precedent and charged ahead but did not re-｜enter, should have been considered a win. Right thought it violated｜》
　　　　　Second race　　　　　　　　《Interlinear note: precedent and held back. Therefore there were objections｜and by the decision of the authorities below, it was not ruled》
　　　　　　　Right　Assistant Lesser Captain of Military Affairs, Kiyomura【Overtaken】《Interlinear note: a loss. How was this? However, due to heavy rain it was resolved peacefully｜etc. They were seated in the office building etc.》
[Case of being unprepared and losing but not ruled a loss]
　【However, this should be classified under unprepared losses】
　　　　　　　Left　Grand Palace Keeper Ujikane　《Interlinear note: Left's loss. However, due to objections from the right｜re-entered and again lost by staying put. However｜was seated in the office building etc.》
　　　　　Eighth race　　　　　　　　
　　　　　　　Right　Master of Palace Seamsters Suehiro【Overtaken?】
　　　It was heard later that both horses ran out from near the victory tree, and the right pulled ahead, but since they coordinated their strategy,
　　　where it should have been a win, due to renewed objections they re-entered, right ran alone, left stayed put and lost. However, left was not ruled a loss etc.
[Running the enemy's barrier]
　　　The matter of Kiyomura and Ujikane not crossing under the victory tree, and also Shizuaki running ahead of the west barrier, although there were repeated

　　　objections, according to ancient precedent should be ruled losses. However, all three being seated together in the office building
　　　was ultimately an error by the authorities below, and there are rumors that there is no escape from this etc.

First　Same 6th year　The council of horsemen evaluated that last year Kiyomura and Ujikane's both horses did not run but ran alone and
　　　were seated in the office building, which is a bad precedent from ancient times to now. For this year, the victories and defeats should be
[First time the authorities below requested oversight]
　　　strictly determined. Moreover, arguing with the authorities below is shameful to be seen by others. Therefore, four
　　　supervisors should be appointed, and Toraaki, Yasumitsu, Kiyomura, and Kiyohiro were requested
[First time horse handlers were hired]
　　　Next, two general horse managers were hired from among the horsemen《Interlinear note: They are the two sons of Kōmatsu from Okamoto-chō｜》to the two men
　　　one to (measure) of yagi was given etc.
[Case where victory and defeat could not be distinguished]
[Left's pursuit] First　Same 11th year, 5th month, 5th day
　　　　　　　　　Left　Western Market Administrator Fukuhisa
　　　　　　　Second race
　　　　　　　　　Right　Palace Seamster Yasufuku