Record of the Great Osaka Earthquake and Tsunami - Published by Honsei of Namba

On the 4th day of the 11th month of Kaei 7 (1854), Year of the Tiger, at the hour of five and a half in the morning, there was a great earthquake. From seven and a half o'clock on the same 5th day until five and a half at night, due to the great earthquake and tsunami, the parent ships moored along the Ajigawa and Kizugawa rivers were all swept by the great tsunami into the Dotonbori River, destroying Hiyoshi Bridge, Shiomi Bridge, Saiwai Bridge, and Sumiyoshi Bridge before stopping at Daikoku Bridge. The river was filled with large ships pushed and broken in a crisscross pattern, piled one upon another. Consequently, the riverside areas, warehouses, townhouses, storehouses, and storage buildings were all destroyed by the ship prows. Small boats and tea boats were crushed by the large ships, and the original ships were swept all the way to Daikoku Bridge in Dotonbori - truly an unprecedented great disturbance.

The places that collapsed in the Osaka earthquake are as follows: In the Semba area, the torii gates and gates within Sumiyoshi Shrine fell down. North Kyutaro-machi and Yodoike suffered major collapses. At Shio-machi, Sanoya Bridge corner, and the moats, the number of dead and injured was countless. The main hall of South Honganji Temple tilted to the northwest. The Goryō Shrine and wells collapsed. Around Junkyō-machi and Yodoike, there were major collapses with fires breaking out, though they were soon extinguished. Around Nagahori and the north end of Itaya Bridge suffered major collapses. Awaza, around Satsuma-bori, Gankyōji Temple, and the meeting place were destroyed. Around Eitai Bridge and Kyōmachi-bori, three or four houses burned down. Within Tenma Shrine, around the back gate, Ikeda-machi, and East Tenma area, countless places collapsed. Around Nakanoshima, the corner of Jōan Bridge collapsed greatly. Around West Yokobori, the pleasure quarters of Shinmachi suffered major collapses. Around Horie, Yotsubashi, Oike-dōri, and the moat of Lord Tosa's residence collapsed. The area around Amidagaike collapsed greatly. Around Ajigawa and Kujō, south to Naga-machi area, around Saiwai-machi, around Sakae Bridge, and the west end suffered major collapses. Namba Shinchi, around Shinkawa, and the bell tower of Anyūji Temple were also destroyed, and all the stone lanterns of Sumiyoshi completely fell over. Besides these, branch shrines collapsed. Around Uemachi's Noda, around Kamihonmachi, around Tamatsukuri, Oharae-suji collapsed. Around Niken-chaya, Uemachi, and Kiyomizu stage were destroyed, and around Tennōji Temple. Besides these, countless places in the city collapsed.

Amagasaki Castle in Settsu Province was damaged, with about fifty houses in the castle town destroyed. Nishinomiya, Hyōgo, and Nada - three places suffered the same as Osaka. From Kumano-ura in Kii Province of the Nankai region to Shimōsa, Tōtōmi, and Izu Ōura, along approximately 105 ri of coastline, most of the houses were swept away by the tsunami. More information about various provinces will be published in due course.