Since the 14th year of Keichō, when the Shimazu clan conquered [Ryukyu] for its failure to pay tribute, the Tokugawa granted Ryukyu anew to the Shimazu clan, making it their vassal. Since then, when a king ascends the throne, the Shimazu clan invests him by order of the bakufu, and [Ryukyu] sends envoys to express gratitude. Also, when a shogun takes office, [Ryukyu] sends congratulatory envoys. In both cases, a prince serves as the chief envoy and an oyakata as the vice-envoy, with several dozen attendants. They generally travel from Kagoshima around the western seas of Kyushu, pass through Shimonoseki, Osaka, and Fushimi, then proceed via the Mino route and the Tōkaidō to reach Edo. The government provides post horses. Their arrival at court is usually in winter. They use the Satsuma domain residence in Shiba as their lodging. On the day of castle audience, they wear Ming-style clothing, with the chief envoy dressed in quasi-royal garments. The vice-envoy, councillors, and others employ ceremonial guards and music, led by the Shimazu lord and escorted by senior retainers and soldiers. The shogun receives them around 10 AM in the great hall. The tribute goods generally include swords, fine horses, longevity incense, ambergris, incense cakes, Taihei cloth, banana fiber cloth, mother-of-pearl tables, woolen cloth, silk crepe, awamori, etc. The chief and vice envoys also present their own offerings. Later, they set another date to visit the castle and are granted a banquet with entertainment. Initially, the envoys were required to visit Nikkō-san, but from the 7th year of Hōei, they ceased going to Nikkō and instead made it customary to worship at the Tōshōgū shrine in Ueno. During their stay in the capital, the bakufu reportedly provided 2,000 bales of rice. When returning home, the Shimazu lord again leads them to the castle. Gifts are arranged in the middle level of the great hall, and the chief envoy sits in the next room. The senior councillors convey the shogun's intentions, then in the third room, they present gifts to the chief envoy. Generally, the king receives 500 pieces of silver and 500 bundles of cotton, the chief envoy receives 200 pieces of silver and ten sets of seasonal clothing, and the others receive 300 pieces of silver. The king's formal letter is addressed as "Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami-nai Chūzan-ō [name]" and [sent] to the senior councillors