granted, and they are called "[Location] [Rank] Officer." Village Sons (Satonoshi) are those among hereditary warrior families called "Village Son Houses," whose descendants are appointed to these positions and eventually rise from Foster Parent of the Clouds to Foster Parent. [Village Son is a corruption of Village Master (Satonushi). They are like retainers living in the family compound and pages of warrior families.] Chikudun are the children and younger brothers of those called "Chikudun Houses" [not hereditary stipend holders] who are appointed to these positions and rise only to Foster Parent of the Clouds before stopping. Separately, there are those called "Niya Houses," who are almost the same as commoners and also rise from Chikudun to Foster Parent of the Clouds. [Both Chikudun and Niya are also ancient remnant terms.] Additionally, there are over one hundred households of descendants of the thirty-six Chinese surnames from Kume village [now only seven surnames remain], all of whom study in China, rise from interpreters to Purple and Gold Doctors, and handle written correspondence. ○

Although the Legal Officers have divided responsibilities, in all matters they must deliberate as three people and report to the National Minister. The king only gives approval. The seven surnames of Shuri - Shō, Shō, Ō, Mō, Ba, Ka, etc. - are appointed to these positions. [Shō, Ō, Mō, and Ba are called the Four Great Surnames of Shuri. Their daughters and sisters are customarily taken as queens.] The Superintendent of Guests among the Supervision Officers is sometimes called "御鎖側," the Superintendent of Treasures is sometimes called "御双紙庫裡," the Superintendent of Punishments is sometimes called "平等側," and the Superintendent of Ceremonies is sometimes called "泊地頭." ○

Generally, those with hereditary stipends all live concentrated in Shuri, Naha, Kume, and Tomari, and only people from these four places are appointed as government officials. All others are civilian households, and those who know basic writing are made village officials. None advance in rank. In each island of the three provinces, only those called District Heads, who are chiefs of village officials, are permitted silver hairpins; all others have copper hairpins and blue robes, without fixed rules. Each district (magiri) of the three provinces sends two officials each, and each island, according to its size, sends three, two, or one supervising official [called "magistrate officers"] to govern it, with yearly rotation. ○ There are three types of stipends. First is salary rice, given at fixed times as hereditary stipend. Second is fief land, which decreases generation by generation among descendants, but stops decreasing at great-grandchildren and becomes permanent hereditary stipend. Third