and they have the custom of women riding horses like Western women. There are courtesans at the harbor who are quite elegant and beautiful, and skillfully play the sanshin (three-stringed instrument). Also, women conduct markets, while men do not engage in commerce. Annual events are also roughly the same as on the mainland. The system of housing and household furniture is no different from the mainland. They favor cleanliness. There are many thatched houses, or they use red tiles. There are no second floors; floors are raised high to avoid moisture, and roofs are kept low to protect against hurricanes. They do not use chairs, but spread tatami mats and sit on them, removing footwear outside the door. In gardens, they set up bamboo, trees, and small ponds. Generally, they use grinding stones or bamboo and wood as fences to surround the four sides of houses, with stables, pig pens, and chicken coops all within this enclosure. Official roads are paved with stones, and streets are clean. All types of implements and ships are the same as on the mainland. However, Taiheizan ships are over eight jō long and two jō five to six shaku wide, using sculling oars. Fishermen use dugout canoes, which are light and fast. Noble people eat rice, while poor people eat sweet potatoes. Both eat fish and meat, but meat consumption is rare. They are most fond of tobacco. For tea, they prize products from the mainland. The daisu style of tea preparation is practiced, and the Ogasawara school is followed for formal dining. Food and cooking, serving bowls, cups and plates, tobacco trays, spittoons, etc. are mostly the same. Noble people wear silk and cotton, while poor people wear hemp cloth and banana fiber cloth. Clothing is loose-fitting, with wide sleeves and long length, with a sash tied and a pouch inserted to hold tobacco implements and such. The manufacture of tabi socks and sandals is no different. Noble people use hats, umbrellas, and fans. Some common people go bareheaded and barefoot. Women do not use sashes. Two hundred years ago, they did not shave their hair, but now they shave the crown hair, leave the outer hair around the perimeter, tie a coiled topknot on the crown, and use oil to groom it. Noble people grow long beards and mustaches, while commoners are forbidden to do so. Women do not shave their hair, and wear their topknots positioned slightly forward on the crown. Hairpins are inserted in the topknot. Men wear several, women wear