This is Oki (offshore) Island, which in ancient times was called with the meaning of "island in the ocean," and later became corrupted to "Onaha."

In the Chuzan Seifu written by Ryukyu people, it states: "Shunten's surname was Minamoto, his title was Sonton. His father was Chinzei Hachirō Tametomo-kō, his mother was the younger sister of Ōzato Aji. In the first year of Qiandao of the Southern Song (1165), Tametomo came to the country, had a son, and returned. The child's name was Sonton. He grew up to become Urasoe Aji, and later the people elevated him to be their lord. This was Shunten," and so forth.

Upon examination, the Hōgen Monogatari states that in the first year of Eiman of Emperor Nijō, Tametomo entered Oni Island, which corresponds exactly to the first year of Qiandao. Alternatively, it is said that in the second year of Kaō, when Tametomo died on Izu Ōshima, his youngest son Ōshima Jirō Tameie was five years old, and his mother fled carrying him and entered Ryukyu - this was Shunten. Indeed, the account of being five years old in Kaō 2 and Shunten ascending the throne at age twenty-two in Bunji 3 coincide perfectly, so they are indeed the same person, though which account is correct in detail is unclear.

Also in the Hōgen Monogatari it states: "The islanders' clothing is like nets. Because there are many thick reeds, it is called Ashi Island (Reed Island). When returning to Izu Ōshima, he made them pay tribute of one hundred bolts of silk," and so forth. Probably in Ryukyu there are many bamboos everywhere, and "reeds" was a mistake for a type of bamboo, while the clothing would be banana fiber cloth. Also, since Tametomo had already conquered Hachijō at this time, excluding Hachijō, there is no other island in these waters that should pay annual tribute of one hundred bolts of silk except Ryukyu. Moreover, the people call Tametomo "Japanese Imperial Descendant Ōzato Aji Tomo-kō." Besides Tametomo, there probably was no other person of imperial lineage who entered this island. Since he is called "Ōzato Aji," he was perhaps one who fled and ended his life on this island. Furthermore, since Shunten first established the iroha syllabary, there is no question that he was a descendant of Japanese people. Also, the royal government's most treasured sword is now called Jūkinmaru, which is probably a relic of Tametomo