【Right page】
When the shrine priests, assistant celebrant, and the negi priest of Yukioka participate, they raise the sacred curtain and present the sacred offerings
as is customary. Instead of the first sacred chopsticks, the御御膳立て below the □ sacred offering【red】
　　　　　　　　　　is a large carp
Next comes rice cakes, followed by carp, then birds. After that, in order...□
Also, the lower sacred offerings and sacred confections go to the celebrant's side. After that□
The sacred medicine goes to the negi priest's side as usual. After that, they withdraw
from service. The sacred ritual words are as usual. They participate again and then withdraw. The shrine priests withdraw and□
Only about two shrine priests at the side of the sacred doors remain in attendance. Lowering the sacred curtain at the stairs【red】□
The sacred horses are led in various ways. It should be at the time when night is breaking into dawn. They should be led
facing the sacred presence and sacred fodder should be offered. This sacred fodder is
prepared by the previous master's arrangement, brought from the two-room section. Not long
after the sacred fodder, the sacred horse is led out. The sacred horse remains for a long time and
□■ such things occur. For this reason, not being unexpectedly long is
□□ below. This should be understood. When the matter is finished《strikethrough: there is a bureau seat｜》the shrine priests

【Left page】
withdraw, go around, and approach the bureau seat. It is the western sacred offering
building of the Zaiwatari Hall. Facing east and up □(shi) one person sits in the side seat. The sacred meal service is brought.
Sacred sake cups, roasted items, etc. are brought. Today there may be wild dancing
and it is interesting to encourage such festivities. Recently this practice has ceased. The above
　　　　　　　　　　　　Hunting robes, lower kukuru【red】
1. Fourteenth day sacred shelf ritual. The shrine priests participate at the shrine, and when they
serve at the sacred shelf bridge hall, the shrine priests go before the sacred presence and through the front passage
sit on the veranda seat□ without serving the sacred shelf. After that, the administrator
□□□ receives the sacred streamers of both Lord Kawakami and Lord Ono and recites ritual words.
The names of the head persons, the name of Lord Ono, the alternating names of the masters should be inquired about and
spoken in the sacred ritual words. Next is the regular official Lord Omiya, next is celebrant Lord Nakamura,
next is assistant negi priest Lord Uchiyama, next is assistant celebrant Lord Okamoto. When Ono's ritual words are finished
they withdraw《margin note: However, the junior shrine priests should withdraw during the ritual words of the assistant negi priest etc. and participate in the shrine□｜》
They go around and should sit in the chief's building. Reading the report document is the deputy's duty.