【Right Page】
As is customary. This time, the shabu (shrine administrators) and below, including the ujibito (clan people), withdraw, and the hanging of the御帳 (sacred curtain) is performed as usual. During this time, the shabu should wait under the eastern eaves pillar. The shabu withdraws, exits through the tower gate, crosses the arched bridge, passes by the western bridge of the bridge hall, and stands in the earthen seat of the bridge hall. All the shashi (shrine officials) withdraw and return to the arched bridge. There is the miya-tasuki (shrine sash). The procedure is to use wisteria bark, hanging it front and back, and tying the forehead of the crown.
There is also a ritual pronouncement, which the shoshi (minor official) prepares and hands to the shabu. This is taken with the shaku (ceremonial baton) and prepared. Via the western bridge of the bridge hall and the main path, one ascends to the bridge hall. Behind the shabu stand the ujibito attendants. Behind the celebrant stands the shoshi. The shabu stands two bays away from the front pillar of the bridge hall. When the ritual pronouncement is finished, he bows deeply, approaches one bay closer, and through the gate of the second bridge, the shabu makes the ritual pronouncement and immediately descends to the arched bridge.

【Upper marginal note in red】
For cherry blossoms, is the miya-tasuki triple? Might it not be an assistant?

【Left Page】
Returning, the sash is cut and put into water. When standing on the arched bridge, the shabu is to the south and the celebrant to the north. When the matter is finished, they return again and stand in the earthen space of the bridge hall. There is a ritual of standing earthenware vessels. The shashi proceeds somewhat to pass by the eastern stairs of the treasure hall and sits south of the side seat. The shashi take their seats and turn the sacred horse around. After this, there is the ritual of the large table, as is customary. Sake cups are lowered and the large table is presented. There is a ritual pronouncement to the divine spirits with the sacred horse, and the sacred horse is run and returns. When the running of the sacred horse in the horse grounds is finished, they withdraw and gather at the seats of the long building. The ritual of the bridge hall is demonstrated in the diagram.

Celebrant Celebrant Minor Official
This standing
Shabu Shabu First standing Minor Eight
Shabu ritual pronouncement, standing accordingly

【Diagram: Layout diagram composed of horizontal and vertical lines】