【Right page】
　　　　　　　Together the senior head crosses over to the negi□
　　　　　　　For a long time at the side of the stairs crossing□
　　　　　　　The seated senior head crosses to the negi side and takes the lowest seat□
　When the shrine priests have gathered, they present the imperial offerings, in this order:
　First: substitute chopsticks, next: lower offerings, next: rice cakes, next: □rice perhaps
　Next: birds, thereafter in successive order. However, today being the day of the Rabbit, if Rabbit□
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　is to be presented, first go to the eight-legged table and □eighty
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Strike and hang on the eight-legged table for worship, then the imperial offerings□
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　should be presented. This should be understood□
　When the sacred vegetarian foods and imperial confections have been presented, the celebrant side□
　should participate. The celebrant side should announce the imperial warning□ (however, the imperial offerings negi□) imperial pressing□
　Pass over. The order of imperial offerings is generally like that of the negi side. Imperial confections
　When all have been presented, sacred sake is again presented to the negi side. White powder etc.□ 
　Matter: the lower-ranking shrine priests enter and present. However, this white powder□ 
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　has been presented from the beginning, two gō. Six□ 
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　□to present and receive. Chief Administrator■□ 
　When the administrator takes and presents the sacred sake, the sacred seat cushion is changed

【Left page】
　To present. Twice descending, cutting for a long time and presenting. This should be understood.
　□□□ When finished, the shrine priests go to their own shrine. The administrator exits from the sacred interior and
　Goes to the prayer hall. The chief negi likewise, and the celebrant exits and sits. The deputy official likewise□ 
　Presenting the midday imperial offerings. The procedure is as usual. The celebrant performs the upper duties
　When presented, two shrine priests go to the prayer hall. Crawling and防ぎの
　Going around the passage and going to the end. Five shrine priests bow twice, sit and perform earth worship
　Taking charge and reporting. After that, when the administrator announces prayers□
　However, after that, bow twice again. After that, two lower-ranking shrine priests participate
　There is a return withdrawal of daily offerings. After that, the administrator and celebrants participate and go to the sacred interior
　The procedure for participation is the same as before. The lower-ranking shrine priests likewise participate and withdraw
　However, all withdrawals go to the negi side. When the shrine priests also withdraw
　□□ participate. Until reaching the chest offerings etc., when the withdrawal is completed
　The shrine priests withdraw as usual. However, even to the shrine of the stairs
　　　　　　　　　　　　After withdrawal, for imperial tooth-hardening, Chief Deputy Official