【Right page】
　　　　　　　Shrine priests' service ranking above kurushi【red】【note】
1. Second day imperial preparation - This is the administrator's seasonal feast. At my private□
residence, there are deliberations. Though it is said there are parting gifts for shrine priests and ujibito□共歟【red】
Recently this practice has ceased. However, the imperial preparation□
is conducted at the chief's residence. It may also be conducted at private residences□
should be possible. At the beginning of an administrator's term, there should be parting gifts□
At such times, it should be conducted at private residences
　　　　　　　Shrine priests' service ranking above kurushi【red】【note】
1. Third day imperial preparation - Following this sequence, there is a seasonal feast for the celebrant's side
　　　　　　　　　Shrine priests from officials down kukuru【red】
□(This month's【red】) first day of the hare is the sacred hare-staff ritual. At the hour of the hare
□Only light hare-staffs are presented. The procedure involves chanting ranjo (ritual calls)
and opening the sacred doors as usual
When the hare-staff is presented, they withdraw and there are sacred ritual words as usual
【Left page】
The administrator and the four shrine priests below wait in attendance, and only the celebrant participates to
close the sacred doors. The hare-staff is received at the ritual word building and then withdrawn. The celebrant
should receive it under the eave pillars. However, since this is the first hare day
It may coincide with the first day ritual or the seventh day ritual, etc.
At the hour of the hare, the hare-staff should be presented first. Then it serves the sacred eight-legged table and
immediately goes to the inner small eight-legged table《strikethrough: sometimes goes, or tatami mats are placed｜for service, but on regular days it is placed on the large eight-legged table》
1. On the fourth day, sutra hall monks may come. For offerings, there should be ceremonial borrowing arrangements
□□□This requires preparation
　　　　　　　Shrine priests from officials down kukuru【red】
1. Seventh day sacred ritual - When the rooster crows, the shrine priests go before the sacred presence
When the sacred offerings are set up, there is purification. Ritual calls are chanted
The celebrant opens the sacred doors as usual. The celebrant withdraws□歟【red】
Goes outside the pillar below the stairs and waits for the administrator■fire□
The matter of bowing twice as usual. When the administrator enters the sacred interior, those below

【Note: "kurushi" may be "kukuru"】