Twenty-fifth day, Hinoto-Tori (丁酉). At sunrise, Ding-Wei wind. Lightly used the Dan-Yi needle for two watches. Yi-Mao needle for one and a half watches. At night, reaching the fourth water-clock hour, the wind turned to due south. Used the Dan-Yi needle for one and a half watches. In total, twenty-one watches.

Twenty-sixth day, Tsuchinoe-Inu (戊戌). At sunrise, due south wind. Before midday it turned to Ding-Wu. After some time, Ding-Wei wind arose slightly. Used the Dan-Yi needle for one watch. At midday the wind calmed. When we sounded the water, there was no bottom. In the late afternoon it turned to Bing-Wu wind. We used the Yi-Mao needle. With the wind calm and the ship stopped, we made no progress by watches. At sunset the wind arose slightly. Reaching the fourth water-clock hour, it turned to Ding-Wu wind. Used Yi-Mao for one watch. Reaching the eighth water-clock hour, we again used Dan-Mao for two watches until dawn.

Twenty-seventh day, Tsuchinoto-I (己亥). At sunrise, Ding-Wu wind. Before midday the wind calmed and the ship stopped. There were two large sharks visible on the left and right sides of the ship. At sunset, Ding-Wu wind arose. Reaching the second water-clock hour, it turned to Ding wind. Used the Yi-Chen needle for two and a half watches. As dawn was about to break, we should have seen the islets of Diaoyutai, Huangwei, Chiwei and others, but none were visible. In total we used the Mao needle for twenty-seven and a half watches. The ship drifted northeast for about six watches.

Twenty-eighth day, Kanoe-Ne (庚子). We did not follow the accompanying minister's insistence on using the Mao needle. Our ship's captain Lin (某), changed to use the Yi-Chen needle. Before midday, Ding-Wei wind. We traveled for two and a half watches. The lookout climbed the mast and saw a mountain at one point in the Yi position, approximately four watches distant. On the water surface were small black fish scattered about. The accompanying minister said: "This is what we see when departing from Gumi Mountain. Perhaps this is Gumi, but we cannot yet be certain." At sunset the wind turned to Ding-Wu. We used the Chen-Xun needle for two watches.

Twenty-ninth day, Kanoto-Ushi (辛丑). At sunrise we saw six points of small mountains to the northeast. The accompanying minister said: "This is not..."