[It is] not Gumi. It is actually Habi-zan (Leaf Wall Mountain). It is located to the northwest of the country. [We] finally realized that we had used the Mao needle too much, causing the ship to drift northeast. If there had not been a northwest wind, we would not have been able to steer the ship northward and reach Naha to enter the port. At midday we prayed to the gods. Suddenly [the wind] turned to Kun-Shen-Geng. After a while it turned again to Zi-Gui. The accompanying minister was greatly pleased. We then turned our course and headed southeast. Pointing to a small mountain, [he] said: "This is called Yomitan-yama. From here we turn gradually and then enter the port." At sunset [the wind] turned to Chou-Gen. The wind became very strong. We used the Bing-Si needle, and also used the Bing-Wu Dan-Mao needle. Previously, four or five days before this, we had not yet seen any mountains. The boat floated motionless. The water tanks were about to run dry. Everyone was quite bewildered. We prayed to the gods. The divination indicated: "On the twenty-eighth day you will see mountains, on the first day you will reach the port." Reaching this point on the first day of the sixth month, Mizunoe-Tora, before sunrise we finally entered the port. We traveled at sea for approximately seven days and eight nights. {{Ship No. 2 Port Navigation Log}}

Minister Baoguang notes: Regarding Ryukyu's navigation routes, what the officials there principally rely on is all based on the "Comprehensive Guide to Navigation." The error lies in using the Mao needle too much. This frequently results in the problem of drifting north. The previous envoy Wang Ji recorded: "Investiture ships often drift past the northern mountains and then have to turn back." Examining the various envoy records, nine out of ten [experienced this]. {{In the 11th year of Jiajing of the Ming (1532), Chen Kan's record states: The ship reached Habi-zan, [with] forty small boats towing for eight days before finally reaching Naha. In the 37th year of Jiajing (1558), Guo Rulin's record states: Having already reached Gumi-zan, the navigator said: "If we can get one day and night's favorable wind, even if we don't immediately reach shore, we can ensure not drifting down to Habi-zan." It can be seen that even the Ryukyuan people regard Habi as a warning. In the 4th year of Wanli (1576), Xiao Chongye's record states: On the first day of the sixth month we passed Habi-zan, approaching close to the mountain. From there it was a two-day journey by land route to reach the country, towing the boat. On the fifth day we first anchored at Naha. In the 2nd year of Kangxi (1663), Zhang Xueli's record states: The ship reached the northern mountains of Ryukyu, at the border with Japan. Pulled south by north winds, we finally reached Naha.}} The only investiture ships that did not drift north were those of the former Ming's册使 Xia Ziyang and our dynasty's Wang Ji - just these two people. Examining Xia's record, it states: "At Meihua-suo we opened to the ocean, passed White Dog Islet..."