They also took Dongsha Islet, using the Chen-Xun needle for eight watches with Ding upper wind. Taking Xiao Liuqiu Mountain, using Yi-Mao needle for two watches with Wei upper wind. Taking Jilong, using Jia-Mao needle for four watches with Shen-You upper wind. Taking Pengjia Mountain, using Yi-Mao needle for three watches with Hai upper wind. Using Yi-Mao needle for three watches with Wei upper wind. Taking Huaping Islet, using Yi-Mao needle for four watches with Ding-Wei upper wind. Taking Diaoyu Islet, using Yi-Mao needle for four watches with Bing-Wu upper wind. Taking Huangwei Islet, using Yi-Mao needle for seven watches with Bing upper wind. Using Chen-Xun needle for one watch with Ding upper wind. Taking Gumi Mountain. Again Chen-Xun needle for six watches. Taking the two mountains Tunaki Onkori. {{Now translated as Tonaki and Aguni Mountains. These two mountains are located west of Maji Mountain.}} Again Chen-Xun for one watch. Taking Maji Mountain to reach the port. Wang's record states: {{Not recorded in this log, seen in the Ocean Vessel Navigation Manual}} Yi-Chen for eight watches, taking Jilong Head, using Chen frequently. Chen-Xun for three watches, taking Meihua Islet. Dan-Mao for ten watches, taking Diaoyu Platform. Passing by the northern edge. Yi-Chen for four watches, taking Huangwei Islet. {{The favorable wind was in these four watches. The ship's hull lifted up, already seeing Huangwei Islet. Below, using Jia-Mao needle to take Gumi. This was surely due to the favorable due west wind.}} Jia-Mao for ten watches, taking Gumi Mountain. Yi-Mao for seven watches, taking Maji Mountain. Jia-Yin together with Jia-Mao, taking Naha Port.

Generally, from Jilong Mountain, proceeding east through Diaoyu Islet and Chiwei Islet, up to Gumi Mountain, all these mountains are to the south. Borrowing them as reference points, ships uniformly pass along the northern edge of the mountains. If one sees the mountains, then the needle direction is correct. If one should see them but doesn't, then the needle has already dropped and gradually proceeds northeast, inevitably reaching the point of seeing Habi Mountain. In essence, this problem all stems from using the Mao needle too much. Moreover, [they] cannot adjust the needle according to wind conditions. While southwest winds are generally all favorable, sometimes from Wu, sometimes from Ding, sometimes from Wei and