There was a divine response. Fu Ti Wan Zhengse reported this to the emperor. A title was added and sacrifices were offered. The divine spirit was clearly manifest and has become increasingly brilliant to this day. Generally, those who cross the sea must carry the deity aboard their vessels. In past years when Ryukyu was enfeoffed, imperial sacrifices were performed twice. Prayers were offered in summer and reports made in winter, with texts prepared in advance for the envoys to proclaim. All achieved safety. This was due to the influence of imperial virtue, and the divine response was particularly manifest.

Miraculous Records of Rescue by the Enfeoffment Ships 《Marginal note: Only the miraculous rescue of Chaishan in the first year of Hongxi is detailed in the "Record of Divine Manifestations." There is no examination of what follows. Now we begin from Chen Kan.》

In the thirteenth year of Jiajing,册使 Chen Kan the Secretary 《Marginal note: Chen Kan was the first to have records, therefore we begin from Kan》 and Gao Cheng the Assistant. When their ship reached Gumi Mountain, it developed a leak. Through prayer, they managed to plug it and continue. On the return journey, they encountered a hurricane. The masts and rigging all broke. Suddenly there was a red light illuminating the ship. They then requested divination blocks and raised the rudder. There were also butterflies and sparrows showing omens. That evening the wind was fierce. They donned ceremonial robes to pray and requested to erect a stele. The wind then subsided. Upon return, they requested spring and autumn sacrificial rites.

In the fortieth year of Jiajing, 册使 Guo Rulin and Li Jichun proceeded to Red Islet. There was no wind. A large fish disturbed their boat. They then offered a Golden Light Buddha and a decorated boat, carrying them ceremonially. They then obtained a south wind and crossed safely. On the day of returning to Fujian, a hurricane was about to break. There had been the omen of two sparrows gathering on the boat beforehand. In a moment the hurricane struck and they lost their rudder. Guo and others composed a written prayer to announce their plight. The wind then ceased. They installed a new rudder. There was also a bird that perched on the mast and would not leave.

In the seventh year of Wanli, 册使 Xiao Chongye the Secretary and Xie Ran the Assistant lost their bearing with the compass course in error. They did not know where they were going. Moreover, they had lost their rudder blade. During their devout prayers, suddenly there appeared a swallow and a dragonfly flying around the left and right of the ship. They then managed to replace the rudder, and the boat was then safe.