On the sixteenth day of the second month of this year, riding favorable northeast winds for half a month, we finally arrived at Wuhu Gate in Fuzhou on the thirtieth day. We ministers traveled the sea route round trip with virtually no dangers. This is all due to our Emperor's virtue surpassing that of all ages, with blessings equal to Heaven itself. When we ministers received the imperial command to travel to this extremely distant place, divine spirits showed us favor. All the officials, soldiers, and several hundred attendants on our ship suffered no losses whatsoever and were all able to return safely. We ministers are extremely gratified. Both the subjects of the Ryukyu Kingdom and the officials and people of Fujian Province all call this miraculous and offer praise, saying that this is all due to our Emperor's virtue extending throughout every corner of the seas. During the round trip, whenever the winds were slightly unfavorable, we ministers would pray to Tianfei and immediately obtained safety and good fortune. Since the time when Taiwan was pacified, Tianfei has manifested divine power and brought favorable conditions, already receiving imperial ennoblement and sacrificial rites. Now she silently protected the enfeoffment ships, with various miraculous signs like these. We humbly pray that through special imperial grace, permission be granted to have local officials conduct sacrificial rites in spring and autumn to repay the divine protection. We prostrate ourselves awaiting the sacred decision. We respectfully memorialize this.

The Ministry of Rites respectfully submits: Regarding matters to be memorialized. According to what we ministers have deliberated and determined, the Hanlin Academy Examiner Minister Hai Bao and Compiler Minister Xu Baoguang and others, who have returned from their mission to the Ryukyu Kingdom, have memorialized stating: We ministers received the imperial edict to enfeoff the King of Ryukyu and made the round trip by sea route. All the officials, soldiers, and several hundred attendants