suffered no losses whatsoever and were all able to return safely. During the round trip, whenever the winds were slightly unfavorable, when we ministers prayed to Tianfei, we immediately obtained safety and good fortune. Since the time when Taiwan was pacified, Tianfei has manifested divine power and brought favorable conditions, already receiving the Emperor's ennoblement and sacrificial rites. Now she silently protected the enfeoffment ships, with various miraculous signs. We humbly pray that through special imperial grace, permission be granted to have local officials conduct sacrificial rites in spring and autumn to repay the divine protection, among other words. We reverently consider that the Emperor's virtue extends throughout the universe, and his transformative influence reaches every corner of the seas. Wherever the imperial edicts go, divine spirits respond in harmony. Here, in order to enfeoff the King of Ryukyu, imperial envoys were specially dispatched to conduct the ceremonial rites. Making the round trip through the extremely perilous regions of the great sea, the several hundred officials, soldiers, and attendants all obtained safety and good fortune. This was certainly due to Tianfei manifesting her divine power, but in reality it was all due to our Emperor's benevolent influence, causing the hundred spirits and sea deities to bring favorable conditions. Upon investigation, in the nineteenth year of Kangxi, our ministry deliberated and decided to enfeoff Tianfei as "Huguo Bimin Miagling Zhaoying Hongren Puji Tianfei" (Nation-Protecting, People-Sheltering, Miraculously Efficacious, Gloriously Responsive, Magnanimously Benevolent, Universally Beneficent Heavenly Consort), and to dispatch officials to conduct sacrificial rites. Therefore, we submitted a memorial and received the imperial edict to follow the deliberation. This was reverently complied with and is on record. Now that Tianfei has silently protected the enfeoffment ships with various miraculous signs, the local officials should be ordered to conduct sacrificial rites in spring and autumn, incorporated into the ritual canon, to be implemented when the imperial command is issued, and the relevant governors should be ordered to comply. We ministers dare not act presumptuously on our own, so we respectfully submit this memorial requesting the imperial edict, among other matters. Therefore, this was memorialized on the third day of the eighth month of the fifty-ninth year of Kangxi, and received on the sixth day of this month.