[Page 42, Upper]
Master Dōeki says: "Bhikṣus are śrāvakas. Bodhisattvas are Mahāyāna."

Sutra: "Five patience virtues marvelous dharma gates, fourteen noble beings can truly comprehend, three worthies and ten sages practicing in patience, only one Buddha can exhaust the source, Buddha-sangha-dharma ocean three jewel treasury, immeasurable merits gathered within... dwelling in pure lands"

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "The second twenty-five verses extensively praising the five patience have two parts: the first verse generally praises the five patience, the latter twenty-four verses separately praise the five patience." I say: "The two lines from 'Buddha-sangha-dharma' below are mostly attributed by various masters to the above text. However now attributing them below, their meaning is unclear. Also the final line is difficult to determine. If following Master Dōeki's intention, the first one and a half verses generally hymn the five patience, the next twenty-three and a half verses separately hymn the five patience." (I note: General hymning follows the text. Below quotation depends on this explanation, but the final line is difficult to determine.)

Sutra: "Five patience... up to gathered within"

Master Dōeki says: "First hymning persons and dharmas. Five patience is dharma, fourteen noble beings are persons. Next dividing cause and effect. Three worthies and ten sages are cause, the one Buddha is effect. Later clarifying the gathering of three jewels' merits into the treasury." I say: "A former worthy said: 'This takes the five patience as the three jewel treasury. Therefore the three jewels' merits are gathered within the five patience.'" This meaning is extremely good. Master Dōeki's intention resembles this. Master Ben also agrees. "Buddha-sangha-dharma" - the new edition says "Buddha-dharma-sangha." I say: "Sangha means saṅgha."

Sutra: "Ten virtues... up to dwelling in pure lands"

The first fascicle says: "Regarding the five patience, it should be five parts, but the text has extensions making five sections. The first has two verses praising outer ordinary beings - this is the extended number in the verses. The second from 'cultivation seeds' below, seven verses praising inner ordinary beings - this is the subjugation patience's thirty minds. The third from 'good awakening' below, ten verses praising faith patience. The fourth from 'blazing wisdom' below, eight verses praising accordance patience. The fifth from 'far-reaching' below, ten verses praising no-arising patience. The sixth, consecration ten verses praising extinction patience." I say: "Why do texts like 'equal wisdom' and 'consecration' belong exclusively to extinction patience texts? The final four lines require effort." Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "From 'far-reaching' below, ten verses jointly explain no-arising and extinction patience." I say: "Texts like 'equal wisdom' are difficult to miss in this explanation. The final four lines are still difficult to determine. If following Master Jizang's intention, from 'three worthies and ten sages' below, four lines generally conclude praising the five patience." Master Ben's intention agrees. I say: "Though attributing to extinction has no serious fault, generally concluding the five patience generally follows the text."

Sutra: "Ten virtues bodhisattvas generate great mind, long separating from three realms' suffering wheel ocean, lower grade virtues cakra-scattered kings, upper grade ten virtues iron wheel kings"

All masters together say: "Hymning the preliminary practices before subjugation patience." Ten virtues - Master Dōeki says: "Initial minds practicing ten virtues, or the ten faiths are called ten virtues." Long separating from three realms - Master Jizang says: "Outer ordinary beings generating one thought of bodhi mind break beginningless existence-wheel. Therefore called long separating from three realms' suffering wheel ocean. Though the ten faiths haven't yet exited the three realms, having already generated great mind seeking to exit the three realms, already able to leave the three evil paths, collectively speaking of long separation." Master Dōeki says: "Together with all sentient beings separating from the three realms - this is generating great mind. Or śrāvaka and pratyekabuddha ultimate fruition transcends those three realms. Bodhisattva mind-generation already transcends the two vehicles, hence speaking thus."

[Page 43, Upper]
(I note: Probably missing the character 'yun') Perfect teaching's ten faiths sever three realms' delusions, long separating from suffering wheel. I say: "The mountain school often quotes this text as proof of the meaning that ten faiths sever view-delusions and conceptual delusions. However Prajñāpāramitā sutras have three teaching intentions. If following the shared and distinct [teachings], scholars should consider." Master Dōeki says: "Speaking of 'cakra-scattered' means having no wheel-jewel gathering things, scattering salary to nourish subjects. Because of ruling people, it's called cakra-scattered." Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "Being numerous like scattered millet, from the analogy establishing the name 'cakra-scattered king.'" Master Ben makes two explanations: first agrees with Master Wŏnch'ŭk. Also says: "Like at kalpa's beginning dividing fragrant rice, using millet scattered and spread, called cakra-scattered king." I say: "Examining the Fundamental Activities Necklace lower fascicle: 'This person at that time dwelling is called faith-characteristic bodhisattva, also called provisional-name bodhisattva, also called name-only bodhisattva. That person briefly practices ten minds: namely faith mind, progress mind, mindfulness mind, wisdom mind, concentration mind, precept mind, dedication mind, dharma-protection mind, giving mind, vow mind. Again practicing ten minds: namely ten virtue dharmas, five precepts, eight precepts, ten precepts, six pāramitā precepts. This person again practices ten virtues - if one, two, three kalpas cultivating ten virtues receives six heavens' fruition rewards. Ten virtues have three grades: upper grade iron wheel transforming one world-system below, middle grade cakra-scattered king, lower grade human realm king. Complete with all affliction collections, immeasurable good karma also retreats and emerges. If meeting good spiritual friends learning Buddha-dharma, if one or two kalpas then entering dwelling positions. If not so, constantly sinking without emerging from dwelling, retreating from partial good roots.'"

Sutra: "Cultivation seeds... up to initial mind generation"

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "Hymning their correct positions." Seven treasures - Master Dōeki says: "First wheel-treasure, second elephant-treasure, third horse-treasure, fourth jewel-treasure, fifth treasury-minister treasure, sixth military-minister treasure, seventh beautiful-woman treasure. The former four types of wheel-kings all

[Page 43, Lower]
have seven treasures, but with differences in ascending and descending, like wheel-treasures having gold, silver, copper, iron differences." Master Wŏnch'ŭk quotes the Great Vibhāṣā saying: "Gold, silver, copper, iron quantities are respectively equal to four, three, two, one kroṣas."

Ten faiths, ten cessations, ten firm minds (the new edition says ten abodes, ten practices, ten dedications) - Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "Ten faiths are namely ten understandings, also called ten abodes. Ten practices are called ten cessations. Ten dedications are called ten firm minds." My record presents different explanations and concludes: "I say dwelling-faith are similar. Transmission-copyists erred. Should be made the character 'dwelling' to read." I say: "Error is error. The below text lists fourteen patience names saying faith patience, cessation patience, firm patience. How can it be called copyist error?" "All bodhisattva practice fundamental source, therefore generating mind faith-mind difficult, etc." - from here six lines, various masters' explanations are unclear. Now I examine and say: among subjugation patience's three minds, separately praising faith patience. Prior to cultivation patience, light-feather bodhisattvas though generating great mind, faith-roots not yet established, their positions still retreat, cannot be the foundation of bodhisattva practice. Discriminating against that, revealing this, therefore having this text. Observers should think carefully. "Teaching and transforming sentient beings practicing in awakening" (the new edition says: benefiting others, self-other completely equal).

Sutra: "Good-awakening bodhisattvas four heavenly kings... up to remaining illumination"

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "Explaining faith patience has four parts: first having two verses explaining good-awakening ground, second having one verse clarifying separation-attainment ground, third having one verse explaining bright-wisdom ground, fourth having one verse on severing obstacles' limits." Master Jizang says: "The former eight verses recite the above three grounds' three patience, the lower two verses conclude praise." I say: "Wanting to unfold the sutra text below, first know there are generally five matters: first marking various grounds' names, second corresponding to various royal positions, third clarifying transformation realms' breadth and narrowness, fourth clarifying truth-contemplation differences (these four are separately explained for each position, sequence not fixed, can be known by seeing), fifth clarifying severing delusions.