【Page 86 Upper】
The new translation says: Furthermore, the bodhisattva of the Dharma Cloud Ground. It also says: "Good son, from initial practice patience to vajra concentration, all are called 'subduing all afflictions.' Signless faith patience illuminates the ultimate truth, extinguishes various afflictions and generates liberation wisdom. Gradually subduing and extinguishing, using the arising-ceasing mind to attain no-arising-cessation. If this mind is extinguished, then ignorance is extinguished. All knowledge and views before vajra concentration cannot be called 'seeing.' Only the Buddha has sudden understanding, possessing all-knowledge, and only such knowledge and views can be called 'seeing.' Good son, when vajra samādhi manifests, one still cannot achieve equal-to-the-unequaled. It is like a person climbing a great high platform and universally observing everything without fail to understand. If in the liberation stage, one-mark signless, no-birth no-cessation, identical to the true limit, equal to dharma-nature, fulfilling the treasury of merit and dwelling in the Tathāgata stage." Master Ce says: The thirteenth text has four parts: first, indicating the names of stage distinctions; second, from "dwelling in tranquility" below is the time period of ascending stages; third, from "good son" below, the various stages are compared to explain differential characteristics; fourth, from "constantly cultivating" below explains entering stages and dwelling in concentration. Master Ye says: The text has five parts: first indicating names; second, from "from initial arousing of bodhicitta" below explains cultivation kalpas; third, from "ascending all dharmas" below explains the dwelling mind; fourth, from "good son" below distinguishes differences; fifth, from "constantly cultivating" below explains entering later stages. Regarding "contemplating buddha bodhisattva," Master Ce says: In this stage there are two kinds of buddha contemplation: first, eye-seeing which is only for others' enjoyment; second, concentrated mind seeing which comprehensively observes the three bodies. Regarding "from initial arousing of bodhicitta, etc.," Master Ce says: From habituated seed-nature ascending to the stage of liberation from all dharmas. Regarding "vajra platform," Master Zang says: The tenth ground serves as the vajra platform. It can also be that this sentence raises the result to manifest the cause, naming the Buddha as the vajra platform. Because that tenth ground cause is fulfilled, therefore the Buddha dwells in the vajra platform result. Master Ce's meaning says: Ascending to liberation from all dharmas refers to the stage to be attained, which is wonderful awakening. Dwelling on the vajra platform means vajra samādhi correctly explains equal awakening Tathāgata. There are two kinds of liberation: first equal awakening, second wonderful awakening. Now this vajra accomplishes equal awakening liberation. Master Ye says: Liberation from all dharmas is inconceivable liberation. Because principle is universally pervaded, there is no remaining medicine. Now contemplation reaches the ultimate in principle, therefore nothing fails to achieve liberation. Illuminating to the pinnacle of the middle path is called "dwelling on the vajra platform."

【Page 86 Lower】
From "good son" to "also thus." Master Ye's meaning says: In distinguishing differences, the text has five parts: first, from practice patience to afflictions explains the difference between subduing and severing; second, from "yet signless faith" to "non-awareness" explains the difference between faith and seeing; third, from "only Buddha" to "subduer" explains sudden versus gradual differences. Fourth, from "although wisdom arises and ceases" to "no-birth no-cessation" explains the difference between permanent and impermanent; fifth, from "entering principle" to "also thus" explains the difference of equal-to-the-unequaled. Master Ce says: Also explains five differences, but the detailed text differs from this. Regarding "from practice patience, etc.," Master Zang says: From practice patience to vajra, before removing one thought of original grade, one instant of delusion remains. This is comprehensively called "subduing." Regarding "gradually subduing means although wisdom arises and ceases, etc.," Master Zang says: "Gradually subduing means although wisdom arises and ceases" explains the impermanence of the causal path. "Being able through no-birth no-cessation" explains being able to extinguish those arising-ceasing afflictions. "If this mind is extinguished" means the ground of ignorance dwelling is extinguished. "Then no burden fails to be extinguished" means removing obstacles beyond burdens. "No-birth no-cessation" is ultimate purity. Master Ce says: Paramārtha Tripiṭaka says buddha result merit, bodhi, and nirvana all have no arising-cessation. Although wisdom at the vajra stage has arising-cessation, it can realize the no-arising-cessation principle. Therefore if this mind is extinguished, one can immediately realize the attainment of burden-exhaustion

【Page 87 Upper】
nirvana, no-birth, indestructible, eternally dwelling bodhi. Next citing Cien Tripiṭaka's explanation, the general meaning is the same as before. But no-birth no-cessation means realizing the dharma-body. He doesn't accept the meaning of buddha wisdom being eternally dwelling and unchanging. Master Ben says: According to one explanation following the *Awakening of Faith*, "using arising-ceasing mind to attain no-arising-cessation" means using the mind of partial awakening's arising-cessation to cultivate and realize incompletely, then attaining ultimate no-arising-cessation. Therefore "if this mind is extinguished then ignorance is extinguished" is like exhausting the bodhisattva grounds and fulfilling skillful means, in one thought corresponding and awakening to the characteristic of mind's initial arising - this is the karma-characteristic mind. Due to fundamental ignorance karma-characteristic moving thoughts, when karma-characteristic mind is extinguished, then ignorance is extinguished. Regarding "yet unable to be equal-to-the-unequaled," Master Ce says: The Buddha World-Honored One has none below, therefore called "unequaled." Being level with all buddhas, therefore called "equal." From vajra and below, none can be equal-to-the-unequaled. Master Ye says: Perfecting the myriad virtues of inequality and meeting the one principle of equality is the bodhisattva. Therefore it says "unable to be equal-to-the-unequaled." Myriad virtues are dharma-nature; dharma-nature is myriad virtues. Without equality, without inequality - inconceivable is the buddha result. Regarding "like a person climbing a great high platform, etc.," Master Zang says: This is the Tathāgata ground. Masters Ce and Ye make causal explanations. From "constantly cultivating" to "saṃgata." Master Ye says: From "constantly cultivating" below explains entering later stages, entering the gate of profound mystery. From five precepts and ten virtues up to summit samādhi, all are cultivated again. Therefore it says "cultivating all practices and entering bhāgavat." Some say entering the Tathāgata ground. Some translate as "able to bestow practices" - meaning generating transformative functions. However, I haven't seen the correct translation. Master Zang says: This means "ground of bestowing virtue." Because one can rain down teachings like clouds, it's also called "ground of breaking through crossing." Master Ce says: World-Honored One is one of the ten titles.

【Page 87 Lower】
Regarding "buddha wisdom samādhi," Master Zang says: Because concentration and wisdom are complete, it's called "buddha wisdom samādhi." Master Ye says: The *Lotus Sutra* uses true characteristic wisdom as buddha wisdom. The textual meaning of these thirteen stages above is extremely difficult to understand. Here I briefly compile different interpretations that don't necessarily follow our school's position. Sometimes I state foolish views that may not be correct. Present readers should not hesitate to make selections and changes.

Scripture: "Good son" up to "equally without difference"
Master Ye says: The third part raises the thirteen dharma masters to conclude, encouraging faith and acceptance as identical to Buddha without difference.

Scripture: "Buddha told Paṭṭi" up to "not born in that country"
Master Ye says: From here below, the second part is the text of external upholding in five sections: first, praising function and entrusting; second, from "Great King, I now" below, protecting from difficulties and encouraging teaching; third, from "Great King, this prajñā" below, praising the name and encouraging offerings; fourth, from "Great King, I now" below, showing what can protect; fifth, from "Great King, I now" below, listing names and encouraging maintenance.

Scripture: "Buddha told Paṭṭi" up to "understanding its principles"
The first part praises function and entrusts. Regarding "I shall, etc."

Scripture: "Great King, I now" up to "constitute the seven difficulties"
Master Ye says: The second part protects from difficulties and encourages teaching. The text has three parts: first, the realm of transformation; second, from "that country" below, indicating and encouraging. Here protecting from the seven difficulties doesn't necessarily follow the previous hundred assemblies but just follows the portion of lecturing and reading; third, from "how" below lists the seven difficulties and encourages. The seven difficulties are, according to Master Zang: first, sun and moon losing their course; second, constellations changing abnormally; third, fire disasters; fourth, water disasters; fifth, wind disasters; sixth, drought disasters; seventh, bandits. Regarding the seven blessings, Master Ce says: As explained in the Original Record.