Ashigaru foot soldier under Akiyama Kisaemon's command
Assistant to Yamaji Yazaemon of the Astronomy Department
Special duty for calendar making and surveying
Stipend: seventy koku five-person allowance　　　Saegusa Toichiro
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Age 44, Year of the Ox
Additional service allowance: three-person allowance

Regarding the aforementioned Toichiro: He was appointed to service in the tenth month of Bunsei 13 (1830), Year of the Tiger. On the 16th day of the ninth month of Tenpo 8 (1837), Year of the Rooster, when there was a sudden fire at the residence of Matsueiin-sama and she had to evacuate, he promptly rushed to assist and worked exceptionally hard with the advance clearing and other duties. For this meritorious service, he was awarded two pieces of silver on the 10th day of the twelfth month of the same year, as announced through an official document. On the 16th day of the sixth month of Tenpo 10 (1839), Year of the Boar, he was appointed as assistant to Yamaji Yazaemon for special calendar-making and surveying duties, and during his service in this role, he was granted a three-person stipend allowance as announced through an official document. He has served faithfully for twelve years until this Year of the Ox, including three years in the special duty role.

This is his record. Generally speaking, he conducts his official duties with good discipline and genuine dedication, demonstrates capability in his work, and can be relied upon for official business. I have learned that there is currently a vacancy in the fire watch at the Western Citadel. If it would be possible, I humbly request that he be appointed to fill this vacant position. Although it has not been very long since I was appointed to my current position, my predecessor Minobe Hachizo had also made repeated requests for this, which I have been informed of, so I am presenting this matter. Moreover, Yamaji Yazaemon has also made this request. I have already reported this matter to Lord Naito Suruga-no-kami, the Western Citadel Duty Officer, so I humbly present this request. The above.

Fifth Month　　　　　　　Akiyama Kisaemon