[Right Page]
376
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 4
28

[Upper Section]
Regarding the meaning of permanence, because the opponent does not accept it. If one accepts it in this way, then all different categories of inference could become same categories. Therefore one should not regard dharma-thesis [meaning]. Regarding "Also if it is permanent [up to] this is just abbreviated absence" etc.: The meaning says: What was clarified before is that above the thesis there are also various differences in what is accepted by implicit intention. The different categories of suffering, emptiness, no-self etc. should also be mentioned. However, now the text "if it is permanent" etc., regarding what is properly purified, mentions permanence as the different category of impermanence, abbreviating the rest. Following reason, same as what was clarified before, those no-self etc. where what-is-established is absent, accordingly can all be made different categories [meaning]. Regarding "Although different categories [up to] thesis definitely follows along": In different categories, although there are thesis different categories and cause different categories, nevertheless thesis different categories are fundamental. Why? Because the original intention of negative construction is to make clear that where thesis is absent, that cause accordingly is absent, making this its import. This is namely for what purpose? Turning this around on the side of positive construction, it is to clarify that where cause exists, thesis definitely follows along [meaning]. Regarding "Although again separate dharma [up to] afterwards then cause difference" etc.: In such negative construction, thesis comes first and cause afterwards. Therefore although one should be able to limit it to thesis different categories, there must also necessarily be cause different categories. The reason is: now wanting to clarify that ability-establishing cause originally accomplishes thesis, if this cause is absent in different categories, then that thesis becomes established. Therefore one must necessarily require both thesis-cause two differences [meaning]. Therefore "correct thesis difference, afterwards then cause difference" means: thus since thesis difference is already fundamental, there must necessarily be two differences. Therefore one should say "correct thesis difference, afterwards then cause difference" [meaning]. Generally, regarding same category definite existence, among both thesis-same and cause-same existing together, cause-same is fundamental. However actually same category correctly takes cause-same. [[Boxed] This is text below same category definite existence] This thesis [[Boxed] The examined text says: Is it intention?] This is indeed

[Lower Section]
to clarify that where cause exists, thesis definitely follows along. Therefore positive construction puts cause first. Regarding different category universal non-existence, among both thesis-different and cause-different existing together, thesis-different is fundamental. Therefore "correct thesis difference, afterwards then cause difference" has this meaning. This is indeed to clarify that where thesis is absent, cause accordingly is absent. Therefore negative construction puts thesis first. Regarding "having universal non-absence, not different category [up to] then among nine sentences fourth, fifth, sixth" etc.: Question: The two sentences fourth and sixth, being contradictory causes, are definitely things of different category universal existence. How can they be taken as universal non-existence sentence essence? Answer: This sentence now discusses universal non-existence regarding same category. The three sentences fourth, fifth, sixth are all things of same category universal non-existence. This same category side is namely thesis same category, therefore not thesis different category. Hence using these three sentences as the present sentence essence. Thinking with this: above where same category definite existence is explained, definite existence non-same category is sentence essence. Among nine sentences, taking the six sentences excluding the three sentences 2, 5, 8 is also this construction. Namely, definite existence means not same category definite existence, but different category definite existence. This different category side is namely thesis different category, therefore not thesis same category. Using this as definite existence non-same category essence. Generally below these three characteristics, with three sets of four sentences, to exhaust sentence numbers, there are many constructions. [Below initial characteristics, three sentences are raised.] Regarding "existing not different category also not universal non-existence [up to] excluding 4, 5, 6, remaining six sentences are" etc.: This can be known following the above. Also, non-universal non-existence means: being definite existence in same category, therefore naming it non-universal non-existence. This side is namely thesis same category, therefore saying "not different category" ○ Regarding "own sentence, other sentences [up to] other sentences have faults, therefore" etc.: In the three characteristics of cause, each one has one set of four sentences. [[Boxed] However initial characteristics have three sentences.] Now three sets of four

[Left Page]  
377
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 4
29

[Upper Section]
sentences [misprint?]. Each rounded into one sentence, confronting three characteristics, named own sentence and other sentences. Namely, temporarily naming "universally being thesis-dharma nature" as own sentence, naming the remaining two characteristics as other sentences. Judging self-other in confrontation of remaining two characteristics etc., all can follow this. Now taking as fundamental, correctly explaining and naming the target, the rest can be named other. Other essence is like this. When both own sentence and other sentences have no faults, they are included in correct cause, their essence corresponding to sentences 2 and 8. Since all three characteristics are complete, in both own sentence and other sentences, all have no faults. Regarding "Although within current sentence there is no such fault, other sentences have faults" etc.: These are current indeterminate causes etc. Namely, temporarily [[Boxed] The examined text says: Is it "regarding"?] judging self-other with two characteristics confronted. First, when same category definite existence is the current sentence, common indeterminates etc., because they have same category definite existence, although there is no fault within own sentence, because they lack different category universal non-existence, other sentences have such faults. Therefore they are not included in correct causes. Next, when different category universal non-existence is the current sentence, non-common indeterminates, because they have different category universal non-existence, although there is no fault within own sentence, because they lack same category definite existence, other sentences have such faults. Therefore they are also not included in correct causes. All the rest are like this.

Regarding "Therefore should distinguish one by one as before": Collected Records says: Zhou says: When own sentences and other sentences have no faults, they are immediately named correct causes. The rest establish names following their faults [etc.].

Regarding "Therefore different essence absent also has complete three characteristics": Now this essence means example-basis. Because it is thing-essence, it is called essence. This father-intention is: regarding different categories, even if example-basis is absent, since example-essence must necessarily exist, that cause also has complete three characteristics [meaning]. Question: This present section distinguishes between example-basis and example-essence,

[Lower Section]
explaining them. The present words "different essence" should definitely be different example example-essence. How does it relate to example-basis? Answer: The text following this upper text says "This explains having essence and accomplishes essence-having thesis [etc.]" This word "essence" is uncontested general dharma-essence. Being adjacent to this, "different essence absent" etc. [etc.]. How strange is it to relate to example-basis? Moreover, if not so, how could there be three causes having complete three characteristics without different example example-essence? Also in the above question-answer text, that meaning is clear. Regarding "Above three sentences" etc.: Collected Records says: The commentary's "above three sentences," Zhou says: This is namely thesis one, example two, making three. Ying agrees. Later Records says: "Above three sentences" reaching "faults of four sentences" is general conclusion. Clarifying cause three characteristics, naming them three sentences. Within each characteristic, accordingly all make four sentences. Slightly distinguishing having faults and non-faults is as already clarified before [etc.]. Regarding "non-lacking indeterminate" etc.: Collected Records says: Zhou says: Question: In few-meaning lacking, non-lacking has no faults [meaning]. Why now does this say non-lacking indeterminate [meaning]? Answer: In having-essence lacking, essence is only having, and meaning also does not lack. Therefore both do not lack. Yet this is not fault. Now this lacking, essence is not non-existent. Therefore it gains the name non-lacking. It does not eliminate that above essence meaning has faults. Therefore it is named indeterminate [etc].

Following this record, the present text says: Is indeterminate not the indeterminate fault among the thirty-three faults? Is it just that in non-essence, in non-lacking sentences, faults and non-faults are indeterminate? Although stating cause-example word-essence, the existence or non-existence of faults above them is indeterminate. In non-essence lacking, it already says words are complete. Therefore although not lacking faults, outside lacking faults, the existence or non-existence of remaining faults is indeterminate [meaning]. Regarding "three sets of four sentences, one set of two sentences":