[Right Page]
396
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 6
48

[Upper Section]

Following the previous instances.

Above completes eight-combination faults.

Nine-combination faults have one set of four sentences. [The meaning is easy to understand]

Taking perception against the remaining eight, making one set of four sentences. Namely [First] being perception-contradicting and not being inference through mutual agreement. [Second] being inference [through] mutual agreement and not being perception-contradicting. [Third] being both perception-contradicting and inference [through] mutual agreement. [Fourth] being neither perception nor inference [through] mutual agreement. This is that one set of four sentences. By the previous forms of four sentences, all of these can be understood by analogy.

Above completes nine-combination faults.

Now "for the great example" and below are the complete four sentences of self, other, both, and neither, together with the partial four sentences of these four. Generally, regarding the nine faults of the thesis, each one by one has these. Therefore each of the nine faults has eight sentences. [Complete four sentences and partial four sentences] Namely, perception has complete and partial four sentences of self, other, both, and neither. Even mutual agreement has complete and partial four sentences of self, other, both, and neither. The middle can be understood by analogy. With these respective eight sentences, they mutually compare and also make four sentences. Namely, temporarily regarding the eight sentences of perception, taking self-perception-contradiction as head, regarding the eight sentences of inference, combining them in sequence, making four sentences one by one. There are eight sets of four sentences. Thus, in sequence taking other-perception among the eight sentences of perception as head, again regarding the eight sentences of inference, making four sentences in one-to-one correspondence. There are again eight sets of four sentences. Thus

[Lower Section]

the eight sentences of perception each serve as head, taking one head to correspond with the eight sentences of inference. Completing one round, there are eight types of eight sets of four sentences. Therefore combining eight times eight equals sixty-four. Hence taking the eight sentences of perception to correspond with the eight sentences of inference, there are in total sixty-four sets of four sentences. Thus taking the eight sentences of perception to correspond with the eight sentences of self-teaching, there are again sixty-four sets of four sentences. Thus taking the eight sentences of perception as head, corresponding with the remaining eight faults' respective eight sentences, through to mutual agreement, there are eight types of sixty-four sets of four sentences. Combining the sixty-four of eight types results in 512 sets of four sentences. [Above is the extent of taking the eight sentences of perception as head] Thus, next discarding perception, taking the eight sentences of inference as head, corresponding with the remaining seven types of eight sentences from self-teaching downward, there are seven types of sixty-four. Combined, 448 types of four sentences. [Above is the extent of taking the eight sentences of inference as head]

Next discarding perception and inference, taking self-teaching as head, corresponding with the remaining six types of eight sentences from worldly downward, there are six types of sixty-four sets of four sentences. Combined, 384 sets of four sentences. [Above is the extent of taking the eight sentences of self-teaching as head]

The following can all be understood by analogy. Therefore the commentary says, "corresponding with the remaining seven types of sixty-four sentences" [through] "corresponding with the remaining two types of sixty-four sentences" etc., should all be punctuated as "when corresponding with the remaining, there are sixty-four sentences." However, the ancient punctuation saying "corresponding with the remaining sixty-four sentences" is most questionable. The commentary text is abbreviated. It should specifically say "sixty-four four-sentences." The word "sentences" simply refers to four sentences. This example is frequent in the above text. As in the ancient punctuation, it completely does not match. This should be understood. Also, the Myōtō Commentary is clear. It should be consulted.

[Left Page]
397
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 6
49

[Upper Section]

Also, a certain text says, "Taking inference sentences to correspond with the remaining seven types of sixty-four sentences, combining to form 438 types of four sentences" - this is incorrect. It should say "448 types." Perhaps "卌" was mistakenly written as "卅."

Regarding "perception-contradiction etc. as explained in this treatise," [Marginal note: This matter should be included above "for the great example"] the various sentences of two-combinations [through] nine-combinations above do not necessarily attach to the methodology of the nine faults explained in this treatise, but discuss them generally. From here below, attaching to the methodology of establishing syllogisms for the nine faults explained in this treatise, discussing combination faults as appropriate. The meaning is easy to understand. Sometimes there are combinations, sometimes there are none. This can be known from the text.

Regarding "although violating others' teachings, making others' inferences are all not faults," the Myōtō Commentary says: As the treatise text states, regarding predicate not commonly accepted, it is like Buddha's disciples establishing "sound is destructible" against Sāṅkhya teachers. There are no other faults. Therefore it is only one predicate.

Already (question) violating others' teachings, how can there be no others'-teaching-contradiction? Although (answer) violating others' teachings, it is not a fault. Why (question) is there no inference-contradiction? The Sāṅkhya teacher says, "Sound is not destructible, because it is accepted as truth-included, like self-nature truth." This has no inference-contradiction. Explaining: making others' inferences is not a fault. Therefore there is no inference-contradiction [etc.]. Also, the Collected Records cite "non-others'-inference language all not fault therefore original." If following this text, the meaning is: others' inferences violating others are faults. However, the present syllogism is not others'-inference language. Therefore although violating others' teachings, it is not a fault [so to speak].

Regarding "both not commonly accepted only violates self one," now this word "self" refers to both-not-commonly-accepted, calling it self.

[Lower Section]

The meaning is that it does not extend to faults of others' perception, inference, etc. It is the fault of both-not-commonly-accepted self one [so to speak].

Regarding self-not-commonly-accepted, others-not-commonly-accepted, and either-one, it is not self-not-commonly-accepted. For example, as the text below says "mutual agreement only one, namely self mutual agreement." The word "self" refers to the present fault.

Thus many words are the rejection of various dharmas, etc. below

Regarding "However, the Yogācārabhūmi-śāstra [through] this distinguishes five faults," the Myōtō Commentary says: Among the four sentences of "what should be established" etc., this generally distinguishes five faults [examination: the text correction says "fault"], briefly using five meanings to establish the meaning of the thesis. First, should be established; second, self-accepted; third, declared willingly; fourth, facing opponent; fifth, opponent understands. Using these five meanings immediately blocks five faults. First, blocking already established; second, blocking others' acceptance; third, blocking no speech; fourth, blocking solitary speech; speech blocks opponent not understanding [etc.].

Regarding "or this lacks the establisher, etc.," the Myōtō Commentary says: The Abhidharma by Asaṅga establishes eight establishers. A thesis not yet understood immediately lacks the establisher of thesis-establishment [examination: probably lacks the character "establishment"]. This is also incorrect. Regarding the thesis being competed over, because the opponent has not yet understood.

Regarding "if following that text, the faults are more than this, combining the third and fourth or a portion of the fifth, etc.," the Myōtō Commentary says: The third is the no-opponent fault, the fourth is the no-speech fault, the fifth is not understanding. Because these are not included here, it says "the faults are more than this" [etc.]. Regarding the fifth portion, the Collected Records say: Kui says the fifth does not speak of making others understand, saying in this there is lacking the establisher. And hesitation, because these are not in this treatise, etc. [etc.].

Inconclusive, indefinite [through] these are called pseudo-reasons below