[Right Page]
406
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 7
58

[Upper Section]

Regarding these two meanings, determining victory and defeat. It is not that in all contradictory-definites, the later one is victorious. Some people are confused about this point, wondering whether in all contradictory-definites the later one should be considered victorious. Now, the Nyāyapraveśa fears this confusion, so in the concluding text it especially says "because these two are both hesitant reasons" [so to speak]. "Without self-other, without prior-posterior self-other, etc.": Regarding contradictory-definite, among self, other, and common, the two of self and other are essentially other-self in reality. That is, the violating [inference] of a self-inference contradictory-definite necessarily becomes the opponent's other-inference. The violating [inference] of an other-inference contradictory-definite necessarily becomes the opponent's self-inference. Both proponent and opponent necessarily assert one subject-predicate and dispute over these three factors, etc. To elaborate the meaning: If the proponent presents a self-inference saying "my such-and-such is," the opponent examines the contradictory-definite and says something like "your such-and-such is." Therefore, for the opponent it necessarily becomes an other-inference. If the proponent presents an other-inference saying "your such-and-such is," when the opponent examines the contradictory-definite, they necessarily say "my such-and-such is," so for the opponent it necessarily becomes a self-inference. Therefore, there is no case where both the violating and violated [inferences] of contradictory-definite are both self-inferences or both other-inferences. "Without self-other" means this. If both self and other were true establishment and refutation, if the proponent establishes a self-inference and the opponent also establishes a self-inference in response, or if the proponent establishes an other-inference and the opponent's response also establishes an other-inference, this would not be contradictory-definite. This would simply be mutually establishing self and mutually refuting other [so to speak]. The violating [inference] of common-inference contradictory-definite must necessarily be a common-inference. Therefore the two commons are paired.

"However, because thesis-contradicting reasons lack two reasons": Among reasons that contradict the thesis, there are both inferences where only the thesis's power contradicts the reason, and inferences where additionally the reason contradicts the thesis. Though single and complex differ, all are included in thesis-contradicting-reason

[Lower Section]

cases. All are inference-contradictions. However, in inferences where only the thesis contradicts the reason, there are not two reasons. That reason is simply one. Therefore this is single inference-contradiction. In those that additionally have reasons contradicting the thesis, there should be two reasons, so this is contradictory-definite and also inference-contradiction. Therefore inference-contradiction is broad, including contradictory-definite as well. Contradictory-definite is narrow and does not include single inference-contradictions.

"Though the two examples are common, if self-partial [through] included in indefinite faults": This explains that there are four non-establishments regarding common indefinites first. The remaining non-common, etc. all also have four non-establishments. "Fifty-four types [through] each already has four, etc." means this. Since these four non-establishments are carried by indefinites, they are all made by regarding reasons in relation to examples. Therefore it says "reason-doubt." It exemplifies "homologous example lacks substance, etc." "Homologous example lacks substance" means the homologous example lacks an example-basis, becoming basis-non-establishment.

[One character indent]
The manuscript says:
Copied and completed at the mi hour on the twentieth day of the seventh month of Jōkyū 2
For the equal benefit of self and other dharma-realms for right mindfulness at death and birth in the pure land.
[Two characters raised from bottom]
Monk Ryōhen
[End character raising]

[Left Page]
407
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 8
59

[Upper Section]

[One character indent]
First day of eighth month, Kenchō 6. Using that Dharma Seal's autograph draft, copying and collation
completed
Copying completed twelfth day of seventh month, first year of Kōan　　　Great Dharma Master Jōsan
Thirtieth day of intercalary fourth month, fourth year of Ryakuō, continued copying at East Discussion Hall completed. May this
merit be universally bestowed on sentient beings to eliminate sins, generate goodness, and be born together in the Pure Land　　　　　Son'gyō
[Four character indent]
Placed in Kasuga Hetuvidyā Hall　《Monogram》
[End character indent]
[Below is blank]
[Large characters at end]
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā, Volume 7 《End》

[Lower Section]
[Large characters at beginning]
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary of Hetuvidyā 《Beginning of Lower Volume》　《Placed in Kasuga Hetuvidyā Hall》

[Three character indent]
Four contradictions below 《Not read》
[Two character indent]
Probans-dharma non-establishment [through] like atoms below 《Generally following the main commentary to excerpt this. Not continuing further commentary.》
[End character indent]

"If based on the combination it also manifests, this is also a reason-fault, etc.": The Bright Lamp Commentary says: The combination of the homologous example says: "All non-obstructed things are seen to be permanent." Those who observe this fault based on this combination text find it is also a reason-fault. Taking mind and mental factors as reason-homologous dharmas. Since mind and mental factors are essentially impermanent, they return to enter the heterologous category. The non-obstruction reason operates upon them. That non-obstruction reason has "different existence, same non-existence." Therefore saying "reason-fault" means it is precisely the fault of dharma-svabhāva contradiction within reasons 《etc. so forth》. The method of this probans non-establishment is the method of both-categories one-part operating indefinite presented above (middle volume). Sound is permanent. Because of non-obstruction. The heard example is like space and atoms. The different example is like pots, etc. This is that method. But now, within homologous examples, raising atoms as one part to make the method of probans non-establishment. Therefore the Bright Lamp Commentary explains regarding this part, so even within heterologous examples, it also raises one part of mind and mental factors. 《Pleasure is a mental dharma.》 Opening contradictory reasons. In the text above (middle volume) of both-categories one-part operating indefinites there are contradictory reasons 《so forth》. Using one part within one part of each of the two examples to ornately explain and complete it. The present text also has this meaning.

[Two character indent]
Regarding "Probans-establishing dharma non-obstruction non-, etc." below
[End character indent]