[Right Page]
426
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary on Hetuvidyā, Volume 9
78

[Upper Section]

If it is not a doctrinal section, then surpassing what is clarified in the present commentary, it would be difficult to say "fully distinguished." Looking carefully at this text, it definitely points to the two-inference chapter [seen]. If so, then from "probans non-establishment" onward, is it generally Zizhou's composition? The Myōtō Commentary says: "Extensively explaining these two inferences, as distinguished in the Girin Chapter and Hōen Chapter Volume 2 [etc.]" In the intention of this commentary, is the original commentary from "probans non-establishment" onward still considered Cien's composition?

"There are those who rely on this text of only two inferences" - this is Master Bunki's teaching. "As fully described in the commentary" refers to that master's commentary. "There are faults" - the Myōtō Commentary says: "That is, Master Ki's commentary says: The previously established inference has the fault of contradictory reason. Namely, it is the fault of contradicting the dharma's own-characteristic, etc. [etc.]"

Also in the tradition it says "Non-theists [...] non-comparative established present possessed. Partially non-established inference [...] eliminating faults as before" - the marginal notes say: Zhou says: "This is an inference that Master Ken transmitted at Kitagawa. The master collected this inference [etc.]" Also says: Yup says: "Question: The decisive contradiction has the subject (Dignāga) still (contradicting) old. Why change it now? Answer: The non-theists' original inference correctly takes present-possessed inference and comparison-possessed inference as the subject. The rest of eliminating faults is not the correct subject. Even if different, there is no fault of violating reason. However, this contradictory inference, though the principle is acclaimed, is difficult to understand. Moreover, the subject already says 'not present,' while in the predicate it says 'this is present.' How could there be no self-contradictory language? Also says: Established (Dignāga's initial [contradictory] decision) comparison-possessed partially non-established inference refers to scattered mind relating to scriptural teaching and analogical inference, which are also included therein. Now if we establish that this inference is included in direct perception, later there will be the fault of partially contradicting the doctrine. If using the words 'partially' to eliminate analogical inference etc., then the reason has indeterminacy. Like direct perception, being unincluded in comparative inference yet included in inference

[Lower Section]

therefore, would partially concentrated mind's object of scriptural teaching be included in direct perception? Like scattered mind's object of ultimate (teaching?), being unincluded in established comparative inference yet included in inference, therefore would partially non-established inference not be included in direct perception? Since the thesis already says 'established comparison,' therefore one obtains using non-established comparison to make it indeterminate. Having these many faults, the circumstances are also difficult. The original inference already being called 'traditional establishment,' Dignāga's inference is also merely hearsay. Since there are no textual authorities to rely on, even having faults does not immediately become blame. This is just the commentary master narrating according to the words [etc. Above from marginal notes.]" According to these records, this present section is not the commentary master's own doctrine. It merely quotes and records traditional teachings. Must every single text necessarily be reliable?

Also regarding Dignāga's initial contradictory decision method, the present commentary base only says "non-present comparison-possessed partially non-established inference." According to Yup's record, should it say "non-present established comparison-possessed partially non-established inference"? Therefore the later contradictory decision has the word "established," and thinking about it, Master Yup's examined text might be superior. But the general meaning of this present section says: The inference says: "Comparison non-established present-possessed inference [...] not included in direct perception" - this is the non-theists' inference against Mahāyāna, establishing that outside direct perception there is scriptural inference. Because Mahāyāna includes scriptural teaching in direct perception [meaning].

Also "establishing apart from comparative inference [...] eliminating faults as before" - this is the non-theists' inference against Mahāyāna, establishing that outside comparative inference there are analogical, metaphorical and other inferences. Because Mahāyāna includes analogical inference etc. in comparative inference [meaning]. In the first section saying "non-comparative inference [...] therefore called possessed inference" explains the thesis's qualification. In the reason saying "established [...] not included in direct perception" explains the reason's qualification. Explaining the thesis's qualification

[Left Page]
427
Private Commentary on the Great Commentary on Hetuvidyā, Volume 9
79

[Upper Section]

within this, "because it is narrow-band explanation therefore called 'possessed inference'" - the marginal notes say: Zhou says: "Using the word 'possessed' to include scriptural teaching etc., naming it narrow-band [etc.]" In these two inferences established by non-theists now, the first inference correctly points to scriptural inference, calling it "present-possessed inference." Therefore this inference's correct subject is scriptural inference. The latter inference correctly points to analogical inference etc., calling it "comparison-possessed inference," therefore this inference's correct subject is analogical inference etc. Next, "Bodhisattva Dignāga etc. say" onward - the opponent Mahāyāna's Dignāga examines the fault of decisive contradiction for each of the previous two inferences. The meaning is easy to understand. Because it does not change the subjects of scriptural teaching and analogical inference, this is contradictory decision.

"The substance of these two characteristics [...] not the same as explained in the sūtras" etc. - inquiring: Regarding discussing the characteristics of two inferences, if like the two characteristics, following the two gates of hetuvidyā and inner teaching, are there differences? Or are the two gates entirely the same? If entirely the same, then clarifying the two characteristics here expresses the objects of the two inferences. If the two inferences are entirely the same as explained in the two teachings, then these object's two characteristics should not be explained according to the two teachings - why now say "not the same as the self-characteristics explained in sūtras" and say "also different □ from the universal characteristics in sūtras" [□ two places: symbols in base text] [examining [boxed] different □ probably substance-different] [□: symbol in base text]. If like the two characteristics of objects, should the two inferences of capable-cognition also be different in the two teachings, then in the hetuvidyā gate should one say "cognition relating to the former part is called direct perception, cognition relating to the latter part is called inference, cognition relating to verbal expression is called direct perception, cognition relating to mental intention is called inference" etc.? How so?

The重意 of present inquiry says: Are hetuvidyā's direct perception and inference the same as inner teaching's direct perception and inference? Or different? If the same, then the objects' self and universal should definitely be like the inner teaching gate - why now say different from what the sūtras explain

[Lower Section]

? If different, then how should the characteristics of hetuvidyā's direct perception and inference be called "cognition relating to the subject is called direct perception" etc. [meaning]? Answer: The direct perception and inference of the two teachings should not change in their characteristics. They are simply the same matter. But examining the present text there are two doctrines. A certain predecessor's transmission says: The present text clarifies the objects of the two inferences of direct perception and inference. Namely, relating to the subject becomes direct perception, relating to the predicate becomes inference. A certain doctrine says: The present text merely clarifies the objects of inference. Hetuvidyā's two characteristics of self and universal are generally their characteristics in inner teaching. The two characteristics of the dual-level objects have no difference in the two teachings. Hetuvidyā's casual two characteristics are not the same as inner teaching's two characteristics. Therefore above "relying on these two characteristics, establishing only two inferences" raises the two characteristics that are objects of the two inferences. Although the same as the two characteristics explained in sūtras, next "the substance of these two characteristics, now briefly clarifying them" immediately clarifies hetuvidyā's two characteristics of self and universal. Therefore it says not the same as explained in sūtras. [Among the present two doctrines, one should tentatively rely on the latter doctrine.] Generally, inner teaching's intention names beyond-language as self-characteristic, names speakable as universal characteristic. The mind of direct perception relates to the former; what inference obtains is the latter's scope. Within that speakable, using doctrine again establishes two characteristics. The matter is multi-layered. These two characteristics, according to reality, are all universal characteristics. Because they are all the scope of what the mind of inference obtains. Present hetuvidyā's own-nature and differentiation are the two characteristics within this speakable. The three-fold oppositions are all the scope of the speakable. Even saying "particular-universal" is within the speakable portion - being particular-attached to one's own substance, using doctrine to penetrate-through all dharmas, dividing substance and meaning. The remaining two oppositions can be understood accordingly. [Is it like this? Should be inquired.]

"There is an explanation of self-characteristics [...] this universal characteristic" - this is Bunki's explanation (his commentary 2). The meaning of this doctrine is that fire's heat characteristics etc. - naming the burning substance-characteristics of the portion that language cannot attain as self-characteristics, which the mind of direct perception obtains. That language's