【Right page】
They are mated from the fifth hour of morning until the eighth hour of noon, then separated. The males are discarded and the females are made to urinate, then placed on paper to lay eggs which become the seed. One moth lays approximately 240-250 eggs. 《Note: Incidentally, the use of male and female butterflies in Japanese wedding ceremonies may be to celebrate the extremely rapid reproduction and abundance of offspring. This should be inquired of learned scholars》
Males die after four to five days, and females die after staying two to three days. Also, weak silkworms find it difficult for the pupae inside cocoons to transform into moths, and after seven to eight days they transform into yellow adult insects about two bu in length and emerge from the cocoons. These are called 《Note: "uji" in the eastern provinces, "koro" in central provinces, and also "bou"》. Since moths emerge from these cocoons, they are difficult to use for silk thread and are made into silk floss.
Upon consideration, both foreign countries and Japan have very many types of silkworms, but nothing surpasses the white cocoon silkworms currently raised exclusively in society. Also, all grass and tree leaves have silkworms that eat the leaves and spin silk, but for clothing throughout the realm, nothing equals the silk of mulberry tree silkworms. Therefore, presently in society

【Left page】
the methods practiced vigorously are selected as the standard for sericulture, and other silkworms are altogether insufficient for use.

The Story of King Rin'i of Tenjiku
A certain book says: Long ago in Tenjiku (ancient China), there was a king called King Rin'i. His empress was called Lady Koukei. There was one princess called Princess Konjiki (Golden Princess). After the empress passed away, the king took a new consort. This consort was deeply jealous and hated the princess, slandering her to her father the king and having the princess abandoned at a place called Shishiku Mountain. However, perhaps due to heavenly protection, she prospered without harm and returned to the old central kingdom riding on a lion.
Therefore she was again abandoned at a place called Yougun Mountain. At this time, many hawks came and offered meat to nurture the princess. The king's retainers heard of this from afar and secretly served the princess, returning to the capital. The consort again hated the princess's return and had her exiled to an island called Kaigan Mountain. At this time, fishermen