【Right page】
Seeds from silkworms that ate mulberry from fertile soil are bellflower-colored and appear as if slightly frosted.
However, regardless of seed color, in any country, superior mulberry should be grown
in locations with good soil along waterways, made into cut mulberry or plucked mulberry, and the seeds taken from butterflies selected from superior cocoons of silkworms raised according to proper breeding methods should be considered the finest. The next grade of seeds has various names such as "bawaki-butsu," "kiri-dane" (cut seeds), or "goro-dane" (coarse seeds). Moths with poor characteristics are called "baku" because they resemble the color of barley rice. Moths of good quality are said to be like white rice. In all provinces, if one wishes to obtain superior cocoons, the first thing is to examine the quality of the seeds. There are large cocoons where two or three silkworms have spun together in one cocoon. When making thread from these, many knots form and the thread quality is very poor, so these should be removed and used for silk floss instead. Seeds taken from these large cocoons are distributed in great quantities from various provinces. People who obtain these seeds will find that the following year their silkworms are uneven, rarely produce superior crops, and many large cocoons are formed.

【Left page】
These are called "dora-dane" or "goro-dane" with various other names. For seeds, first priority should be given to those taken from silkworms that ate superior mulberry that year and produced superior crops - these should be known as the finest quality. If there is even a little negligence in breeding methods, or excess or insufficiency in mulberry feeding, or if the seeds are inherently poor, or if there are inauspicious events in that household, or if they encounter unusual cold or heat during the four dormancies, or if they pupate and make cocoons during stormy seasons - if even one of these obstacles occurs, those seed silkworms will definitely not be good. One should thoroughly investigate the source of seeds and seek superior ones. Foolish people do not understand this principle and many believe that the quality of silkworms depends on the year's conditions or their own luck. This is a great mistake. Not only silkworms but all living things follow this rule even more so - all plants and trees resemble their parents. For example, planting astringent persimmon seeds will not produce sweet persimmons. While some people may obtain reasonable silkworms even from poor seeds due to favorable yearly conditions, this is because even poor seeds produce reasonable crops in good years, so much more so would superior seeds produce exceptionally fine crops. However, seeds are extremely difficult to distinguish, and there are many oral traditions. The four dormancies, mulberry distribution, mulberry rationing - even small differences can result in great gains or losses.