【Right page】
It is said that there must be public mulberry groves and silkworm rooms. Essentially, sericulture in any country is mostly women's work, requiring no effort from men, and can be pursued with surplus energy from farming while still earning large sums of money. This truly serves as aid to farmers and should be the foremost means of enriching the nation. Even in foreign countries it is said, "Plant a five-mu residential plot with mulberry trees."

However, countries that have not yet implemented this practice have much wasteland where useless vegetation grows wild, becoming nothing but idle vacant land - is this not lamentable? Nevertheless, silkworm rearing involves many secrets in the feeding methods and is extremely difficult, so without knowing the oral traditions of cultivation, careless attempts will result in great losses. Moreover, those skilled in rearing methods gain profits year after year, and with that surplus energy acquire many rice paddies and fields, or open wasteland, becoming a hundred times wealthier. Even a single household can achieve this. How much more so if an entire village or district did likewise - wealth would overflow in all directions and the nation's prosperity would be like the gentle warmth of spring, truly an urgent matter for governing the realm and bringing peace to the people.

On the Method of Mulberry Grafting (Appendix: On Frost Affecting Mulberry)

【Left page】
The method of mulberry grafting is to identify poor mulberry trees the previous year and use them as rootstock. Around March, when buds begin to emerge, cut the tree two to three sun above the ground and graft branches with superior leaves. Above all, graft onto the side of the rootstock where the vital energy is good. The scion should also have front and back sides. Take care not to confuse these. Also, the very tips of trees are quite poor. The reason is that tree tops have pith in the center and are weak in nature. Graft at places where the branch vigor is strong. For scions, branches that faced east should be grafted facing east, and those that faced west should be

【Left page illustration】
Diagram of grafting