Humans have four limbs; heaven has heat and cold, and humans have cold and heat. Heaven has day and night, and humans have waking and sleeping. Heaven has five tones, and humans have five organs. Heaven has six pitches, and humans have six viscera. Heaven has ten celestial stems, and humans have ten fingers. Heaven has twelve zodiacal signs, and humans have ten toes and male genitalia. Women lack these latter two, which is why they can bear children. Since there are twelve months in a year, humans have twelve joints. Since there are 360 days in a year, humans have 360 bone joints.

Just as the earth's terrain takes shape, so does the human foot's form. Since the earth has twelve waterways, humans have twelve meridians. The earth has high mountains, and humans have shoulders and knees. The earth has spring veins, and humans have vital energy and blood. The earth has plants and trees, and humans have fine hair and muscles. The earth has sand and stones, and humans have bones and flesh.

Thus, there is nothing that exists between heaven and earth that is not present in humans. Even Mount Sumeru described in Buddhist scriptures is entirely contained within the individual body. The fact that Trayastrimsa Heaven exists at the peak of Mount Sumeru refers to the celestial bone at the crown of the human head. The circular trees of Sumeru are the hair growing on the round head. Indra is the forehead, and the Palace of Joyful Sight is the eyebrows—this refers to the opening of joyful brows. The Hall of Good Dharma is the Buddha-nature that all people possess.

The Four Heavenly Kings—Dhrtarastra, Virudhaka, Virupaksa, and Vaisravana—are said to dwell in the four directions of Mount Sumeru. First, Virupaksa (Wide-Eyes) represents both eyes. Vaisravana (Much-Hearing) is the ears. Virudhaka (Growth) is the nose. The mouth sustains the body's nation with all food, thus it is Dhrtarastra (Upholder of the Realm). The nine mountains of Sumeru are the nine parts: shoulder, elbow, chest, abdomen, genitals, knee, back, waist, and buttocks. The eight seas are the still waters of the eight consciousnesses in the chest. The four continents are the four limbs.

Moreover, beside Mount Sumeru, the north is said to be yellow, referring to the yellow-black color of night. The east is said to be white, referring to the whitening color of eastern dawn. The south is said to be blue, referring to the blue sky of bright daylight. The west is crimson, referring to the redness of the evening sun's shadow. This too represents one day and night of this world.

Mount Sumeru (Revival Mountain) is where the sun emerges from the eastern mountains, sets in the western mountains, and then revives again in the east. Humans too are born in the eastern yang, die in the western yin, and cycle back east to be revived. Reflecting on this, how precious it is! Humans must cultivate the Way of Heaven and follow the principles of Earth.

The ten celestial stems (jikkan) represent heaven. Kinoe (Wood Elder) is the elder brother of wood, positioned in the eastern spring and associated with benevolence among the five constants. Being the leader of the ten stems, it is also read as "hajime" (beginning). This is the beginning of spring and the start of wood and the world. Kinoto (Wood Younger) is the younger brother of wood, positioned in the eastern spring. This represents earth. Hinoe (Fire Elder) is the elder brother of fire, governing the southern summer and also associated with righteousness among the five constants.