Article 1: As a representative, tomorrow the 2nd day, there will be a meeting with Lord Matsudaira Oki-no-kami between Numazu and Mishima. At that time, move well to the left, do not disturb the procession, those in palanquins should dismount, and everyone down to the lowest ranks should remove their hats. However, the advance party, when in areas with houses, should dismount from palanquins and horses, remove their hats and pass through without performing full obeisance. Of course, strict orders must be given to ensure no obstruction to pack loads and other baggage. Even if there should be any obstruction and complaints are made, it has been decreed that such arguments should not be entertained, so this directive must be strictly observed by all. The above.
　　　　　April 1st　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　　　To all
　Additionally, in front of Numazu honjin as well, dismount from palanquins and horses and remove hats when passing. The above.

Article 1: Tomorrow the 4th day, there will be a meeting with Lord Owari Chūnagon on the road. At that time, move well to the left, do not disturb the procession, and everyone down to the lowest ranks should perform obeisance. Strict orders must be given to ensure pack loads and other baggage do not cause obstruction. Even if there should be any obstruction and complaints are made, it has been decreed that such arguments should not be entertained, so this directive must be strictly observed by all. The above.
　　　　　April 3rd　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　To all {{Note: The announcement issued at Hakone on March 29th, Kyōhō 18 (1733), year of the Ox, was also like this. Additionally, there were instructions to group supervisors}}

Article 1: Tomorrow the 1st day, there will be a meeting with Lord Owari Chūnagon on the road. As previously instructed, when encountering his retinue, move well to the left and strict orders must be given to all subordinates to avoid any rowdy or disrespectful behavior, however slight. Especially when he passes, it has been ordered to take a lower position, lower spears, and remain respectfully in place, so please understand this directive. The above.
　　　　March 29th　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　　To all
　Additionally, in front of the curtained area, dismount from horses, remove hats, and pass through. The above.

Article 1: From today the 29th, Lord Daizen-no-taifu will be staying at Ōgaki station. Therefore, the advance party should dismount from horses in front of his curtained area and remove hats when passing. If any members should come upon the rear of his palanquin on the road, they should hold back and pass, and when he rests anywhere away from the road, they should proceed ahead without discourtesy. These instructions must be strictly conveyed to all subordinates. The above.
　　　March 25th　　Inspector
　　　　To all
　　　　　Oral statement record
　Lord Yamato-no-kami is staying tonight at Narumi. Therefore, tomorrow the 26th, when our advance party passes through on urgent business...