If there should be a timing conflict with Lord Yamato-no-kami's departure, request permission from his retinue and proceed ahead according to their instructions. If it is before his departure, behave respectfully in front of his curtained area, and especially lower your equipment when passing. Also, if those proceeding ahead while off-duty should encounter Lord Yamato-no-kami, wait respectfully and pass from behind without discourtesy, then at the place where his palanquin departs, request permission from his retinue and proceed ahead according to their instructions. Exercise great care to avoid any discourtesy, and be sure to inform your respective retainers of these instructions as well. The above.
　　　　　March 25th　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　　　　　Oral statement record

Article 1: Tomorrow the 28th, in front of Arai checkpoint, the retinue should pass through removing their hats without discourtesy. These instructions should also be given to subordinate retainers.

Article 1: The floating equipment should proceed ahead in irregular formation and form up in procession in time for the rest at Hamamatsu. The above.
　　　　March 27th　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　　　　　Oral statement record

Tomorrow the 27th, for crossing the Ōi River and Abe River, river crossing permits will be distributed. Please prepare a written record of the number of men and horses, equipment bearers, and available personnel. The Ōi River permits will be distributed by one of the envoys, so someone should be sent to both locations to receive the river crossing permits shortly. The above.
　　　　March 26th

Additionally, regarding the advance party and advance baggage, they should depart from the current lodging after 7 o'clock tomorrow morning, proceed partway, and position themselves at the riverbank according to the instructions of the river allocation officials. The above.

【Correction mark】
Article 1: When crossing rivers during the journey, one person should go to the river crossing point to negotiate with the river officials for arrangements. Especially for the crossing of the retinue, arrangements should be made with instructions given through the foot inspectors, to be applied systematically.