Article 1: For the firefighting of the third district at both residences, two volumes, same as above.

Article 1: If there is a fire scene, the firefighting duty officers of the first and second units shall maintain firefighting records, same as above.

Article 1: When there is no fire watch duty, the official firefighting records, same as above. All of the above have personnel assignment placards.

Article 1: At the time of arrival in the capital, one vertical prohibition notice and five bound horizontal notices - these official proclamations shall be delivered to the foot inspectors and shown to the samurai.

[Left page]
Oral Statement Record for Return to the Domain

Article 1: For departure, from after 7:30 in the early morning hours, off-duty personnel shall depart by 6:00 the following morning.

Article 1: The advance equipment shall depart after 6:00 the following morning, from Tokiwabashi gate through Honcho-dori and Nihonbashi to the river.

Article 1: The retinue on duty - since the advance equipment departs after 6:00 the following morning, they shall gradually depart by after 6:30, proceeding from Tokiwabashi gate through the river route to Shinagawa, going ahead, and forming procession from outside the great gate, so this should be understood. The above.

The above oral statement record shall be prepared one or two days before departure from Edo, and after proper consideration, the senior retainers shall review and submit it.
　However, before issuing the above notification, two group administrators shall be sent to inspect the various route sections to examine whether there is any damage to roads and bridges, and thereafter submit a written report. If there are any damages or problems with the route, alternative roads shall be used after consulting about the route.

Recent precedent issued from Anei 5, Year of the Monkey　Correction mark

Article 1: At the time of departure, when the retinue assembly is ordered at Edo and the lord's decision to depart is received, one retinue inspector shall go to the vicinity of the long brazier room, place his sword at his side, observe the lead of the administrator and inspector, go outside from the main entrance, go to the side where spears, horses, tea, and lunch boxes are being dispatched, and from there take position at the retinue location.
　Moreover, in the home domain, he shall go to the vicinity of the firearms room, and the duty procedure shall be as in the previous article.