1. Regarding people coming from other places: those who have had regular access are exceptional, but for unknown individuals, proper notification must be given before they enter the residence grounds. Of course, even merchants and others who appear suspicious must be strictly forbidden from entering.

1. Since there are few people in the residence, when going out, one must consult with others before departing.

1. When the caretaker official goes out, he must report his destination to the granary magistrate before departing.

1. If someone falls ill outside the gate or has some circumstance that delays their return and the gate has been closed, they should hire a person at that location to go to the gate and explain the situation. The gatekeeper should then consult with the caretaker official and handle the matter according to instructions.

1. When going outside the residence, one must strictly avoid not only fights and arguments, but also any rude or rash behavior toward outsiders.

1. When going out on official business during the night, if carrying a lantern with the hollyhock crest, one must be even more cautious.

1. Visiting the pleasure quarters is strictly forbidden, needless to say. Moreover, since there are many pleasure districts throughout Osaka, one must never visit such places.

1. Singing noh in the front official quarters of the residence is acceptable, but kouta songs, joruri, koto, shamisen, tsuzumi drums, etc. should be avoided.
　　However, for entertaining guests from elsewhere, minor instances are acceptable. Of course, in the inner quarters there is no need for such restraint, but one should be mindful not to be imprudent.

1. Gambling is strictly forbidden. Furthermore, even activities resembling various forms of wagering are strictly prohibited. If anyone violates this, they will certainly be punished.

1. One must not call out to passersby from within the official quarters.

1. Regarding the area in front of the residence: the gatehouse must pay attention to ensure there are no oversights in all matters. Not only suspicious passersby, but also those without business must not be allowed to enter carelessly. Boats of passersby must not be moored at the waterfront in front of the residence.

The above regulations must be strictly observed.
　　　　Hōreki 9, year of the Earth Rabbit, 11th month　　　　　　　　The Inspectors