Memorandum

1. Regarding those who participate in retinue duty, if they use tabi due to injuries, this matter should be reported to the inspector the day before as previously instructed. However, going forward, the use of tabi is absolutely forbidden. When there are injuries, the retinue assignment should be changed.

1. When the roads are poor and straw sandals are generally worn, if someone wishes to use tabi under straw sandals due to injuries, this must be reported to the retinue head at each occasion and done according to instructions.

The above matters are newly proclaimed, so please understand accordingly. End.
　May　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　To All

Memorandum

1. At duty stations and other places, while waiting at entrance areas and elsewhere, proper etiquette should be maintained. Especially during castle attendance, this should be observed even in waiting areas. Generally, regarding retinue duties, inspectors accompanying the retinue are instructed to pay attention, so instructions must not be disobeyed.

The above is newly proclaimed, so it should be understood and observed in advance.
The above was communicated by Senior Retainer Ōdōji Magokurō.

　Meiwa 6th year
　　6th month of the Ox year

[Red notation: Compare with the mark on the second page before]

Memorandum

1. During retinue duty, nothing disorderly should occur. Not only with high-ranking officials, but in all encounters when greetings are exchanged, and in all other situations, nothing improper should occur, and this should be kept in mind.

1. Not only at dismounting areas, but anywhere else as well, seeking gifts of any kind is absolutely forbidden.

1. Tobacco shall not be consumed during retinue duty. Moreover, flint and tinder shall not be carried.
　However, if a tobacco tray is offered by the host, it may be used with proper decorum.

1. From samurai to all lower ranks in the retinue, conspicuous clothing shall not be worn.
　Note: Single-sword bearing attendants shall wear dark blue uncrested garments. Other clothing types are strictly prohibited. Moreover, silver sword guards are prohibited, and brass or copper guards that are conspicuous are also prohibited.

1. From samurai to all lower ranks and attendants, different types of hats may be worn without issue.
　However, conspicuous hats should be avoided.

[Red notation: [Symbol]]

1. Among the retinue, senior councilors, middle councilors, senior retainers, and personal attendants may wear tabi without issue. Other samurai
[Red notation: 1. Tabi are prohibited for retinue members. However, personal attendants in formal dress and those with injuries may use tabi after reporting to the retinue inspector. Lower-ranking personnel and attendants are absolutely forbidden from using tabi.]