1. Kyōhō 12, Year of the Sheep (1727), October 5th: The express messenger from the 25th of last month arrived with an official letter stating that fire guard duty at Asakusa granary has been ordered. When departing on horseback, bear throwing scabbards and paired equipment at the front, carry the large feather spear in front of the horse, carry the umbrella, take the portable box and sandals, carry three items behind, and lead one spare horse. This has been ordered. Also, the foot soldier inspectors of the first and second units and their subordinates have been wearing tabi boots while serving as advance fire brigade personnel and Ueno fire brigade, but this is now discontinued. As in the time of Lord Tangenji, they shall wear leggings. When foot soldier inspectors, water patrol foot soldiers, and equipment supervisory foot soldiers go for emergency duties at the site, they shall wear tabi boots. If personnel rush to gather due to a fire outbreak at that time, they may continue serving in tabi boots without problem.

1. Same 16th year, Year of the Boar (1731), June 23rd: Inspector Ōoka Ukon informed the caretaker that a written list of personnel deployed for firefighting from our domain should be submitted. After consultation between magistrates and inspectors, the document was prepared and submitted to the senior councilors and reported to the lord. It was submitted to the inspectors on the 24th. Although this document differs from the firefighting register format, since there are personnel quotas previously ordered by the government, it was carefully prepared to comply with those regulations. The total personnel follows the firefighting register.

Matsudaira Hyōbu-dayū
1. Horse banner: black large feathers; one standard: as shown in the picture; one horse standard: same; one water standard: same; one black leather jacket with family crest and concentric circles (for musketeers and archers among foot soldiers)
1. Brown leather jacket with family crest and concentric circles (for lead musketeers and lead archers among foot soldiers); one cotton navy jacket with white stripes at the waist (for servants)

Record of personnel accompanying Matsudaira Hyōbu-dayū during fires:
1. Mounted: 19 riders with 253 attendants; 120 foot soldiers (for firefighting preparation); 300 servants (same)
1. Lanterns: 170 pieces (including household lanterns); 70 people (including attendant foot soldiers, horse guards, pages, and servants); 15 foot soldiers (for firefighting duties and assignments)
1. 182 people (including mounted retainers, foot soldier leaders, and their retainers) Total: 1,129 people

1. Same 18th year, Year of the Ox (1733), April 25th: Regarding the current fire guard duty, it was ordered that patrol foot soldiers and foot soldier inspectors should not wear tabi boots, and therefore no tabi boot allowance will be provided.

1. Kanpō 1, Year of the Rooster (1741), May [day unclear] record: When there was a fire near Tōeisan, town firefighters were ordered to enter the temple grounds, leading to various negotiations recorded in Edo.

1. Enkyō 4, Year of the Rabbit (1747), April: When ordered to serve Ueno fire duty, regarding horse banners, by special preference the large feathers were discontinued, and a gold chikiri (a type of ornament) eboshi-tataki of about 3 feet 5-6 inches became the banner. Also regarding horse banner lanterns, red lanterns of 3 feet 7 inches were made with attachments to be carried. Long spears were also approved to be carried when departing on horseback. Previously throwing scabbards were used, but this time special preference was ordered.

Official Letter Fire Brigade - Regulations
Official Regulations

1. When fire prevention is ordered by official letter during fires, immediate departure on horseback will occur, so all attendants should understand this in advance and refrain from going out during windy weather.
   Note: Retainers should also understand not to go outside the gates during windy weather.

1. Regarding defense locations, follow the caretakers' instructions, with advance standards and advance fire brigade proceeding in order.

1. At the site, needless to say regarding government officials, but also when encountering other daimyo, move to one side of the road and do not behave presumptuously. Firmly instruct this to all subordinates.
When the Tokugawa branch families, senior councilors, or related lords pass by, mounted personnel need not dismount but may pass with respectful bows.

1. Picking up anything at fire sites is prohibited by government law, so instruct firmly that all ranks from high to low must carefully abstain from this.

1. When there are fires during windy weather and personnel assemble, gongs will be struck throughout the estate, so all attendants should quickly gather in front of the main entrance. Mounted personnel should bring their men and proceed to under the notice boards. Fire equipment should be quickly brought out under the notice boards in stages. Advance