if so, make way for them to pass through the personnel. All personnel should understand the above points and strictly communicate them to group supervisors and retainers. The above.
　　　　Month　　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　To All

[Left Page]
Article 1: When a fire breaks out, if the fire watchtower guard reports to the ashigaru inspector, immediately ascend the fire watchtower to conduct an inspection, consult with the steward, and order the dispatch of response personnel and express messengers.

Article 1: On the 11th day of the 11th month of Genbun 4 (1739), year of the Sheep, a messenger arrived with the following report:
"Hiraoka Kinzaemon, who patrols the three-block area, reported that in case of a sudden fire after his rounds, being advanced in years, if he had to rush back on foot, it would interfere with his duties. Therefore, he requested to use the domain's loaned horse stationed in the three-block area for his rounds. This was reported to the senior councilors and presented to the lord. Since Kinzaemon is advanced in years, his request was deemed reasonable, and permission was granted to loan him a horse. However, since there is no precedent, it cannot be granted to everyone. Only Kinzaemon alone is granted this privilege by special order, and this was communicated to him."

Article 1: Messenger arrived on the 8th day of the 5th month of Enkyō 4 (1747), year of the Rabbit:
"On the 1st of this month, remaining in residence was ordered. Regarding the fire at the Second Citadel on the 16th of last month, although it was just a beginning response, you promptly came to inquire about [the lord's] well-being and dispatched personnel. This reached the lord's attention, and he is pleased. This message from above was conveyed by Lord Honda Hōki-no-kami, expressing extreme gratitude."

Article 1: Same matter, confidential correspondence:
"Recently, the ashigaru inspectors, through Ato-be Matahachi, reported: 'We have petitioned our colleague officials for years regarding our fire-fighting loaned jackets. Wearing them during extremely hot weather while working is extremely difficult, and moreover, the clothing gets severely damaged, causing great hardship for us minor officials. We humbly request consideration to allow us to wear our own jackets instead.' After thorough deliberation, as previously discussed, this matter cannot be handled immediately. However, there are no particular obstacles from the administrative perspective, and furthermore, if all minor officials and kitchen staff wear the same jackets as the ashigaru inspectors, it would serve as identification markers. Moreover, this is not limited to ashigaru inspectors alone - ashigaru squad leaders and regular ashigaru have identifying marks on their loaned armor. Since ashigaru inspectors lack such items and no established house identification has been heard of, this matter was reported to the stewards, along with the internal and external difficulties. If identification marks are absolutely necessary, permission was requested to have custom markers made. This quickly reached [the lord's] ears, and upon consideration, as petitioned, permission was granted to attach small identification marks and wear personal jackets at discretion. This was communicated to the ashigaru inspectors. The same instructions were to be given to the ashigaru inspectors here, so this has been communicated."