Palace

1. Among the officials, from New Year's Day to the 7th day they wear noshime, and from the 8th to the 15th day they wear casual hemp kamishimo.
   However, in recent years, from the 8th day they wear casual tsugi-kamishimo, and on the 15th and 28th days they wear noshime. On the 11th day when receiving the armored rice cake, they wear noshime. On the 17th day during the Great Praj침캐p캐ramit캐 prayer service, they wear fukusa hemp kamishimo.

2. When there are considerable earthquakes or thunder, they immediately report to the lord's antechamber.
   However, currently they go to the secretary's room and make inquiries about the lord's well-being through the chamberlain.

3. When there are guests with definite appointments, guards are posted on the back road to the formal reception hall, and peddlers are instructed not to call out loudly. They also issue announcements to the residential quarters in that area not to make loud voices.

4. On the 28th day of the 12th month, at the mansion they wear noshime hemp kamishimo all day from morning, and at the evening hour of 7 (around 4 PM) they go to the secretary's room to offer year-end congratulations.

5. On the 2nd day of the New Year, New Year's greetings are received from all the retainers of the household. However, in recent years this has been moved to the 2nd day. In the spring of Meiwa 7 (1770), the young lord was also granted an audience after the ceremony, and minor officials of unified rank were granted their first audience.
   However, currently both lords appear together to receive New Year's greetings.

6. Regarding the guard post, in the past they made rounds during the lord's absence, but now they do not make rounds.

7. When the lord comes to the palace, they are supposed to go around to the lord's sitting room and antechamber, but now they do not make rounds.

8. For the celebration of the Boar Day and Setsubun, rice cakes, soybeans, and long abalone are personally bestowed by hand in the sitting room. On that occasion, the duties...