those who exceed their station and demand high salaries, or those who feign illness and show unreasonable attitudes toward their masters, when such individuals exist, their circumstances should be carefully considered and promptly reported to the inspectors. Investigation will be conducted and strict orders will be issued.

1. Even when someone has been granted leave through direct consultation with their master, if they claim to have connections within the retainer band and in any [unclear text] circumstances, they should not be carelessly presented. However, if it passes the 10th of next month, a written record of excess personnel should be submitted to the accounting office.

1. As has been established by standing orders, when townspeople and rural residents go to other provinces, they are supposed to report to their supervisory authorities before departing. However, remaining carelessly here (in Edo) is not permitted, so if there are those who wish to remain in this locality, they should first return to their home domain, report to their supervisory authorities, and then depart thereafter. Each person should understand this intent and strictly communicate it to their subordinates. The above.

January 11th　　　　　　　　　　Inspectors
　　To all

In this locality, regarding public stipends from our domain as well as other territories, and needless to say regarding people from other provinces, when those from our domain territory serve elsewhere, acting as intermediaries or guarantors is forbidden. Except for parents, children, and siblings, no matter what unavoidable family connections exist, when gaining employment elsewhere, not only acting as guarantors but also serving as references is forbidden. Therefore, if there are those who have naturally been acting as guarantors while residing in other residences until now, they should inform the person in question, notify the guarantor of this matter, and retrieve the guarantee documents, and this should be communicated to each person's servants.

If even parents, children, and siblings act as guarantors, they should be ordered to strictly inform their master or supervisor at that time. The above matter is repeatedly announced, but since this is the season of personnel changes, it is being ordered once again. The above.

January 11th　　　　　　　　　Inspectors

[Horizontal fold]

Regarding retainers of the house and employed retainers of the domain who have illness or pain and should be returned to the domain, but since they have relatives among the townspeople of this locality, they move to stay with those relatives and will be returned to the domain upon recovery - when such reports are made during personnel changes or at irregular times, and the matter is reported to the domain supervisory heads, there are some who do not return, and there are also cases where the names and origins of domain residents become confusing. Although there should naturally be investigation by masters, since recent claims by subordinates have become excessive, henceforth matters of returning people to the domain should be handled as before. When reporting the desire to send those with illness or pain to relatives in this locality for medical treatment, detailed information about the nature of the illness and treatment should also be provided. If confusing matters are heard, investigation will be conducted, so this matter should be [unclear text] communicated to retainers in advance.

Moreover, when they recover and return to the domain, this should be reported again. Furthermore, regarding the matter of coming to this locality for adoption [unclear text], previously this required returning to the domain to make the request, but in recent years if the request is made here in Edo [continues]