1. On the 4th day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 18 (1733), Year of the Ox, at Edo, Inspector (metsuke) Atsumi Shinuemon was summoned and received the following directive: It has come to His Lordship's attention that there are various complaints about the poor quality of the horses lent to samurai messengers when they go on official business. When His Lordship personally rode these same horses at the riding grounds, he found nothing particularly wrong with them. Furthermore, when the stable masters were ordered to test whether the horses might misbehave outside the gates, they reported no problems. Since it is not a matter of the retainers' lack of training or care in horsemanship, His Lordship questioned why they would speak ill of the horses. He ordered that this matter be discussed with the samurai at the first opportunity. However, Shinuemon suggested that rather than speaking to them casually, it would be better to summon the senior retainers Takasaka Buuemon and Nara Sakoemon to the residence to discuss this matter formally. His Lordship agreed, ordering that they be spoken to, though not too severely. He also instructed that since misunderstandings might arise, His Lordship's intentions should be clearly conveyed. Shinuemon acknowledged these orders, reported to the senior councilors and chamberlains, and then spoke with Buuemon and Sakoemon, who responded respectfully.
Note: This information was received by express messenger on the 6th day and is recorded in the Domain Affairs Record for the 15th day of the 12th month.

Prohibited Areas
1. Regarding Yoshiwara inspections: Two foot inspectors (o-kachi metsuke) are sent once monthly. Although the number of stationed personnel has been reduced, two should still be sent when possible. When this is not feasible, one foot inspector should be sent with an assistant (kumi-yōnin). Group members patrol daily in pairs. Sakai-chō and Kobiki-chō are also patrolled daily by group members.

1. When samurai visit areas around Shinagawa or the gravel pits, they must report to the inspectors. This applies even for official business.
Note: In recent years, no notification has been required for proxy worship at Tenryū-ji, Shōbō-ji, and similar temples.

1. For those assigned to Yoshiwara, Sakai-chō, and Kobiki-chō rest stations: Money (chōmoku) is distributed twice yearly - before the Bon festival and at year-end. This is handled by group supervisors who are responsible for this arrangement.