The number of injured is enormous, and the situation is truly lamentable, beyond all words. In light of this, it is made known that not only will immediate relief measures be provided, but long-term continued support will also be extended with great compassion. Each person is to understand this benevolent intention with gratitude, harbor no misunderstanding, remain at ease, and strive forward in whatever way they can. Should there be villages where immediate relief measures have not reached, they are to come forward and petition. Should village officials be negligent, and should some among those in hardship happen to scatter and disperse, this would be most regrettable. Likewise, those suffering hardship must not, on account of their village officials' negligence, simply endure even the most dire of circumstances without making their situation known, nor must they scatter about carelessly — such conduct would be inexcusable. Should any person act in such a manner, they shall be severely reprimanded. As for villages that suffered comparatively lighter disaster, and

among the people, those who, recognizing that they possess even a modest degree of means, have made offerings to the relief fund, or who have exerted themselves to share resources, lend assistance, and provide charity — such actions have been heard of and are most admirable. Rewards shall be bestowed upon them in due course. Furthermore, should each person continue to strive and offer compassionate assistance henceforth, it would be all the more praiseworthy. Village officials are to take note of this and submit in writing the names and circumstances of those who have performed such admirable deeds. Moreover, given the large number of villages involved, should there be anyone overlooked by the relief efforts, this would run contrary to the intent of the authorities. Village officials are therefore to be thoroughly mindful of this, handle matters with ever greater care and kindness, and ensure that word reaches every last person, down to the smallest and most humble, without exception.

　　　　Eighteenth Day of the Fourth Month