……This Week's Program……
The Cuckoo　Kamata Super Special Production Modern Film
Film adaptation of Master Tokutomi Roka's lifetime masterpiece
Hayashi Chojiro's second venture into modern drama
Original author…………………Tokutomi Roka
Screenplay adapter……………Kitamura Komatsu
Script polisher………………Noda Kogo
Director………………………Gosho Heinosuke
Camera………………………Ohara Joji
Kawashima Takeo……………Hayashi Chojiro
Wife Namiko…………………Kawasaki Hiroko
Kawashima Widow……………Katsuragi Fumiko
Mrs. Shigeko…………………Kawada Yoshiko
Komako………………………Mitsukawa Kyoko
O-Toyo………………………Aisoi Yumeko
O-Iku (nanny)………………Iida Choko
Chijiiwa Yasuhiko……………Takeuchi Ryoichi

△Synopsis▽　Two young lives who can do nothing about their fate bound by the social obligations of this world and shed tears - they were like the fragile lives resembling the voice of a cuckoo that continues to cry as if spitting blood in the dawn sky. When their feelings were fulfilled, Takeo and Namiko entered a happy married life, but there were two people who did not welcome their marriage. One was Chijiiwa who was in love with Namiko, and the other was O-Toyo, daughter of Yamaki, a merchant who did business with the Kawashima family. The two who tasted the bitter cup of unrequited love cast a dark shadow over Takeo and Namiko and schemed against them. However, for the two who loved each other, such things meant nothing, but Namiko's health deteriorated from what started as a mere cold, gradually worsening until she coughed up blood. Encouraging and giving courage to the weakening Namiko, Takeo returned to his ship for military exercises that would soon begin, but Namiko had her second bout of hemoptysis. Chijiiwa, taking Namiko's illness as an opportunity, gave evil advice to Takeo's mother. Takeo's mother, who had never thought kindly of Namiko for various reasons, feared Namiko's illness and, without Takeo's knowledge, sent Yamaki as a messenger to the Kataoka family to request a divorce. One day, when Namiko returned home after being called by her father, she saw her wedding trousseau piled up in the entrance hall and for the first time learned that she had been divorced, and lamented.

Having no way of knowing about Namiko's divorce, Takeo learned of it for the first time when he returned home, and was shocked and enraged. He attacked his mother, and saying he would never return again, the next day he joined the northern sea patrol fleet and went on long sea duty. However, Namiko's second bout of hemoptysis two weeks after Takeo's departure greatly agitated her mother-in-law's heart. The mother resolutely visited Mrs. Kato, who had acted as their matchmaker. Mrs. Kato was the sister of General Kataoka's first wife. Between Namiko's long eyelashes shone clear, pure teardrops like dew. Under those eyelids that would eventually close forever, longing for her beloved husband Takeo far away in the Aleutian seas, whom she had to part from against her will, Namiko quietly approached death.

"Evening Calm Chronicles"
Shochiku Cinema Kyoto Shimogamo All-Talkie Film
Dobashi-style Shochiku Phone All-Talkie
Original story, screenplay, direction……Otsuka Minoru
Camera………………………Tsuburaya Shigeichi
Sound recording………………Dobashi Haruo
…………………………………Dobashi Takeo
Musical accompaniment………Shochiku Orchestra

・・Cast・・
Minoya proprietress O-Teru……Chikuma Satoko
〃 House geisha Tsutakichi……Yanagi Sakuko
〃 Kiyoji…………………………Kitahara Tsuyuko
〃 Hangyoku (apprentice geisha)…Hirobashi Teruko
Tsutakichi's brother Kinshichi……Takiguchi Shintaro
Kikyoya Tsuruji……………………Iizuka Toshiko
Box carrier Matsugoro………………Koizumi Kasuke
Edotsuya master Jiro………………Homa Soroku
Thief Yagura no Goshigoro…………Onoe Eigoro
Police informant……………………Nakamura Kitsumatsu

△Synopsis△　When Tsutakichi of the Minoya house cut off her little finger as a pledge of love suicide for her regular customer, young master Shojiro of Edotsuya, she displeased the proprietress O-Teru of Minoya and was forced to write a letter to Shojiro saying she would never meet him again. The next day, on her way back from visiting her seriously ill mother, Tsutakichi, together with a thief called Yagura no Goshigoro, rescued a young girl who was about to throw herself into the canal in Monzen-machi - a servant of sister Tsuruji who worked at Kikyoya in Monzen-machi. But Goshigoro said he was leaving Edo and entrusted the girl called O-Kiku to Tsutakichi before disappearing. Tsutakichi took O-Kiku with her to visit Tsuruji and humbly asked her to take the girl in, but Tsuruji's words were so arrogant and rude that the enraged Tsutakichi raised her razor.

Tsutakichi was arrested. Just then her brother Kinshichi came to tell her of their mother's critical condition. Thanks to the officials' mercy, she barely made it to her mother's deathbed and was sent to prison. When Tsutakichi emerged after serving an unexpectedly light sentence thanks to the efforts of her landlord and local headman, O-Teru showed warm sympathy and asked whether she would work at Minoya again or leave the profession. With her heart torn in pieces, on her way home Tsutakichi was called by Tsuruji in front of Kikyoya. Shojiro was there. In Tsuruji's bitter revenge, Tsutakichi again raised her razor, then thrust it into her own throat and died.

Now setting full sail and magnificently cutting through the currents, the colorful array of masterpiece films
Carrying the interests of passion, sorrow, great laughter, and magnificence in the coming year-end film battle
Which actor should be considered the star?…………Look forward to it!!
◆Magnificent Shochiku East-West Masterpieces Coming Soon to Mark the Year's End◆

"White Night Dawn"
Kamata Super Special Literary Film
Novel serialized in "King" magazine
Original work………Kume Masao
Director………Shimizu Hiroshi
◇Cast◇◇
Oikawa Michiko・Kawada Yoshiko
Fujii Mitsugu・Egawa Ureo
Aisoi Yumeko・Inoue Yukiko
A masterpiece written and published in King magazine as a concentrated literary work by Mr. Kume Masao, who is celebrated for his great reputation as a champion of Japan's literary world and as a poet
The cast features newcomer Fujii Mitsugu with all-stars Oikawa Michiko and Kawada Yoshiko

"Young Men of the Land"
Kamata Super Special Youth Sports Drama
Kamata's first rugby film
Original work………Aramaki Yoshiro
Director………Shigemune Tsutomu
◇Cast◇
Yakumo Emiko・Obinata Den
Mizukubo Sumiko・Yuki Ichiro
Ueyama Kusato・Kawamura Kibikichi
The top rugby film completed with the spirit of triumphant return by the revived director Shigemune, a thrilling and magnificent youth-praising great rugby film………Featuring newcomer Obinata Den along with Yakumo Emiko and Mizukubo Sumiko, with special appearance by Ueyama Kusato

"Where Are the Dreams of Youth Now"
Kamata Representative Special Youth Hymn
Original screenplay…Noda Kogo
Director………Ozu Yasujiro
Camera………Mohara Hideo
◇Cast◇◇
Tanaka Kinuyo・Egawa Ureo
Date Satoko・Saito Tatsuo
Iida Choko・Oyama Kenji
Episodes of cheerful young people created by Kamata's renowned talent, director Ozu Yasujiro, who has an established reputation as a psychological director, gathering Kamata's new stars
The cast features big names Tanaka Kinuyo, Date Satoko, and Egawa Ureo

"Good-for-Nothing and Marriage Proposal"
Kamata Special Good-for-Nothing Film
Original screenplay…Yanai Takao
Director………Nomura Hiromasa
Camera………Takahashi Yokichi
◇Cast◇◇
Isono Akio・Aisoi Yumeko
Mitsui Hideo・Wakamizu Teruko
Abe Shojiro・Mitsukawa Kyoko
Following the Good-for-Nothing Trio's previous works "Young Lady and Good-for-Nothing," "First Love and Good-for-Nothing," and "War and Good-for-Nothing," director Nomura Hiromasa once again teams up with renowned scenario writer Yanai Takao in a good combination to create a distinctive Good-for-Nothing film for Kamata Cinema