【Right Page】

…bathing (the horses) in hot water, and completing the meals of both men and horses while daylight remains. Furthermore, when the enemy advances to meet you, it is of paramount importance to quickly establish and strengthen your formations, and if the enemy's battle flags appear in disorder, to see through their weakness and strike. If one dallies until nightfall, the men will become especially exhausted, and many ill consequences will follow.

《Section Three》 On the Three Kinds of Waist Rations (Koshi-hyōrō)

▲ There are three kinds: the rations of the public authority (kōgi), the rations of one's lord (shujin), and one's personal rations (watakushi).
The public authority's rations consist of one shō of white rice placed in a feed bag (uchigai), and are carried by all troops. The lord's rations are also a daily midday meal distributed from the public authority each day. The personal rations are distributed by one's lord to each retainer

【Left Page】

as each day's midday meal. These are to be eaten by the troops as their fatigue requires. The lord's rations are not to be consumed carelessly; they are to be given out when the troops are half a ri (approximately 2 km) from reaching the encampment. This is done so that, at the very moment of taking up positions, the men are invigorated by the meal and perform their duties well. For mounted warriors as well, one shō of white rice and one shō of soybeans each are distributed by the public authority. These are placed in a feed bag and attached to the rear bow (ato-wa) of the saddle. The aforementioned public authority rations serve as a precaution against one's own provisions running out. One should be mindful of this at all times and in all places.

《Section Four》 On the Three Signals of the Conch Shell (Fure-kai)

▲ At the first conch signal: at the eighth hour of the night (approximately 2 a.m.), eat your meal. At the second conch signal: at the seventh hour of the night (approximately 4 a.m.), prepare yourself…