【Left folio】

Item: Kyōhō 13th year, the Year of the Monkey (1728)

○ I hereby communicate the following by letter. In light of the recently issued order for simplification of ceremonial practices, the sending of written correspondence to Edo regarding New Year greetings, summer and winter seasonal inquiries after one's lord's health, congratulatory ceremonies, and personal expressions of gratitude shall henceforth be discontinued. Furthermore, formal letters (hōsho) shall also not be submitted. From this point forward, on such occasions, all concerned parties are to present themselves at the Nanatsu-gura guardhouse between the hours of 4 o'clock and before 8 o'clock in the morning, where they shall present themselves to the duty colleagues (tōban nakama) and make their greetings. This has been communicated in advance as directed. The above is hereby communicated.

　　　　　　13th day of the 6th month

Addendum: Regarding the summer and winter seasonal inquiries after one's lord's health, parties are to come and pay their respects after receiving word from Edo. The above is hereby noted.

　　　　　　To: Tsuchiya Jūrōemon　　　From: Utsunomiya Kageyu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Suganuma Ichizaemon

　　Note: As official business has been handled at the Nanatsu-gura guardhouse from the 16th of the same month, a record exists of Kageyu's explanation/notification thereof.
　　　　　　〆 [End]

○ I hereby communicate the following by letter. Regarding the current simplification of ceremonial practices, the sending of written correspondence to Edo for New Year greetings, summer and winter seasonal inquiries after one's lord's health, congratulatory ceremonies, and personal expressions of gratitude shall be discontinued, and it has been communicated that henceforth on such occasions all are to present themselves at the Nanatsu-gura guardhouse. However, as doing so in that manner has given rise to other complications and inconveniences, from this point forward a fixed schedule of dates shall be established, and colleagues (nakama) are to present themselves accordingly. Therefore, regarding future arrangements, please take note of the details as written in the attached document. The above is hereby communicated.