【Right folio】

　　　　6th day of the 7th month　　To: Masugi Shozaemon　　From: Hohokabe Hachizaemon

　　　　　　　Memorandum

Item — New Year: Within the two days of the 1st and 2nd day of the New Year, all concerned parties are to present themselves at the Nanatsu-gura guardhouse, be received by the duty Sōjaban (Announcer-Chamberlain), and offer their New Year's congratulations.

Item — Summer heat greeting: Within five days of the start of the midsummer season (doyō), parties are to present themselves at the Nanatsu-gura guardhouse and pay their respects. Within the said period of days, any days that fall on days of Buddhist abstinence (shonjin-bi) are to be excluded.

Item — Midwinter cold greeting: Same as the above, within five days of the start of the coldest season (kan).

Item — On occasions of celebratory events (gokan-ji), a notice shall be circulated by the senior councillors (karō), and within two days, the same procedure as above shall be followed.
　　All of the above shall be conducted between the hours of 5 o'clock and before 8 o'clock in the morning.

Item — Personal expressions of gratitude (jibun go-rei) shall be made by calling upon the residence of the month-duty Sōjaban and presenting one's greetings there.
　　Note: As the said officer may be away from home on business and such things are difficult to predict, one should inquire in advance as to whether he will be at home.

　　　　　　6th day of the 7th month

---

【Left folio】

Item — Kyōhō 14th year, the Year of the Rooster (1729):

○ Regarding the offering of congratulations for the Five Seasonal Festivals (gosekku) to Lady Hatsuhime, and other celebratory occasions, parties have heretofore gone to the residence of the presiding senior councillor (tsuki-ban karō) to present their congratulations. However, from this point forward, they are to present themselves at the Nanatsu-gura to offer their congratulations. A member of our staff will be stationed there at all times. The foregoing has been communicated accordingly. The above is hereby noted.

　　　　　　1st day of the 3rd month　　To: Ōtani Gizaemon　　From: Isono Tamiya

Item — Kyōhō 15th year, the Year of the Dog (1730):

○ Regarding both Edo and Kyoto, regardless of the occasion, parties are henceforth to send written congratulatory correspondence to the ladies-in-waiting (ojo-chū) via a messenger (otsuké), as has been done previously. Although until now parties have been presenting themselves in person at the Nanatsu-gura guardhouse, that practice shall be discontinued. Please take note accordingly. The above is hereby communicated.

　　　　　　3rd day of the 4th month　　To: Kaifuku Seizaemon　　From: Shibuya Yazei

Addendum: As the lord (tono-sama) is making his arrival in the domain (go-nyūbu), the matter of offering congratulations on that occasion shall also be handled in the same manner as stated above. Please take note accordingly. The above is hereby noted.

---

　　　　　　　The order of monthly attendance (tsukiji-shūshi) other than New Year and the Five Seasonal Festivals