【Right folio】

Item — Kanpō 3rd year, Year of the Boar (1743):

　　《Marginal note (split text): Item — On the 10th day of the 1st month, Amagata Kazuma reported the following: although the Setsubun celebration was to be held this evening, as a measure of frugality, the receipt of ceremonial soybeans (offered as a Setsubun gift) is to be discontinued for five years beginning this year. Furthermore, whereas the memorial service (御日■) for Jufuku-in had customarily been held at the Main Keep (Honmaru), from this year it is to be conducted at the Stables (Umaya). Accordingly, there will be no guard duty at the Main Keep. Upon being informed of this, the duty colleagues on night duty did not report in for their overnight watch, and this was communicated to Sakai Genba.》

　　　　　Memorandum

　Item: The celebratory greeting (o-yorokobi) presented upon the lord's arrival in Edo (go-sanpu) shall be offered on the day following the notice issued by the Senior Councillors (go-karō-chū).
　Item: The greeting for extreme summer heat shall be offered on the day following the commencement of the Dogū (the hottest period of summer).
　Item: Regarding the greeting to be presented upon the receipt of larks and geese from the lord's falconry — the date for this shall be announced by notice.
　Item: The greeting for extreme winter cold shall be offered on the day following the commencement of the Kan (the coldest period of winter).
　Item: The New Year greeting shall be offered on the 2nd day of the 1st month.
　Item: The celebratory greeting presented upon the lord's return from Edo (go-itoma) shall be offered on the day following the notice issued by the Senior Councillors.

　Regarding any celebratory greeting other than those listed above that may need to be conveyed by letter, the date for such submission shall be announced by notice at that time.
　　However, if the prescribed date falls on a day of ritual abstinence (go-shōjin-bi) — namely the 4th, 10th, 26th, or 27th of the month — attendance shall be made on the following day. Attendance may be made at any time between the Hour of Five (approx. 8 a.m.) and the Hour of Nine (approx. noon), according to one's convenience. Furthermore, any person unable to attend due to circumstances beyond their control shall have the matter communicated on their behalf by a fellow officer or by someone with whom they have a close connection.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　21st day of the 3rd month, Year of the Boar

　○ Sending letters to Edo as celebratory greetings or inquiries after the lord's well-being is henceforth to be discontinued. Instead, such matters are to be conveyed in person by presenting oneself to the Sōja-ban (the reception officer) at the guard post at Nanatsu-gura (Seven Storehouses). This has been decreed before the lord's departure (go-hassa), and you are accordingly requested to take note. The attached written notice is hereby forwarded. The above is hereby communicated.

　　　　　　21st day of the 3rd month

　The above written notice has been circulated from Shibuya Yazei (Yaetsu).

【Left folio】

　○ This is communicated by letter. Regarding the presentation of celebratory greetings and inquiries after the well-being of the Honorable Lady (go-mae-sama) and Jukō-in-sama: When presenting celebratory greetings to the lord, it has been decreed that one is to present oneself in person to the Sōja-ban at the Nanatsu-gura guard post. Please take note accordingly. The above is hereby communicated.

　　　　　　19th day of the 4th month　　To: Akita Sanzaemon　　From: Amagata Kazuma

Item — Enkyō 1st year, Year of the Rat (1744):

　○ When couriers are dispatched to the home domain (go-kuni-moto), letters submitted by the administrative office (yakkata) have been observed to be excessively bulky. Even if a request is made to include such letters within official correspondence packets, the receipt of letters addressed to lodgings along the route (yado-jō) is strictly to be considered unnecessary and is hereby prohibited. In the event that such bulky letters are found even after this notice has been circulated, they will be opened and examined at the Scribes' Room (go-yūhitsu-beya), regardless of whether they are official correspondence. Furthermore, miscellaneous bundled letters (yori-jō) have also been gradually increasing in bulk, and routine courtesy letters (kin-jō) have been included as well. Henceforth, routine courtesy letters are absolutely not to be handled; letters should be composed as lightly and concisely as possible before being submitted. Additionally, intermediary letters (toritsugi-jō) are strictly prohibited. If there is actual business to communicate, it is to be submitted directly to the aforementioned Scribes' Room. Since there are many people currently assigned to duty, if bulky letters exist, they will ultimately result in individuals' lodging-notification letters remaining undelivered as well. Each party should bear this in mind and take care that letters are not excessively bulky. Although this has been decreed and circulated on numerous previous occasions, and as the situation remains as described, it is hereby formally decreed anew on this occasion. Each party is to observe and comply accordingly. The above is hereby noted.