An'ei 6th Year (Year of the Rooster)

Item: On the 17th day of the 3rd month, at Edo, Hayashi Hachiemon communicated the following: Even when the regularly scheduled monthly temple visits are naturally postponed, the senior councillors (karō-jū) are to serve as representatives (nadai). At such times, one of our number (among the tochimetsuke) is ordered to be in attendance. Furthermore, all other matters are to be conducted as specified in the attached written notice. That notice is recorded below.

　　　　　During the Lord's Presence in the Domain — Monthly Visits

　　Jōkōin-sama　　　8th day　　　Zōjōji Temple
　　Gentakuin-sama　　18th day　　Tentokuji Temple
　　Tokushōin-sama　　21st day　　Same temple
　　Kakuryōin-sama　　22nd day　　Ryōun'in Temple
　　　　The above are for regular visits. When postponed, the senior councillors serve as representatives.

　　Ryūhōin-sama　　　1st day, 8th month　　　Zōjōji Temple
　　Daian'in-sama　　　24th day, 3rd month　　Tentokuji Temple
　　Tangen'in-sama　　12th day, 9th month　　Nansen-ji Temple
　　Seijōin-sama　　　11th day, 2nd month　　Reigan-ji Temple
　　Shōan'in-sama　　　4th day, 12th month　　Tentokuji Temple
　　Hōsen'in-sama　　　27th day, 4th month　　Same temple

　　The above are for memorial month visits and visits in the 1st, 5th, and 9th months. When postponed, the senior councillors serve as representatives.

Item: New Year and Obon visits shall continue as before; when postponed, the senior councillors serve as representatives.

Item: When the senior councillors are occupied, the middle councillors (chūrō) shall perform the duty; when the middle councillors are occupied, the senior guard captain (shoin-bangashira) shall perform the duty; when the senior guard captain cannot perform the duty, the御用人 (goyōnin, executive official) shall perform the duty.

Item: Personnel accompanying the senior councillors when they serve as representatives at the temples:
　　When there is business to attend to, the side unit commander (soba-monogashira) shall perform the duty. When the side unit commander is occupied, Fujita Kazaemon and Dōjōji Shichizaemon shall perform the duty.　　　　　(Metsuke)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tochimetsuke)
　　Hand-washing water attendant　　　　　　　　　　(Bōzu)

In accordance with the above, the accompanying personnel shall proceed ahead to the temple and go out to meet the senior councillors upon their arrival.

Item: Visits by proxy (daisan) performed by the middle councillors are as follows:
　　Seichiin-sama　　　28th day, 3rd month　　Tentokuji Temple
　　Kōjuin-sama　　　　17th day, 8th month　　Dentsu'in Temple
　　Shōkeiin-sama　　　12th day, 2nd month　　Nansen-ji Temple
　　Yōjuin-sama　　　　2nd day, 11th month　　Tentokuji Temple
　　Kōshōin-sama　　　3rd day, 12th month　　Nansen-ji Temple
　　Seiryōin-sama　　　21st day, 7th month　　Tenryūji Temple