Chikōin-sama　　　17th day, 1st month　　Shōhōji Temple
　　　Seishōin-sama　　　14th day, 7th month　　Reigan-ji Temple
　　The above: proxy visits (daisan) on memorial days and in the 1st, 5th, and 9th months shall be performed by the middle councillors (chūrō).
　　　However, when the middle councillors are occupied, the senior guard captain (shoin-bangashira) shall perform the duty; when the senior guard captain is occupied, the executive official (goyōnin) shall perform the duty.

　　Item: Personnel accompanying the middle councillors when they proceed to the temples to perform proxy visits:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tochimetsuke)
　　　　　　　　　　　　Hand-washing water attendant　　(Bōzu)
　　　　Proceed ahead in accordance with the above and go out to meet them upon arrival.

An'ei 7th Year (Year of the Dog)

Item: On the 4th day of the 11th month, Watanabe Jūrozaemon passed along a separately written notice, the contents of which are as follows:

　　　　　　Memorandum

　　2nd day of the 11th month:
　　On the occasion of the lord's circuit of the residence (oyakata-mawari) on the above date, from the day before until past midday on the day itself, one shall refrain from eating fish.

An'ei 9th Year (Year of the Rat)

Item: On the 12th day of the 6th month, Isono Tamiya communicated the following instructions, which had been issued as per the attached document, and are recorded below:

　　Item: Regarding persons who have been born (gosetsu-sama): henceforth, newborn male children shall also be written and referred to as "Ohime-sama" (御姫様, princess/young lady).
　　Item: For days prior to the current day, write "yesterday the Nth" or "the day before yesterday the Nth"; for days further back than that, write "the past Nth day."
　　Item: For the current day, write "today the Nth"; for subsequent days, write "tomorrow the Nth" or "the day after tomorrow the Nth"; for days further ahead, write "the coming Nth day."
　　Item: For references that correspond to the four seasons, write "this spring," "this summer," "this autumn," or "this winter" accordingly.

　　　　　　12th day of the 6th month

Item: On the 18th day of the 6th month, Isono Tamiya communicated the following: Although it had previously been instructed on multiple occasions that packages carried by messengers (hikyaku) should not be made excessively heavy and bulky, and that even ordinary correspondence should absolutely not be sent, discipline had grown lax and disorderly. Therefore, the matter is being communicated once again by means of the attached written notice, recorded below:

　　　　　　Memorandum

　　Item: When using messengers, even official documents (goyōjō) of any kind should be kept as light and compact as possible.
　　Item: Regarding letters passed to officials through personal connections and intermediaries — as has been communicated repeatedly in the past — acting as an intermediary for such letters shall absolutely not be done.