(Continued from previous page) …As instructed in this matter, the pages' unit (御近習向き) is not to handle matters pertaining to the escort captain's duties.

　　　　[End of section]

○ Regarding the above, as the protocol officer (御時宜役) has been assigned to escort duty, henceforth, on occasions of departure from the castle (御出殿), each person is to ensure that the protocol officers are duly notified.

　　　　[End of section]

Item: On the 6th day of the 8th month, Utsunomiya Kageyu communicated the following: regarding the lock of the Inner Yamazato Gate (奥山里御門), as ordered, henceforth the gate is to be double-locked as had been the practice in former times, and the keys are to be managed by the Inner Guard (奥之番). Accordingly, should the lord's route change unexpectedly during an outing and the party pass through the Yamazato passage (山里通り), it is to be instructed that the mounted inspectors (御徒目付) notify the Inner Guard in advance.

　Proviso: In connection with the above, as communicated in the 2nd month of the 3rd year of Kansei (1791, Year of the Boar), both the upper lock and the keys are to be transferred to the Inner Guard; this was communicated to the castle deputy's mounted attendants (御城代与力).

　　　　[End of section]

Item: Bunka 2nd Year, Year of the Ox (1805)

　○ On the occasion of the Middle Counselor's [Lord's] ■■, as the mounted inspectors (御徒目付) and those below them are to wear *momohiki* (close-fitting trousers), all are to do the same. In connection with this, it was decreed that the mounted inspectors and foot soldiers (御徒) traveling from the home domain this year are to bring *momohiki* with them; this was communicated from Edo, and the relevant parties are to be notified accordingly.

　　　　　　　3rd day of the 3rd month

　As the above was communicated by Ōmiya Hikoemon, the instruction was duly passed on to the mounted inspectors.

　[Regarding matters] in Edo:

　○ There is an order that official documents (諸御用向き) should not be written in an excessively broad format, and in cases where ■御■ items have been decreed, it has been directed that each person should bear this in mind and act accordingly.

　　　　　　　　21st day of the intercalary 8th month

　As the above was communicated by Mōri Densaburō, it was duly passed on to the mounted inspectors, the gatekeepers of both residences (両屋敷御門所), and the clerical staff of the units (組物書).

Item: Bunka 3rd Year, Year of the Tiger (1806)

　○ Regarding Lord Ōkura no Chūjō (大蔵中将様), it was communicated by the御用人 that henceforth he is to be treated with the protocol of "dual honorific salutation" (御両敬)…