[Name]'s Deputy (Shitadai):
　　　　　　　　　　Acting Deputy (Gon-shitadai)　[Name]
　　　　　　　　　　Promoted to [above]　　　　　[Name]　　Deputy replacement

[Name]'s Deputy (Shitadai):
　　　　　　　　　　Acting Deputy (Gon-shitadai)　[Name]
　　　　　　　　　　Promoted to [above]　　　　　[Name]　　Same as above

As stated above, for those who have changed their given name or surname, a mark (deletion dot) shall be placed over the previous surname or given name in the register, and the new name shall be written alongside it.

Item: Even in cases where both the surname and given name have been changed due to succession (tatekae), a mark shall be placed over the previous entry and the current full name shall be written alongside it.

Item: If a squad leader (kogashira) dies of illness and even the most junior member is promoted to squad leader, a mark shall be placed over the deceased squad leader's name, and the notation "promoted to squad leader" shall be written above the name of the person who has been promoted as-is.

Item: All other cases shall be handled in accordance with the above. Note that when the order of seating/rank is unclear, there is no need to replace the label papers (fuda-gami) or revise the official placards (o-fuda), as this presents no problem.

Item: When there are replacements among the various deputies (shitadai), it shall be written that so-and-so has become the deputy in place of so-and-so. The format shall follow the diagram provided.
　　　　　　[End]

Item: On the 19th day of the 6th month, regarding the name registration (naamoto) of members of the O-mochizutsu-gumi (Musket Bearer Unit), until now, when notification came from the Go-yōnin (Senior Administrators), the matter would be investigated by the Go-metsuke (Inspectors) and then communicated. However, from this year onward, it has been ordered that the Go-metsuke shall take charge of investigating the name registrations for all units (shogumi) as well as the O-kago (palanquin bearer) personnel. Accordingly, nine volumes of the official registers (o-chō) were forwarded from the Go-yōnin. In light of this, each party was summoned to the residence of the monthly duty officer (tsukiban) Miyakita Chōzaemon, and they were notified by written document to submit their name registers (seimei kakitsuke) in the manner prescribed below. At that time, instructions regarding the procedures for hiring (meshikakaeru) unit members were also set down in a single document, and the parties were instructed to submit these by the 26th of the coming month. As submissions arrived in succession, corrections and additions were made to those entries in the official register that were found to be in error, and the updated information was communicated to Ōmiya Hikoemon.

Item: Henceforth, when hiring members for a unit, not only in cases where the prescribed term of service has not yet been completed, but even in cases where it has been completed, all hirings shall be carried out only after proper inquiry has been made.

Item: The name registers (naamoto-gaki) of unit members had previously been submitted to the Go-yōnin, but henceforth they shall be submitted to the Go-metsuke. The manner of recording shall remain the same as previously submitted to the Go-yōnin.

The foregoing matters were communicated to the following persons.