○ Concerning the appointment of those receiving their first formal audience (o-mie): those for whom there is no impediment are to be appointed in accordance with the following schedule, and all parties are to understand that they should submit their requests prior to the designated dates.
　　After the lord's return to the domain:
　　　15th day of the 6th month　　15th day of the 8th month　　15th day of the 12th month
　　Before the lord's ceremonial departure (go-keiga), at the audience chamber (go-zashō):
　　　Within the period from the 2nd month through the early part of the 3rd month
　　　　Proviso: As for those appointed for their first formal audience today, it was understood that there may be those who wish to be presented for the martial arts review (bugei o-ran); it is on account of this consideration that the appointment has been made.
　　　　　End

Item: Bunka 14th year, Year of the Ox (1817)
　　　　　　　　　　　　《Supplementary note: This concerns the outer princess (soto-hime-sama).》
《Subsequent entry》Item: On the last day of the 8th month, the go-yōnin communicated that on this occasion a princess (o-hime-sama) has been born in the O-oku in Edo. To be handled in the same manner as the 10th month of Bunka 11th year (1814), Year of the Dog.
　　　　End
《Prior entry》Item: On the 9th day of the 2nd month, the go-yōnin communicated that, with regard to the notifications issued thus far as separate special communications, henceforth, as a matter of particular simplification, routine matters shall be communicated by joint signature (renmei), and notice to this effect has been given.
　　　　End

　Item: With regard to written official communications (go-yōjō) and official dispatches (go-yōdashi) that use the honorific characters for Tsunogorō-sama, these shall remain as before. For all others, the character "sama" (様) shall be used. This understanding is to be maintained.
　　　　29th day of the 5th month
　The go-yōnin communicated that the above was to be understood and also notified to the officials (o-yakunin-domo), and accordingly each party was duly informed.
　○ Matsudaira Inaba-no-kami-sama is henceforth to be addressed with the dual honorific (go-ryōkei). This is communicated for your information. The purport of the above is likewise to be communicated to the officials.
　　　　16th day of the 12th month
　The go-yōnin communicated the above, and accordingly each party was duly informed.

Item: Bunsei 1st year, Year of the Tiger (1818)
　○ Concerning the manner of addressing and writing the names of the various daimyō: beginning with those of the same clan name (go-dōsei-sama), henceforth their family names (myōji) are to be appended. This is to be communicated to all officials.
　　　　11th day of the 1st month
　The go-yōnin communicated that the above had been decreed.
　Item: On the 14th day of the 12th month, Nagami Kohachirō communicated that the order of precedence (o-jun) among the various ladies of the household (o-katagata-sama) is as per the attached separate document, and all parties are to take note accordingly——