The foregoing was duly communicated and all parties were instructed to take note accordingly.

[Separate document enclosed]
○His Lordship (the Lord) · the Young Lord · Lady Asa-hime
The order of precedence shall be as stated above.
Additionally: the same is to be communicated to Kasuya Kichigoro.
— End —

1. Bunsei 4, Year of the Snake (1821)
　On the 15th day of the 10th month, Mōri Sakuma communicated the following: as the notice in the attached document has been circulated to all relevant parties, everyone is instructed to take note accordingly.

[Separate document enclosed]
○When dispatching couriers (hikyaku), official documents (goyōjō) sent to any party must be kept as compact as possible in terms of bulk. Similarly, letters sent to those on duty in Edo (roshizare no men'nā) should also be made as compact and thin as possible. Moreover, ordinary correspondence shall henceforth be deemed unnecessary. As there are circumstances this time involving instructions from the Road Magistrate (dōchū bugyō), the foregoing is hereby communicated. Please ensure there are no misunderstandings in this regard.
— End —

○On this occasion, an agreement has been reached with Lord Matsudaira Hizen-no-kami, and it has been decided that both parties shall be treated with mutual respect (ryōkei). Please take note accordingly.
　　　　　　16th day of the 11th month

1. Bunsei 5, Year of the Horse (1822)
　On the 15th day of the 4th month, the following was communicated by the Go-yōnin (domain administrator) as per the attached document, and instructions were issued to the respective parties.

○On the 29th day of last month, O-Suma-sama safely delivered a child — a baby girl (known as Kin-hime-sama) was born. Those among the unit supervisors concerned with organizational matters shall communicate this news and instruct each head official to offer formal congratulations (kyōetsu). Furthermore, the formal notification to the shogunate has been temporarily postponed. Please take note of this as well, and communicate it accordingly.
— End —

○As previously circulated, when dispatching couriers, even official documents sent to any party must be made as compact as possible and submitted. However, there may be cases where official goods (goyōmono) cannot be withheld. For such items, please present yourself at the residence of the monthly duty Go-yōnin and submit them directly with the items in hand. Items that do not meet this criterion will be returned, even if they bear the seal of official business (goyōmono no shirushi). As there are also communications received from Edo on this matter, this is being communicated anew. Please be fully apprised of the above. As stated above.
　　　　　　18th day of the 4th month

In accordance with the above communication from Shibuya Gonzaemon, an endorsing note was written and attached, and the monthly duty unit sub-chief was instructed to distribute this to the sub-chiefs of the twelve units.

○As the Go-yōnin have issued the notification in the attached document on this occasion, and though this has already been instructed previously, once again: when submitting residence letters (yado-jō) from within the unit, they must be limited to a thickness of three bu (approximately 9mm), and must be submitted to the monthly duty residence by the 8th hour (approx. 2 a.m.) on the day of the courier's departure. Furthermore,