〇 During the lord's term of residence in Edo (go-nengen-chū): arrival in Edo in the evening is acceptable, and the matter of formal audience (o-mie) shall be determined according to circumstances, as ordered.
　　　　　　29th day of the 10th month
　The above has been conveyed by the御用人 (go-yōnin, chamberlain/official intermediary) as having been so ordered.

---

1. Tenpō 1, Year of the Tiger (1830)
　　In Edo:

〇 In connection with Jōshi (the third day of the third month, Upper Snake Day Festival), it has been ordered that a formal audience be granted with the Young Lord (Wakatono-sama). All parties are to present themselves at the御屋形 (go-yagata, the lord's residence) at the fifth half-hour (approximately 9:00 a.m.). The above.
　　Addendum: Children who have already completed their formal audience are to follow the same procedure.

1. Henceforth, for all Five Seasonal Festivals (go-sekku), formal audiences with the Young Lord shall be ordered, and children who have already completed their audience are to do the same. No separate notification shall be issued each time this occurs. However, if there is no audience on a given occasion, notification shall be given to that effect. The above.
　　　　　　2nd day of the 3rd month　　　　Ōmiya Tōma

---

1. Tenpō 2, Year of the Rabbit (1831)
　　　　　【During Residence in Edo / In the Domain (applicable to both)】

1. During both the years of the lord's residence in Edo (go-nengen-chū) and the years when the lord remains in the domain (go-rusu-nen), couriers (hikyaku) dispatched to Edo shall be sent twice per month: once as a regular courier (tsūhi-kyaku) and once as a relay courier (tsugi-hikyaku), for a combined total of two dispatches per month.
　　Provision: Should the nature of the business be such that two dispatches per month would cause undue delay, couriers may be dispatched on an ad hoc basis as necessary.

　　【In the Domain (domain-side)】

1. The same shall apply to couriers dispatched from Edo to the domain.　12th day of the 3rd month
　　【In Edo as well, as noted in red ink, this was conveyed by the go-yōnin on the 29th day of the 3rd month.】

　The above has been conveyed by Sano Kozaemon as something to be noted and also communicated to the relevant officials, and it has accordingly been passed on to each party.

〇 During both the years of the lord's residence in Edo and the years when the lord remains in the domain: around the middle of each month, one regular courier (tsū-hikyaku) shall be dispatched; around the end of each month, a relay courier (tsugikawari tsugi-hikyaku)…
　　(The text continues on a subsequent page and is incomplete here.)