…[couriers] are to be dispatched once [per period as noted above]. Furthermore, as the matter has been circulated to all relevant parties in the form of a separate document (beppi) as described below, please take note accordingly. The above.
　　　　　　4th day of the 4th month　　To: Yokota Sakutayū　　Akita Michisuke

　　　　　　Separate Document (Beppi)

〇 As has already been circulated on the 28th day of the 10th month of the preceding year of Ushi (Ox), all parties are to be reminded of the following: letters to lodgings (shuku-jō) as well as official correspondence (go-yō-jō) are, without exception, to be made as compact and low in bulk as possible and submitted before dusk. It has already been circulated that bulky sealed items (fū-mono) will not be accepted. Be advised that if bulky letters — whether for public or private affairs — are sent and returned unaccepted, this may in turn cause inconvenience. Therefore, one must take all the more care not to send such bulky items.
　　　　　〆

---

Appendix

1. Tenpō 4, Year of the Snake (1833), 4th month: The following was ordered to the unit leaders (kogashira) of the twelve squads of the御持 (o-mochi) [guard units]:

〇 When official couriers (o-hikyaku) are dispatched, the official correspondence and lodging letters (shuku-jō) of the members and unit leaders (kogashira) of the御持筒組 (o-mochizutsu-gumi, musket-bearing guard squads), as well as those of stationed personnel (tsume no mono), are to be packed to the smallest possible bulk and submitted through the squad at a weight of approximately five bu (a small unit of weight/bulk). Although this instruction has been issued repeatedly, it has come to our attention that various individuals have been submitting separately sealed letters (beppū) through personal connections and intermediaries. From this point forward, separately sealed letters — and indeed any letter from a unit leader that is bulky in its sealing — will not be accepted without exception. Therefore, it is once again directed that unit leaders themselves take care to reduce the bulk and weight of their correspondence before submission.
　　　　　4th month