(Continued from previous page)

…[Regarding Lady Teishō-in,] her name had been added to the formal greetings correspondence (go-kigen-jō); however, since the domain lordship has now changed, it has been decreed that this practice need no longer be continued. Please take note accordingly.
　　　　　　5th day of the 8th month

The above having been communicated by Sasaji Gon'uemon through his relay of the instruction (ten-tori).

　　　　　　The following has been decreed as per the attached separate document. The御用人 (go-yōnin, senior administrator) has communicated that this should be noted accordingly.

〇 Regarding the courier service (hikyaku): There are established regulations (go-sadamehō) concerning the weight permitted in the official correspondence boxes (go-yōjō-bako), and it is not proper to send anything other than official correspondence (go-yōjō) and lodging notices (shuku-jō) by this means. However, there have been cases where items could not be avoided [being sent in this way], and in particular in recent years the volume of official goods sent has become excessive. As a result, items have been packed separately and sent via the Accounts Office (go-kanjōsho), but this has come to resemble the transport of regular freight; along the post road (dōchū-suji) used by the fast couriers (hayaoi), this has naturally come to affect the dignity and prestige (go-ikō) [of the domain], and has caused great inconvenience to the courier personnel as well. On this occasion, having received a directive from the Road Magistrates (dōchū-bugyō), and this being a matter that can no longer be overlooked, it has been decreed that henceforth, even items needed directly by the [domain] office shall not be sent via courier. In accordance with this strict tightening of regulations, all official goods sent from the resident office (tsume-muki) shall also be entirely discontinued. Furthermore, even for official correspondence, every effort should be made to write in small characters so that the package does not become bulky. This applies all the more to lodging notices, which go without saying. Should a package naturally become too bulky, instructions shall be given not to accept it.

In light of the above, unavoidable official goods shall be sent every other month via a separately dispatched courier from the Accounts Office. Please take note accordingly. That is all.
　　　　　18th day of the 9th month
　　　　　[This decree was issued in Edo on the 29th day of the 8th month, as communicated in this incoming letter.]

Note: Copies of the above separate document shall be distributed one each to the foot inspectors (o-kachi-metsuke) and unit sub-commanders (kumi-kogashira). Instructions shall be strictly conveyed to the kumi-kogashira that henceforth, official correspondence from each unit (kumi-gumi) shall be submitted at a weight/volume reduced to two bu (a fractional unit of measurement) in bulk.