(Continued from previous page)

…Regarding this matter, a written inquiry (o-ukagai-sho) was submitted, and in accordance with the written response, a partition (bō-shikiri) was to be installed next to the waiting area (hikae-sho) for the retinue (tomo-kata) of the Gosanke [Three Tokugawa Branch Houses] within the dismounting waiting area (geba-koshikake), and instructions were given that henceforth the retinue members shall be placed therein.

The above directive was given by Inspector (o-metsuke) Ōsawa Shume on the 13th day of the 6th month.
　　　　　　14th day of the 6th month

Shibuja Gonzaemon communicated that the above had been decreed; accordingly, instructions were given to the Foot Inspectors (o-kachi-metsuke), who conveyed them to their respective charges.

〇 On the 29th of last month, it was decreed that the marriage of Lady Kin-hime to Lord Abe Ise-no-Kami shall proceed as requested. Accordingly, letters of congratulation are to be sent to the higher lords (ue-ue-sama); furthermore, in subsequent correspondence, the form of address shall be written as "Lady Kin-hime [wife of] Lord Abe Ise-no-Kami," using the character "sama" (様).
　　　　　　23rd day of the 10th month

The above was communicated by Iida Sakuzaemon by letter.

〇 On the 29th day of last month, Lady Kin-hime… [entry appears incomplete or continued]

From Edo:
〇 It has been decreed that from this 24th day forward, Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-Kami shall be accorded the treatment of "go-ryōkei" (mutual respect/equal ceremonial salutation). Please take note accordingly, and convey this to the relevant officials; furthermore, this is to be communicated down to all those under [your] jurisdiction.
　　　　　　24th day of the 11th month

The above was communicated to the Senior Administrator (go-yōnin), and has accordingly been conveyed to all relevant parties.

1. Tenpō 9 (1838), Year of the Dog
〇 Regarding the schedule for monthly attendance at the castle (tsuki-nami shutsushi), excluding New Year and the Five Seasonal Festivals (go-sekku):
　　1st day of each month　　15th day　　28th day (for the 12th month only)
　　For the above, attendance at the castle shall take place without awaiting a special notice (o-fure) at the hour of go-han-toki [approximately 8 a.m.]. When attendance is suspended, a notice (o-fure) will be issued.
　　Note: Attendance at the castle for New Year and the Five Seasonal Festivals shall follow the previous customary procedures.