Regarding the above, a separate document is attached herewith, and the group leaders (kogashira) of the twelve groups are to be notified as follows. The instructions to the group leaders are as follows:

〇 As the Senior Steward (goyōnin) has issued the notice as per the attached separate document, there is little need to issue further instructions; however, once again: when submitting accommodation letters (yadojō) and the like from each group, the thickness must be limited to three bu, and they must be delivered to the residence of the monthly duty officer (tsukiban) by the eighth hour (approximately 2 p.m.) each day via express messenger (hikyaku). Furthermore, it has come to our attention that there are those who have been submitting their own accommodation letters directly. Henceforth, letters will not be accepted under any name other than that of the group leader. Please convey this to the group leaders of the twelve groups.

　　　　　4th day of the 9th month

(Front/Cover Section)
In Edo:

〇 In connection with the present intentions regarding the attendance arrangements for the lord's close attendants (osoba temuke), it has been ordered that three [express messenger services?] be discontinued. Furthermore, at this time, as the bakufu is strictly controlling the weight of cargo along the highways, and any amount exceeding the prescribed weight limit will not be permitted to pass, although this was already communicated in the Year of the Monkey, once again: official letters (goyōjō) should be made as compact and low in bulk as possible. This applies even more so to accommodation letters (yadojō). Routine duty inspection letters are absolutely not to be submitted at all. Should an official letter unavoidably become bulky, please come to us — those on monthly duty rotation (tsukiban) — and report the matter. Until instructions are given, even official letters that are oversized will not be accepted. Regarding accommodation letters, should a bulky one be submitted, if one were to negotiate the matter at that time with the scribes' room (goyūhitsu-beya) or the lay monks (gobōzu), it would cause delays and interfere with official duties; there may even be cases where letters are left behind without any negotiation taking place. Please bear this in mind.

　　　　　7th day of the 4th month

The above is as communicated by Shibuya Gonzaemon.

(Middle Section)
〇 Regarding Lord Kaigorō: it has been ordered that he take up residence at the Sensui (garden pond) residence, and he is scheduled to move there tomorrow, the 23rd. Please be aware of this.

　　Addendum: Please also inform those under your supervision of the contents of this notice.

　　　　　21st day of the 5th month　　[Marked as tentori]　　Matsudaira Gentarō

〇 As Lord Kaigorō moved to his residence at the Sensui (garden pond) on today, the 22nd, the former residence is to be handed over to the construction magistrate (sakuji bugyō). Please be aware of this and handle the matter accordingly.

　　　22nd day of the 5th month　　To: Ogino Jibuemon　　The same person [i.e., Matsudaira Gentarō]