The foregoing has been communicated by Arakawa Jūuemon, stating that the above had been relayed by the Honorable Attendant Officials (o-tsuki go-yōnin).

Item: 1st year of Kōka, Year of the Dragon (1844)

〇 Regarding the Office of the Secretaries (go-yuhitsu beya) during the lord's absence: the official service quarters (go-yō nagaya) within the Geba Gate have now been repaired and put in order, and henceforth all official business is to be handled there. However, for any urgent business arising before noon that cannot be deferred, matters shall continue to be handled at the monthly duty officer's (tsukiban) residence, as has been the practice. Please be informed accordingly.

　　　5th day of the 3rd month　　Monthly Duty Officer: Lord Tanabe Godayū

　Addendum: From the 6th day of the following day onward, official business shall be handled at the office. Furthermore, those supervisors (shihai) with persons under their charge should inform those among them to whom the contents of the above apply.

Item: On the 16th day of the same month, the same person communicated via written note (tentori) the following: Henceforth, during the lord's absence, dispatching of couriers (hikyaku) shall be handled from the Secretaries' Office at the Geba Gate. As there may be occasions when passage through the gate causes inconvenience, official correspondence (go-yōjō) as well as lodging letters (yadojō) must be submitted before the evening sixth hour (approximately 6:00 p.m.). Furthermore, should official correspondence naturally be delayed, notice of this must reach the Secretaries' Office before that same hour. Supervisors are also to be informed accordingly.

Item: On the same day, the same person communicated via personal letter that, in accordance with the above, notices had been issued to all relevant parties to submit official correspondence and other documents before the evening sixth hour. However, should there be anyone who arrives at the Geba Gate after that hour, word should be received and conveyed from the gatehouse to the Secretaries' Office; and if the matter is handled in the same manner, arrangements should be made in advance with the gatehouse to ensure that entry and exit would not be impeded. Having so communicated this, the matter was therefore conveyed through the Foot Inspector (o-kachi metsuke).