【Horsetail, Field Horsetail】
Spring of Metal Snake year　Vegetable category

Heavenly flower vegetable (Tenkuwasai)　Tsukutsukushi
Earth brush

Yamato Honzo Appendix
Grows in mountain valleys and wild areas. In spring month, first produces flowers. Like a brush.
Separately produces stems and leaves. Named sugi-na (field horsetail). Resembles cedar. Chinese name
not yet clear. Not yet seen in Chinese books. Perhaps
it is said that in the Bencao Gangmu appendix to wood thieves there is "wen jing" (scouring rush).
One name is "connecting grass." Could this be tsukushi (horsetail)?
And so on.

Honzo Ikka-gen says
Sugi-na has eleven names: ox lip, severed, lovesickness grass, heartbreak grass,
sorrowful wife grass, frost grass, dormitory sand question, pressing continuing grass,
water drain flower, brush-head vegetable. The name "water drain" is said to be incorrect.
My consideration:
The leaves are called sugi-na, the flowers are called tsukushi.
Ephedra is male, field horsetail is female, and so on.

【Camellia】
Flowering tree

Camellia flower
Recorded in various books
Mandala tree
Mountain tea flower

【Hirado Azalea】
Flowering tree
Spring day of Metal Dragon year

Wakan Sansai Zue, Poisonous Plants section says:
Hirado azalea
Ryukyu azalea
Upon consideration, Hirado is a place name in Kyushu
Originally came from Ryukyu. Named after this.
White-flowered ones are called Ryukyu, purple-
flowered ones are called azalea.

【Kirishima Azalea】
Wakan Sansai Zue, Poisonous Plants section says:
Yingshan hong (Kirishima)
Red azalea
Commonly called Kiri-shi-ma

Bencao Gangmu: Mountain azalea (mountain pomegranate, cuckoo flower)
Yingshan hong (red azalea) are considered one plant.
Now separately considered as two plants.

Zoho Tashiki-hen, Poisonous Plants section says:
Mountain azalea (Santekichoku) Japanese name: now upon consideration, tsu-shi Additional name: red azalea
Mountain pomegranate (Sekiryu) Yingshan hong (Yosanko) Cuckoo flower

Upon my consideration, that the herbal classics treat mountain azalea and yingshan hong as one plant is
not without basis. That they are one plant can be known from the Tashiki-hen. Yingshan hong has
deep red flowers, when blooming they spread across the entire mountain. Is this the source of the name? Is it
a separate variety of mountain azalea that later had its different names separated into one name? Still requires further study of the books.