【Spirea (Reeve's Spirea)】
Recorded in Wakan Sansai Zue, Shrub category
　Laughing dimple flower (Shijimihana)　Commonly called corbicula flower　Dosei Hassen states: "Laughing dimple flower, its flowers are fine like beans,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　one stem with a thousand flowers, appearing like drifting snow"

　　　　Copied in spring of Metal Snake year, Masashi 4

Laughing dimple (Kokome) flower (Yamato Honzo)
　Glutinous rice flower (Saijiki)
　Small rice cherry (also called Hase-zakura)
　　　　Two varieties
　Jade fragments (Kokome-hana)

【Trifoliate Orange】
Flowering tree category

According to Zoho Tashiki-hen Shrub category:
　Trifoliate orange (Ki)　Japanese name　Karatachi　Alternative name
　　The fruit is called kijitsu and kikoku

According to Wamyo Ruijusho:
　Trifoliate orange (Karatachi)　According to Honzo:
　　Trifoliate orange　(Two pronunciations: shi-ku, Japanese name: karatachi)

According to Gyokuhen: "Trifoliate orange is
an orange that has become twisted." Volume Seven, Shoku-
kyo states: "Citron" (Ku is the character for trifoliate orange)
I believe that trifoliate orange is recorded in Yamato Honzo as
Kenhokonashi. Which one is incorrect?

Yamato Honzo
　Trifoliate orange (Karatachihana/Karatachi)　Also called
　　　　　　Stinking orange
　　Japanese name: Karatachi
　　In Chikushi called Gezu
　　From ancient times, people mistakenly
　　used this as kikoku and kijitsu
　　for medicine, which is incorrect
　　Sansai Zue states: "In our country
　　if mandarins are planted in Oshu, they transform
　　into kikoku" - this is strange
　　Yamato Honzo treats trifoliate orange (Kesu) as kara-
　　tachi. Karatachi is kikoku.
　　This matches the illustration in Sansai Zue.
　　Someone's theory should be examined.

Genju's examination states:
　There are two types of kikoku. The trifoliate
　orange (karatachi) used for hedges has smaller
　wood, leaves, and fruit than ordinary
　karatachi. This is undoubtedly the trifoliate
　orange described by Shizhen.
　True kikoku has large
　wood, leaves, and fruit of the same family but different species. What is now called
　　　small kijitsu in pharmacies
　　　　is the fruit of trifoliate orange.
　　　　　It should not be used in medicine.

【White Plum】
Fruit tree category

Plum flower (White plum)
　Like snow that will not melt, on the mountain shore
　　　　the plum flowers of the hedge bloom　by Tameie

【Quince Flower】
According to Honzo Wakai:
　Quince (Mokka) flower
　　Japanese name: Hoke (Boke)

According to Wamyo Ruijusho:
　Quince (Hoke)　According to Erya commentary: "Quince, also called Bo" (pronounced Jo)
　According to Wamyo Honzo: "Quince is called Moke,
　its fruit is like a small melon"

【Japanese Kerria】
Tea rose (Tomo) flower
　Also called yamabuki
　Also written as tobi, pronounced yambu-
　ki. In Manyoshu and
　Roei-shu, writing it as butterbur flower
　and composing about yamabuki is an error.
　Butterbur refers to butterbur sprouts　According to Chikinsho

Medicinal herb

According to Yamato Honzo:
　Japanese kerria (Yamabuki)
　　　　Chinese name: Golden bowl
　　　　　　　　　　Water-loving
　　Reading tobi as yamabuki is incorrect.
　　Tobi is goyauki (five-leaf aralia).