【DŌDAN AZALEA】
Flowering tree
Copied in the third month of Kanshi year
Azalea (called Tōdan)

【PINE】
According to Wakan Sansai Zue, Fragrant Trees category
Pine (Matsu, Chinese pronunciation: Son) Shōyō-setsu
Matsu (same) Yōboku (same) Japanese name: Mazu
Pine pollen (commonly called) Midori
Sui (pronounced rui) Tetsu (same) ■ where rui grows
Pine does not change color even through frost and snow, and is called "faithful tree" (teiboku) comparing it to a steadfast heart

According to Wamyō Ruijū
Pine (Matsu) In the Han Shu, trees are planted with green pines, the reverse of shōyō, the character is also written as "yō," seen in Tōin. Japanese name: Mazu

According to Agricultural Complete Book: Pine is the chief of a hundred trees, written with the tree radical and the character for lord (kimi)
There are two-needle, three-needle, and five-needle varieties that do not change color throughout the four seasons
Both Japan and China admire and appreciate this. Under thousand-year-old pines there is poria fungus
Similarly above there are dodder seeds. Also in the roots there is amber, all good medicines
Pine resin is refined and applied to bowstrings. Many other uses for ointments and medicines
Matsu means "to preserve" - abbreviated above
Originally "Matomato" - a tree that preserves life for a long time. According to Records of the Grand Historian, Tortoise Strategy Biography: "Pine and cypress are the chiefs of a hundred trees and guard the gates"
In the Records of the Grand Historian: "Emperor Qin Shi Huang climbed Mount Tai, violent wind and rain came, he rested under a tree. Then he enfeoffed that tree as Fifth Rank Minister" The history does not initially say what tree it was, Ying Shao first said it was a pine. Therefore it received the rank of minister.

Yamato Honzō
Pine

According to notes in Dietary Herbal
Pine flower
One name:
Pine pollen

Garden trees

【DANDELION】
Medicinal herb
Dandelion (recorded in various texts)
Japanese name: leather grass
Kuchina, Kijina, Kuchikuchina
Kujina

【VIOLET】
Flowering plant

According to Yamato Honzō
Purple flower ground nail (Komahikigusa)
Also violet flower (Sumiregusa)
In Kyoto called Sumaitori
In Chikushi called Tono no uma

I say:
The name violet appears variously in many texts. In Jiuhuang Bencao as violet vegetable arrowhead grass
In Wakan Sansai Zue as kinkin vegetable (Yahazusō) (comparing collected theories with violet flower) In the same book as violet (sumire) also hollyhock, bitter violet
In Yamato Honzō as purple flower ground nail (sumire) (komahikigusa), alternative name violet vegetable. In Wakan Sansai Zue
Purple flower ground nail, violet vegetable, and violet are treated as three separate species. However, purple flower ground nail has the name arrowhead grass, these three are all one species. Violet vegetable is a different thing, it is water dropwort (nozeri). The name violet is recorded in various texts with confusion.