According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　Cherry (sakura) - According to Bunfu Shūryaku: cherry, the reverse reading of "ukyō," Japanese name
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sakura

　　The seeds are as large as oak nuts, and there are red, white, and black varieties.

　　　　　　According to Zōho Tashiki-hen, Trees section:
　　　　　　　　Cherry (Au) Japanese name: Saku
　　　　　　　　(Ei) Ra

　　　　　　　　　　　Perhaps because China has nothing like cherry blossoms, they are not
　　　　　　　　　　　recorded in Honzō (Materia Medica), Sansai Zue botanical illustrated books,
　　　　　　　　　　　etc., and poets also do not appreciate them.

　　　　　Faithful copy made on the 27th day of the second month of Mizunoe-Uma year

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Song Jinglian's poem:
　　　　　　　　Appreciating cherry blossoms is more flourishing in Japan than in Tang China
　　　　　　　　Like combining peonies and begonias
　　　　　　　　Perhaps this is what the painter Zhao Chang found difficult to depict
　　　　　　　　When spring wind barely rises, it blows snow and fragrance

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Wang Jinggong's poem on mountain cherry:
　　　　　　　　Mountain cherry embraces stone, shading the pine branches
　　　　　　　　Compared to other flowers, it blooms latest
　　　　　　　　Only the spring wind dislikes loneliness
　　　　　　　　Blowing fragrance across water to inform people

　　　　　　　○Observing this, China is not entirely without cherries either

　　　　　　　　Emperor Heizei first composed poetry about cherry blossoms:
　　　　　　　　　Once beneath the secluded rocks
　　　　　　　　　Brilliant light illuminates the four directions
　　　　　　　　　Suddenly encountering the form of plucking and breaking
　　　　　　　　　Containing smiles, spanning the three yang seasons
　　　　　　　　　The spirit sent varies from time to time
　　　　　　　　　Branches of varying lengths cast shadows
　　　　　　　　　How is it that this one thing
　　　　　　　　　Freely displays its beauty in the nine spring fields

　　　　　　　　　According to Nihon Kōki, Emperor Saga
　　　　　　　　　in the second month of Kōnin 3 (812), made an imperial visit
　　　　　　　　　to Shinsen-en garden, viewed the flowering trees, and ordered
　　　　　　　　　literati to compose poetry. The flower viewing banquet
　　　　　　　　　began from this time.

　　　　　　Birch cherry (Kaba-zakura) pronunciation: wa, Japanese name: Kaha
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Alternative reading: Kaniwa

　　　　　　　This is the so-called single-petaled cherry. Separately,
　　　　　　　there is a tree called birch with different pronunciation, but it is not
　　　　　　　different from cherry. It is recorded in Yamato Honzō
　　　　　　　miscellaneous trees category.
　　　　　　　According to Jii, birch is the name of a tree whose bark can be attached to bows.
　　　　　　　So is this perhaps a separate variety of tree? In Wamyō-shō it also seems
　　　　　　　to be a different species, but I have not yet seen anything
　　　　　　　that should be called birch other than cherry bark.

According to Yamato Honzō:
　　　In Wenxuan, Shen Xiuwen's poem about early blooming at Mount Ding states "Mountain cherry blooms as if about to burn," with a note saying
　　　it is the name of a fruit tree with vermillion flowers like fire about to ignite.
　　　Wang Jinggong's poem states "Mountain cherry embraces stone, reflected in pine branches," and Sima Wengong's poem
　　　states "Red cherry petals fall scattered as apricot flowers bloom." This shows that
　　　what China calls "cherry" refers to vermillion flowers. What Japan calls cherry does not exist in China.
　　　He Qingfu, who came to Nagasaki during the Enpō era,
　　　said that if this should be recorded in Chinese books and composed about in poetry for appreciation,
　　　such statements about this tree would be truthful. In Korea there is something called "na-gi" (pear tree).