【STRAWBERRY】
According to the Supplemented Tashiki-hen Vine Plants:
　Raspberry (Fukubonshi)　Japanese name: Kaufuri-ichigo (Crawling Strawberry)
　　　　　　　Now considered: Kusa-ichigo (Grass Strawberry)
　　　　　　　　　　　Supplementary alternative names: Kei (Erya), Ketsubon (same), Western Country Grass (Tujing)
　　　　　　　Hireuka (same), Barley Berry (Taibakubo), Sautenhau, Black Berry (Uhōshi) (Compendium)

The Bencao Gangmu states that berry types (thorny apricot, raspberry, tree berry, snake berry) have approximately
five varieties, but only when Shizhen personally collected and compared them did he first obtain their true identities. The
various theories of different schools are numerous and mostly unreliable. I say that even dividing berry types into five
varieties, according to Shizhen there are more than ten types. In the Han dynasty there may have been five varieties.
Suspiciously, earlier scholars say that fukubon is the name for strawberry fruit.

The Yamato Honzō records this plant as fukubon
The Chijin-shō calls it kenkōshi, this should be investigated
I record one variety of fukubonshi in my illustrations
This is based on the diagrams in Chijin-shō
This plant follows Yamato Honzō
The illustrations in Wakan Sansai Zue are very different
but the explanations agree

　2nd day of March, spring of Mizunoto-Hitsuji year
　Faithful copy
　　　　　　　Fruit category

【YEW, ALOES-WOOD, JAPANESE NUTMEG YEW】
According to Yamato Honzō:
　　Japanese Yew (Ichii-no-ki)　　　　Aloes-wood (Kiraboku)　Flowers yellow-red like balls, growing clustered together
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fruit bundle-like, very small

According to Wakan Sansai Zue, Fragrant Woods:
　　Aloes-wood (Kyaraboku, Otsuko) Popular name
　　　　Ozuko (Otsuko) (Ainu name)
The indigenous people of Ezo and Matsumae call it O-
zuko. This wood resembles the grain of
agarwood (kyara). Hence it's popularly called aloes-wood.

Same year, 18th day of first month
Garden illustration

Miscellaneous trees

　From Mt. Kurai in Hida Province, ceremonial tablets are made
　from yew wood. According to Wamyōshō, saku wood can be made
　into ceremonial tablets.

Earth Revival Wood
　Japanese Yew
　Saku Wood

According to Master Matsuoka Jōan's Personal Views on Materia Medica:
　Abussan　Japanese Nutmeg Yew (Benikaya), Dog Nutmeg (Inukaya)
　　　　　Aloes-wood, also Japanese Yew

　In foreign language this oil is called Holtokaru oil
　Also called Asetōna

According to Toyoda Yōkei's Shaben Joroku:　Abussan　Benikaya, Inukaya
　　　　　　　　Wang's Detailed Annotations states: Abussan comes from Furin Country, over one jō in length, bark color blue-white,
　　　　　　　　leaves fine, growing in pairs opposite each other, resembling turnip greens, proper yellow, seeds resembling black pepper, red in color. When the branches are ground, the juice is like
oil. Applied to scabies and ringworm, there is nothing it cannot cure. The oil is extremely valuable, worth a thousand gold pieces. This also appears in the Kyokuseki Benran. The Benikaya
tree of Ōmi Province is this. Benikaya, also called Dog Kaya, grows in various places in the mountains. Mountain people extract oil for use by surgeons.