Purple Flower Ground Nail (Shikachiteu), Japanese name: sumire, Solitary Tiger (Tokugyoko) "Kōmoku"
　　　　　　　
　　　　　Rice Bag (Heihotei) "Supplementary alternate name" Arrow Head (Sentsu) grass "Kōmoku"
　　　　　Sheep Horn (Yōkaku) seed "Sheep 韠"



According to Kyūkō Honzō:
　Violet vegetable
　　One name
　　　Arrow Head grass


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Shokkyō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Arrow Head grass


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hanrō　According to Honzō, Hanrō "two sounds of Hanrō"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Japanese name: hakubera
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tao Yinju says it is namely chicken intestine grass


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mizunoto-hitsuji year, first day of Yayoi　【Medicinal herbs】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Double brush grass copied from observation　【Vegetable category】



　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　According to Zōho Tashikihen, Soft and Smooth category:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hanrō, Japanese name: hakubera, also called ha
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　kobe
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Supplement: tsuruhakobe
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　"Alternate names" zi grass "supplementary alternate name" sōrō "Erya"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　kō "sound kyō" ryōrō "Kakuga" goose intestine vegetable


　　　　　　　　Engi-shiki Ri-bu Ō-ki
　　　　　　　　Chōmei Shiki Monogatari and others
　　　　　　　　Various books record in the number
　　　　　　　　of seven varieties for Human Day





Violet flower　　Alternate names recorded in previous illustration sections
　　Two varieties　　　　　　　　【Flowering plants】
"Book of Songs" violet "Tsubo-sumire"

　　　At the time of Bunsei 7, Kinoe-saru year
　　　　　　Koshō month, 13th day
　　　　　　Truly copied from my garden



　　　　　　　Yamato Honzō
　　　　　　　　　Accumulated Snow (Kakitōshi) grass
　　　　　　　　　"Shakusetsusō"
　　　　　　　　　　In Honzō
　　　　　　　　　　Foreign mint
　　　　　　　　　　Tsuruhakka


　　　　　　　Kyūkō Yafu
　　　　　　　　Ground Coin Child (Kakitōshi)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　【Creeping plants】
　　　　　　　　"One name" Accumulated Snow grass



　　　　　　　Listed in Zōho Tashikihen, Fragrant Plants category
　　　　　　　　Accumulated Snow grass, Japanese name: tsubokusa, upon examination
　　　　　　　　"Shakusetsu"　　　　tsuruhaka
　　　　　　　　　"Alternate names" kaisō "supplementary alternate name" foreign mint
　　　　　　　　　"Taihōhō" ground coin grass "Tang ben"
　　　　　　　　　linked coin grass "Yakuzu"


　　　　　　Wakan Sansai Zue says Accumulated Snow grass is commonly
　　　　　　called fence-penetrator; the illustration in Honzō Shinzoku showing branches
　　　　　　and clusters is incorrect. What Wamyōshō reads as tsubo-
　　　　　　kusa is incorrect. Tsubo grass is recorded separately.
　　　　　　In Honzō Kōmoku, the flowers have not yet been seen and examined, so this requires
　　　　　　consideration




Wakan Sansai Zue, Wet Plants category says:
　　　"Sumire, Sumō-kusa"
　　　Violet "sound kin"　　　bitter violet, bitter mallow, Japanese name: sumire
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Commonly called: sumo grass
Honzō Kōmoku, Su Gong says violet vegetable is "namely sumire." Liu Yuxi says that Shuowen states that violet has roots like shepherd's purse
and leaves thin like willow, etc. This refers to bitter violet, as the ancients spoke in reverse order, just as sweet grass is called "great bitter." "I say that what is described as having willow-like leaves was depicted earlier."
In children's games, they pick two stems to make hooks, and when pulled against each other, the side that cuts off the calyx loses. Hence it is named
wrestling grass. Among the three varieties of morning glory, violet, and knife grass, violet has the highest reputation.



　　　　　　　　According to Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　　　　　　　Accumulated Snow grass (Tsubokusa)　In Honzō commentary, Tao Yinju says Accumulated Snow grass
　　　　　　　　Japanese name tsubokusa. Because it is cold, it is thus named. Su Jing says its leaves
　　　　　　　　are like coins, hence it is also called linked coin grass