According to Zōho Tashiki-hen, Shrubs section:
　　Autumn olive (Kotai) seeds　Japanese name: according to current examination, Gumi　　Alternative names: Roto seeds (from Kōmoku), Hanhanganshun (same source)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Supplementary alternative names: Hōtai seeds (from Kōmoku)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Jakuni-so (from Hōsei)　　Medicinal tree
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kōha-dai

Yamato Honzō
　　Autumn olive (Kotaishi)　Commonly called Higumi in the country
　　Gumi　　I say this is the true seedbed gumi
　　　　　　In Wamyō-shō it is Moronari

Honzō Wakai
　　　　　Sawa-gumi

　　　Farmers know the time to work the fields
　　　by seeing when this fruit ripens, hence it is called
　　　seedbed autumn olive

　　　　　　　　　I consider that
　　　　　　　　　　According to Honzō, cornus also ripens when seedbeds are prepared. Chinese people say this is
　　　　　　　　　　namely cornus, however, Chikin-shō includes the relevant illustration and
　　　　　　　　　　records seedbed gumi. Whether cornus also ripens at seedbed time is
　　　　　　　　　　still unknown. Regarding the truth of this tree, perhaps some flower garden owner explained this.
　　　　　　　　　　Yamato Honzō states that autumn olive (Higumi) trees are six to seven feet tall with soft branches.
　　　　　　　　　　The leaves resemble pear leaves but are long and narrow. The surface is blue-green and the back is white. Flowers bloom in the second and third months.
　　　　　　　　　　The shape is like cloves, hanging down abundantly. This matches
　　　　　　　　　　this tree. Whether cornus can also be called seedbed gumi should be investigated.

According to Wamyō Ruijū-shō:
　　　Autumn olive (Moronari)　In Bawan's Shokkyō Yōjō Hiyō and others it says:
　　　　　　　Autumn olive　Japanese name Kumi　　Also called
　　　　　　　　　　　Moronari　　In court regulations, the three characters
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　for "various raw seeds" are used

　　　　　　　　　　　13th day of Koshō of Kinoe-Saru year, faithful copy

　　　　　　　　　　　In Honzō Wakai, cornus fruits are gathered in the ninth and tenth months,
　　　　　　　　　　　this should be understood. Although it is also recorded that they ripen at seedbed time,
　　　　　　　　　　　saying they closely resemble autumn olive suggests they are the same
　　　　　　　　　　　fruit

　　　Crabapple　　　　　This is called wild crabapple
　　　　　Yet another variety

According to Zōho Tashiki-hen, Mountain Fruits section:
　　　Sea-red (Kaikō)　Japanese name: according to current examination, Kaitau　　Alternative name: Crabapple pear (Kaidōri)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same season, 16th day of Koshō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Faithful copy