【Shikimi】 *(Japanese star anise, Illicium anisatum)*

According to the Zōho Tashiki-hen (Expanded Polyglot Encyclopedia), Poisonous Plants section:
　　Mōsō (莽草)　Japanese name: Shikimi (志幾美); also noted that in Suruga Province it is called Netsumikoro-shi (ネツミコロシ, "rat-killer"); another name is Nabewari (那倍和利).　Alternative name: Somō (鼠莽, "rat-herb")　Additional alternative names: Mō-sō (䒽草, pronunciation: Oka), Bōsō (芒草, from Shanhaijing)

The Sansai Zue records two varieties—Mōsō and Mokumitsu—and states that Mōsō produces no flowers or fruit, etc. This should be examined carefully.
The origin of the name "Nabewari" is unknown.
Kōhon (鉤吻, Nabewari) is a different plant; refer to later volumes for clarification.

【Seal】 Miscellaneous trees

Yamato Honzō
　　Mōsō flower (Shikimi no hana)
From the same work's Yakumyō Bengi (Clarification of Drug Names):
　　Rat herb (鼠莽)

　　The character "樒" has been handed down through generations in Japanese custom as "Shikimi."
　　Even in the Jun Wamyō it is read as Shikimi.
　　In the Imyō Bunruishō it appears as Mōsō (ハナノキ, "flower tree").
　　In the Wamyō Ruijushō it appears as Shikimi.
　　In the Shinsen Jikyō it appears as Mohone.
　　In the Wakan Sansai Zue:
　　　　Mokumitsu (Shikimi; Chinese reading: Momitsu)　Also known as: Mikkō, Mokkō, Takakōboku, Asha
　　　　　　　Shikimi (pronunciation: Tang-dynasty rhyme dictionary says "a fragrant tree"; Japanese name Shikimi)
　　　　　Also, the Kenpho-nashi tree (枳椇, *Hovenia dulcis*) is also called Mokumitsu,
　　　　　but it is not the same plant.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　By national custom, this is offered as a Buddhist flower.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Or it is burned as powdered incense before Buddhist altars.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Both the bark and leaves are used.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kinoe-Saru year, Kyōshō month (2nd lunar month), 10 days from the "mi" hour
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Painted from life

According to the Wamyō Ruijushō:
　　Shikimi (樒)　The Tang rhyme dictionary says, and the Kango-shō states: Shikimi (之岐美) is a fragrant tree.
From the same work:
　　Mōsō (莽草, Shikimi)　The commentary to the Shanhaijing says "mōsō,"
　　　　The Wamyō Honzō calls it Shikimi (之木美),
　　　　It is a plant that can be used to poison fish.

　Shikimi grows abundantly in Musashi, Izu, Awaji, Tanba, and Harima provinces.
　Branches are broken off and offered to the Buddha; the branches and leaves, when picked, are called "flowers." The bark and leaves are harvested and dried,
　then burned as incense, called mattakō (powdered incense).
　　　A poem from Oki Province:
　　　　　さながらや仏の花に折せまじ
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　—Retired Emperor Go-Toba
　　　　　　　　　　　(How can I bear to break these branches even as Buddhist offerings—
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　white snow piling on the shikimi boughs)

【Something in the Euphorbiaceae family, such as Takadoudai or Nourushi】
Imyō Bunruishō:
　　Taigeki (大戟, Euphorbium) (ノウシル)　(Taigeki)
　　　Another variety also exists

　　　　　　According to the Wamyō-shō: Hamahito-kusa, Nehisu
　　　　　　　　　Also: Hara-kusa　It is said to be a product of Joshū (除州), but this seems doubtful (unstable identification).

【Seal】 Medicinal herbs

Third day of the mid-period of the Kyōshō month of the same year
Painted from life in my medicinal herb garden