【Wild Strawberry and related species】
According to the Bukō Sanbutsushi:
　　　Kenkōshi (Momiji-ichigo / Rubus palmatus)

The author states:
　There is a separate plant also called Kenkōshi (懸鉤子, Chinese: Xuān gōu zǐ), which is a wood strawberry (ki-ichigo) whose leaves resemble burdock (gobō). Its stem is hard and without thorns, and the plant is somewhat larger. The wild strawberry (no-ichigo), however, has leaves resembling maple (momiji), and so it borrows the name of the wood strawberry and is called "Momiji-ichigo" (maple-leaved strawberry).

Upon consulting the Yamato Honzō,
this should indeed be the wild strawberry.
　　　"The branches of this plant grow very luxuriantly,
　　　and its leaves are the size of mulberry leaves" —
　　　this description matches it well.

【Seal】Fruit/Melon category

Strawberry
　There is yet another variety.
The Yamato Honzō states that it "grows in the fields and ripens in the fifth month" — this should be that plant. Perhaps it was mistakenly classified
as a strawberry (ichigo).

【Seal】Fruit/Melon category

---

【Ichirinso / One-flowered Windflower (Anemone nikoensis)】
According to the Yamato Honzō:
　　　Ichi-ka-sō (一花草, "single-flower herb")
　　　　　　also known as Ichirinso (一輪草, "single-wheel herb")

According to the Honzō (Bencao):
　　Tokki (兔葵)　Ichirinso

In Sado Province it is called "Fukubera."
It is said to bloom particularly in the fourth month. The Yamato Honzō notes that when transplanted to another region, the flowering time shifts. This plant must be that one.

【Seal】Flowering herb category

---

【A relative of Tsumekusa (Sagina japonica, family Caryophyllaceae). Note: The plant currently known as Ikarisō is Epimedium (淫羊藿), a medicinal herb that is an entirely different and unrelated plant.】
Ikarisō (碇草, "anchor herb")
　This is a name given by Japanese popular custom.
　There is a separate plant also called Ikarisō,
　which is the Epimedium (淫羊藿, inyōkaku).

【Seal】Herb category

　Kinoe-Saru year, Kōshō month (third month), tenth day
　Painted from life in the garden

According to a certain book,
　assigned to Shikkokusō (漆姑草, Sagina japonica):
　　　　Ikarisō
　　　　Taka-no-tsume (Hawk's claw)
　　　　Suzumekusa (Sparrow grass)

Same year, same month, seventeenth day
Painted from life