The master also said to me: "If you wish to investigate thoroughly the nomenclature of medicinal substances both foreign and domestic, you should study under Master Shinsai Udagawa." Therefore, I also separately attended Master Shinsai's school. The master also instructed me thoroughly from fundamentals to details, enabling me to further broaden my learning. Eventually, when the master passed away, he left his translated work on pathology with the manuscript still incomplete, commanding me (Shō) to continue it. Though I am shallow in learning and certainly not suited for such a task, through accumulating days and years, I was finally able to complete the work. Ah! Though this undertaking of mine was bestowed by Master Shinsai, without the compassionate grace of the two masters Tenyū and Seiken, how could there be this day? Therefore, I record these circumstances to serve as a preface. Written in early spring of Kōka Teibi (1847) by Ogata Shō, physician to the Ashimori domain, at his temporary residence in Osaka.

Introductory Remarks
1. Pathology is called "Ziektekundige" in Dutch and "Pathologia" in Latin. This is the study that investigates the true nature of all diseases, thoroughly understands disease causes and symptoms, and thereby distinguishes between radical treatment, symptomatic treatment, and curability. 【Marginal note: Previous scholars translated this as "original disease study" (genbyo-gaku), which is certainly appropriate, but now following the meaning of the original term, we omit the character "original"】 Discussing each disease individually is called special pathology 【Marginal note: Bijzondere Ziektekundige】. However, diseases are manifold in their hundred varieties, almost without limit. Therefore, we broadly systematize the essential nature, causes, and symptoms of all diseases to establish their general theory. This is called general pathology 【Marginal note: Algemeene Ziektekundige】. Indeed, if one becomes proficient in this study, the hundred diseases will be clearly organized and naturally analyzable, and therapeutic principles will be decisively and naturally determinable. Therefore,