This study should be called the essential key that physicians must investigate. In recent times, this study has been greatly developed in the West, and although many such books have been brought to our country, their literary meaning is profound and their arguments are abstruse, making them difficult to understand readily. Moreover, since neither China nor our country yet possesses this study, and terminology is difficult to make appropriate, we have not yet heard of anyone translating and writing about it. Master Shinsai once had Aoki Shūsuke (a person from Chōshū) translate Hufeland's pathology book, and commanded me (Shō) to translate pathology books by Consbruch, Conradi, and others, intending to compile one book through comparative study and eclectic synthesis, and make it public to the world. However, before even half the manuscript was completed, the master suddenly passed away. On the day when the master's illness was severe, he entrusted me saying: "The pathology book has not yet been completed as a manuscript. This is my regret. You must continue my aspiration." I am untalented and of shallow learning—how could I possibly be capable of undertaking this great responsibility? However, it has already become a dying wish, and there is no way to decline it. After the master's death, I requested his manuscript drafts, further took up the original books to study and examine them thoroughly, and alongside consulted books by Hartmann (pathology book), Riechelland (book on human physiology), Blumenbach (same), Rose (same), Sprengel (general treatise on therapeutics), and others, as well as numerous texts on chemistry, natural philosophy, and internal and external medicine, thereby editing and supplementing his manuscript drafts, and finally was able to complete the manuscript for the first time. I am naturally ignorant in literary expression and only worthy of ridicule. If scholars do not judge by the literary style but fortunately can comprehend the essential purpose of this study and contribute even a little to saving the world, then