Furthermore, after that, the following vermilion-seal document (御朱印状) was obtained and forwarded to the General Assembly (惣中).

One item: The bamboo and timber within the precincts of this shrine shall not be cut or harvested under any circumstances. Should there be any violators, they shall be promptly subjected to severe punishment. Thus it is as stated above.

　　　　Tenshō 13th year, 3rd month, 10th day　　　　[Vermilion Seal]
　　　　　　　　To the Shrine Functionaries (社人中) of the Kamo Shrine　　　A further vermilion-seal document has been obtained and forwarded.

One item: In Tenshō 10, when Lord Hideyoshi conducted a land survey (御検地) throughout the province, the survey magistrates (御奉行) — Lord Itō Daijōzaemon and Lord Ishikawa Mokubei — came to our location, and [they informed us] through Lord Ikuma Sasuke that they intended to go out to various places during the day from our location and lodge at our place at night. However, as we raised various objections regarding the comings and goings [of people into the sacred precincts], they would not give their assent. Therefore, we proceeded directly to

　　the [御所 /御前 — possibly "before the lord" (朱書き annotation in original)], and when we inquired about the matter of the land survey, we were told that a land survey had indeed been ordered.

One item: Since this place is bound by [sacred] vows [against outside intrusion], we humbly requested that the magistrates please refrain from entering within our village (当郷). We proposed that we would instead submit a declaration (指出) of the annual yield (物成) from the lands lying outside [the sacred precinct]. Upon this appeal, we were granted an exemption from the survey rod (御棹), on the condition that we erect bamboo [markers] on all four sides so that the boundaries would be clear and unmistakable. We gratefully accepted this, returned [to the shrine], erected bamboo [markers] in the manner of the Matsuzaki boundary, and did not allow a single survey rod to enter within our village. We did attempt to submit the declaration of yields, but as everyone found it exceedingly difficult to itemize and break down the figures precisely, we fell into considerable delay. We reported that we were unable to produce the itemized breakdown, whereupon we were told that since the survey rod was exempted, the annual yield [assessment] would also be exempted. Words cannot adequately express how grateful this was, both for our public reputation and in actual fact.

Although it has long been said that the six villages (六郷) constitute the shrine precincts, Ono-no-gō (小野郷) contains a mixture of other lords' lands, warrior landholdings, and lands belonging to Mt. Hiei (山門領 / Enryakuji), so the survey rod did enter there. However, since other lords' holdings were intermixed, the portion belonging to the Kamo domain —