We exercised our resourcefulness in various places, bringing along our servants (komono) and making rounds together throughout the region. We served as messengers to Lord Ebara's yoma (personal attendants' quarters) in Mimasaka Province, rendered various services to Lord Ebara on behalf of (Hideyoshi), arranged for expressions of close friendship (gojikkon) to be conveyed, provided guidance, and Lord Ebara expressed his satisfaction.

Regarding the six villages of Shidori-no-shō, we arranged so that even as the military forces passed through, not a single soldier would enter (to plunder or cause trouble). Lord Ebara left all matters entirely to our discretion. Those who came as messengers from Mimasaka observed the cordial treatment extended to the households of the Taikō (Toyotomi Hideyoshi), returned, and reported to Lord Ebara, who showed us extraordinary warmth and hospitality.

When we broached the subject of hatsuhō (first-fruits offerings) little by little, the response was: "We have been made to change our religious sect by Lord Ukita. In the past, we offered hatsuhō to Kamo, Ise, Hachiman, and Atago shrines, but since we were made to change our faith, we have heard of no one offering hatsuhō to any shrine. As our situation is quite precarious, please excuse us. We shall convey our gratitude for your hospitality." We replied: "As for the matter of gifts, even if we were offered a hundred koku, we would not accept a single grain. There is also the matter of appearances in our home district, so we simply ask for hatsuhō of perhaps enough to provide sustenance for a few servants (komono)." We then said: "Should you require any service in Kyoto in the future, we shall assist you in any way possible," to which they replied, "We shall do as you say."

Feeling uncertain about the divine will in this matter, we pressed strongly, entreating that even a modest amount equivalent to servants' provisions be offered, saying we would rely upon divine power and confront (Lord Ukita's authority) in this regard.

【Annotation in red ink: The author notes: Perhaps not even a servant's ration worth of offerings was actually received.】

Regarding the matter of confronting Ukita, it was stated that if we neglected even slightly our military obligations, Lord Ukita's punishment would fall immediately, that very day. After a long stay in Mimasaka, upon returning, since the matter had become known both in our home district and in the nearby villages of Kyoto, we asked for even a small offering for the sake of appearances, saying we would render whatever service we could in return. To this, the reply was: "As you know, we reside in the midst of enemy territory, and the fields along the roads have gone to ruin. Moreover, as it is springtime, it would be awkward to offer gifts just now. If you come down again in autumn, we shall offer you a modest gift." Finding this reasonable, we said: "In that case, if you would write us a letter now regarding the small amount to be given in autumn, we could arrange a loan in Kyoto and come down at the end of autumn to settle the matter," and proceeded to make arrangements for the future...