(Continuing from previous page) Since arriving in the capital at this late stage, whatever we might say would not be taken as sincere, we proposed to make arrangements in Kyoto (the capital) and manage from there. They responded that, given such a cordial sentiment, they would instruct the local magistrates accordingly, and we received a modest number of goods.

As we accompanied the daily inspection rounds of the castle's construction works every day, sweat began to run into our eyes and they became swollen. Upon this, we received the order: "Go up to the capital and recuperate, then come back down." We were also instructed by Lord Katagiri Shōzen (片桐主膳) to escort us as far as Okayama in Bizen Province. The details of all that occurred during this period are too numerous to describe with brush and paper. In accordance with the instructions, we traveled to Okayama, lodged for five or six days to recuperate our eyes, and then returned to the capital. We had traveled down in the third month and arrived in Kyoto around the 24th or 25th of the fifth month.

Item: On the 2nd day of the sixth month, Akechi Hyūga-no-kami (Mitsuhide) struck down Lord Nobunaga. Lord Hideyoshi was besieging Takamatsu Castle in the western provinces and achieved his objectives (by negotiating a settlement), taking it under his custody. He then rapidly marched up to the capital and punished Lord Akechi, thus achieving his great ambition.

Item: During the era of Lord Nobunaga, there was a dispute concerning Kifune Mountain and Futase Village, matters that are integral to the administration of our shrine (Upper Kamo Shrine). The Kyoto magistrate, Lord Murai, ruled one-sidedly in favor of Futase, leaving our shrine at a disadvantage. All parties were extremely troubled by this. However, since Lord Akechi was a co-magistrate, it was suggested that we appeal to him. Though it was said there was no connection to him, we proposed to rely on Yakuin (likely the head of the Court Medical Office). As we were on particularly good terms with Yakuin, this writer asked Yakuin to help, and accompanied by those who would visit Lord Akechi — Lord Tōjishō, Lord Nishi-Tango-no-kami, Lord Minbu-no-Shōyu, and the shrine administrator (雑掌) — we proceeded to Shōkoku-ji Temple and reported our circumstances through an attendant as had been customary. We were immediately heard, and received a reply that the matter would be adjudicated in the same manner as Lord Murai's ruling, with all parties being heard.

Item: At this time, Lord Sakuma had his encampment at Tennōji in Osaka, and various forces were gathering at Tennōji...