(Continued from the previous page) We had proposed to Lord Ishu (Iga-no-kami) that the various vermillion-seal documents be consolidated onto a single sheet of paper. He told us to prepare a draft document, and stated at that time that ten pieces of silver would be provided as a writing fee. However, only five pieces were actually delivered, which we found most suspicious. Thereafter, a person referred to as Daigo informed us that he had retrieved the five pieces back.

Item: Regarding the succession vermillion-seal document (継目御朱印) of His Excellency the Shogun, Hidetada — we received it by going forth at the summons delivered via an imperial messenger (御雑色).

　Item: Concerning the shrine estate — thirty-four koku and six to within Nishigamo in Yamashiro Province, and two thousand five hundred and thirty-seven koku and four to within Kamigamo, totaling two thousand five hundred and seventy-two koku — as well as the bamboo, timber, and various services within the shrine precincts: these shall remain as per previous precedent, and shall henceforth conform in perpetuity to the terms of the prior document dated the twenty-seventh day of the seventh month of Genna 1st year, without deviation. This document is issued accordingly.

　　　　　Genna 3rd Year [1617], Seventh Month, Twenty-First Day　　[Vermillion Seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　To: Kamigamo
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shrine Families (Shake)

Item: In Tenshō 10th year [1582], when a land survey (検地) was conducted throughout this province, I personally and independently petitioned Lord Hideyoshi, and succeeded in ensuring that not a single surveyor's rod (棹) was admitted into the precincts of this shrine. As for the assessed yield from areas outside the precincts, we were instructed to submit a written declaration (指出), but when we reported that preparing such a declaration was difficult, the land survey itself was exempted, and consequently the declaration requirement was also waived. However, all other domains were likewise exempted.

Item: During the land survey of Tenshō 13th year [1585], certain persons within this area raised objections and caused disruptions, and as a result we were unable to make our petition as intended, and the surveyors' rods were admitted into the shrine grounds. Nevertheless, arrangements were made so that the survey rods would be exempted for the interior of the shrine precinct grounds…