some fires were extinguished, reducing the number to twenty-seven locations.
The next morning, past the hour of the Snake (around 10 AM), all fires were completely extinguished, and people felt relief.
The above is an outline of the calamity that befell the shogunal capital. As for the surrounding areas: to the north, along the Oshu Highway, Senju post station was severely affected, then the shaking became milder toward Soka and Koshigaya, crossing Kurihashi bridge, with the limits reaching Koga and Utsunomiya. ○To the west, on the Koshu Highway from Naito-Shinjuku downward, the shaking was very mild. ○To the south, on the Tokaido, Shinagawa post station was severely affected, Kawasaki post station was mild, Kanagawa post station was extremely severe with many collapsed houses, extending to the limits of Odawara. ○To the east, around Gyotoku and Funahashi, the shaking was strong with many collapsed houses and deaths. Around Narita it was very mild. ○On the Mito Highway, around New Station and Matsudo there were many collapsed houses, around Kogane it was strong, extending to the limits of Tsuchiura in Hitachi Province. ○To the northwest, on the Nakasendo from Itabashi through Konosu and Kumagaya areas to Honjo post station as the limit, beyond which it was very mild. Thus, within an area of approximately thirty to forty ri in all directions, the shogunal capital was at the very center.
○During this earthquake, toward the east, light appeared like lightning

and disappeared after a short time. This was likely due to the yang energy compressed underground being released all at once. On the 18th of the same month, rain began falling around noon, and entering the night the wind and rain became fierce. Around midnight, thunder was heard three or four times with lightning as well. This too was perhaps the release of underground energy.
○At this time, the number of those crushed by beams or burned to death is unknown. Some were dug out from collapsed houses and emerged safely, while others died. Particularly in areas of fire spread, many who were pinned under beams but not yet dead were burned alive. The funeral processions rushed east and west, with some carrying multiple bodies on palanquin stretchers, and when there were too many, loading them onto large eight-wheeled carts to pull them along - truly an unprecedented calamity and natural disaster. Though called a rare celestial phenomenon, it was a source of tears whether witnessed or spoken of, truly beyond description.
○　▲Losses from earthquake fires and collapses
○Damaged samurai residences: 4,125 buildings ○Burned down　The state of people whose homes were destroyed, sleeping outdoors