At the site where Yoichi Yoshitada and his retainer Toyoza died in battle, there are graves by the roadside.
▲Komegami Village ▲Nebukawa ●There is a checkpoint here. The prohibitions are the same as at Hakone. For travel permits, townspeople need their landlord's seal, and peasants need their village official's seal ●Masterless samurai ●Town doctors ●Tonsured people ●Young men with forelocks, etc. - for such people, specify how many《Note: specify how many are masterless samurai, doctors, or young men, etc.》●From this area, Nebukawa stone is quarried. Fine stones are abundant by the roadside ▲Enoura offers spectacular scenery ▲Akazawa Village ●There is Mount Akazawa, but they say the Mount Akazawa mentioned in the Azuma Kagami and Soga Monogatari is not this location ▲Kawahori ▲Yoshihama Village《three ri to Atami》Around here, Izu stone is quarried. This is a good lunch stop from Odawara ▲Monga《there is a river at the border between Izu and Sagami》▲Narusawa ▲Izusan《eighteen chō to Atami》●The shrine of Izu Gongen is located by the roadside. It is a famous place with many ancient poems, starting with the Manyōshū.

○Scenic Beauty of Atami　Izu Province, Kamo District, Kuzumi Manor　Twenty-eight ri from Edo

The reason it is called Atami (Hot Ocean) is that in ancient times there were hot springs on the seashore of this place, and the boiling water heated the waves, hence it was named Atami. Three sides are surrounded by mountains, and the south faces the vast ocean. Every ship traveling to the Eastern Capital passes through these waters. There are two villages in the same district as Atami: Wada Village and Minokuchi Village.
While Kyōzan was staying in Atami, the innkeeper showed him a booklet recording information about Atami. The following explanations often follow that book.

○Three Routes from Atami　▲The northern route to Odawara is as described earlier

▲Southwest route to Mishima, five ri ▲Karuizawa ▲Bin-no-sawa ▲There is a branch road from Hirai to Hōjō ▲Ōdoi ▲Hachimizo ▲Ōba ▲Mishima ▲Southern route to Ajiro Bay, two ri ▲Wada Village ▲Kami-Taga ▲Shimo-Taga《hamlet name: Nakano》▲Koyama ▲Wadaki ▲reaching Ajiro

○The Cave at Itō Cape
Wada Tanenaga's entry into the cave at Itō Cape by order of Yoriie is recorded in the Azuma Kagami.

○Hot Springs and Strange Fish at Itō Cape
There is a temple in the village, and beside it are hot springs. In the temple pond there are fish whose shape resembles carp, but...