Believing this to be a revelation from Yakushi Nyorai (the Medicine Buddha), the monk practiced purification rituals and entered a cave on the seashore, fasting and praying for twenty-one days. On the night of the fulfillment of his vow, the mountains behind rumbled, the waves on the sea surged violently, and the sound was like that of hundreds and thousands of thunderclaps. After a while, both the sea and mountains became calm, so the monk emerged from the cave and looked around. He saw something rising like clouds from the foot of the mountain behind. The monk, finding this strange, went to that place and saw that the mountain had collapsed, exposing rocks, and hot water was gushing forth from between the rocks like a divine dragon opening its mouth to spout water. Thinking that his spiritual power had been fulfilled and the hot spring from the sea had moved here, the monk remained at this place, prayed to Yakushi Nyorai for seven days asking that this hot spring be given healing powers to help relieve the suffering of all people, and then departed. What the people of Atami call "Oyu" (Great Hot Spring) to this day is this very spring. From the Tenpyo-hoji era until now, Bunsei 13 (1830), for over eleven hundred years, the spring has never ceased flowing for even a single day - truly a miraculous and mysterious sacred spring.
《This account is transmitted in the oral traditions of the local people. Though Momoki (the author) has other theories, he follows the local legend for now.》

○Therapeutic Effects of the Hot Spring
Though Atami's hot spring is the finest medicinal bath in the Kanto region, many people think of it merely as a place for pleasure trips and do not know its healing properties in detail, so I record its therapeutic effects here. ▲Excellent for stroke patients whose limbs are numb and cannot walk as they wish. ▲For eye diseases, blurred vision, and inflamed eyes - bathing for seven days and washing the eyes produces wonderful cures. ▲Lower back pain ▲Beriberi ▲Muscle cramps ▲Bruises ▲Sprains ▲Various parasites ▲Tapeworms ▲Hemorrhoids ▲Rectal prolapse ▲Gonorrhea《good for children》▲Asthma ▲Women's cold lower back ▲Women who cannot conceive ▲Qi deficiency ▲Blood loss ▲Toothache《for loose teeth, holding this water in the mouth is effective》▲Tumors ▲Sword wounds. When entering this bath, it first expels the toxins and then achieves complete healing wonderfully. All of the above are effective when medical treatment has been exhausted without results. However, those with edema, abdominal distension, and leprosy should avoid this bath. If one does not abstain from sexual activity while taking the baths, the effects will be slow.

Incidentally, in early July of Bunsei 13 (1830), Momoki (the author) came to this place and stayed at the Watanabe family's guesthouse to bathe in the hot spring. At that time, the hostess told him that in the middle of this spring, her husband went to Edo...