A horse ran and fell into this hot spring pool and died. Even now, if you face the hot spring pool and call "Seizaemon nurushi," it bubbles up according to your voice. If you call loudly, it bubbles up greatly; if you call softly, it bubbles up gently. This is similar to the Totsusen spring of Jushu in China. ▲Heizaemon-yu: Also called Hōsai-yu. Located north of Kamimachi. When people call its name, it bubbles up in response to their voice, same as Seizaemon-yu. Similar to the spring of Mount Bōzan in China that bubbles when you clap your hands, the spring of Gakuyō that bubbles upon hearing human voices, and the spring of Seirei that bubbles in response to human footsteps - these are stories common to both Japan and China, as learned people have said before, according to local tales. ▲Mizu-yu (Water Bath): Located north of Honmachi, near Sakamachi. Only this bath lacks saltiness and is like boiled water, hence called "water bath." About five shaku south from the source of Mizu-yu, there is a place where hot water springs up, and this water does have saltiness. The underground spring veins are immeasurable. ▲Furo-no-yu (Bath Hot Spring): Located in the courtyard of a residence (Takasago-ya Daisuke) west of Mizu-yu. About three shaku to the east, a thin stream of hot water springs up from between stones. This water has no saltiness at all. Salty and non-salty waters are neighbors separated by merely three shaku. The spring of Kōjō County in China and the lake water of Sekitō in Wu are said to be half cold and half hot, but compared to this spring, they are not particularly remarkable. ▲Sajirō-no-yu: Located in front of Iōji Temple gate. Named after being in the courtyard of someone called Sajirō. ▲Kawara-no-yu: Located east of Shimomachi, near the beach.

○Mountains, Rivers, Islands, Caves, Stones, Wells

▲Izusan: Eighteen chō north of Atami. Pass the foot of this mountain to reach Odawara. ▲Ueno-yama: Located east of Atami. ▲Wada-yama: Located south, with Wada village at its foot. Five chō from Atami. ▲Nenbutsu-yama: A high peak continuing from Wada-yama. ▲Higane-yama: More than one ri west of Atami. Climbing five to six chō further from this mountain leads to ▲Maruyama. Also called ▲Jūkoku-tōge (Ten Provinces Pass). Being an excellent high peak among neighboring peaks, it offers views in all directions. Called Jūkoku-tōge because you can see five islands and ten provinces at a glance. The superb scenery and remarkable views are indescribable. All these mountains have many mountain azaleas. When in full bloom, it's as if the mountains were wrapped in brocade.