It is said to exist. Upon hearing this story, I too thought I would like to visit, but during my stay there were few clear days, and I was unable to fulfill this wish.

▲ Nishiki no Iwaya (Brocade Cave) - Located on the eastern shore at the foot of Nenbutsu Mountain. The rocks inside the cave have five-colored hues that reflect in the waves like brocade.

▲ Kannon no Iwaya (Kannon Cave) - Adjacent to the Nishiki Cave. There is a hole large enough for people to pass through. It is commonly called "tainai-kuguri" (womb crawling).

▲ Goban-seki (Go Board Rock) - The stone has wrinkles resembling the lines of a go board. It is said to be the place where Minamoto no Yoritomo played go when he was in Izu.

▲ Arare-iwa (Hailstone Rock) - Several stones lined up like hailstones.

▲ Kabuto-iwa (Helmet Rock) ▲ Eboshi-iwa (Court Cap Rock) - Both are located near the tainai-kuguri and are named after their shapes.

▲ Nishiki no Ura ▲ Nasu no Ura - Refers to the rocky shores north and south of the tainai-kuguri.

▲ Yoko-iso ▲ Wada-iso - Refers to the rocky shore of Wada Village. Rich in abalone.

▲ Ito River - Its source flows from the mountain of Kinomiya Myojin Shrine, through Atami's Shinmachi and Shinjuku districts, and into the sea.

▲ Hatsu River - Emerges from the mountains of Minokuchi Village, passes through the foot of Maruyama, and flows into the sea.

▲ Wada River - Flows from Wada Mountain, winds around Wada Village, and enters the sea. All are narrow streams, so bridges are built for crossing. Rich in sweetfish (ayu).

▲ Narihira Well - Located in Atami Shinjuku. It has a stone well curb and is said to be named after Ariwara no Narihira's poetry.

▲ Santen Well - Located in front of Onsenji Temple. It is said to have been named by Zen Master Ungo based on the "three dots" allusion. Being Atami's finest water, noble persons who bathe in this area always use this well.

▲ Taga Ippai-sui (Taga One Cup Water) - Located beside the mountain path that crosses Nenbutsu Mountain to reach Ajiro Village. It is a small spring with a circumference of barely one shaku. It is cold as ice and clear as crystal. Legend says that long ago Yoritomo...

[Bathing Room Diagram]
Every house has three or four of these. Most are like the diagram shows. When grass and flowers are immersed in this hot water, the flowers bloom in a wondrous way.