【Yanagawa Date Family Document　3-2-1-2-1】

My ancestors have used the name Koyanagawa since the time of Koyanagawa Nakatsukasa-taifu Morimune. However, I have not received any oral tradition regarding from which generation of my great-great-grandfather Koyanagawa Deiban onward the family began receiving a domain stipend (chigyō).

My grandfather, of the same clan, Gyōbu Yoshiwa, held a stipend of eighty kan-mon. Upon his death from illness, the family succession (atoshiki) proceeded without incident, and the stipend was granted to my late father, of the same clan, Nakatsukasa. Subsequently, as my father was dispatched to the border area of Natesaki Village in Esashi District, an additional stipend of twenty kan-mon was granted. Furthermore, during the general land survey (sō-kenchi) in the Kan'ei era (1624–1644) under the lordship of Gizansamа (Lord Date Tadamune), he was appointed as a deputy inspector (moshiro) for the survey and received an additional stipend of twenty kan-mon. Additionally, for the surveying (sao-ire) of new paddy field development land (okime) adjacent to the Natesaki Village domain in the Noyachi area, a stipend equivalent to seventeen kan and ninety-four mon was granted on the tenth day of the second month of Manji 3 (1660), bringing the total combined stipend to one hundred thirty-seven kan and ninety-four mon.

In the tenth month of Kanbun 10 (1670), my late father Nakatsukasa was ordered into retirement, and I was informed on the twenty-sixth day of the tenth month of that same year, in Edo through Harada Kai, that the aforementioned stipend would be granted to me without alteration. Furthermore, regarding my appointment to the position of magistrate (bugyō), messengers Amano Magodayū and Aneba Hachirozaemon were dispatched from Edo, and on the fourth day of the twelfth month of Kanbun 12 (1672), the appointment was formally conveyed to me at the late Kouchi Shima's residence, with both messengers present alongside Shima.

In the fifth month [or eleventh month] of Enpō 3 (1675), I was summoned before the lord, and following consultation with the Lord Minonokamі-sama and the senior councillors (rōjū), I was directly informed that the stipend would be granted as a service stipend (oyakuryō chigyō), bringing the total combined stipend to [a certain amount].

Furthermore, for the surveying of new paddy field development land adjacent to Natesaki Village domain, a stipend equivalent to ten kan and six hundred fifty-seven mon was granted on the twenty-third day of the eleventh month of Enpō 3 (1675). On the twenty-first day of the third month of Enpō 5 (1677), a further stipend of one hundred seventy-six mon was granted for the surveying of new paddy field development land adjacent to the same village's domain. The total of all stipends currently held through these grants is as stated above.

The above is a complete account.