[He] shall use [the long-handled umbrella] in like manner — this too we intend to instruct in accordance with prior precedent. As the above has been the established practice from the outset, we hereby notify you through a messenger as a precautionary measure. Respectfully submitted.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Retainer of Matsudaira Hyōbu-no-taifu
　　　　　　　　　　Eighteenth day of the third month　　　Asai Genzaemon

Item: On the nineteenth day of the third month, Honda Kuranosuke (Tomi-tsugu/Fushō) made rounds of visits (kaikin) to the Senior Councillors (rōjū) and Junior Councillors (wakadoshiyori) to formally notify them of his arrival in Edo. On that occasion, he requested the assistance of and was accompanied by the Commander of the Advance Guard (o-sakte), Lord Tokuyama Gohei. After completing his rounds of visits, Kuranosuke proceeded directly to [his lord's] residence, reported the completion of his rounds, and was granted an audience.

Item: On the twenty-first day of the same month, [the lord] proceeded to the castle (on the twentieth day — the previous day — an official notice bearing the joint signatures of the Senior Councillors arrived from the Duty Councillor). Assembling in the Tenjō-no-ma, the Inspector (o-metsuke) officials provided guidance. Thereafter, [the lords] were seated from above the lower dais (ge-dan) of the Great Hall (Ōhiroma) extending into the adjacent room (o-tsugi-no-ma), covering those of the Fourth Rank and above as well as lords of ten thousand koku and above, including their designated heirs. After all were seated, His Presence (the Shogun) appeared. At that time, the Duty Councillor, Lord Matsudaira Noto-no-kami (Noriyoshi), announced that a Decree (go-hōrei) was to be proclaimed by His Lordship's command. An august pronouncement was made, and all in attendance expressed their reverent joy (kyōetsu). After this was concluded and His Presence had retired, the Decree was placed upon the writing stand (bundai) and read aloud by Lord Hayashi Daigaku-no-kami (Nobumitsu) from the middle dais (chūdan). Upon completion, all in attendance conveyed their expressions of reverent joy to the Senior Councillors. Thereafter, [the lord] proceeded to the castle of the West Enclosure (Nishi-no-maru) to offer congratulations to the Ōgosho-sama [the Retired Shogun] and the Dainagon-sama [the Middle Counselor]. In the Great Hall, [the lord] was received by the Chamberlains (sōja-ban) Lord Matsudaira Bichū-no-kami (Masaomi) and Lord Akimoto Settsu (Ryōtomo).

　　　　　　Note: As the articles of the aforementioned Decree are identical to those proclaimed in the second year of Kyōhō (1717, the year of the Fire Rooster), they are not recorded here.