(Continued from previous page)
…As the offerings have been made as described above, we humbly inquire regarding this matter and respectfully request your guidance. The above is submitted.

　　　Twenty-second day of the fourth month　　　　　　Matsudaira Hyōbu-no-taifu

Having submitted the above, on the following twenty-third day, directions were given to the effect that the same [procedure] should be followed as established precedent.

Item: On the same day, a meal was bestowed upon Honda Kuranosuke (Tomitsugu). The senior councillors (karō) Sakai Genba (Tomotaka) and Honda Mimbu (Michiyoshi) were appointed to dine in attendance. By express wish, one horse (dark bay, six years old) was also bestowed upon Kuranosuke.

Item: On the twenty-fourth day of the fourth month, as the departure [of the lord] was scheduled for the following twenty-fifth day, courtesy visits were made to each of the Senior Councillors (Rōjū) to inform them of the departure.

Item: On the twenty-fifth day of the same month, [the lord] departed from Edo, traveling along the Tōkaidō highway.

Item: On the twenty-sixth day of the same month, a summons was received from the Duty Councillor Lord Sakai Uta-no-kami (Tadayuki), and the resident representative (rusui) Ōtani Ichiemon (Yoshitsugu) attended. He was informed through a chamberlain (yōnin) that, regarding the previously requested audience with Honda Kuranosuke (Tomitsugu), the meeting would take place on the following twenty-seventh day, after [Lord Sakai's] return from his attendance at the castle; and that on that occasion, as per established precedent, members of the advance guard (o-sakite-shū) should accompany [Kuranosuke].

Item: On the twenty-seventh day of the same month, pursuant to the above, Honda Kuranosuke (Tomitsugu) attended upon the Duty Councillor Lord Sakai Uta-no-kami (Tadayuki) (accompanied by Tokuyama Gohei), and the audience took place.
　　Note: In the manner of bringing [gifts] along, a sword and gold (in lieu of a horse) were presented via a messenger.

Item: On the same day, at Unshō-ji temple, from the evening of the previous twenty-sixth day through this morning, the twenty-third memorial service (kaiki) for Hōsen-in-sama was conducted.

Item: On the second day of the fifth month, as a congratulatory offering for the Boys' Festival (Tango), summer robes (katabira) and unlined garments (hito-e) were presented via a messenger, as is customary.

Item: On the fifth day of the same month, as Honda Kuranosuke (Tomitsugu) was soon to depart from Edo, [a communication was sent] to the Duty Councillor Lord Nakatsukasa-no-taifu (Tadayoshi)… (continues on next page)