Item: On the twenty-first day of the fifth month, the messenger for the return-to-domain ceremony, Komamoku (Saneyoshi/Jitsukatsu), arrived in Edo and appeared before the Duty Councillor Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu (Tadayoshi) to present the formal letter. However, he was informed by the councillor's attendant (y┼Їnin) that, due to the passing of the Lord of Mito, Taijuin-sama, all [ceremonial] matters were to be suspended until the twenty-third day. He therefore returned home with the letter still in his possession.

Item: On the twenty-third day of the same month, regarding the domain grant (т»║жаў, temple land) that had been bestowed upon Anon-ji Temple in Y┼Фki by Hideyasu-sama, the temple had submitted a claim that the black seal (ж╗њтЇ░, kokuin) [on the document] was that of Gongen-sama [i.e., Tokugawa Ieyasu]. Accordingly, while still in residence in Edo, a messenger Рђћ the domain's resident representative (rusui) ┼їtani Ichiemon (Yoshitsugu) Рђћ had previously been dispatched to Akimoto Settsu-no-kami (Suzutomo/Ry┼Їch┼Ї) and Honda Kii-no-kami (Masayoshi) to request that the black seal be examined and verified. Word now came that the examination of the black seal would take place this day. Accordingly, a copy of the black seal along with its seal dimensions (тЇ░жЉЉ) were brought and presented to both officials by the same messenger. After their examination, he was informed that the seal specimen (тЇ░жЉЉ) should be submitted on the following day, the twenty-fourth.

сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђRegarding the grant of temple landholdings:

сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђFifty-three koku, located within Y┼Фki Hong┼Ї

сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђThe above amount is hereby granted as domain without any discrepancy. Thus it is as stated.

сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђBunroku 5 (Hinoto-Saru / 1596),
сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђTwentieth day of the first month
сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђРќа [Black seal] (The black seal of the Lord of Y┼Фki Ch┼Фnagon; the size is that of the daih┼Ї standard; it is as shown here. Within the double-bordered "fuku" [удЈ, fortune] design, there is РќаРќа. When the examination takes place, the seal specimen shall be submitted.)

сђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђсђђAnon-ji Temple