【Right page】
soldiers, how could they possibly match my brave troops? Moreover, you still do not know the true lineage of my medicine generals. Enjugan is Raishin, Baikōsan is Inkō, Jisōgan is Shinshin, and Kiryōtō is Hakuyukō. Though they have changed their forms and their supernatural powers are somewhat less free than before, their courage remains completely unchanged. Breaking your weak soldiers would be easier than taking something from a bag. Furthermore, during this time I have earnestly prayed to Taikōbō, burned sacred talismans, and made offerings to heaven and earth, so now your sorcery has been broken and lost, and none of it shall have any effect. Now I shall show you the proof of this, so quickly resign yourself and hasten to your death." Having finished speaking, he prayed toward heaven, and a voice came from the sky saying "Taikōbō is here! Demon army, quickly retreat!" As this was called out two or three times, golden auspicious light flashed forth and was seen illuminating the camp of the syphilis army, but the Syphilis

【Left page】
King suddenly stiffened in his entire body and fell headfirst from his carriage. When his attendant soldiers on left and right were startled and made a commotion, helping him up and tending to him in confusion, the medicine army took courage upon seeing this. Joining with Enjugan who had been resting earlier, they turned pitch black and cut fiercely. The syphilis army had no footing, and those who were struck down were like hemp stalks, crumbling and scattering in seven or eight pieces. The Syphilis King too appeared to be in grave danger, but while several dozen mounted soldiers held their ground and fought to the death, Scrofula Tumor-high lured them into our main camp and ordered the remaining soldiers to fortify the four gates and defend them strictly. The medicine army could not easily approach, and as both sides engaged in fierce battle, Juncho advanced his carriage and restrained them, saying: "Now that our side has gained advantage in one battle and driven the Syphilis King to this place, there is no longer anything to worry about. During this time we should completely pacify all the roads." He ordered Enjugan to surround Scrofula's main camp from four directions, and that passage