【Right page】
blocked the roads, and also divided Enjugan's elite troops to patrol throughout the country, having them kill on sight any fleeing warriors of the syphilis bandits as well as any evil people in the country who had sympathized with the syphilis bandits. He transmitted orders to Hochūekkitō and others to exhaust all their techniques of regulation and supplementation, so that within a short time the national power was completely restored to its original state. During this time, Enjugan surrounded Scrofula's camp from all four directions, attacking day and night and completely conquering all the various fortresses. Now only one fortress remained where the Syphilis King and Scrofula were holed up, so the Syphilis King turned to Scrofula and said: "I once undertook a great enterprise and plotted to destroy many human body countries, but heaven's fortune did not reach me and I was defeated by the likes of Juncho, losing many of my followers. Moreover, my strange arts have been broken and I can no longer use them. Furthermore, the enemy general Enjugan and all the others are said to be transformations of Raishin and the rest. In such a case, to

【Left page】
achieve victory over them is unthinkable. Now I have resolved to die in battle. That you alone have stayed with me until this moment - how joyful this is for me! Come, let us sally forth and engage in a glorious battle to prepare for our final memory." When he said this, Scrofula also shed tears: "Truly as you say, many of our comrades have all met their deaths in battle in various countries, and for me alone to attend your final moments is my life's greatest wish - nothing could surpass this. However, even if we sally forth with just our meager force of lord and retainer, how could we possibly oppose the victorious medicine army? Rather than fall into the hands of nameless common soldiers, it would be better for you, my lord, to commit suicide quickly. I shall handle the brief defense." Having said this, he stood up from his seat, took the Syphilis King's hand and pushed him toward the interior. Then he cast off his armor, threw away his chain mace, took up his great sword and lightly set forth, leading the remaining soldiers and appearing at the camp gate, among the Syphilis King's retainers