【Right page】
　　　Appendix
　On the origin of syphilis: Various scholars have different theories. Chen states that it originated from the Lingnan region. The "Secret Records of Syphilis" states: "The land of Lingnan is low, humid and warm, with no frost or snow, and snakes and insects do not hibernate. All manner of filth accumulates in the earth, and when warm weather comes, the humid toxins and miasmic vapors steam together - if objects are infected by this they become syphilitic and prone to decay and damage, and if people are infected, sores and ulcers easily invade them." Those who advocate the Dutch theory refute Chen's explanation, saying: "If it originated from the Lingnan region, it should have existed since ancient times, yet it did not exist in antiquity but arose only in Chen's era at the end of the Ming dynasty - what is the reason for this? This theory is quite inappropriate. Originally, the source of syphilis was the Dutch and French people. In 1494 years since the founding of Holland, corresponding to the 3rd year of Meio in Japan, they discovered America, and invaded America's

【Left page】
　Antilles islands, plundered treasures, and also seized women and kept them aboard ship. All who had relations with them developed syphilis, and from this it spread to Holland. Therefore it is called 'French pox.' 'Pox' means sores. The disease name is yaws. Ten years later, Dutch merchant vessels came to the port of Canton in China and transmitted it to the Cantonese people. Therefore in China it is called 'Canton sores.' Later, in the 12th year of Eiroku in Japan, foreign ships entered and settled at Nagasaki port, and it was transmitted from foreigners to the people of Nagasaki, so initially it was called 'Chinese sores.'" These are all empty theories not worth considering. America is located to the northwest of Japan, separated by tens of thousands of ri, and is a vast boundless great nation. What is the reason that the natives of this country contracted this disease? The Dutch people also