The effects gradually became more precise, and he discussed the source of the disease, saying it originated from the Lingnan region. Since then, although many have continued to discuss this matter, no one has yet been seen to obtain the proper treatment method. Here there was a person called Tokujitsu Junchoku (Sincere and Upright). He had once labored his mind on the therapeutic techniques for syphilis, studying broadly and extensively, gradually mastering the method himself, and manufactured many medicinal preparations to spread this knowledge to the world. However, people all believed the words of mediocre doctors and feared and slandered the potent medicines like calomel and mercury preparations, so many criticized them while very few used them. Junchoku thought this regrettable and, somehow wanting to discover an unparalleled miraculous prescription and demonstrate the wonder of certain cure for syphilis, avoided people and secluded himself in a room, extensively researching medical texts until he almost forgot to sleep and eat.

One night, as usual, he sat alone under the remaining lamplight, deep in contemplation, when suddenly a chill invaded his skin and he sensed someone approaching. Junchoku found this strange and, fixing his gaze, looked up to see a woman about sixteen years old, with a face like white jade, lips like red flowers, eyebrows thinner than a three-day moon, and a waist more graceful than February willows. Her long black hair trailed to the hem of her scarlet hakama as she glided forth elegantly - at first glance she could topple a castle, at second glance she could topple a kingdom. Beautiful and mysterious with a hundred charms, from behind a cypress fan held half-covering her face, she looked at Junchoku and smiled sweetly, saying in a beautiful voice: "You surely do not know who I am. I am the spirit of syphilis who has been battling with you daily. Through my supernatural powers I know of your recent endeavors. Therefore, I have appeared here thinking to explain the advantages and disadvantages to you, to stop your futile schemes and prevent you from useless suffering. First, let me tell you of my origins. At the time of the creation of heaven and earth, when the primordial chaos first separated, that which was pure and light ascended to become heaven, while that which was turbid and heavy..."