**Meeting in the Suburbs, the Host of Demons Discuss Their Plans; Changing Their Forms, Five Heroes Answer the Call**

Thus the two men rode upon clouds and traveled on the wind, their speed like that of arrows, covering several hundred ri in but a moment. When the wind calmed somewhat, they stepped firmly upon the trailing clouds and rested briefly. Unaccustomed to such aerial travel, Junchoku's teeth chattered uncontrollably, thinking "If I should slip from here, I would surely be smashed to pieces like pottery thrown from Mount Atago. How terrifying!" His skin crawled with goosebumps, his body trembled, and holding his breath, he clung so desperately to Raishin's armor sleeve that it might tear. His appearance resembled a turtle clinging to a dragon's tail, neck withdrawn in fear.

Raishin drew Junchoku to his left side, saying: "Master, do not fear. The clouds are my vehicle, so there is not the slightest worry of falling through. Below us is the place where that evil spirit's leader and retinue gather to hold council. Calm your heart and observe." Finally coming to his senses at these words, Junchoku released the armor sleeve, though his knees still would not steady. Having Raishin hold his belt, he thrust his face over the edge of the cloud and looked far down upon the world below.

Though he could not tell what country it was, upon a vast desolate plain several clusters of demonic aura had gathered. In the center sat what appeared to be the Syphilis King, wearing robes and cap of syphilis-color, with imposing dignity commanding the area around his seat. Beside him were his retainer generals: Jōkō, Ketsudoku, and others including Ketsudoku, Nanji, Rōsoku, Gekan, Idoku, Nukekane, Ruireki, Haretaka, Jishitsu, Jirō, Bendoku, Haremitsu, Yōbaisō, Hironari, Gekan, Hayanari, Honeita, Ugokazu, Naigekan, Hirifiri, Rinbyō, Dekane, Gangasa, Iekane, Hizen, Kitanashi, and other warriors each worth a thousand men. Each led tens of thousands of followers, dressed in various costumes of blue, yellow, red, white, black, and other colors, all arranged in orderly ranks without breaking formation.

At that moment the Syphilis King straightened his ceremonial baton and said: "I, together with you all, in this land of Japan, in the bodies of the courtesans of Nagasaki's Maruyama...

【Volume 1, Page 10】