[Right Page]
One must surely obtain the effects of treatment. Those who do not yet know the methods of using medicinal generals, have no genuine heart to cure diseases, are involved in profit-seeking, and speak sweet words while calculating the patient's feelings—what are they if not sycophantic doctors (flatterer physicians)?

Even now they slander the military prowess of our Four Heavenly Kings like Enjūgan and call them rebels who harm the nation. In ancient times, Prince Yamato Takeru's martial valor killed the Kumaso who were Japan's disease; Fan Kuai's military prowess saved Emperor Gaozu of Han from sudden illness at the Hongmen Banquet; and Taira no Sadamori and Fujiwara no Hidesato used their martial valor to destroy Taira no Masakado, who was the great disease of the realm. These men were great poison to the evil forces, but good medicine for the sovereign.

Why do you slander the medicinal efficacy that cures disease as "drug toxicity" and try to eliminate the good generals who help the nation? You criminals of the medical profession, traitors to the state—my lord, quickly banish these two men and remove the nation's calamity! he spoke with sharp words.

Since these two men are flatterers who curry favor with the sovereign of the human body-nation and receive his favor, the protagonist mediated, saying that while the teacher's anger was justified,

[Left Page]
"Now we are troubled by the syphilis bandits threatening the nation, and if there should be internal strife among your faction during our council of war to defeat them, it would be inauspicious. Please forgive both men's crimes until the war is settled."

Then Junchoku also suppressed his anger and said, "Very well, but after the war is settled, I will surely cut off the ears and noses of these two traitors, banish them from the borders, and make an example of those who mislead the diseased nation and oppose medical principles." Saying this, he turned again to the assembly.

"How can this be—if everyone keeps silent, right and wrong cannot be clarified. Please each reveal your thoughts," he earnestly requested. From among the seated assembly, Kuchirikōan stepped forward and said, "I have one doubt. Generally speaking, when using generals like calomel preparations, nasal medicines, quicksilver, saltpeter, jalap, and scammony preparations, or using generals like sarsaparilla preparations, Gohōtan, Shikintan, Keirokusan, mercury pills and the like, though they may temporarily attack and defeat the syphilis bandits and bring peace to the nation, before long nameless bandits appear in various..."