[Right Page]
are due to being ignorant in the methods of employment, poor military strategy, improper conduct by the sovereign, and fools rashly slandering and obstructing the medicinal generals. The root of this is that treatment methods have not yet been developed." Upon hearing this, Gakui Sukatan shook his head left and right and said:

"Though I speak as an intermediary, there is something that must be said. What you argue is reasonable, but on what basis do you say 'treatment methods have not yet been developed'? Our Master Tōdō first invented the ancient medical methods, explored and understood the profound intentions of Bian Que and Zhongjing, and opened up the Treatise on Cold Damage and the Essential Prescriptions of the Golden Cabinet. Subsequently, Master Nangai established the theory of qi, blood, and water, and not only Japan but even foreign lands admire and submit to these brilliant discoveries. The Dutch too, seeing that when Master Tōdō devised the Zoku-shippō and applied calomel preparations where they had been ineffective, it was the same as the sarsaparilla of Holland, were amazed and held him in great reverence.

Our Master Tōdō is a sage among the famous physicians of the imperial court, and from this point treatment methods greatly developed, and the

[Left Page]
natural principles of disease became known. You too practice healing arts through Master Tōdō's way, so why do you say 'treatment methods have not been developed'? This is extremely presumptuous." 

At this, Junchoku smiled gently and replied: "As you say, since Master Tōdō, ancient medical methods have been developed, and now our imperial court's healing arts surpass those of the three countries. However, this syphilis is a disease that has become prevalent in recent times, and even the two masters Tōdō and Nangai have not yet discussed the details of this condition.

When I say 'treatment methods have not been developed,' I do not refer to miscellaneous diseases. I speak of the fact that the treatment methods for this one condition of syphilis are not detailed. Since this syphilitic disease is rare among nobles and high-ranking families, even the famous physicians of the realm do not trouble themselves with treating this disease. Therefore, what they have written consists only of empty theories and delusional discussions, and not one has produced detailed adaptive healing techniques or modifications of medicinal prescriptions.

Generally, nothing in the world helps the nation as much as water and fire. Also, nothing that harms the nation is greater than water and fire. Medicine is also like this."