[Right Page]
If one uses these medicines without knowing the method of proper dosage adjustment, and the amount is insufficient, one cannot eliminate the disease toxins; when used excessively, it conversely causes harm. The essential point of medicine lies in proper dosage adjustment. While the two masters Tōdō and Nangai achieved effects in their time with their gentle and drastic medicinal formulas according to their degree, this was merely the wonder of their personal mastery, and since they left no writings that could serve as standards for later generations, what should we use as guidance for syphilis treatment techniques? For this reason, I said that treatment methods have not yet been developed. Now, in your words, you mention Zoku-shippō (Continued Seven Treasures). With this, we should prove that medicine toxins poison the enemy toxins without poisoning the nation. The great physician of Japan past and present, Master Tōdō, named the mercury powder pills "Shippō-gan (Seven Treasures Pills)" because their efficacy far surpassed that of Gohō-tan (Five Treasures Elixir). For violent strong bandits and chronic diseases with accumulated toxins that are beyond the knowledge and courage of these Shippō-gan, he created a general called Zoku-shippō and constantly used it.

[Left Page]
Master Nangai formulated Seiseinyū (Life-generating Milk) as a general for eliminating chronic diseases and conquered strong bandits in various provinces. The fierce martial prowess of Seiseinyū, Zoku-shippō, and soppiru is four times greater than that of mercury powder. The two masters Tōdō and Nangai left teachings for physicians of the world and future generations that disease toxins, which are rebels against the nation, should be punished using the abilities of these three generals as well as nasal medicines, mercury pills, mercury powder pills, and others. However, they did not discuss how medicine toxins remain in the body and harm the nation in later days. Why should nameless folk doctors have reason to slander these medicine generals by promoting their sectarian views? Or those who outwardly despise mercury powder while secretly using it internally to deceive the diseased nation are most detestable. Works like "Secret Mirror of Syphilis Syndrome Treatment" and "Brief Words on Syphilis" recklessly slander mercury powder and argue that it should not be used, yet when unavoidable, they use mercury powder again - what is this about? To slander mercury powder saying it causes harm, yet