[Right Page]
When winds are gentle you would set the sail to one sho, and because autumn and winter winds are fierce, you would set the sail to five go - if you don't know how to adjust the sails and rudder properly, the ship will be completely damaged. Do you think that one should use medicine strongly for country people and weakly for Kamigata people? For fierce diseases, we use drastic medicines even for weak nations; for weak diseases, we use gentle remedies even for strong nations. Just as human body nations have different faces, even with the same disease there are symptoms difficult to attack with the same medicine, therefore there are adjustments of spoon measures for gentle-urgent, removal-addition, increase-decrease. Someone like you is no different from that bat which resembles a bird but is not a bird - resembling a doctor but not being a doctor, resembling a flatterer but not being a flatterer. You only utter useless clever words and confuse diseased nations, never even thinking of attacking and defeating great diseases that are strong enemies. With such thick skin, how dare you appear at this gathering and speak! If you truly wish to engage in medical discourse, first read ancient and modern books and then come again."

[Left Page]
When he said "come back," there was not a word of reply, and perhaps unable to bear the shame, the man held his head and fled like a mouse. Next to appear were Yabui Chikuan and Jiryō Yōsen, both bowing together: "When we observe the state of battles in various nations, we see that when robust and healthy human body nations are troubled by syphilis bandits, they use healing sore pills or seven treasure pills containing barely one fun of calomel to engage in battle, but immediately the gums swell, the mouth becomes ulcerated and they cannot eat, or they develop rashes and fever, or abdominal pain and diarrhea - in some nations the syphilis bandits are defeated and flee. In others, though they experience such healing crises, the syphilis bandits do not retreat at all and the medicine generals gain no victory. Also, when syphilis bandits barely attack and invade weak and frail human body nations, even when engaging in battle with pills and powders containing the equivalent of two monme of calomel, the mouth doesn't hurt at all, there's no fever or rash, no abdominal pain or diarrhea, and the syphilis bandits are greatly defeated and flee. In other cases, the syphilis bandits remain unperturbed