【Right Page】
The great general advanced to the front and called out "Small bandit! Come quickly and decide the battle!" His voice was like thunder overhead. The headache's spirit immediately fled, and without daring to utter a single word in response, he tried to flee into the camp. However, that general rushed forth like a flying bird and struck fiercely with an iron whip. How could one endure being struck by such great force? The headache's head was driven into his torso, and as he tumbled from his horse, [Enjugan] grabbed him with one hand and hurled him far away, calling out: "Weak general! Do you know my prowess? I am the divine general reborn, the medicine general Disinfectant Enjugan!" The small bandits lost their courage, and crying "The renowned martial general has come near - don't lose your lives! Flee! Flee!" they scattered like baby spiders. Enjugan pursued the fleeing enemies to the throat gate and showed his intention to attack immediately, so the soldiers of the syphilis camp were thrown into confusion and panic, hastily calling back their general Jōkō-Ketsudoku and firmly closing the four gates to prepare for defense. At this time,

【Left Page】
Daifutō led his army toward the lower region and filled in the small holes like moxa sores where the small bandits were hiding, one by one, circulating qi and blood, raising the skin and flesh, and removing the bandits' dwellings. Upon hearing this, Jishitsu-Jirō was greatly alarmed and when trying to turn his troops back toward the main camp, he sent a messenger to Jōkō-Ketsudoku saying: "I am now returning to the main camp to rescue our allies. Since Enjugan is an impetuous general, if he learns that I am withdrawing, he will surely pursue and attack. Quickly sally forth from your position and hold back Enjugan's forces." He sent this message and tried to withdraw with his troops. However, when the soldiers left behind by Enjugan saw this, they sallied forth and attacked from behind, so Jishitsu-Jirō repeatedly turned back to drive off the enemy soldiers, and thus naturally time passed. Based on Jishitsu-Jirō's message, Jōkō-Ketsudoku opened his formation and sallied forth to hold back the medicine army, charging toward Enjugan's forces.