【Right Page】
When they cursed him saying "Quickly prepare for your final moment," Enjumaru opened his mouth and laughed heartily, saying "I thought you were greedy and unrighteous bandits who knew nothing of human sentiment, yet you consider me your parents' enemy, abandon your lives to face me, and speak such bold words - how admirable! Though it pains me, I shall guide you both to your deaths as well." He twisted his spear and thrust forward. The two bandit generals also responded in kind: Ketsudoku Nanchi wielded his crescent-moon blade and Rōsoku Gekan swung his great sword as they clashed. Both armies became entangled in fierce battle, but struck by Enjumaru's valiant spear point, the syphilis army immediately showed signs of defeat.

At this point, Ketsudoku Nanchi and Rōsoku Gekan withdrew their horses slightly and separated to left and right. When they chanted the incantations they had learned, miraculously the forms of both men divided before one's eyes and became seven each. Fourteen bandit generals on left and right, all identically equipped and wielding great swords, called out in unison "Strike down Enjumaru and avenge our parents!"

【Left Page】
Shouting thus, they attacked from all four directions. Enjumaru remained undaunted, discarded his spear and drew his sword. Wielding an iron whip in his left hand like the raging fire-thunder god, he fought desperately against all fourteen opponents. But just when he thought he had struck one down in front, that enemy would suddenly appear behind him; when he saw that he had cut one down on the right, there it would be on the left, completely unperturbed. After about an hour of fighting, even the mighty Enjumaru's strength was exhausted. Thinking "I must withdraw for now and find a way to break this magic," he watched for an opening, turned his horse around, and galloped into the camp gates, with his soldiers following behind in disorder. The syphilis army, riding high on victory, raised battle cries and pursued them, clamoring to press their attack. Enjumaru gave orders to fire guns and crossbows like rain, and the syphilis army could not face this barrage. Saying "This is enough for now," they gathered their troops, withdrew slightly, and established their own positions. Enjumaru also had the four gates tightly closed, divided his forces to guard their assigned positions, and did not sleep at all throughout the night.