【Right Page, Upper Section】【Illustration】
Form on the twentieth day　White silkworms　Black silkworms
Boat shape　Garden shape

【Right Page, Lower Section】
All materials to be used at the time, from straw and brushwood to firewood, should be prepared in advance and kept dry to prevent moisture.

On what to know when silkworms are born
When spring arrives, take out the seeds you intend to harvest first that year around the middle day of the spring equinox, ensuring they don't get stuffy, and hang them in a high place where mice cannot reach. This timing should also be adjusted based on the warmth or cold of the land. Attach strings above and below the seeds and alternate hanging them top and bottom every other day. The reason for this is that even in places like second-floor storage areas, though the difference in height is slight, there are temperature variations, and seeds positioned higher will turn blue earlier and silkworms will emerge sooner. It is essential to ensure uniformity so that silkworms all emerge at once. In any year, silkworms will be born around the eighty-eighth night. At this time, thinking it is late, placing them in sunny spots, putting them in one's bosom, wrapping them in bedding and quilts, or placing them near fire to suddenly warm the seeds and force them out is extremely

【Left Page, Upper Section】
bad. Leave it to natural providence, and when all the seeds have turned blue and silkworms are beginning to emerge slightly, choose the ninth hour of the day when it is warm and sunny, take out the seeds, wrap them in about five or six sheets of white paper, then remove the top layer and wrap loosely with something soft like cotton, or place in a leather basket, wicker basket, or straw container, and put in a slightly warm place where heat can circulate. At this time, exposure to moisture is bad. If it is rainy, light a fire indoors to make it slightly warm. Pine and mulberry wood are good for fuel; wood with bad odors should not be burned. Also, no one nearby should smoke tobacco. Take

【Left Page, Lower Section】【Illustration】
During cold weather
Diagram of warming silkworms