...it flows out. However, in Japan, one does not hear of such hot springs existing anywhere other than Atami. According to Mr. Walton's treatise on hot springs, such hot springs are always located near the seaside and open several outlets. One of these outlets opens into the sea; at high tide, this opening is blocked by seawater, preventing the water from flowing out. Instead, the water flows back into its reservoir and erupts from other outlets. Such springs are called intermittent springs (kansen).

In former times, as the hot spring finished its eruption, tens of thousands of beetles would swarm and fly about, eventually mixing with the hot water and being carried away. However, during the Bunsei era (1818–1831), the monk Tokuhon 《Side note: The founder of Ichigyō-in temple in Komagome, Tokyo》, moved by the strange and pitiable sight, performed Buddhist rites and erected a stupa. From that time on, the insects never appeared again. This is passed down among the local people as a miracle. 《Side note: I was able to hear firsthand accounts from elderly locals who had themselves witnessed these insects. They said the insects resembled what locals called "iso-mushi" (shore insects), but no similar creatures could be found in either the mountains or the sea.》 The stone

stupa remains within the fence to this day. Several stone Buddha statues are also enshrined nearby. These are said to have been built by the monk Kan'yo 《Side note: Head priest of Seitoku-ji temple in Asakusa, Tokyo》 and others. There is also a stone monument erected by the British Minister, the Right Honourable Rutherford Alcock, who bathed in this spring in July of the first year of Man'en (1860). Several dozen characters are carved upon it, containing the words: "Loving the remarkable scenery of mountains and sea, I erect this stone so that later generations may know that it was we who first came to enjoy this place as Englishmen."

○Seizaemon-yu: Located behind the north side of Hamachō, behind Tenjin-yama. It springs forth continuously day and night, without cease. 《Side note: The same applies to all the following springs.》 According to tradition, long ago a farmer named Seizaemon fell into this spring pit and died, hence the name.

○Kobayashiya Upper Bath　○Kobayashiya Lower Bath 《Side note: Kobayashiya Munezō》　○Furuya Bath 《Side note: Uchida Ichirōzaemon》 — all of these are located in Higashimachi, and each derives its name from the fact that it springs up in the garden of the respective household.

○Ozawa-no-yu: Located in Ozawa, also known as Heizaemon-yu. There are three spring sources: one springs up in the residential grounds of Sawaguchi Yazaemon, and one in [Fujii's...]