...springs from the garden of Bunjirō, and one from the garden of Yonekura Sanzaemon. In Gidō's *Nikkō-shū* [Collection of Daily Works] (the monk Gidō was a Dharma heir of National Teacher Musō): "On the twenty-sixth day of the second month of the eighth year of Ōan, having finished a meal, I went out to stroll with various companions — through village lanes and monk's quarters. There was a man of the Way who pointed to a certain place and said: 'Long ago, Heizaemon committed crimes and built a mansion on this land. When he was brought to execution, the building sank into the earth. People all say he fell alive into hell. To this day it is called Heizaemon's Hell.'" This likely refers to the hot spring cavern here. It is also said that in former times this bath was called the "Hōsai-yu" (Law-purification Bath), though the reason for this is no longer known in detail.

○ Urokoya-no-yu ○ Sakamoto-ya-no-yu: Springs up in the garden of Sakamoto-ya, Mizutani Sasuke, in Saka-chō. ○ Furo-no-yu: Comes up in the garden of Takasago-ya, Ōki Enzō, in Saka-chō. ○ Takasago-ya-no-yu: Located in Saka-chō, formerly called Wakamatsu-ya-no-yu. Now the land has come into the ownership of Ōki Enzō, and the name has been changed accordingly. ○ Mizu-no-yu (Water Bath): Comes up in the garden of Fukushima-ya, Matsuo Sōbē, in Saka-chō. It is mild and without any saltiness — a so-called neutral spring — and is said to share the same properties as the mineral springs of Hakone in Sagami Province, Nikkō in Shimotsuke Province, Hinaku in Higo Province, and others. (The spring quality, medicinal properties, etc. are recorded in detail in Dr. Habertz's *Independent Guide to Japanese Hot Springs*.)

○ Kawara-yu: Located on the eastern beach, formerly called Kawara-no-yu (Tile Bath). It is said that in the sixth year of Kanbun, the lord of Odawara Castle, Inaba Mino-no-kami, built a bathhouse for the villagers and tiled its roof with kawara roof tiles, hence the name "Kawara-no-yu." ○ Masuya-no-yu: Formerly called Naka-no-yu, it springs up on the residential land of a certain Takahashi in Hama-chō. Now the land has come into the ownership of Masuya, Yamada Tōkichi, and so it bears this name.

○ Kamanari-ya-no-yu (Futami Heizaemon) ○ Iseya-no-yu (Akutagawa Kyūzaemon) ○ Azumaya-no-yu (Uzawa Sōkichi) ○ Nakatamaya-no-yu (Noda Sōbē) ○ Inkyo Tamaya-no-yu (Noda Sōhachi) — all located in Hama-chō. (This area was struck by a fire in March of the eighteenth year of Meiji [1885]. There have likely been some changes since then.) The spring quality and medicinal properties are all said to be the same as Kawara-yu.

○ Sajirō-no-yu: Springs up in the garden of Uesugi Sukeshichi in Naka-chō. This spring is especially effective in treating eye diseases, and so is called "Me-no-yu" (Eye Bath). It is also said to have a remarkable effect when washing burns —