...and so it is said.

○Hatsushima Island　This is a solitary island located three ri by sea from Atami, measuring seven to eight chō from east to west and four to five chō from north to south (with a former assessed rice yield of 93 koku, 3 tō, and 5 shō). It is the very island referred to as the "small island in the offing" in the poem composed by the Minister of the Right of Kamakura (Minamoto no Sanetomo): "As I cross over the Hakone road, I can see the waves breaking upon a small island in the sea of Izu." There are more than forty households, most of whom make their living by fishing. On the western side of the island stands Hatsuki Shrine, dedicated to the deity Konohanakahatsukihime. It is said that this goddess was the first to discover the hot spring known as Hashiriyu on Mount Izusan. There are a stone torii gate and stone lanterns, which were erected during the Kyōhō and Genroku eras. There are also two Sōtō Zen temples: one is called Tōmyōji, situated on the eastern side of the island among dense pine and camphor trees; the other is called Jifukuji, located just to the south of Hatsuki Shrine, up a flight of stone steps. Both belong as branch temples to Zenshūin in Ajiro Village. Throughout this island, narcissus flowers are found in great abundance; their leaves and flowers are remarkably large and quite striking to behold. Peach trees are also plentiful. The island's products include tea, wheat, peaches, and sweet potatoes.

○Ōmu-seki (Parrot Rock)　This rock is located several tens of chō to the south of the highway leading to Mishima post town, in Tanna Village of Tagata District, approximately three ri and more from Atami. The rock stands over one jō and six shaku tall and measures more than six shaku in width. Human voices and all other sounds echo off this rock so instantaneously that there is not the slightest gap between a sound and its echo. A record by Chikkei (a text written by Nishihara Akira during the Meiwa era survives) states: "Could this not be the 'echo rock of the Nangaku Junrō Peak' mentioned in the Kōmonki?" In recent years, the rock reportedly suffered damage from a brush fire, greatly diminishing its resonance.

○Ippai-sui (One-Cup Spring)　This spring is found in Taga Village, beside the Shimoda highway. It is a modest spring of barely more than one shaku across, yet it is as clear and cold as crystal. It is traditionally said that the Right General Yoritomo, passing through this place, scooped up and drank from it when overcome by thirst. In addition to the above, there are: Komagata-dō (the place where Yoritomo's horse was buried), Kuromine (a mountain with a pond at its summit), Chōshiguchi, and Bin-no-sawa (all of which have Jizō halls, tended by lay monks).