it was relocated [to its present location]. The Uchida family oversees the religious ceremonies.

○Shrine of Ki no Kakinomoto: Located south of Yokocho Onaribashi Bridge. It enshrines Ki no Kakinomoto Sōjō. According to local tradition, Sōjō Shinzei was implicated in the affair of the Somedono Empress and was exiled here, where he eventually died. However, this tradition is greatly mistaken. According to Buddhist biographical records (sōshi), the monk Shinzei was a native of Yamashiro, son of Daihitsu Ki no Misono of the Danjo office, and one of the ten great disciples of Kōbō Daishi (Kūkai). During the Jōwa era (834–848), he received an imperial command to travel to Tang China, and upon his return was appointed head of Tō-ji Temple, then became Sōjō (Archbishop). He is said to have passed away on the twenty-fifth day of the second month of Jōgan 2 (860) at Jingo-ji Temple on Mount Takao. The "Honchō Kōsōden" (Biographies of Eminent Monks of Our Country) states: "People have transmitted the story that Shinzei was bewitched by desire and became a demon. I have long doubted this... Upon reading the Zengoke Hiroki cited in the Shingon-den, my doubts were finally resolved. It states that a Buddhist monk from Mount Kinpusen cast spells upon the illness of the Fujiwara empress, became enamored upon seeing her beauty, transformed into an evil spirit, and entered her bedchamber. Since Kiyoyuki was a great Confucian scholar of his time and his observations were reliable, it is certain that this has nothing to do with Saiko (Shinzei)," and so forth. This explanation is sufficient to correct the erroneous tradition. However, the reason why this monk is enshrined at this particular location remains unclear. (Could it be a corruption derived from the story of Ki no Hiroaki? This warrants further investigation.) Furthermore, as for the claim that a certain stone in the precincts of the Tenjin Shrine in Hamacho is the burial mound of the Somedono Empress — such a far-fetched association is so extreme that it is not even worth debating.

○Onsen-ji Temple: Called Seizan (Pure Water Mountain), located in Shinshuku. It is a sub-temple of Rinzai sect Myōshin-ji. It was founded by the Venerable Jūō Sōhitsu, who received the posthumous imperial title of Shinkō Jakushō Zenji and was also known as Enkan Kokushi. The Venerable was Fujifusa-kyō, the Middle Counselor (Chūnagon) of the Madenokōji family. According to Buddhist biographical records, the noble was the son of Vice-Chancellor (Asō) Nobufusa. He was fond of Zen studies, and during his leisure time after retiring from court, he studied under Mingji Chujun and Daitō Kokushi. In Kenmu 1 (1334), he secretly fled to Kita-Iwakura and took Buddhist vows at the age of thirty-eight. During the Engen era (1336–1340), when Kanzan Kokushi founded Myōshin-ji, Fujifusa went to transmit the Dharma lineage and eventually became the Second Patriarch of Myōshin-ji. On the twenty-eighth day of the third month of Tenju 6 (1380), he passed away in a state of meditative composure.