【Upper Section】
Illustrated Map of the Great Earthquake and Fires

Relief Shelter Locations:
- Outside Saiwai-bashi Gate
- Asakusa Hirokoji
- Fukagawa Seaside Shinden
- Eitai-ji Temple Grounds
- Ueno Yamashita Fire Prevention Area
- From Tōei-zan Imperial Prince
- Yamashita, same as above

On November 2nd, memorial services (segaki) were ordered at thirteen temples of various sects for those who died in the fires.

Samurai residences: 24,640 structures
Number of districts: Over 5,370 districts  
Temples: 16,002 temples
Storehouses burned: 6,800 structures
Collapsed structures: 726,038 structures
Male and female casualties: Over 109,700 people

【Lower Section】
When heaven and earth are not in harmony, yin energy fills the underground and erupts all at once. This is called an earthquake on land and tsunami at sea. When it occurs in mountains, cave collapses occur. These are all caused by irregular wind and rain patterns and are terrible catastrophes.

Here in the second year of Ansei (1855), on the night of October 2nd, around the fourth hour, the Kantō provinces were struck by a tremendous earthquake that collapsed buildings instantly and extinguished human lives like candles in the wind.

Among the areas that burned in Edo, Senju Kozukahara burned completely, most of Senju post town collapsed, Sanya Bridge collapsed entirely, and dozens of houses burned near Imado Bridge. All five districts of New Yoshiwara burned completely with an enormous number of burn victims.

[The text continues with detailed descriptions of damage throughout Edo, listing specific neighborhoods, temples, samurai residences, and the extent of fires and collapses in each area. It describes damage from Asakusa in the north to Shinagawa in the south, and from central Edo to the Honjo and Fukagawa districts in the east.]

From the 3rd to the 7th day, there were small aftershocks daily, but nothing particularly troublesome occurred, and conditions gradually became peaceful. Relief was provided to the common people, three relief shelters were established, and there was no one who did not offer grateful prayers for the benevolent imperial grace. These were truly grateful matters.

However, although there were thirty-two points of fire outbreak, the burned areas are as shown in the diagram. Be careful with fire!