【Right Page】
　Floorboards and such should also be replaced. Windows and shoji screens should also be renewed. New
　straw mats are good for floor covering. Then, between the upper and lower sills, use
　Chinese bamboo with nodes removed, about three sun in circumference,
　to construct shelves with twelve levels in three directions, leaving one side as an opening.
　Generally, these preparations must be done before the silkworms start moving, otherwise everything
　will not be properly arranged and the year's sericulture will be less profitable.
　　Note: The silkworm room dislikes all forms of impurity. Having toilets nearby is also bad. Even if
　　they exist, care must be taken so that their odors do not enter the silkworm room.
1. The time for making silkworm eggs hatch is standardly around the time of Shōman in mid-April. However,
　depending on that year's temperature or the locality, there may be variations in timing. Generally,
　they should be made to hatch when mulberry leaves have sprouted to about one sun and four to five bu.

【Left Page】
  　　Note: It is standard practice that silkworms begin cocoon formation thirty-six days after they start moving.
　　Generally, sericulture becomes busy during rice planting season, so considering the above number of days,
　　arrangements should be made so that the funako stage coincides with garden preparation during rice planting.
　　Generally, after garden preparation, mulberry leaves are needed in large quantities, and during the mabushi period,
　　many workers are required, but until the funako stage, only the care of picking mulberry leaves
　　is needed and not many workers are required, so arrangements should be made in advance
　　so as not to interfere with agricultural work.
1. If planning to make them hatch about five days before mid-April,
　select a day of the Horse (uma) ten days before this (if there is no day of the Horse around that time,
　select another auspicious day), take out the silkworm eggs, hang them in a place where southern wind
　enters, open doors and shoji during the day, and in a place where mice cannot reach, expose them to wind