[Right page]
　　The shelves should be arranged so that mice cannot reach them.
One: Before the silkworms begin cocooning, prepare mat-straw coverings about five shaku long and about two shaku five sun wide for
　about eleven mountages, keeping in mind to put two straw mats for standing silkworms into one mountage mat,
　place the cocooning silkworms evenly, stretch three thick ropes under the beams,
　and for a span of two and a half ken, it is good to hang three mats each in about four rows. Board ceilings are
　bad, however bamboo-slat ceilings are good. They should be protected from mice. Superior
　cocoons form quickly. During this period, if there is particularly continuous cold weather during rain,
　fire should be lit below. However, burning pine wood will change the color of the cocoons.
　Miscellaneous woods should be burned. Leave them hanging for about three nights, then take them down on the fourth day.
　However, if wind blows and it becomes cold from the day of hanging, they should be left for five days before taking down.

[Left page]
　　However, when hanging mountages, wrap the mountage mats from both sides, tie once in the middle, lift with a ladder,
　　place evenly across the three ropes, and when the middle tie is untied,
　　it separates to both sides, and by pushing and pulling with arrow-nock bamboo, it hangs
　　more easily than expected. Once silkworms attach to the mountages, they do not fall off. When untying the middle knot
　　on the ladder, the mountages should be straightened and hung properly. When fair weather
　　continues, taking them down after four days is the established method.
One: When the above mountages are taken down after four or five days, they should be stood up four or five at a time so that wind can enter.
　If stood thickly or stacked, the cocoons will become steamy and this is not good
　for silk reeling. From the day after taking down the mountages, separate large cocoons and grade them as superior and inferior,
　place them in straw mats, remove the edge portions, arrange them in single rows and dry them. Similarly, clean