...and slow to produce illustrations. Even when illustrations existed, they were exceedingly rough, and moreover, having been passed down through repeated copying, they confused flowers with fruits, and even mistook tigers for cats. Later students grew doubtful and increasingly confused. Is this not truly lamentable? This is the very reason I have composed this illustrated compendium.

As for the physical form of things, there is nothing that makes them easier to identify than pictorial illustration, for those things which can be seen are unlike the nature and flavor of substances (medicinal properties and tastes), which can only be known after being conveyed through spoken and written language. Indeed, when Shun instituted the symbolic punishments (*xiàngxíng*), he caused the people to know the punishments of nose-cutting (*yì*), ear-cutting (*èr*), toe-cutting (*yuǎn*), and castration (*gōng*); and when Yu cast the tripod cauldrons with their images, he enabled the people to avoid demons and malevolent spirits (*chīmèi wǎngliǎng*). Why should they have abandoned written characters in favor of pictorial images? (The answer is clear: because images are more immediately comprehensible.) Alas, to truly identify things,

【Left folio】
one must, in principle, see them with one's own eyes. However, given the sheer multitude of things in the world, the vast distances between East and West, the changing seasons of growth and decay, and the dangers of mountains and seas, how could one possibly see all things for oneself? It is for this reason that both illustrations and explanations arose out of necessity. Yet while these two—illustration and explanation—complement and illuminate each other and should not be used in isolation, illustration stands one remove from the actual thing, and written explanation stands yet another remove further. Therefore, however detailed and thorough an explanation may be, when reading it one must first construe its meaning, conjure up the image in one's mind, and only then arrive at identification—and even then, things that resemble one another may remain difficult to distinguish. Illustration is not like this. A single glance makes everything immediately clear, without the need for any further laborious mental effort.