【Right folio】
Long having been troubled by this state of affairs, I developed an early fondness for this field of study. From the many books relating to the subject, I took what was relevant, and, quietly venturing to reconcile the various schools of thought, assigned each to its proper place. I searched and gathered specimens from mountains and fields, transplanted them into garden plots, and cultivated them in pots — amounting in all to more than two thousand varieties. The seedlings, leaves, flowers, and fruit I sketched from life (*shasei*) as each season came, and I further included the products of remote and out-of-the-way places, leaving nothing that I had directly witnessed without committing it to illustration. Having proceeded in this manner for more than twenty years, I accumulated a work of several volumes, which I named the *Honzō Zufu* ("Illustrated Compendium of Materia Medica"). In rendering the illustrations, I roused my spirit to the utmost and exhausted every resource of my brush to achieve the greatest possible precision and skill, applying colors

【Left folio】
in such a way that I myself believe there remains nothing left to be desired. If one opens and examines it, even a child or an ordinary runner (*sōsotsu*) will be able, without need of any verbal explanation, to identify which object is which. Should the physicians of the world but change their hearts — so intent upon the pursuit of profit — and instead turn their energies to this study, using my illustrations as a foundation from which to learn and achieve clarity, then names and realities will correspond without error, the selection and sorting of medicines will be without mistake, the indications for treatment will be appropriate, and the healing of disease will proceed as desired. In that case, one may hope that the people of the realm, in the course of living out their lives and fulfilling their destinies, will be spared all cause for regret at the critical moments of illness, life, and death. If that is so, then can the significance of these illustrations to the world truly be considered small?