One　Three wooden clappers each　　For meals, to the provisions office upon hearing
One　Wooden clappers continuously　When releasing horses
One　Wooden clappers rapidly and continuously　Fire

The above written records of personnel, foot soldiers, and weapons regulations and signals are to be urgently communicated as written when departing for battle or in case of emergency, so that all members of the domain may understand them.

One　Detailed assignments of specific individuals, command orders and other particulars are contained within the military service preparation box, so the chief retainers, middle-ranking elders, senior magistrates and others present at that time should break the seal and review them.

　　　Kyōhō 12th year, year of the Sheep
　　　　　　　12th month
　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the chief retainers

　　　Copied on a day in the 1st month of Hōreki 10th year, year of the Dragon

This register was given directly by His Lordship when Nishimura Jiemon was summoned to the lord's quarters on the 1st day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 12th year, year of the Sheep. The purport of his words was as follows:

During the reign of Lord Chikōin, your father Magojirōemon also served as an assistant. Although circumstances are different now, you have been appointed in that same capacity, so the retainers and middle-ranking elders should occasionally review this.

This written document has tears on the separately prepared register as described above.

Editor's note:
Based on the above, regarding how much equipment the Yoshida Domain of 70,000 koku possessed, it is recorded at the end of this register as follows. These numbers are from a document identical to "Military Service Stipend Allocations" established by the shogunate on the 17th day of the 2nd month of Kanei 14th year and the 14th day of the 7th month of the same 19th year. At the end of this "Military Service Stipend Allocations," it is recorded that Zenshin copied it for Shūji on the 22nd day of the 10th month of Tenpō 11th year. At that time, Zenshin's son Shūji was diligently studying military science. From this observation, it appears that this "Military Service Stipend Allocations" may have remained effective until the Tenpō era. In any case, the following numbers are regulations, while the reality was