【Right Page】
(63) Long ago, there was a woman whose heart was drawn to romance. Though she wished she could somehow meet a man of deep feeling, having no way to broach the subject, she told a fabricated dream story. She called her three children and told them. Two of the children responded coldly and paid no attention. Only the child called Saburo responded to her dream interpretation, saying "A good man will come," and this woman's manner showed great joy. The others were cold-hearted. He had a desire to somehow arrange a meeting between Zaigo Chujo (Narihira) and his mother.

When they met while he was out hunting, he took hold of the horse's bridle on the road and said, "My mother thinks thus and so," and Narihira, feeling pity, came and slept with her. When the man did not appear afterward, the woman went to the man's house and peered through the fence, which the man glimpsed:

"In ninety-nine years, one short of a hundred, like tsukumo hair, she seems to long for me—I see her in my mind's eye."

Seeing his manner of trying to leave, she caught herself on brambles and thorns, came home, and collapsed. The man, like the woman had done, secretly stood and watched, and when the woman lamented as she lay down to sleep:

"Spreading my robe on one side of a thin mat, will I sleep again tonight without meeting my beloved?"

The man, moved with pity, slept with her that night. As is the way of the world, one loves those one loves and does not love those one does not love, but this person had a heart that showed no distinction between those he loved and those he did not.

【Left Page】
(64) Long ago, a man, having no means of secretly courting, composed this wondering where she might be:

"If I could make my body into the blowing wind, I would seek gaps in the jeweled blinds to enter."

Reply:
"Even if you were an insubstantial wind, by whose permission should you seek gaps in the jeweled blinds?"

(65) Long ago, there was a woman whom the Emperor favored and employed, dressed in brocaded silk. She was called Omiya-sunjo and resided there. She was a cousin. There was a man of the Ariwara clan who served at court, still very young, whom this woman had come to know. Since the man was permitted to visit the women's quarters, he came to where the woman was and sat facing her. The woman was very troubled, feeling as if she would perish. When she said, "Please do not do such things":

"In my thoughts, restraint has been defeated. If it means I can meet you, let come what may."

And he was behind the blinds. As usual with these blinds, he would climb up and sit without regard for who might see, so this woman, troubled in her thoughts, returned to her home. Therefore, thinking it was nothing significant...