【Right Page】
【Upper Section】
First, three lidded tea bowls
The items I received in the foreign country called America are as follows:

First, two folding map books, large and small
However, most contain pictures of foreigners. All the illustrations are called "maps."

First, one picture of foreigners
These two items were given to me with instructions to take great care of them and bring them back to Japan.

First, winter clothing
One woolen tube-sleeved garment
First, one pair of tabi (socks)
These are called "stockings."

【Lower Section】
First, one whetstone
These five items were received at a place like the wholesale merchant mentioned earlier.

First, one undergarment
This was made from cotton scraps received at the same place, which Zensuke made into a bag.

The above items were received in China. However, I was unable to learn the Chinese language.

First, one silk tube-sleeved garment
First, one white hemp tube-sleeved garment
All three of these items are called "shirts."

【Left Page】
【Upper Section】
First, two brushes
These are items for removing dust from woolen cloth and are called "brushes."

First, one small rosewood board
This board serves as a base for the brushes.

First, one hat
This is called a "hat" and is used in both summer and winter. It has a brim-like projection in front.

First, two silver-like ornaments
I don't know what these are called, but they are referred to as "Commandante," and are items that officials who govern a place attach and hang from both shoulders of their tube-sleeved garments. Lower officials make such ornament hangers from brass and sometimes hang them from both shoulders, and sometimes put them away. When using ornaments, the tube-sleeved garments always have patterns of gold thread and such.

【Lower Section】
First, two woolen hakama-like garments
These are called "pantalon."

First, five white cotton tube-sleeved garments
These are all undergarments for master-class people and are called "camisa."

First, one similar gauze item
This is undergarment for servant-class people, and the name is the same as above.

First, one patterned silk garment
Such sleeveless body wear
These two items are called "shirts."

First, four white cotton bag-like items
These are called "almada" (the pillow is called "travesseiro," the bag is called "fronha") and are bags for holding pillows.