Weapons Officer (Osaki-monogashira)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Honda Jūrobei
　　On the 22nd day of the old calendar, when someone became stranded within Geba Gate,
　　this should have been reported to the inspectors, but no such action was taken, which was careless. Though this is not a reprimand,
　　hereafter when such matters occur, they should be reported to the inspectors.
　Regarding the above, Jūrobei was summoned to Sakai Tange's residence and this was conveyed through Inspectors Hori Jūbei and Ōtani Gizaemon.
　　Regarding the above incident, there was misconduct, so careful attention should be paid to duties, as reprimanded.　Gate Inspector　Kurusu Hannosuke
　Regarding the above, it was ordered that this should be conveyed at the residence of Captain Suganuma Yoichirō with the senior officer present, and that if confinement is requested due to the reprimand, confinement should be undertaken.

1. On Kyōhō 7, Year of the Tiger, 8th month, 22nd day, Matsubara Gōzaemon recently attempted to pass through Geba Gate while mounted on horseback. Regarding this matter, due to unfamiliarity, Akita Hachirōbei spoke to Ogino Magoemon. When Magoemon advised him, saying that since this concerns the castle, it is no light matter, so it would be best to claim illness and withdraw into seclusion, he did withdraw. However, today the following was ordered:
　　Since you are in poor health, you are relieved of your duties and appointed to the Yoriai council. The above for Matsubara Gōzaemon
　　Due to special consideration for you, you are relieved of your duties and assigned to the Ōban guard unit. The above
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Weapons Officer　Kaifuku Sezaemon
　　　However, this was conveyed through Monthly Weapons Officer Imamura Danemon.
　Both Gōzaemon and Sezaemon need not observe confinement and should attend as usual when the lord returns to the castle.

1. On Genbun 1, Year of the Dragon, 9th month, 26th day, the following was conveyed at the residence of Inaba Uneme. Further details appear in the gate notification section.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Weapons Officer　Sakai Rokurōemon
　On the 22nd of this month when you were on duty, and on the following 23rd when the guard had not yet been relieved,
　Nii Hachimbei and his son were granted an audience and passed through Geba Gate.

　You allowed passage without instructions from anywhere, but since there are regulations about this, it was extremely careless. Therefore, you are reprimanded.
　Regarding the above, Rokurōemon requested and was confined, then pardoned on the 5th of the 10th month.

1. When Eiheiji Temple comes to the castle, additional personnel from the gate stations are to be deployed. They are added to Kawara Gate. For Taiko Gate, weapons officers are on duty and additional personnel from the duty station are deployed.

1. On Bunka 9, Year of the Monkey, 6th month, 8th day, weapons officers reported as per the attached document that there were damaged gate closure equipment, so this matter was reported to Nakamura Naka of the weapons administration.
　　　　　　Memorandum
　　　Geba Gate Equipment
　一、Of ten spears: one has damaged body iron and damaged rattan wrapping; four have damaged rattan wrapping; three have damaged spear sheaths
　一、Three tri-section weapons: one has a damaged butt spike
　　　Taiko Gate Equipment
　一、Ten spears: two have damaged butt spikes; four have damaged rattan wrapping; three have damaged sheaths
　　　Sannomaru South Gate Equipment
　一、　　　　　　One has a damaged butt spike; two have damaged igara (ferrules)
　The above equipment has the mentioned damage. The above, 6th month

1. On Bunka 5, Year of the Dragon, 5th month, 10th day, Tōgō Kichizō and Kawai Tarōdayū reported that among the decorative firearms at Geba Gate guardhouse, three were damaged and requested replacement. This matter was reported to Takada Magozaemon of weapons administration, who replied that replacement would occur on the coming 13th day, so Yamazato earth...