【Right page】
　At this time, the construction of his library was mostly completed. Plasterers and carpenters mingled together making it noisy. Indeed, this merchant is known as a wealthy magnate whose name is renowned in all directions. The size of his shop rivals the mansion of a samurai in our country who receives five or six thousand koku of rice. As for the magnificence of the architecture, there is hardly anything like it in Japan. In the connected rooms, he has bought many islanders to keep as slaves and house them. Every day, gold and silver are transported into this warehouse and that warehouse. Though enormously wealthy in this way, he invites the guests to his side, shares lunch and associates intimately like companions, arranging wine and food to drink face to face, with no pretense in appearance or defensive barriers in his heart.
○Also, over ten years ago, a ship called Chōchō from the Hayakawa house of our Echigo province drifted ashore on the rocks to the right of the port. Chinese people tried to help by pulling it up to the rocks on the left, but ended up damaging it.

【Left page】
　Those sailors Denkichi, Chōta and others were sent to "San Francisco" through this merchant's mediation and finally were able to return to Japan. He asked the guests, "When you return home, please report their safety." When the guests later heard the natives' account in "San Francisco," the previous castaways (namely Denkichi and others) were stubborn and their intentions were difficult to understand. Whenever fine clothes or beautiful hats were given to them, they would carefully store them all in boxes, wear Japanese clothing and Japanese wooden clogs, dress themselves neatly and wander about the main streets. The whole city laughed heartily at this. They said, "You, in contrast, are true foreign guests." (A certain person said that the Hayakawa castaways still remember one name and treasure two or three woolen robes and one inkstone that emits golden light when ink is ground on it.)
○In the seventh month, the American merchant "Captain Carter's"