The expenses are truly incalculable. Governing the "Korsi" of "Setka" is the same. Therefore, because the country is wealthy and its reserves abundant, this great undertaking can also be accomplished. Generally speaking, when Westerners exhaust their national treasury merely striving for territorial expansion, it seems they do not understand profit and loss, but when the land is cultivated and the people civilized after several decades, wouldn't the profits they gain be extremely great? I think Westerners simply value long-term plans and do not concern themselves with immediate small losses. This logic is sound.

〇Japanese people like to intimidate foreigners. When the escort ship approached "Etorofu," they peered at the garrison through telescopes from the crow's nest. Their flustered and panicked state could be seen completely. The foreigners were already sneering. Then a warship came to investigate the situation. The soldier on board was foolish - he was sleeping peacefully covered with grass matting. The guests could not contain their joy and shouted loudly. The soldier awoke and suspiciously asked, "Who are you?" The guests answered:

※"We are Japanese castaways. Though our clothes are different, do not doubt us." 《This person was a fool》
《He came to inspect without orders from his superior. Also, covering himself with matting was from fear, and his peaceful sleep was not genuine》 When the ship docked, the captain respectfully welcomed the soldier, yielded his own room, offered a chair, stood at his side in attendance, set out a lavish meal and entertained him warmly. The soldier also gladly ate and drank, exchanged swords and belts with the chief, kissed and offered flattery. When half drunk, he suddenly drew his sword and presented it before the chief. This was probably intended to boast of its sharpness and display military might. The chief looked displeased and again

※Marginal note:
The guest also said that fools should not rashly throw themselves forward and advance. Retreat is cowardly.