When they see [foreign ships], without asking right or wrong, they immediately open fire and attack them. Therefore, foreigners also regard our country like a rabid dog, deeply guard against us, and when approaching coastal areas, they strictly prepare their firearms. When they prepare strictly, we increasingly view them as enemies. The feelings between us ultimately turn against each other. Ships like escort vessels, under special orders from Russian superiors, outfit large ships and travel long distances, and when approaching land they display white flags, which should be called fulfilling the benevolence and courtesy of that land. Is there any reason to treat them as enemies? All foreign countries say "In the Japan Sea, war preparations are strict." Is this not something we ourselves have brought about?

〇A foreigner who said he had outfitted ships at our Tsugaru under "San-ichi" (Russian) said this: Seeing our ships, [he] was displeased that Japanese were firing cannons indiscriminately, advanced with cedar planks to land on shore, and immediately entered a battery on high ground. The garrison soldiers fled in alarm. When he inspected the cannon, it was made of wood with copper-colored lacquer painted on top - a useless fake made only to look good. So together with the others, he combined the gun carriages and pushed them all down the cliff. Therefore [foreigners] mock us, saying "All Japanese cannons are made of wood." The guest was at a loss for a reply. 《A certain student said that at this time the foreigners raised a shout and laughed loudly. Later, the three soldiers who fled received severe punishment. He also said that during the Bunka Shin-Mi (1811) incident, we lined up huge timber at our battery to simulate cannons. Many of our soldiers were unaware of this. The foreigners peered through telescopes from the ship's mast, and should have been able to distinguish the coarse and fine grain of the wood. They took turns peering and laughing, and the whole ship erupted in laughter, according to a certain castaway.》

〇The guest lived in Matsumae from childhood. Nine foreign ships formed a fleet off Matsumae