【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Ten

○《Side note: steamed mackerel | kudzu sauce》 grated ginger　○《Side note: small sea bream senba | trefoil julienne》
○Sea bream Teika-style simmering　○Bonito tsuhei《Side note: arrowhead, taro skin | early bamboo, light kudzu, wasabi》

According to tradition, bonito sashimi should use fresh fish not only in the seventh month but at any time. This is important for sliced fish dishes in both tea ceremony and kaiseki cuisine. Mustard vinegar is good, and sprinkling with salt and sake is also good. ○Lightly boiled bonito should be sufficiently rare. ○Young sea bass is fresh and delicious around the seventh month. ○For early bamboo shoots, good miso should be used. ○Green soybean puree should be used whenever green soybeans are available, and since it's a green soup, it combines well with rock mushrooms. The picked beans should be made as fine as beans. ○Small sea bream senba is not limited to small sea bream; whether large or medium, lightly salt them, add half aged sake and half water, then add dashi and simmer. During kaiseki, since there is sake service, one must use discretion regarding sake-salt simmered dashi. ○For bonito tsuhei, boil thoroughly, cut to about one inch portions, and add about two pieces. Of course, this depends on the vessel. During kaiseki, understanding the arrangement of large and small dishes according to the number of people, and the combination of bowls and vessels is of primary importance.

　　　　Eighth Month
　　　　Ninth Month
　　　　　Raw Fish Section
○《Side note: mullet, chestnuts | ginger leaves, green vinegar》　○《Side note: shark, grilled matsutake | wasabi, seasoned sake》
○《Side note: mackerel, turnip bones | mustard vinegar miso》　○《Side note: fresh flatfish, grilled salmon skin | grated daikon》
　　　　　Mixed Dishes Section
○《Side note: matsutake, egg dressing | pear, poppy seed dressing》　○《Side note: roasted persimmons | poppy seed dressing》
　　　　　Soup Section
○《Side note: crumbled tofu | cod roe》　　　○《Side note: matsutake julienne | minced small birds》

【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Eleven