【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Twelve

○《Side note: grilled miso soup, shirasu or appetizer | shrimp varieties, delicate ingredients combined well}}
　　　　　Simmered Dishes Section
○《Side note: egg hanben, flat bamboo | kudzu sauce》　○《Side note: stir-fried sea cucumber | julienned yuzu》
○《Side note: pressed tofu | sweetfish roe eggs》　○Stir-fried greens
○《Side note: pickled senmai | base eggs》《Side note: kudzu sauce | wasabi》　○Sake stir-fried greens

According to tradition, eel sashimi should be boiled in hot water about three times, then immediately soaked in good vinegar before use. ○For minced sea cucumber, pound it well, then put it in lacquerware and shake it back and forth repeatedly to make it tender and crisp to bite. ○For appetizer sea bream, quickly boil fresh sea bream, cool it thoroughly, and shred it finely. ○For carrot and daikon soup, take large Owari daikon or Nerima daikon with skin, cut thickly into pieces about one inch each, quickly parboil, and simmer in light miso soup with fish bones.

When the center becomes hollow, remove and peel the skin, arrange the shape and transfer to the main broth. The miso should be slightly stronger than medium. ○For minced bird, quickly stir-fry bird meat with sake, then mince it finely. ○For grilled miso soup, grill the miso well on one side without burning it, then make it into ground soup. ○For egg hanben, grind eggs and mix the yolks and whites well, then grate mountain yam and add about half the volume of the eggs, mix well by grinding, put one by one into sake cups and steam. ○Dried sardines are best. There is an oral tradition. ○For base eggs, make grilled eggs as usual, scoop with a gold ladle, spread on the bottom and place the finest pickled senmai on top. This is kudzu sauce. ○When called stir-fried greens, it is just greens. Quickly blanch and put in the finest seasoned broth, cook well, then add plenty of oil from geese, ducks, cranes or other birds and cook again. When adding birds, it becomes stir-fried bird. ○For sake stir-fried greens, finely cut good pickled greens, add fine bonito and aged sake, and simmer well.

　　　　Eleventh Month
　　　　Twelfth Month
　　　　　Simmered dishes, soups, or warm sashimi varieties

【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Thirteen