[Page 28, Upper]
[The meaning] is the same as this. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: In the sūtra, from "seeing the three realms" onward, clarifying right contemplation has two parts. First, it clarifies the characteristics of emptiness in terms of defiled and pure causes and effects. Next, in "Good son," it explains the characteristics of emptiness in terms of there being no listening or explaining.

Sūtra: Great King, the bodhisattva's cultivation and protection of Buddha-fruit is like this. Protecting prajñāpāramitā means protecting sarvajña, the ten powers, the eighteen unique dharmas, the five eyes, the five-part dharma-body, the four immeasurable minds, and all merit-fruits. It is like this.

I say: Regarding "cultivating and protecting Buddha-fruit," the new translation lacks the character "cultivating." The meaning of this character should be investigated. Master Dōeki says: The third major section generally concludes the protection of fruits. Buddha-nature, true nature, and the treasure-store of myriad virtues are all fully possessed by all sentient beings. Since they are harmed by binding thieves, prajñā can protect them. Therefore, protecting prajñā means protecting the myriad virtues. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: First it concludes the essence of what can protect; later, from "protecting prajñā" onward, it concludes the function of what can protect. Master Jizang's meaning says: "Protecting prajñā" etc. raises function to accomplish fruit - protecting causes is protecting fruits. I say: Regarding this one section of sūtra text, the masters' explanations are without fault. However, examining the new version, there seems to be a different meaning. The new translation says: "Great King, the mahābodhisattva's protection of Buddha-fruit is like this. At that time the World-Honored One told King Prasenajit: 'With what characteristics do you contemplate the Tathāgata?' King Prasenajit said: 'I contemplate the true characteristics of the body. Contemplating Buddha is likewise thus. Without prior limit, without posterior limit, without middle limit. Not dwelling in the three periods, not apart from the three periods. Not dwelling in the five aggregates, not apart from the five aggregates. Not dwelling in the four elements, not apart from the four elements. Not dwelling in the six sense-bases, not apart from the six sense-bases. Not dwelling in the three realms, not apart from the three realms. Not dwelling in directions, not apart from directions. Brightness and ignorance are equal - neither one nor different, up to neither seen nor heard nor felt nor known. The place where mind functions is extinguished, the path of language is cut off. Same as the true limit, equal to dharma-nature. I contemplate the Tathāgata with these characteristics.' The Buddha said: 'Good son,

[Page 28, Lower]
As you have explained, the Tathāgatas' powers, fearlessnesses and other merits numerous as Ganges sands, and all the unique dharmas are all thus. Those who cultivate prajñāpāramitā should contemplate thus. If others contemplate otherwise, this is called wrong contemplation.'" Now, examining the old sūtra text according to the new version: "The cultivation and protection of Buddha-fruit is like this" generally concludes the foregoing. New and old are clear. The old translation's twelve characters "Those who protect prajñāpāramitā protect sarvajña because" correspond to the new translation's text from "At that time the World-Honored One" to "I contemplate the Tathāgata with these characteristics." The old translation from "ten powers" to "merit-fruits are like this" corresponds to the new translation's text from "The Buddha said" to "are all thus." Now I think: generally concluding ordinary and sage, beginning and end, to clarify empty contemplation, and separately clarifying empty contemplation in terms of the Buddha-ground's myriad virtues. These two together constitute protecting Buddha-fruit. "In order to protect" etc. are perhaps words encouraging cultivation. This is a tentative doctrinal inference. New and old versions need not necessarily be reconciled.

Sūtra: When the Buddha explained the Dharma, countless multitudes all attained purity of dharma-eye. Hundreds and thousands in the nature-ground and faith-ground all attained great emptiness and great bodhisattva practices.

The new translation says: "When this Dharma was explained, countless multitudes attained purity of dharma-eye." Regarding dharma-eye purity, Master Jizang says: In Hīnayāna's path of seeing, initially realizing the four noble truths clearly, therefore called dharma-eye purity. Master Wŏnch'ŭk agrees. Master Jizang also says the first ground. Master Dōeki says: the seeing-ground common to the three vehicles. Regarding nature-ground, both Master Dōeki and Master Wŏnch'ŭk say the three natures of the habitual-nature path. Regarding faith-ground, both Master Dōeki and Master Wŏnch'ŭk say attaining the four indestructible faiths of the uncontaminated from the first ground onward. Regarding great emptiness, Master Dōeki says the seventh ground; Master Wŏnch'ŭk says the eighth ground. Regarding great practices, Master Dōeki says from the eighth ground onward; Master Wŏnch'ŭk says from the ninth ground onward. The masters' various explanations cannot be extensively presented.

[Page 29, Upper]
Sūtra: Benevolent King Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra for Protecting the State, Chapter 3: Bodhisattva Teaching and Transformation (The new translation says "Bodhisattva Practice Foundation")

Master Dōeki says: This is the second chapter. As a major section, it answers the previous second [question about] "protecting the practices of the ten grounds." The previous chapter clarified that Buddha-fruit's principle-nature contains myriad virtues. However, abandoning this and following delusions to go to the three realms - this chapter extensively clarifies engaging in practices and advancing in seeking to approach original awakening. The first fascicle says: This chapter clarifies expedient wisdom. Master Jizang says: The previous chapter relied on emptiness to protect Buddha-fruit - this is expedient true wisdom. This chapter relies on the five patiences and ten grounds to transform sentient beings - this is true expedient. Therefore it's called the Teaching and Transformation Chapter. The previous chapter is not without causes - it's for accomplishing that fruit. This chapter is not without fruit - it's for accomplishing those causes. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: It should be called the Five Patiences Chapter, but saying Teaching and Transformation Chapter naturally has two meanings: first, the five-patience bodhisattvas embrace and transform sentient beings; second, the Tathāgata uses the five-patience dharma to teach and transform the various kings.

Sūtra: [The king] addressed the Buddha saying "World-Honored One" up to the end of the chapter.

Both Master Jizang and Master Wŏnch'ŭk say: The text has two parts - first questions, then answers. The first fascicle says: The chapter has three sections - first the king's questions, second the Buddha's answers, third the assembly's attainments. Master Liangbian agrees. Masters Jizang, Dōeki, and Wŏnch'ŭk include the chapter's final attainments in the third question-and-answer section. Scholars should consider this.

Sūtra: [The king] addressed the Buddha saying: "World-Honored One, how should bodhisattvas who protect the practices of the ten grounds practice what can be practiced? How should they practice transforming sentient beings? With what characteristics can sentient beings be transformed?"

Master Jizang says: First [the king] asks about the ten grounds' self-benefit practices; second asks about other-benefit practices; third asks about the virtuous practices and characteristics of sentient beings to be transformed. Master Dōeki says: First one can benefit oneself, then can transform others. About to eliminate self and other, therefore the third [question] speaks of sentient beings' characteristics.

[Page 29, Lower]
Sūtra: The Buddha said: "Great King, the five patiences are the bodhisattva dharmas: patience of submission in upper, middle, and lower [levels]; patience of faith in upper, middle, and lower [levels]; patience of accordance in upper, middle, and lower [levels]; patience of no-arising in upper, middle, and lower [levels]; patience of cessation in upper and lower [levels] - this is called all Buddhas and bodhisattvas cultivating prajñāpāramitā, up to being like this."

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: The Tathāgata's correct answer has two parts. First [answering] the previous two questions; later, from "The Buddha told the Great King: You previously said" onward answers the third question. Master Dōeki agrees. The two masters' textual divisions well capture the sūtra's meaning. The first fascicle's meaning says: First answers the first question; from "Good son, all sentient beings' afflictions" onward answers the second question; from "How are sentient beings' characteristics the same as yours" onward answers the third question. I say: Examining the new and old sūtras together with the masters' intentions, the text "Good son, all sentient beings" etc. belongs to the second answer. This greatly contradicts the sūtra's meaning and is extremely erroneous. Also, from "At that time, a million verses" onward belongs only to the third answer. This doesn't accord with the sūtra text and is mistaken. Master Jizang says: First, from "The five patiences are bodhisattva dharmas" through "the fourteen patiences are complete" answers the first question. From "Addressing the Buddha: How do bodhisattvas" to "cultivate prajñā" answers the second question. From "The Buddha told the Great King: You previously said" through the end of the chapter answers the third question.

Sūtra: The Buddha said "Great King" up to "manifesting bodies to cultivate prajñāpāramitā."

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: In the foregoing there are three parts. First correctly answering the two questions; next, from "At that time, a million" onward, the king praises in verse; later, from "The Buddha told all who had attained the path" onward, the Tathāgata gives approval. Master Dōeki's meaning is the same. I say: Perhaps the text can be called six parts: first, the Buddha answers the two questions; second, the king praises in verse; third, the assembly's benefits (the benefits should not be considered as solely for the king. As the new translation says, the great assembly heard the Buddha World-Honored One and King Prasenajit explaining the fourteen