[Page 40, Upper]
wisdom-truth." (I note: The treatise says: "Matter-truth and other four truths are included in suffering-truth, etc.") "Because of correctly awakening to all dharma characteristics, one excellently knows all bodhisattva grounds' sequential accomplishment truths, and excellently knows the collection of Tathāgata wisdom truths. Though knowing through faith-understanding power, it is not obtaining all ultimate wisdom." Question: "The sutra explains nine truths - how can it be called eight?" Answer: "The sutra's intention, wanting to reveal the excellence of marvelous awakening, opens them into two truths. The treatise's intention, wanting to clarify sameness with Mahāyāna, combines them into one number. The previous seven truths are common to both great and small vehicles. Therefore this sutra now explains according to eight truths." When I examine the Ten Grounds Treatise, explaining the fifth ground's known dharmas, there are fourteen truths. This master divides and corresponds [them] to this sutra's two truths, four truths, and eight truths, excellently according with text and meaning. The opening and combining of nine and eight excellently grasps the meaning. Question: "What is that meaning?" Answer: "The treatise quotes the sutra as having fifteen truths. First listing suffering and other four truths, next listing conventional truth, ultimate truth and other eleven truths. The treatise points to the latter eleven and calls them ten truths. Examining the sutra and treatise's meaning, combining the latter two - there's no leisure for complete explanation. Examine further. Also the Necklace Sutra lists sixteen truths, the latter nine also similar to the Ten Grounds. Examine further." Master Jizang says: "According to the Grounds Sutra text, the fourth ground becomes Tuṣita king, fifth ground becomes Paranirmitavaśavartin king, sixth ground becomes Nirmāṇarati king. If following the sequence of six heavens, the fifth ground should become Nirmāṇarati king. This text is in error." Regarding "hundred myriad dust-motes number, etc." - the first fascicle says: "No-arising patience equally uses hundred billion as number. Seventh ground hundred billion Buddha-lands, eighth ground hundred myriad billion dust-motes number Buddha-lands. The eighth-ninth ground text should have the character 'billion' but is abbreviated so lacks it. Color." (I note: The character "nine" is perhaps superfluous. The sutra explains the ninth ground has the character "billion".)

I say: "In the Teaching and Transformation chapter explaining the lands transformed by the ten grounds - first fourteen patience [levels], next ten royal positions, later verse text. These three places' explanations have similarities and differences. Also the new edition's three places' text compared to the old has similarities and differences.

[Page 40, Lower]
Now I first organize this to make it easy for people to see. First ground old three places, new royal verses together say 'hundred Buddha-lands' (the new patience initial three positions are not equal to this). Second ground together say 'thousand Buddha-lands.' Third ground old royal says 'ten myriad,' the rest same. Myriad Buddha-lands fourth ground old patience from here down altogether say 'ten myriad Buddha-lands.' New altogether says 'universally transforming ten myriad billion Buddha realm-lands.' Old royal says 'hundred billion.' Old verses new royal verses together say 'billion Buddha-lands.' Fifth ground old royal says 'thousand billion.' Old verses new royal verses together say 'hundred billion.' Sixth ground old royal says 'ten myriad billion.' The rest all say 'thousand billion.' Seventh ground (from here down mind-positions new-old patience don't speak) old royal says 'hundred myriad billion.' The rest all say 'myriad billion.' Eighth ground old royal new royal verses together say 'hundred myriad dust-motes number.' Old verses say 'hundred Ganges.' Ninth ground new-old royal together say 'hundred myriad billion asaṃkhyeya dust-motes number.' New-old royal together say 'ineffable ineffable Buddha-lands.' New-old verses together say 'billion Ganges.' Even one sutra one chapter has different explanations - how much more countless different explanations of later sutras - what can be taken as definitive measure? Do numbers increase beyond the text?" Someone says: "However these ten kings differ among teachings. According to the Ten Grounds Sutra, first ground bodhisattvas become Jambudvīpa kings, second ground bodhisattvas become vajra kings. Among the six desire heavens excluding the four heavenly kings, among the four dhyānas excluding the third dhyāna, according to that sequence become eight royal positions. Now according to this sutra, among the six desire heavens and four dhyānas, according to that sequence receive ten royal fruits. Therefore these sutras each depend on one meaning and don't mutually contradict." I say: "The Necklace also uses the six desires and four dhyānas to correspond to ten royal positions. That is complete there. Therefore examine further the dharma-gates cultivated by various grounds and Necklace wheel-characteristics." Great Tranquility Heavenly King - Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "Akaniṣṭha Maheśvara Heaven." Master Jizang says: "The Grounds

[Page 41, Upper] 
Sutra says becoming Maheśvara Heaven, ruling the three-thousand realms. The Necklace Sutra makes it Great Pure Abode Heavenly King." The source of the three realms - Master Wŏnch'ŭk says "ignorance." If following the basic record, ālaya consciousness. Master Jizang says "severing the seeds of the highest existence."

Sutra: "At that time hundreds of myriads of billions of Ganges' sands great assembly each arose from their seats, scattered immeasurable inconceivable flowers, burned immeasurable inconceivable incense, made offerings to Śākyamuni Buddha and immeasurable great bodhisattvas, joined palms listening to King Prasenajit explain prajñā-pāramitā, now before Buddha with verses praised saying... up to immeasurable fruits and retributions"

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "The second Moon-Light verse praise has three parts: first great assembly offerings, next Moon-Light's correct praise, later 'at that time various...' below explaining the assembly's benefits." Master Dōeki agrees. (I note: Perhaps the benefits should be made a separate section, like the previous distinctions.) "At that time hundred myriads..." "Now before Buddha... up to concluding the verses" - Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "There are two parts: first generating the verse text, later correctly praising with verses. Regarding verses there are two explanations: First says verses mean 'exhaustion' - because they intake meaning exhaustively they're called verses. Second says according to correct Sanskrit they're called gāthā. This means hymn, and saying 'verse' is abbreviated corruption." Master Dōeki says: "This is called 'recitative hymn' - meaning the form of praising and beautifying威power and virtue." "World-Honored One teacher diamond body, mind-practice tranquil extinction turning Dharma wheel, eight eloquences vast sound explaining for assembly, at that time assembly attained path hundreds of myriads of billions, at that time six heaven-humans renunciation path, becoming bhikṣu assembly practicing bodhisattva conduct... up to concluding verses."

Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "Twenty-nine and a half verses, broadly divided into three: first one and a half verses briefly praise Buddha's virtues, next from 'five patience' below twenty-five verses extensively praise five patience virtues, later from 'Tathāgata' below three verses praise Buddha's

[Page 41, Lower]
transformative activities." Someone says: "Concluding praise of Tathāgata." I say: "The word 'concluding' is good." Also this master takes four lines as one verse, therefore says "twenty-nine and a half verses." Masters Jizang and others take two lines as one verse, therefore say "fifty-nine verses." What's quoted below can be known from this. From "World-Honored One... up to bodhisattva conduct" - Master Dōeki says: "The first one and a half lines praise the Buddha jewel, from 'turning Dharma wheel' below praises Dharma jewel, from 'at that time assembly' below three lines [praise] Sangha jewel." I say: "Corresponding to the three jewels, examining carefully this could be so. But generally speaking: the first one and a half lines praise Buddha's virtues, next from 'turning Dharma wheel' below praises Dharma explanation, from 'at that time assembly' below clarifies benefits obtained." Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "One explanation says the first two lines praise Buddha's three mysteries: first line body-mystery, latter line first four characters mind-mystery, latter three characters speech-mystery." I say: "It should be said the first three lines praise Buddha's three mysteries: first line body-mystery, next line first four characters mind-mystery, latter three characters together with latter line speech-mystery." The eight eloquences - Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: "As the Brahmā-māra Analogy Sutra says, Buddha's Dharma-explanation voice has eight types: first supreme voice (Master Dōeki says: excellent-marvelous), second easily-understood voice, third gentle voice, fourth harmonious voice, fifth noble-wisdom voice, sixth non-deceptive voice (Master Dōeki says: without error and confusion; Master Jizang says: not mistaken), seventh subtle-marvelous voice (Master Dōeki says: removing the distant; eloquence means four eloquences), eighth non-feminine voice. Also the Necklace Sutra has eight types of voices, meaning inner-outer cause-effect and four unobstructed voices, making eight. Also the Virtuous-Foolish Sutra, Ten Abodes Cutting Bonds Sutra, etc. also explain eight types, but different from this - fearing prolixity I don't explain." "At that time six heaven-humans renunciation path, etc." (the new says: heaven-humans together cultivate renunciation practices, able to learn all bodhisattva practices) - Master Jizang says: "Heaven-humans renunciation dharma. Now saying 'renunciation' means the mind necessarily depending on Buddha exits the home of birth-death." Master Wŏnch'ŭk agrees. Humans have shaving hair and beard, renouncing home becoming bhikṣu assembly; heavens have abandoning the mundane, entering the path becoming bodhisattva sangha. (I note: How could there be no renunciant bodhisattvas?)