【Page 68 Upper】
Whether internal or external, all are the spiritual power of buddhas and bodhisattvas. In the present interpretation, because prajñā can protect the nations of humans and devas, it is called "protecting the nation." Master Zang says: Briefly there are three meanings for protecting the nation. First, prajñā is the mother of buddhas. When one propagates prajñā, one is protected by the buddha's supernatural powers. Second, Mahāyāna sūtras are what bodhisattvas study. By lecturing on this sūtra, bodhisattvas from the ten directions gather like clouds to listen and receive it. Third, this Mahāyāna sūtra is beloved and respected by the dharma-protecting heavenly dragons, spirits and ghosts of the ten directions. By lecturing on this sūtra, dragon spirits and others come to listen and receive it.

Scripture: "At that time the Buddha said..." up to "end of chapter"
Master Ye says: The chapter text is divided into three parts. First, admonishing and listening. Second, extensive explanation. Third, benefits for the assembly. Master Ce's intention is the same. Master Zang says: It is divided into five sections. First, clarifying the dharma practices for protecting the nation. From "Great King, in former days" second, citing the past to parallel the present, clarifying that benefits are not empty. From "the sixteen great nations" third, encouraging cultivation. From "at that time Śākyamuni" fourth, obtaining benefits. From "I now" fifth, conclusion.

Scripture: "At that time the Buddha said..." up to "pāramitā"
Master Ce says: Admonishing to listen, permitting explanation, and encouraging maintenance.

Scripture: "When the nation..." up to "name, taste, phrase"
Master Ce says: Extensively explaining dharma protection has three parts. First, extensively explaining dharma protection. Second, from "Great King, in former days" citing ancient to verify present. Third, from "Great King, the sixteen" concluding by showing encouragement to maintain. Master Ye agrees.

Scripture: "When the nation..." up to "explained as above"
Master Ce says: Within the extensive explanation, it is further divided into three. First, explaining protecting the nation. Second, from "Great King, not only" explaining protecting blessings.

【Page 68 Lower】
Third, from "Great King, not only" explaining protecting various difficulties. According to Master Zang's meaning, "protecting blessings etc." clarifies all other ministers and subjects etc. "Also protecting various difficulties etc." clarifies protecting other people's eight difficulties.

Scripture: "When the nation..." up to "explained as above"
Master Ce says: Within protecting the nation, the text has four divisions. First, clarifying maintenance and protection. Second, explaining dharma protection. Third, from "your nation" clarifying the essence of what can protect. Fourth, from "Great King" revealing the difficulties to be protected from. Regarding "when nations etc." (The new version says: "When all nations are about to be in turmoil, there are various disasters and bandits come to destroy") Regarding "kalpa burning," Master Ce says: Because it damages the nation it is called "kalpa burning." It is not the great fire disaster among the three disasters. Master Zang agrees. "Should invite one hundred buddhas" up to "one hundred dharma teachers" (The new version says: "Adorn the ritual ground, place one hundred buddha images and one hundred bodhisattva images, on one hundred lion thrones invite one hundred dharma teachers") Master Ce says: One hundred buddha, bodhisattva, and arhat images means first inviting sacred merit fields. One hundred monks etc. means second inviting assembly listeners for the dharma gathering, which has three types: first one hundred monks, second one hundred four assemblies, third one hundred seven assemblies. Speaking of "one hundred monks" means before each seat there is one monk supervising the disciples. Speaking of "four great assemblies" means monks, nuns, laymen, laywomen. Speaking of "seven assemblies" means adding three assemblies of novices etc. to the previous four assemblies. The seven assemblies are the coming and going assembly (Regarding novices etc., Master Zang says: Outside the previous four great assemblies, add śikṣamāṇā, novice monks, and novice nuns). Master Ye says: Taking the four including buddhas as sacred guests, taking the four great assemblies and seven assemblies as sacred assembly. The four assemblies are devas, humans, dragons, and ghosts. Inviting one hundred dharma teachers means third inviting teachers to lecture and explain. Master Zang says: First distinguishing seven merit fields: first one hundred buddhas, second one hundred bodhisattvas, third one hundred arhats, fourth one hundred assembly, sixth seven assemblies, seventh one hundred dharma teachers. Also, why all one hundred? Briefly raising round numbers to correspond to the one hundred divisions of spirits and ghosts. From "one hundred lion roars" to "making offerings to the three jewels" (The new version says: "Before the various seats, lighting various lamps, burning various incenses, scattering various flowers")

【Page 69 Upper】
Master Ce says: Before each seat there are one lamp and one incense. Regarding "three robes and miscellaneous items," Master Zang says miscellaneous items are: three robes, bowl, sitting mat, razor, brown robe, black robe, small knife, water strainer, bowl bag, needle case. Some say, Master Fan says speaking of "miscellaneous items" means collectively referring to the great assembly, therefore saying "miscellaneous items." Like the one hundred and one bodily requisites etc. Also, "shi" is interpreted as miscellaneous, namely pointing to miscellaneous items outside the three robes. Should further examine Master Ce's commentary. Regarding "light meal and midday meal" (From "three robes" onward, the new version says: "Extensive offerings of clothing, bedding, food and drink, medicine, dwellings, beds and seats, all provisions") Regarding "twice daily," Master Zang says morning and afternoon. Master Ce says: Lecturing necessarily requires strength, therefore two meals, lecturing also twice daily. Regarding "one hundred divisions of spirits and ghosts," Master Zang says: The Tripitaka Master says: This comes from the "Golden Silver Sage Meaning Sūtra." This sūtra did not come from foreign countries. This sage leads various spirits and ghosts. The spirits and ghosts fundamentally have ten divisions. Each has ten divisions, therefore called "one hundred divisions." The fundamental ten are: First, great spirit, able to transform and create various spirits. Second, child spirit - Maheśvara's child who violated a sage. The sage's law does not kill small children, therefore the sage predicted: at age sixteen when grown, must die. This word cannot be escaped. Through Maheśvara's power dwelling in this child, constantly age fourteen. Taking small children as party members, harming worldly small children. If age fifteen, this child no longer harms. Third, mother spirit - the child's wet nurse. Fourth, Brahmā spirit - Maheśvara, having three eyes on the face with omniscience. If losing something, curse a small child's face to grow another eye, go directly to get the thing. After getting the thing, lose the eye again. Fifth, elephant-head spirit, fond of obstructing others' all good and evil matters, wishing they not succeed. Sixth, dragon spirits, having much greed and anger. Seventh, rāla spirits, fond of violating humans and devas, having two valiant sons of good and evil. Eighth, sand spirits, with little merit and

【Page 69 Lower】
bodies like sand and earth. Ninth, yakṣa spirits, having great supernatural powers. Tenth, rākṣasa spirits, translated as "extremely difficult." Regarding "ministers, rulers, princes etc.," I privately say: Various masters do not explain what this passage cites. A former worthy said: This has four pairs of conflicts: first minister-ruler pair, second prince-royal son pair, third ruler-royal son pair, fourth hundred officials mutually opposing each other. This explanation is very skillful. However, the ruler-royal son pair can still be examined. The first fascicle says: "Losing time, losing degrees" means the sun and moon eclipse at wrong times. Stars appear at wrong times, therefore called "losing time." Heaven has 360 degrees. The twenty-eight constellations each have territorial divisions. The movements of sun, moon, and five planets have numerical degrees. When astronomical phenomena change and don't follow original positions, it's called "losing degrees." Master Zang says: Heaven has 356 degrees. Also says: The seven difficulties are: first spirits and ghosts difficulty, second bandit difficulty, third ministers-rulers-princes-hundred officials difficulty, fourth twenty-eight constellations difficulty, fifth fire, sixth water, seventh wind. (I privately say: The scripture's following text separately lists seven. Now following private permission? Also the scripture says: why don't sun and moon losing degrees join the difficulty count? Also the scripture above says bandits come to rob the nation, below says many bandits arise - why the repetition? I following Master Ben's commentary and examining the scriptural meaning say: When national territory is in chaos clarifies national destruction. Ministers-rulers-princes etc. clarifies ruler-minister discord. Heaven-earth strange phenomena etc. briefly clarifies seven difficulties. Heaven-earth strange phenomena is general clarification. Sun-moon is the first difficulty. Constellations are the second difficulty. Bandit uprising is the third. Fire-water-wind are the next three. The seventh drought text briefly concludes it. All various difficulties are completely included.)

Scripture: "Great King, not only..." up to "explained as above, coming and going as wished" (The new version says: "Coming and going as intended")
Master Zang says: Seven treasures as wished.

Scripture: "Great King, not only..." up to "explained as above"
Regarding "four grave prohibitions," Master Ye says: sexual misconduct, stealing, killing, false speech. Regarding "five rebellions," Master Ye says: killing father, harming mother, killing arhats, drawing blood from buddha's body, destroying the harmonious sangha. Regarding "eight difficulties," Master Zang says: Three lower realms difficulties namely three, fourth buddha-before