[Page 6, Upper]
Second, the afflictions to be eliminated are difficult to sever, like vajra. This concentration can eliminate them. Therefore it is called vajra concentration of cessation. Some say it is the concentration of cessation and extinction. I have examined the new version and found two passages. First it says "entering and exiting concentration of cessation manifesting inconceivable supremacy," and later "approaching the peerless vajra samādhi." This now seems like the latter passage. Also, the lower section says "immediate cessation is vajra and also called concentration." This is probably that meaning.

Sūtra: There are also hundreds of thousands of millions of five-precept worthy ones, all practicing arhat [path], ten stages, dedication, five-part dharma body fully complete, all accomplishing countless merits.

Regarding the fourth, worthy ones all practicing arhat, etc.: Master Dōeki says that "practicing arhat" means distinguishing stages - practitioners are those aspiring. The ten stages include the seven stages above ground combined with the three worthies before the stages. Hence called ten stages. In the Reception and Maintenance chapter below, explaining the seventh stage, it says: "The five-part dharma body is all fulfilled, dwelling in the tenth stage arhat Brahmā position." "Dedication of five parts" clarifies virtuous activities - practice is precisely dedication. The five parts are precepts, concentration, wisdom, liberation, and knowledge and vision of liberation. In my view, this master's intention is that in "all practicing arhat ten stages," they dedicate the myriad practices cultivated toward the five parts. This interpretation follows the text. Master Wŏnch'ŭk quotes the sūtra text, making "practicing arhat ten stages" one phrase and "dedicating to five-part dharma body fulfillment" one phrase. Generally it resembles Master Dōeki's intention, but detailed interpretation of the meaning differs slightly. Master Jizang says: Arhat is a general term, divided into the meaning of no-birth and non-attachment. Also, cultivating the arhat path is called practicing arhat. The ten stages refer to joyful, stainless, etc. Dedication refers to the ten path-species, rescuing and protecting all sentient beings while departing from the characteristics of sentient beings.

Sūtra: There are also ten thousand five-precept faithful women, all practicing arhat, all accomplishing the ten stages, initial-birth

[Page 6, Lower]
merits, dwelling-birth merits, final-birth merits, thirty-birth merits all accomplished.

The new version combines the above two categories into one. The text says: "There are also countless upāsaka and upāsikā assemblies, all seeing the noble truths." Master Liangben says: Upāsaka and upāsikā - this follows the ancient translation with corrupted and abbreviated language. The sūtras translated by Tripiṭaka Master Cien all say "upāsakaḥ" and "upāsikā." In my view, Master Liangben himself served as scribe for the new translation. If he knew the ancient corruption, why did he not correct it for use? This is truly strange. Regarding the fifth, faithful women all practicing arhat ten stages: In my view, if we follow Master Dōeki's above interpretation, they practice the tenth stage. However, the following text says "accomplishing initial-birth merits, etc." - according to that intention, one should carefully consider and annotate. Regarding initial-birth, etc.: Master Jizang says: The ten stages are as above. Initial-birth is the mind entering the stage, dwelling-birth is the mind dwelling continuously in the stage, final-birth is the mind fulfilling the stage. The thirty births means each stage has three births - namely entering, dwelling, and fulfilling. The ten stages combined make thirty births. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: According to the basic record, each of the ten faiths has entering part, dwelling part, and exiting part. Some say that the ten stages in the above two assemblies are precisely the ten understanding positions. Master Wŏnch'ŭk also explains that various ten stages emerge from the ten stages of the above worthy ones, but cannot elaborate extensively. I ask: Regarding this bodhisattva stage, if following the words "all practicing arhat," it seems to be before the arhat stage. If following "accomplishing thirty-birth merits," it seems to be in the final mind of the dharma-cloud [stage]. If following the new version's "all seeing noble truths," it seems to initially enter the noble position. The sūtra text is unclear and the various interpretations are difficult to clarify. What about this meaning? Answer: "Thirty-birth merits all accomplished" - generally praising the virtues of the twelve assemblies often has the phrase "all accomplished." Now examining this carefully, the meaning is also unclear. The above text first raises learners and no-more-learners, concluding "countless

[Page 7, Upper]
merits all accomplished." How could this mean that one person accomplishes all countless merits? The text below first lists the eighteen Brahmās, then concludes "eighteen birth-place merits all accomplished." How could this mean that one Brahmā accomplishes the virtues of all eighteen places? This text is also thus. Students should think well.

Sūtra: There are also ten billion seven-worthy householders with complete virtuous conduct, twenty-two categories, ten totalities, eight masteries, eight liberations, three wisdoms, sixteen truths, Four Noble Truths, four-three-two-one category contemplation, attaining ninety patients, all accomplishing all merits.

The new version says: "There are also countless ones cultivating seven-worthy practices: foundations of mindfulness, right efforts, spiritual powers, faculties, powers, eight masteries, ten totalities, sixteen-fold approach to truth-contemplation." Regarding the sixth, seven worthies: Most masters say the five stopping minds, separate-characteristic foundations of mindfulness, general-characteristic foundations of mindfulness, warmth, peak, patience, and highest worldly [dharma]. Master Jizang gives two interpretations: first agreeing with this, second following the Mahāyāna. No leisure for extensive elaboration. Regarding householder: Master Jizang says that in foreign countries, accumulating wealth to fill hundreds of millions is called householder. Regarding twenty-two categories: All masters agree - from the thirty-seven categories, excluding the eightfold path and seven factors of enlightenment, because those are noble dharmas, they are excluded from ordinary positions. Ten totalities: Master Dōeki says that in concentration one contemplates the ten dharmas of earth, water, fire, wind, blue, yellow, red, white, space, and consciousness. Because they pervade and enter everything, they are called entries. Also called totalities. Eight masteries: Master Dōeki says the new version calls them eight masteries. They are called masteries because they eliminate the characteristics of the five desires. They are called victories because they overcome object-realms. The eight are: first, having internal color-characteristics, contemplating few external colors; second, having internal color-characteristics, contemplating many external colors - these depend on the first liberation. Third, having no internal color-characteristics, contemplating few external colors; fourth, having no internal color-characteristics, contemplating many external colors - these depend on the second liberation. Fifth, contemplating

[Page 7, Lower]
blue; sixth, contemplating yellow; seventh, contemplating red; eighth, contemplating white - these depend on the third pure liberation. Eight liberations: Master Dōeki says they are also called eight reversals. First, having internal color, contemplating external color; second, having no internal color, contemplating external color; third, pure liberation with body as witness, fulfilled; fourth, space-sphere; fifth, consciousness-sphere; sixth, nothingness-sphere; seventh, neither-perception-nor-non-perception sphere; eighth, cessation of sensation and perception concentration. The first two reverse the pure five desires; the third abandons the impure contemplation mind; the space-sphere reverses form; the next three reverse successively lower minds; cessation of sensation and perception reverses mind. Hence called reversals. Liberating from attachments to various places is also called liberation. My record says: Question - not yet having attained sainthood, why praise the eight liberations? Answer: Among the eight, seven are attained but not cessation of extinction - praising from the majority. The three wisdoms are hearing, thinking, and cultivating. The sixteen truths are the sixteen of suffering, etc. The Four Noble Truths are [as explained]. Regarding four-three-two-one category contemplation attaining ninety patients: According to one fascicle, this concerns the Hīnayāna contemplation gates. From the patience dharma onward, gradually contracting contemplation. Initially contemplating all Four Noble Truths together, next contemplating three, then two, finally only contemplating one suffering. In the desire realm there are these four levels, making ten categories. Also, in each of the eight dhyāna stages of the upper realms there are these ten, hence making ninety patients. I ask privately: The above eight stages contemplate together - why say each has ten categories? Answer: Now assisting the explanation - though contemplating together, attaining patience is separate. Students should consider. Master Dōeki says: Middle patience reduces contemplation. Initially contemplating the Four Noble Truths makes four categories; next reducing one truth makes three categories; two and one categories are similarly reduced to make ten categories. Each using the nine categories of contemplation from highest-highest etc. makes ninety patients. Some take the sixteen truths and Four Noble Truths to make twenty, combined with the four-three-two-one ten categories to make thirty, each using the three wisdoms of hearing, thinking, and cultivating to make ninety patients. The second interpretation is somewhat closer to the text. Master Jizang...