[Page 8, Upper]
Master Wŏnch'ŭk's two interpretations also have many explanations, but all are difficult to believe, and I cannot elaborate extensively.

Sūtra: There are also ten thousand millions of nine Brahmās, three pure [heavens], three light [heavens], three [heavens], five joy-bliss heavens, heavenly concentration, merit concentration, taste, constant bliss, spiritual powers, eighteen birth-place merits all accomplished.

The new version says: "The great Brahmā kings of the four concentrations of the form realm are also together with their retinues and countless divine princes." First listing the sixteen great kings, next listing the desire heavens, next listing the form heavens. The seventh is the form heavens. According to Master Wŏnch'ŭk's intention, this sūtra has three versions that are not the same. One version says "eighteen Brahmā heavens, nine Brahmās, etc." One version removes the four characters "eighteen Brahmā heavens." One version removes "eighteen Brahmā heavens" and adds the character "Brahmā" - namely "three Brahmās, five joy-bliss." Though there are three versions, it also follows the first version. Regarding the seven characters "nine Brahmās etc.," Masters Wŏnch'ŭk, Dōeki, and others say: The nine Brahmās are the nine heavens of the fourth dhyāna - namely the three of No Clouds etc., Unconscious, and Five Pure Abodes. The three pure are the three heavens of the third dhyāna. The three light are the three heavens of the second dhyāna. The three are the two heavens of the first dhyāna. In the first fascicle, interpreting the two characters "nine Brahmās" has two meanings. First, same as before. Also saying the nine Brahmās are the three pure, three light, and three Brahmās below. Regarding five joy-bliss: Master Wŏnch'ŭk says the five are the five factors. Joy-bliss is a distinction. The second has joy but no bliss. The third has bliss but no joy. The first concentration has both joy and bliss. Having all five factors and both joy and bliss, it is called five joy-bliss. This joy-bliss has two meanings. First, correspondence with the three consciousnesses is called bliss; correspondence with mental consciousness is called joy. Second, mental pleasure has two functions: first, delighting the body is called bliss; second, delighting the mind is called joy, as explained in the Xiāngyáng [treatise]. Master Dōeki says: Five joy-bliss distinguishes from the above three. The five factors of the first dhyāna are examination, investigation, joy, bliss, and concentration.

[Page 8, Lower]
The first fascicle has two meanings. First is the five factors of joy-bliss, etc. Also saying: Five joy-bliss means the Five Pure Abodes delight in doctrinal discussion, hence called joy-bliss. Master Jizang agrees with the latter interpretation. In my view, the sequence of the present text proceeds from above to below. How could it list lower heavens and then again list upper heavens? Also Master Dōeki says: According to the Avataṃsaka, the Brahmā assembly is divided in two: Brahmā Heaven and Brahmā Body. Brahmā Ministers are divided in two: Brahmā Ministers and Brahmā Retinue. Including Brahmā King makes five. I have examined the Avataṃsaka: sometimes it lists three heavens as usual, like in the Entering the Dharma Realm chapter; sometimes it lists four heavens - three as usual, initially adding Brahmā Body as in the Rulers of the World chapter, etc.; sometimes it lists five heavens - four as before, initially adding Brahmā Heaven as in the Ten Inexhaustible Treasuries chapter. Regarding heavenly concentration, etc.: Master Wŏnch'ŭk says heavenly concentration is merit obtained through reward. Merit concentration is final-birth merit. Taste is attachment to concentration taste. This is said following association, not proper merit. Masters Dōeki and Jizang agree with this. The first fascicle says: Heavenly concentration is the unconscious concentration heaven. The four heavenly concentrations are precisely the four formless heavens. Merit concentration taste refers to the various factors in dhyāna - these are merits, and dhyāna joy serves as food, hence called taste. Regarding constant bliss and spiritual powers: Master Jizang says these are cultivated spiritual powers and reward-obtained spiritual powers. Master Dōeki says each has concentration bliss internally and spiritual powers externally. In my view, there are three categories of merit: first, heavenly concentration merit; second, taste and constant bliss; third, spiritual powers. Dhyāna joy serves as taste - this meaning is good. Regarding eighteen birth-places: all masters say this is a general conclusion.

Sūtra: There are also hundreds of millions of divine princes of the six desire [heavens], all accomplishing ten good karmic rewards and spiritual power merits.

The eighth is the desire heavens. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: Now saying spiritual powers refers to those obtained through reward, because the various heavens of the desire realm do not cultivate concentration. Or it may encompass both - there is no harm to the meaning. In my view, the sūtra refers to spiritual virtue.

[Page 9, Upper]
Sūtra: There are also sixteen great kings, each having ten thousand, twenty thousand, up to one hundred thousand retinues, accomplishing five precepts, ten good [actions], three refuges merits, and pure faith practices.

The ninth is kings. Master Jizang says: Because the four faiths are accomplished, it is called pure faith. Universally obtaining Mahāyāna right faith is called pure faith.

Sūtra: There are also all sentient beings of the five destinies.

The new version says: "Sentient beings of various destinies, transformed countless beings, asuras, etc." The tenth is the five destinies.

Sūtra: There are also countless assemblies from other directions.

The eleventh is other directions. The first fascicle, interpreting the bodhisattvas of the ten directions at the end of the chapter, says: The previous countless assemblies from other directions are precisely the great beings of the ten directions. Being among them, it briefly shows those who heard together, entering the general prologue. Now clarifying being moved by the Buddha initiates the main doctrine, entering the specific prologue.

Sūtra: There are also [those who] transform the pure lands of the ten directions, manifesting hundreds of millions of high seats, creating hundreds of millions of Mount Sumeru jewel flowers. On the flowers in front of each seat are countless transformation buddhas, countless bodhisattvas, monks, eight assemblies of great multitudes, each sitting on jewel lotus flowers. On the flowers are all countless lands; the buddhas and great assemblies of each land are no different from now. In each land, each buddha and great assembly each expounds prajñāpāramitā.

The new version says: "There are also those who transform and manifest the pure lands of the ten directions, manifesting hundreds of millions of lion thrones. Buddhas sit upon them extensively proclaiming dharma essentials. In front of each seat appears one flower each - these hundreds of millions of flowers adorned with various jewels. On the flowers, each one again has countless transformation buddhas, countless bodhisattvas, four assemblies, eight divisions, all countless.

[Page 9, Lower]
Among them, the various buddhas each proclaim prajñāpāramitā, circulating throughout the buddha lands of the ten directions numerous as Ganges sands." The twelfth is the transformation assembly. Master Jizang says: These are inconceivable bodhisattvas, hence able to transform the pure lands of the ten directions and buddha assemblies, etc., coming to this land. Master Liangben says: Question - are these transformations the transformations of Śākyamuni or of other buddhas? Answer - both are without fault. Regarding hundreds of millions: Master Jizang says hundreds of millions of suns and moons, hundreds of millions of Mount Sumeru. My record says: Manifesting hundreds of millions of high seats and flowers clarifies the transformation characteristics of the response-body's great thousand-fold world system. Regarding Mount Sumeru jewel flowers: The first fascicle says the color and form are dignified and adorned, resembling Mount Sumeru. Regarding the eight divisions: Master Jizang says: first, kṣatriya assembly; second, śramaṇa assembly; third, brāhmaṇa assembly; fourth, four heavenly kings assembly; fifth, thirty-three heaven assembly; sixth, six desire heaven assembly; seventh, māra assembly; eighth, brahmā assembly. Also, speaking of the eight divisions of dragons and spirits: first, gandharvas; second, piśācas - these two belong to King Dhṛtarāṣṭra. Third, kumbhāṇḍas; fourth, pretas - these two belong to King Virūḍhaka. Fifth, nāgas; sixth, pūtanas - these two belong to King Virūpākṣa. Seventh, yakṣas; eighth, rākṣasas - these two belong to King Vaiśravaṇa. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: The eight division assemblies briefly have three types: first, heavenly beings, dragons, etc. as in various sūtras; second, according to transmitted teachings, the four kings each lead two divisions. Also, the Long Āgama says there are eight division assemblies in the world: first, kṣatriya assembly; second, brāhmaṇa assembly; third, householder assembly; fourth, śramaṇa assembly; fifth, four heavenly kings assembly; sixth, Trāyastriṃśa heaven assembly; seventh, māra assembly; eighth, brahmā assembly. In my view, this section of sūtra text is unclear, hence there are different interpretations by various masters. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: This clarifies the transformation assembly. The text has two distinct parts: first clarifying single transformation; later, from "on all the flowers there are..." clarifying repeated transformation. In the former there are...