[Page 18, Upper]
It should be called the "Tathāgata Chapter." One should know that contemplating emptiness is precisely protecting the Buddha fruit. The four characters "practicing the transformation of the ten stages" are not clear. Readers should think well on this - I cannot record it in detail.

Sūtra: Addressing the Buddha: If all dharmas are thus, when bodhisattvas protect and transform sentient beings, is it for transforming sentient beings?

Great King, the dharma-nature of form, sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness, and permanence-bliss-self-purity does not abide in form, does not abide in non-form, does not abide in non-non-form. Even sensation, perception, mental formations, and consciousness also do not abide in non-non-abiding. Why? Because non-form as such and non-non-form as such, due to conventional truth, due to the three provisional designations, are called seeing sentient beings. The nature of all beings is real, therefore up to all buddhas, the three vehicles, seven sages and eight saints are also called "seeing." Great King, if one uses names to designate all dharmas up to buddhas, the three vehicles, and four births, this is neither seeing nor not-seeing all dharmas.

Master Dōeki says: From here below is the second section of question-and-answer differentiation. The text has two parts: first, questioning and answering about the three types of prajñā; second, from "Great King, if bodhisattvas..." onward, raising delusion and making a concluding return. Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: From "Addressing the Buddha: If all..." to "Mahāyāna emptiness" is the second question-and-answer re-explanation. The text has three distinct parts: first clarifying true-characteristic prajñā; next, from "Addressing the Buddha..." onward, clarifying contemplative prajñā; finally, from "This sūtra's names, flavors, and phrases..." onward, praising textual prajñā. Masters Dōeki and Liangben's understanding is the same, though they divide the text slightly differently. By using the three prajñās to correspond to these three sections of text, they well capture the sūtra's meaning.

"If all dharmas are thus, when bodhisattvas protect and transform sentient beings, is it for transforming sentient beings?" - the new version says: "If bodhisattvas and sentient beings are non-dual in nature, by what characteristics do bodhisattvas transform sentient beings?" Master Dōeki says: "All dharmas are thus" means identical suchness. This means there are no bodhisattvas and no sentient beings - how could there be transformation? I say: This follows the new version. Master Jizang and others have the same understanding.

"The dharma-nature of form, sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness, permanence-bliss-self-purity does not abide in form, does not abide in non-form, does not abide in non-non-form, up to sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness also do not abide in non-non-abiding" - the new version says: "The dharma-nature of form-sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness-permanence-bliss-self-purity does not abide in form, does not abide in non-form; sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness-permanence-bliss-self-purity also do not abide in purity, do not abide in non-purity."

[Page 18, Lower]
Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: From below, the second part is the Tathāgata's correct answer. The text has two parts: first, clarifying that depending on truth, one contemplates emptiness and does not transform; second, discriminating that depending on the conventional, one can transform sentient beings. This is the first part.

Regarding "dharma-nature form-sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness," etc., I examine the Vimalakīrti Xuanyi, fascicle 5, which says: Conceivable liberation extinguishes form and grasps emptiness, therefore there is liberation with remainder. The extinction of form-mind causes is liberation without remainder - the extinction of form-mind effects. Since liberation is clarified in terms of no-form and no-mind, there is no substance. If this is inconceivable liberation, then contemplating form-mind, it is precisely the form-mind of dharma-nature. Since there is originally no causal arising, it is not effectual extinction. Seeing form-mind as unborn and unceasing, one attains liberation. Therefore there is the substance of true, good, wondrous form and wondrous mind. Thus the Nirvana Sūtra says: "Liberation has two types: both form and non-form. Non-form refers to śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas; form refers to the liberation attained by buddhas and tathāgatas." It also says: "Wondrous form, clear and tranquil, constantly abides peacefully, not moved by birth, old age, sickness, and death." It also says: "Form-liberation nirvana, sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness liberation nirvana." This is precisely what the Renwang Sūtra clarifies as dharma-nature's form-perception-mental formations-consciousness. If liberation were without form, it would be like a dead person - how could one attain liberation?

Master Jizang says: The text states "dharma-nature is precisely form-sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness." Master Dōeki says: The delusory attachment to the five aggregates and the four inverted [views] - when seen and understood, they are immediately true and equally called dharma-nature. Regarding "not abiding in form," etc., the first fascicle says: To speak completely, there should be four phrases: form, non-form, both form and non-form, neither form nor non-form. The remaining four aggregates and all dharmas are likewise. The present text is abbreviated, so it simply says "non-form, non-non-form." Master Jizang says: The five aggregates and four virtues all transcend verbal designations, equally transcending the four phrases, revealing originally abiding practice. Master Wŏnch'ŭk presents a different interpretation, saying: Speaking of "not abiding" means

[Page 19, Upper]
that inner-realization wisdom does not cling or attach, hence it is called "not abiding." Like in the Mahāyānasaṃgraha, there are three types of form: first, discriminated form, which is parikalpita (imagined nature); second, categorical form, which is paratantra (dependent nature); third, dharma-nature form, which is pariniṣpanna (perfected nature). Through the three naturelessnesses, the three-natured forms are eliminated. Therefore it says "not abiding in form up to not abiding in non-non-form." One interpretation says: dharma-nature suchness transcends the four phrases and transcends the hundred negations. Master Dōeki says: Form, existing-form, empty-form, nature-non-abiding - these three are called dharma-nature. The remaining aggregates are likewise. I say: This interpretation well accords with Tiantai's three truths. Perhaps it breaks the distinct three to reveal the perfect three? However, there are beings of three teaching capacities and different understandings in one meaning, so one should not obstruct other different interpretations.

Regarding "up to sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness also do not abide in non-non-abiding," Master Wŏnch'ŭk says: Analogously explaining the four aggregates, saying "do not abide in non-non-abiding" is because, to preserve brevity, the latter encompasses the former. I say: "Sensation-perception-mental formations-consciousness also do not abide" analogously explains the four aggregates; "non-non-abiding" generally covers the five aggregates. Above it explained not abiding in the five aggregates; now it again breaks attachment to non-abiding.

"Why? Non-form as such, non-non-form as such" - the new version says: "Why? Because all dharma-natures are completely empty." The first fascicle says: Explaining the previous non-abiding has two parts: first, correctly explaining true emptiness; second, contrastively clarifying provisional existence. The present text is extremely abbreviated. If explained extensively, each should correspondingly explain the above phrases - namely, form as such, non-form as such, non-non-form as such. Master Wŏnch'ŭk agrees. Master Jizang says: "Non-form as such" means not that one breaks form and only then it becomes empty - the form-substance is originally empty. "Non-non-form as such" means not that apart from form there is separately existing emptiness - form is precisely emptiness. Master Dōeki says: Because form-nature is originally empty, there is neither form nor non-form. I say: Now perhaps briefly raising form? The four aggregates and all dharmas should also be explained thus. Therefore the new version generally says "all dharmas are empty." Also, "non-form

[Page 19, Lower]
as such," etc. - previously saying "dharma-nature form" is because of non-form as such. "Non-non-abiding form" is because of non-non-form as such.

From "due to conventional truth" to "all dharmas." The new version says: "Due to conventional truth, due to the three provisional designations, all sentient beings, aggregate-base-element dharmas, creating merit and demerit, immovable actions and other causes and effects all exist. The various practices cultivated by the three vehicles' sages and saints, up to Buddha fruit, are all called 'existing.' The sixty-two [wrong] views are also called 'existing.' Great King, if one clings to name-characteristics and discriminates dharmas, the six destinies, four births, and three vehicles' practices and fruits, this is precisely not seeing the true nature of all dharmas."

According to Master Wŏnch'ŭk's understanding, from below, the second part is depending on the conventional to be able to transform sentient beings. The three provisional designations are dharma-reception-name. Regarding "the nature of all beings is real," the original commentary says: It is not true nature in the ultimate sense, but obtainable - in conventional truth the four births have true nature. I say: This interpretation accords with the Prajñāpāramitā Treatise's meaning, but since the detailed textual divisions are unclear, I do not present them completely.

According to Master Dōeki's understanding: From "due to conventional truth" to "called seeing sentient beings" indicates provisional names; from "the nature of all beings is real" onward grasps the provisional as real; from "if using names to name" onward shows clinging to seeing dharmas as not true seeing. I say: This interpretation is without fault. However, "not true seeing," though it seems to dwell far from the "non-non-seeing text," can accord with the new version's "not seeing true nature text." Now I assist in clarifying: saying "non-seeing" means not wrong views, conversely revealing seeing true nature. "Non-non-seeing" precisely reveals neither seeing nor seeing true nature.

According to Master Jizang's understanding: "Due to conventional truth," etc. means following the conventional therefore transforming sentient beings. "The nature of all beings is real" concludes the above meaning of sentient beings being unattainable. Sentient beings' emptiness and tranquility is called "nature-reality." From "up to all buddhas" to "views also called seeing" clarifies view-attachment. From "if using names to name" onward concludes correct seeing. I say: This is also without error. New and old different explanations need not necessarily be reconciled.

The first fascicle says: From "due to conventional truth" to "called seeing sentient [beings]" clarifies the provisional accomplishment of emptiness. From "all beings" to "views also called seeing" - those who cling to existing nature