(Continuing from the previous page) ...splitting apart and flying about, then gathering again into one, and coming nearer when called — these phenomena lie outside that (Western) theory. The explanations for earthquakes are likely the same. Recently, it is said that natural philosophers (窮理家) have manufactured chemical substances, buried them in the ground, and caused minor earthquakes. However, an earthquake like the present one, which has even brought about great tidal waves (tsunamis), cannot be understood by such minor reasoning. Since ancient times, common people have spoken of a creature called the "Mangafu fish" (万劫の魚) that carries the great earth upon its back, and when it moves its tail and fins, earthquakes occur — this cannot easily be dismissed as an empty tale. This is because it seems that fire, wind, rain, snow, thunder, earthquakes, and tides all have their respective presiding deities, and disasters arise when these deities become wild and turbulent.

　　　　　Names for Earthquake

In ancient times, earthquakes were called "Nai" (ナイ). In the sixteenth volume of the *Nihon Shoki* (Chronicles of Japan), in the poem of the Crown Prince (Hitsuki no Miko), it reads: "Omi no ko no" [meaning: child of a retainer] "ya / Funo shibakaki" [meaning: brushwood fence of eight sections] "Shita-doyomi" [meaning: rumbling from below] "Nai ga yori koba" [meaning: if the earthquake comes rumbling forth] "Yare mu shibakaki" [meaning: the brushwood fence that shall break apart]." According to the commentary by Kagei, "那為 (Nai)" is a contraction of "泣鳴動 (Naki-yuri)" — to weep, cry, and shake. [Since "Yo" and "Yu" are interchangeable, saying "Yori" or "Yuri" amounts to the same thing. Now, both "Yori" and "Yuri" contract to "I," but writing "Nai" as 那為 when one would expect the "Ki" to be dropped is puzzling. Upon careful reflection, the "I" contracted from "Yuri" belongs to the "se-row" (せ行) of the kana syllabary, and is therefore not a light sound like the "a-row I" (阿行のイ); however, since there is no Chinese character available to represent this sound, a character from the "wa-row" (和行) resembling it — 為 — was borrowed. The reason that the 為 in 那為 belongs to the se-row is that people in Niida village and Hata district have from ancient times called earthquakes "Naya-kayuru." Moreover, in a text on earthquakes concerning the "Kaname-ishi" (要石, the keystone said to pin down the giant catfish), it is also called "Nayu." From this, we see that the "I" and "E" of the se-row are not pronounced lightly like those of the a-row; although there is a distinction, when a sound resembles the a-row, 伊 is used, and when it resembles the wa-row, characters such as 為 or 葦 are used. Further details regarding this matter, as well as the reason that "Sayi River" (佐葦河) in the *Kojiki* should be a contraction of "Sayuri River," and that "Sa-i" (潮佐為) in the *Man'yōshū* refers to "Sayuri" describing the passing of sound — all of these have been written down separately, so please refer to those notes.]

It seems that this (earthquake) arises from the turbulent spirit of Susanoo no Mikoto (須佐之男命). The reason for this is as follows: when Izanagi no Mikoto commanded Susanoo no Mikoto, saying "You shall govern the ocean," Susanoo instead wished to go to the "Ne no Katasu-kuni" (根之堅洲国, the firm-rooted underworld) where his mother dwelt, and unable to contain his grief, he wept and lamented. His weeping was so severe that it caused the green mountains to wither and dry, and the rivers and seas to completely dry up... (continues on next page)