The text states that when [Susanoo] ascended to heaven, "the mountains and rivers all moved, and the whole land shook." The Nihon Shoki also records that when he ascended to heaven, "the great ocean roared and the mountains and hills resounded." This is exactly the appearance of present-day earthquakes: because he wept and dried up the waters clinging to the mountains, the grasses and trees withered and their leaves fell as if on a barren mountain; and because he wept and drained the waters flowing in rivers, the great ocean roared and ultimately great tidal waves came flooding in. All of this seems to be due to Susanoo no Mikoto's weeping and lamenting — and so it is said that "Nai" (那為) carries the meaning of "weeping, crying, and shaking" (Nakiyuri).

Now, this Susanoo no Mikoto bore his sins, and through the purification offerings of the Chikura Okido, his heart was cleansed. He placed his rough spirit (aramitama) in the ocean and his gentle spirit (nigimitama) at the Suga Shrine in Izumo, established great meritorious deeds for the sake of the imperial grandchildren, and then entered the land of Tsukuyomi. Thus the world of humans came to be and should have been at peace — yet that there should be such a divine rampage as this year's great earthquake is a most awe-inspiring and fearful thing indeed.

　　The Great Earthquake of the 5th day of the 11th month of Kaei 7, the Year of the Tiger; recorded on the 29th day of the same month.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tani Kagei

　　Annotation by Masazumi:
　　In the Nihon Shoki, under the entry for the 7th year of Empress Suiko's reign, summer, the 4th month, on the day Kanototori of the new moon day Kinotohi [乙未朔辛酉]: "The earth shook and all the buildings collapsed; accordingly, orders were issued to the four directions to worship the god of earthquakes." This can be seen in the Ruijū Kokushi, volume 2, which states: "In the 6th year of Tenpō [sic: Tenpyō], envoys were dispatched to all provinces of the Kinai and the Seven Circuits to inspect and conduct worship at shrines to the god of earthquakes." It is thus known that the god of earthquakes was worshipped in various places in ancient times. However, no written record has been found indicating which divine spirit was actually enshrined and worshipped. Even scholars of Shinto, it is said, have not yet determined this clearly. Upon reflection, if the explanation in the main text is correct, it is perhaps possible that it was the spirit of Susanoo no Mikoto that was worshipped.