...decreasing from about eight times to three or four times per day. However, although more than twenty days have already passed, occasional small tremors still do not cease, and people remain anxious and fearful. There is a common saying that "an earthquake is most violent at the beginning, a great wind is strongest in the middle, and thunder becomes most intense toward the end," by which reasoning one might assume that there will be no more great shaking as at the first. Yet, because so many people—particularly women, children, and the young—remain worried, asking anxiously "What will happen? What will happen?", I have consulted old records and gathered examples of aftershocks that continued without stopping after major earthquakes, so as to put people's minds at ease. I record them below.

Regarding earthquakes that have occurred since ancient times, those found in the national histories are compiled and described in detail in Volume 171 of the *Ruijū Kokushi* (Classified National Histories), in the section on disasters and anomalies.

〇*Sandai Jitsuroku* (Veritable Records of Three Reigns): In the autumn of the 3rd year of Ninna [887 CE], on the night of the 2nd day of the 7th month (Mizunoto-Tori day), there was an earthquake. (Middle portion omitted.) On the 6th day (Hinoto-Ushi), a rainbow appeared over the Eastern Palace, its tail reaching to the heavens, and the rainbow entered the Imperial Storehouse (Naigura-ryō). (Middle portion omitted.) That night there was also an earthquake. (Middle portion omitted.) On the 30th day (Kanoto-Ushi), during the Hour of the Monkey [approximately 4 p.m.], the earth shook violently. After the passage of several hours, the shaking still had not stopped. The Emperor left the Jijūden (Hall of Benevolence and Longevity) and ordered that seven large pavilion tents be erected in the southern garden of the Shishinden (Ceremonial Hall) as a temporary imperial residence. Buildings of various government offices and dwellings throughout the eastern and western sections of the capital collapsed in many places; numerous people were crushed to death, and some lost consciousness and died instantly. During the Hour of the Pig [approximately 10 p.m.], the earth shook three more times; in the Kinai [Home Provinces] seven times, and throughout the provinces there were also major earthquakes on the same day. Many government buildings were damaged, the sea tides rose and flooded the land, and the number of those who drowned could not be counted. (Middle portion omitted.) On the 4th day of the 8th month (Kinoto-Mi), there were five earthquakes. On this day, above the Tatchi-mon Gate there appeared something that rose up to the sky—resembling smoke yet not smoke, resembling a rainbow yet not a rainbow—and people who saw it all said, "These are winged ants." (Middle portion omitted.) On the 12th day (Mizunoto-Ushi), two herons gathered atop the Byakko-rō (White Tiger Tower) of the Chōdō-in and the Seika-rō (Tower of Serene Blossoms) of the Burakuin. The Bureau of Yin-Yang (Onmyōryō) divined this and said, "One should be cautious of fire." On the 13th day (Kinoe-Tora), there was an earthquake. Herons gathered atop the *shibi* (ridge-end ornaments) of the south gate of the Burakuin. On the 14th day (Kinoto-U), during the Hour of the Rat [around midnight], there was an earthquake. On the 15th day (Hinoe-Tatsu), during the Hour of the Sheep [approximately 2 p.m.], herons gathered atop the eastern *shibi* of the Burakuden. (Remainder omitted.)