○ In the "Sandai Jitsuroku" (True Records of Three Reigns), in the section on the earthquake of Ninna 3 (887 CE), it is written that "the people of the capital left their dwellings and took to the main roads," and so on. The situation in the capital (Kyoto) this time is very much the same, which is truly a rare occurrence.

○ Regarding earthquakes and the matter of their omens and signs, the astronomical treatises of the "Hanshu" (Book of Han) and the "Jinshu" (Book of Jin) record various "responses" (ouja), but from the astronomical treatise of the "Tangshu" (Book of Tang) onward, only the anomalies are recorded without recording their "responses." This is based on the spirit of the "Chunqiu" (Spring and Autumn Annals). In this present era of peace and prosperity, what "response" could there be? An earthquake is itself a disaster anomaly, and there ought to be no further response beyond it. Let all people put their hearts at ease and not neglect their respective duties.

　　Written on the 21st day of the 7th month of Bunsei 13 (1830), by the Master of Shisaidō

○ This volume, "Jishinkō" (Earthquake Study), is a work of inquiry by my teacher, Master Tōzan. These days, children, women, and the sick, among others, are bewildered by all manner of unfounded theories, trembling in fear. Moreover, as small tremors continue to this day without ceasing, people are uneasy, wondering whether a great earthquake might yet come. Therefore, by citing examples from past generations, I seek to dispel their confusion and put their minds at ease. Great earthquakes in Kyoto have been rare since ancient times, and as eighty years have passed since the great earthquake of Hōreki 1 (1751), there are few who still remember it. Many people have lost their lives or suffered injuries in such disasters. Though we may call it the misfortune of the times, it cannot entirely be said to have been unavoidable. In countries where earthquakes are frequent, people take care in the construction of storehouses and homes, and the people themselves are mentally prepared in ordinary times—therefore, even in great earthquakes, deaths by crushing are few. In the historical records of both Japan and China, cases of ground fissures, landslides, ground subsidence, the emergence of islands, great waves (tsunamis)…