What terrible congestion this was! Nearby there was a young woman who said, "I have relatives and old friends in several households in Yokohama. They were affected by this great fire, and each has taken refuge in different places, making them difficult to find. Therefore, my father and I take turns going daily to search for their whereabouts." I imagine there are not a few such people in the world. Soon we arrived at Shinagawa Station, where there were many passengers but few getting off. After passing Omori Station and arriving at Kawasaki Station, we encountered more than ten firefighters boarding with firefighting equipment. I suppose they were heading to clean up the remaining embers at the burned site. Proceeding to Kanagawa Station, there were few getting off but very many passengers. According to the passengers' conversation, many disaster victims had evacuated as far as Kanagawa, which explained such congestion. Indeed, there were disaster victims in the car enthusiastically talking about the intensity of the fire. We soon arrived in Yokohama. Pushing through the crowd to get outside the station, we could see across the river to the burned area where smoke from the remaining embers was rising vigorously. Crossing Nishiki Bridge and coming to Miyako Bridge, we saw household goods scattered on the road. Upon reaching Yoshida-cho, there stood a large house in mixed Japanese-Western style. This was the residence of contractor Shimizu Mannosuke. When the fire broke out, anticipating that it would not be easily extinguished due to the fierce wind, he telegraphed Tokyo to summon firefighters and spent over 4,000 yen to escape the fire. Passing Yoshida-cho and reaching Yoshida Bridge, we saw that the brick building of Isezakicho Police Station had been burned down, leaving only the outer walls. At its entrance, a thatched temporary hut had been erected to shelter from rain and dew, with several police officers present. A notice posted nearby read: "For the time being, Isezakicho Police Station business will be handled at Police Headquarters." To the right of the gate was a pump storage area, where we could see steam pumps had been destroyed. According to what we heard, they were originally broken and unfit for use.

At the bridgehead there was a notice reading: "As condolence for the great fire, lumber sold at 20% discount. However, customers must bring their own carts. Fukui Lumber Store, Uchida-cho 8-chome." This gesture was most admirable. Passing through Sugatami-cho to Hagoromo-cho and visiting Itsukushima Shrine, we found the stone lanterns shattered and the stone torii completely destroyed, leaving only their foundations. Proceeding into the shrine grounds, we saw utensils scattered and floating on the pond surface along with countless dead fish. The large ones were over three feet long, and even the small ones were no less than five inches. The fountain in the center of the pond was fire-damaged, and the surrounding iron fence had collapsed, leaving no trace. The inner sanctuary, being of storehouse construction, fortunately escaped the fire, but the worship hall and subsidiary shrines were all burned down. Even the water house that was Yokohama's pride was destroyed, leaving only the stone water basin. (The main shrine was originally located in Kannaishukamachi and was a famous Benten shrine, but it was moved to this location around Meiji 4. Its parishioners were very numerous, extending not only to the neighborhood but throughout Kannai, and every July during the annual festival it was extremely lively.)

According to a person from the shrine, the inner sanctuary fortunately survived intact without mud plastering, which must be due to divine power. Leaving there and going out to Isezakicho Street to see the ruins of Tsuta-za theater, only the surrounding brick walls remained. We happened to encounter a crowd peering into the site. Looking ourselves, we saw them picking up white bones from the ashes and placing them in coffins. Someone said, "That must be the musician Mochizuki Taihei." A bystander held up something tattered and said, "This is the liver of the deceased." The sight made people shudder. A few dozen steps from here, we reached the front of Matsusakaya, a Western liquor and food merchant. Passersby pointed and said, "That stone storehouse is where the owner and three others burned to death." Looking carefully, we could see two magnificent stone storehouses still standing. The place where the tragic deaths occurred was said to be the inner storehouse.

Reaching Nigiwai-cho, Yuza, Nigiwaiza, and Ryogokuza theaters had completely vanished, with only their names written on board fencing, and we could only see the burned earth piled up emptily. Proceeding to Wakaba-cho, we first saw half-burned houses. Their shapes were very strange, allowing us to imagine how difficult firefighting must have been. Turning left to the bathhouse Katsuseikan in Kumoi-cho, three police officers were standing in front of the building. Looking further inside, we saw more than ten policemen living there. I presented my card and asked the reason. A police officer calmly explained: "Last night over a hundred ruffians came and beat the owner, causing serious injuries, so we came to provide protection." According to street rumors, although this establishment was recognized by others as the source of the fire, the main building remained unharmed, so...

[Left page]
Illustration of the burned site of Itsukushima Shrine in Hagoromo-cho
Illustration of street stalls set up in the burned ruins