【Upper Section】
Not only did it collapse, but even the neighboring sake shop on the west side had its eastern half completely crushed, creating a truly horrifying sight.

◎Houses floating on water　At the western foot of the southern end of Shisha Bridge, there was a single-story building constructed with pillars set in the water and a foundation built up. Previously, it operated as a restaurant called Enkorou, but now it has become a sushi shop called Awajitei. However, the pillars in the water had been eaten away by ship worms and other aquatic insects, and having stood for many years, they appeared to have rotted. The tatami rooms collapsed as they were and floated on the water, reminiscent of the oyster rice boats of Osaka.

◎Injured persons at Mizu-dori　At 145 Mizu-dori 5-chome, a blade sharpener named Kinjiro and his wife Toki were trapped when their house collapsed after 8 PM on the same day. With no time to escape, they were crushed under the house and desperately called for help, but no one knew of their situation. However, around 9:30 PM, they were finally discovered by neighbors, and thanks to various care they received, they eventually regained consciousness.

◎House suddenly collapses　The house belonging to Mr. Ueki at 12 Sakurababa in Kotakasaka Village had withstood that wind, but suddenly collapsed around 11 AM the following day. Such incidents often occur after major windstorms, and this is something that requires attention.

◎Police officers struck by electric current　Police officers Ueshima and Wada were on duty at the police box in Honcho 5-chome during the stormy night when they heard screaming from the new road on the north side. Realizing something was wrong, they looked and saw that the electric lighting wire leading to confectioner Nakajima's shop had been severed by the wind, sending out thin sparks from the cut end that threatened to ignite the house. Greatly alarmed, Mr. Nakajima rushed to the scene and accidentally stepped on the fallen electric wire, immediately being struck by electric current and collapsing on the spot. Mr. Wada also suffered electrocution and lost consciousness, but fortunately both men regained consciousness after about two hours. These two men, who were willing to risk their lives for their duties, truly serve as models for protectors of the people.

◎Damage to military barracks　At the 44th Regiment barracks, the newly constructed No. 6 barracks completely collapsed.

【Lower Section】
In addition, the shoe repair factory tilted, the kitchen roof was torn off, the sentry box flew away to an unknown location, all the window glass in each building was broken, the canteen was completely destroyed, and the ceilings of barracks No. 1 through No. 5 collapsed—the damage was extremely extensive.

●Damage situation in each county of the prefecture
This disaster caused the most damage in Tosa County and Kochi City, considerable damage in Nagaoka County, and somewhat less damage in Kami County. Centered on Kochi City, the damage appears to gradually decrease as one moves eastward. Here we record an overview of the situation.

◎Damage in Tosa County is as follows:
△Juroku Village, Soshanji area: 3 houses completely collapsed ○ 1 house half-collapsed ○ 4 storehouses completely collapsed
○Same village, Umeki area: 2 houses completely collapsed ○ 1 house half-collapsed ○Same village, Nakaoi area: 1 house completely collapsed ○ 1 house severely damaged ○Same village, Yukikawa area: 3 houses completely collapsed ○ 3 houses half-collapsed ○ 3 storehouses completely collapsed ○ 3 storehouses half-collapsed ○Enokuchi Village, Hyakkencho area: 5 houses completely collapsed ○ 3 houses half-collapsed ○ 2 storage sheds completely collapsed ○ 1 toilet completely collapsed ○Same village, Kurayashiki area: 10 houses completely collapsed ○ 2 houses half-collapsed ○ 1 storehouse completely collapsed ○Same village, Yabuhata area: 6 houses completely collapsed ○ 2 storehouses completely collapsed ○Same village, Atagocho area: 3 houses completely collapsed ○ 3 houses half-collapsed ○ 1 storehouse completely collapsed ○ 1 toilet completely collapsed ○Same village, Nakamizudori area: 6 houses completely collapsed ○ 1 storehouse completely collapsed ○Same village, Tabata area: 3 houses completely collapsed ○ 1 storehouse completely collapsed ○Same village, Okawasui area: 3 houses completely collapsed ○ 3 storage buildings completely collapsed ○ 1 house half-collapsed ○Same village, Takada area: 3 houses completely collapsed ○ 1 storehouse completely collapsed ○Same village, Ogawabuchi area: 1 house completely collapsed ○ 1 storehouse completely collapsed ○Same village, Ushinosuke area: 2 houses completely collapsed ○ 4 storage buildings completely collapsed ○ 2 toilets completely collapsed ○Same village, Hijima area: 4 houses completely collapsed ○ 2 storehouses completely collapsed ○ 1 horse crushed to death ○ 2 women injured ○Okawasui: 3 collapsed gates ○ 43 collapsed walls spanning 166 ken ○Ushinosuke: 2 collapsed walls spanning 6 ken ○Hijima: 2 collapsed walls spanning 16 ken ○Nakamizudori: 3 collapsed walls spanning 12 ken ○Atagocho: 3 collapsed walls spanning 8 ken ○Hyakkencho: 8 collapsed walls spanning 30 ken ○Ogawabuchi: 9 collapsed walls spanning 32 ken ○Ushinosuke Kawaguchi: 12 flooded houses ○Okawasui: 20 flooded houses △Ichinomiya Village: houses completely collapsed