【Header outside frame】Bunkyū 3rd year, Year of the Boar, 11th month, New Large Edition
Fire Prevention　Osaka／Past and Present (From Ancient Times to Now) Three Great Fires【Title in square frame】

【Upper section】Bunkyū 3rd Year of the Boar Great Fire【enclosed in square】　Details／Volume／Investigation【in square frame】
Tenpō 8th Year of the Rooster Great Fire《Note: Called the｜Osaka Burn》【enclosed in square】Shimanochi District【enclosed in square】
Kyōhō 9th Year of the Dragon Great Fire《Note: Called Kanaya Myōchi｜Burn》【enclosed in square】

【Middle section】For your understanding:
Though people know that fire is a fearful thing in this world,
many extinguish it by stepping on it with their feet.
This is a great misunderstanding.
Fire has yang properties and governs
wood, fire, earth, metal, and water.
Fire is truly most useful and
something precious that must be treasured.
If you simply treasure it and handle it
with a respectful attitude toward fire, you can
avoid fires that might occur.
People should work together with united hearts
to use fire properly. Fires are
Heaven's way of punishing those
who treat fire carelessly.
You must understand this well.
From ancient times until this year,
there have been three such great fires. Therefore,
we now illustrate these three for publication.

【Lower section】【Rightmost】
Bunkyū 3rd year, Year of the Boar, 11th month, 21st day
At the fifth hour of night, fire broke out from
the north entrance of the east end of Shinmachi Bridge.
The west wind was fierce,
burning eastward all at once, then became northwest wind
moving to the southeast. The wind changed again to southwest,
burning fiercely toward the northeast, then
spread by flying sparks to Uemachi, the fire intensifying.
Both Senba and Uemachi burned up simultaneously, truly
appearing as if all of Osaka had become fire.
The shock of old and young, men and women alike,
cannot be described in words.
Finally, it burned to the eastern bridges of Osaka.
Viewers can imagine the chaos in Osaka city.
On the 23rd of the same month at the fourth hour of day, the fire was extinguished.

　　Number of districts: 152
　　Number of houses: Over 4,700
　　Number of hearths: Over 25,000
　　Storehouses: Over 320
Temples and shrines: Over 80　Deaths: 46 people
Injured: Countless

【Second from right】
From Sumiyoshi to Osaka, such a great fire is a
rare occurrence. Therefore, as material for future
stories and for learning fire prevention,
we illustrate this on paper and offer it
for everyone's viewing.

【Third from right】
Tenpō 8th Year of the Rooster, 2nd month, 19th day, morning fifth hour
Fire broke out from Tenma, the wind was fierce,
flying sparks reached various places, burning up to
Uemachi castle area, north Senba Chōja-machi wealthy districts
burned in various places, then south to Honmachi
as it burned, at the fire scene unknown persons
in suspicious dress rampaged through Osaka city,
the chaos of people was indescribable.
Therefore, people fled to various provinces,
truly scattering like baby spiders,
and throughout Japan at that time
there was talk only of this great fire.
It was truly an unprecedented great fire and great chaos.
　Districts: 112
　Houses: 3,389
　Hearths: 18,578
　Storehouses: 411 locations
　Underground storehouses: 130 locations
　Temples and shrines: 36 locations
　Deaths and injuries: Countless

【Fourth from right】
Kyōhō 9th year, Year of the Dragon, 3rd month, 21st day, noon
At half past the ninth hour, fire broke out from
the residence of a person named Kanaya Myōchi
in Tachibana-dōri 2-chōme, Minami-horie.
The south wind was fierce, burning out to Shinmachi, finally
burning through to Kitano, west to Amida Pond, east
contained near Momen Bridge, burning north along Nishi-yokobori
to Bakurō-machi north side, then all of
Senba to the north burned completely.
Flying sparks also reached Tenma, burning Kawasaki, Nakanoshima,
Dōjima, Nishi-tenma, Higashi-tenma completely.
On the 22nd morning, northeast winds brought flying sparks to Uemachi,
gradually fierce north winds covered all of Uemachi, then
moved to Kōzu, all of Shimanochi, then flying sparks
reached Dōtonbori theaters, with multiple fire fronts,
completely burning Namba Shinchi and Nagamachi.
At that time, of Osaka's 480-some districts, over 430 burned—
truly Osaka's greatest fire ever, separating parents and children, siblings,
people fled to the five home provinces and also to Tanba,
Tango, Iga, Ise, Ōmi, Harima, Awaji, etc.
The hardship was truly indescribable.
　Houses: Over 28,000
　Hearths: Over 98,700
　Storehouses: Over 2,800
　Deaths: Approximately over 30,000 people
　Injured: Over 120,000