In the "Tashiki-hen" (Collection of Plant Knowledge), under mountain herbs it states:
　　　Ōson (Royal grandchild) [Japanese name] Tochihali [Alternative name] Bōmō [Hongjing] Kōson [Bieroku]
　　　Kōkon [same]　Kankū　Chōson　Kaison　　Hakukō grass
　　　Creeping　Ōson　　[I say] Bōmō has the same name as purple ginseng
　　　　　　　　　　　　Kōkon has the same name as silk tree

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One stem, one flower, two leaves

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bunsei 9, year of fire-dog, Koshō first day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　At Ōmi Hachiman Shrine, looking toward the mountain forest
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Picked and kept four stems, sketched truthfully the next day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　In "Yamato Honzō" it is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　listed under the [...] category
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Miscellaneous herbs

In "Dijin Chao":
　　Katako　Initial lily grass
　　　　　　Fundai lily

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Scholarly research
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The "Bencao Gangmu" states that Ōson has its leaves
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　growing at the top, resembling purple placenta, and also resembling kyūko,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　but what it describes is a different plant. The "Wakan Sansai Zue"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōson has a different form, treating Ōson as Tachi-
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　aoi (hollyhock). One name, two species of Ōson, one species being separate.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same as recorded in the "Bengang"

In "Bukō Sanbutsu-shi" it states:
　　　Plantain-leaved mountain arrowhead (Katakuri)

In "Imei Bunrui-shū" it states:
　　　Ōson　Katakako flower
　　　　　　Japanese name　Tsuchihari　Also called Suhari grass
　　　In "Bencao" Ōson [Interpretation of names] Kankū, etc.
　　　　　My research
　　　　　　Tsuchihari that flowers in the fourth month is different from Katako. Ōson is what is commonly called Tachi-aoi (hollyhock). Also called Ellen grass.

In common usage:
　　Katakuri　Katako　Hatsu-yuri　Bundai-yuri　Gonbeirō
　　These names vary by region? ○In Asahiyamako Bunkai: Kankū Katako ○Katakuri ○Mouse lily
　　This has one flower and two leaves, the flower resembles mountain cinnabar and has the same color as mouse fur, hence "mouse lily." The meaning of other names is
　　unclear. The root resembles lotus root but is thin and small, like the finger of a five or six-year-old child, about an inch long, etc.

In "Yamato Honzō" it states:
　　　Katakuri　In the Bencao entry on purple ginseng it states it is Kankū
　　　　　　　　In Manyōshū volume 19, climbing and picking Katakako flowers, in song... In old commentaries, Kōshi is also called chozō.
　　　　　　　　Purple flowers bloom in spring. Upon examination now, it might be Kōtakako. There are also Katakako poems in Shinsen Rokujō
　　　　　　　　I say in Manyōshū, Kokin-shō, Shinsen Rokujō, and Waka Rokujō:
　　　　　　　　　　　The eighty warrior maidens become confused while drawing water
　　　　　　　　　　　　Katakako flowers above the temple well
Also the Katakako flowers in Manyōshū are described as grass resembling azaleas, which is an incomprehensible explanation ○Hanging on the various wheels of small carts
Katakaga, all with strong human hearts ○Did they read Katako as Kataka?