According to the Records of the Toda Asahiyama Literary Society:
　　　Makimimi (Curled ear) - Japanese names: Asamakatsura, Nekonimimi, Mimina

According to "Yamato Honzo":
　　　Jimina (Ear vegetable)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Recorded in the miscellaneous herbs section
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　of "Yamato Honzo"

According to "Gunpo-reki," a certain Shinto priest said that the name "Hotoke-no-za" (Buddha's seat) is taboo at Shrines, so "makimimi" is used as a substitute. One theory states that what is substituted is "babashikomuna" (Kawara-china), but this is incorrect.
Master Ota Akashi's inclusion of makimimi among the seven spring herbs was based on the "Makura no Soshi" (Pillow Book).
Using makimimi as a substitute for Hotoke-no-za is not appropriate.

According to various texts:
　　　Makimimi
　　　　　　　I note that:
　　　　　　　　　Makimimi is another name for kenjii (cocklebur), the same plant but a different variety. I have not yet thoroughly investigated the origin of this name "makimimi." According to the "Mao Shi" (Book of Songs), makimimi is reiji. According to the "Jichuan," the leaves of shiji are like mouse ears and grow in clusters like indigo. I further note that in common usage it is called "mouse ear" and also "cat ear." Makimimi is originally a type of hanro (chickweed). All varieties of makimimi and babashikomuna should be collectively termed thus.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2nd day of mid-3rd month, Hinoe-inu year
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sketched in the vegetable garden

According to "Honzo Ikka-gen":
　　　Genka (Satsuma wisteria) - Shigenshi, also called Fuji-modoki
　　　　　　The yellow-flowered variety is called Ki-genshi

　　Chosen-fuji (Korean wisteria) - Original name unclear
　　(Satsuma-fuji)

According to "Wakan Sansai Zue," poisonous plants category:
　　　Genka - Dugenbaiка, Sekigen, Kyosui
　　　　　　Dokugyo-jiso, Zutsu-bana
　　　　　　Its root is Ko-taigeki, Shokuso
　　　　　　　　　Commonly called "iwabuji" - I note: also called "mizusari"

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　16th day of 3rd month, Hinoe-inu year
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sketched from broken branch

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tree category