Diagram of the Bone Processing House at Misakiura, Ikitsuki

The bone processing house. The entrance has a tile roof, and thatched temporary buildings are built continuously in the back. There is one overseer (bettō), three young men, one oil handler, and with day laborers added, about fifty to sixty people are there working together. What they handle here are only bones: skull bones, beak bones, large bones, rib bones, and all other bones.

The core of the skull bone is called kaburabome (turnip bone), which comes from the meaning of "head" in terms like "head-mallet sword" (from the Chronicles of the Divine Age) and "turnip arrow." This is processed with a tool called sen-tsuki (a tool similar to those called "eight-person portions," used to cut things into a thousand fine pieces. "Sen" is an abbreviation of "sen-suji" (thousand strands), meaning that cutting one thing into a thousand strands makes it very fine), pierced and arranged until it resembles white thread, then woven like funori seaweed. It's also called tsuki-bone or hori-hori, and is treasured by chefs as a delicacy. Also, at the base of the fins, there is something called fan bone (ōgi-bone). This is used in the same way as above, though it is somewhat harder than the turnip bone.

Now, overseers sit on the left and right of the entrance to the processing house, and in the earthen floor area next to them, bones are piled up like mountains. Among them, heads and beaks look like lumber and don't seem like fish bones at all. These are cut with cross-cutting saws (cross-cutting saws are dialect for large saws with handles on both sides that two people pull facing each other) and split with axes. Large bones and rib bones are cut with axes and mountain knives.

On the right side, more than thirty bone-cutting workers sit in a row under the wall, chopping the roughly cut bones with the aforementioned mountain knives into pieces as small as wood shavings, putting them into their respective buckets. On the left side, there are six stoves with large cauldrons, where the bone shavings are mixed with seawater to extract oil. Behind the stoves, there is the usual passageway with gutters that flow into two oil jars placed in the back storehouse, the same as in the large processing house. The boiled residue is pounded in mortars and oil is extracted again. The residue from this re-boiling is called bone residue, which is made into baled goods and sold throughout the various provinces. This bone residue is excellent as fertilizer for crop cultivation in fields and paddies, and is said to be unparalleled especially as fertilizer for tobacco.