The bone that continues from the skull is called "suribachi bone" (mortar bone), and the next five vertebrae are called "tōchin bone" (torso bone).

【Suribachi bone】
The meat connecting the bones from this bone to the marukiri bone is called "mahashi," and there is also meat called "totan" on the outside. This is discarded. It is somewhat softer than konnyaku (konjac).

【Marukiri bone】
This is the bone that follows the large bone. There are thirteen vertebrae. The cross-section measures about eight sun both vertically and horizontally, with a thickness of about six to seven sun.

【Nigiri bone】
This follows the marukiri bone. There are thirteen vertebrae up to the triple-joint anchor bone. The cross-section measures about six sun both horizontally and vertically, gradually becoming thinner.
The triple-joint anchor bone is called "gorin bone" and is three to four sun in length.

【Hamaguri bone (Clam bone)】
Located in the red meat above the reproductive organs. There are two of them, measuring about four to five sun square.

【Ring bone】
Located on both sides of the reproductive organs. There are two of them, about two shaku in length with a circumference of about one shaku.

【Saddle bone】
Attached to both sides of the marukiri bone. Thirteen on each side, ranging in height from about one shaku to four to five sun.

【Ate bone】
Beyond this are called "afuku bones." Twenty-eight in total on left and right sides.
The ate bone continues after the torso bone. There are fourteen vertebrae.
The cross-section measures about two shaku four to five sun vertically, about three shaku horizontally, with a thickness of about seven sun.

【Large bone】
The large bone follows the ate bone. Eleven vertebrae. The cross-section measures two shaku vertically, about two shaku five sun horizontally, with a thickness of about seven sun.

【Ate bone】

【Turtle bone】
Located in the belly. Two shaku in length, about one shaku five to six sun in width, over two sun in thickness. Both ends are thin.

【Needle bone】
Located under the belly, two bones on each side. About two shaku four to five sun in length.