【Page 2 Header Frame】
(2) Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78

【Page 2 Lower Section】
Special Grand Cinema Program Opening June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9)

American Educational Pictures Film
(1) Imperial Viewing Documentary [Day and Night in Paradise] 1 reel
Narrator: Hosoyama Mugen

American Paramount Pictures Arbuckle Film
Director and Author: Roscoe Arbuckle
"Fat Arbuckle and Alcent John co-starring"
(2) Comedy [Fat Man's Camping Life] 2 reels
"CAMPING OUT"
Narrator: Tokunaga Tenro

American Artcraft Pictures Special Film -- Master Cecil B. DeMille's Greatest Work
(3) 《Artistic Masterpiece》 [Male and Female] 9 reels
Cecil B. DeMille's production "MALE AND FEMALE"
△Original Story: J.M. Barrie
△Screenplay: Jeanie Macpherson
△Director: Cecil B. DeMille
△Cinematography: Alvin Wyckoff
△Art Director: Wilfred Buckland
△Production Manager: Howard Higgins
△Producer: Jesse L. Lasky Company, November 1919
△Oriental Screening Rights: Nippon Katsudo Shashin Company
[Commentary by] Nishikawa Yukon, Ishino Bashiro, Takaoka Kokken
[Music by] Orchestra First and Second Division Performance

【Page 3 Header Frame】
Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78 (3)

【Page 3 Middle Section】
==Film Synopsis==
"So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created them; male and female he created them"...Old Testament Genesis Chapter 1 Verse 27

"Added to God's creation, born into this world as a woman, involved in the complex fate of London's luxurious Loam family, 'Tweeny' serves"...Lila Lee

"Earl Loam -- In this man's aristocratic and willful eyes, whether noble blood is truly blue or red like ordinary people's, will be revealed in the future (according to ancient lore)"...Theodore Roberts

"Lord Loam's cousin Ernest Woolley, relying on his status, always dines at restaurants and makes enormous payments"...Raymond Hatton

"Lord Loam's niece Agatha Lazenby, as is common with beautiful women, knows that managing her facial expressions moment by moment is more important than her actual appearance"...Mildred Reardon

"Elder daughter Mary Lazenby is someone who needs to know that hands are not just for manicurists to polish but for working, heads are not just for beautiful decoration but for thinking, and hearts are not just for being constantly surprised but for loving people"...Gloria Swanson

"The Loam family's head butler William Crichton -- This man is truly an admirable person"...Thomas Meighan

"This won't do, if you keep doing such things, you'll end up on the gallows."

"Humanity has certainly become refined, but perhaps it's becoming aristocratic -- though women bathe frequently, they haven't necessarily become more beautiful than ancient women. Why is it necessary to decorate bathrooms as beautifully as drawing rooms?"

【Page 3 Lower Section】
"You haven't been paying attention lately, you don't care at all about my bathing. The temperature must not exceed 90 degrees."

"Rose water."

"If someone told both the Loam family's daughter and the kitchen maid that their fates were so intertwined they could never be separated, both would stare and laugh."

"Toilet water."

"To the rose maiden -- This morning I shall call upon you, and on that occasion I shall present something nice for your lovely white fingers" -- Brockelhurst

"Great quarrels arising from trivial matters."

Reel 2
"This toast is too overdone and quite soft" (exchanging sarcasm with each other)

"Is toast the only thing that gets ruined... Miss!"

"Comparing things creates unpleasant feelings and can sometimes be dangerous."

"That's fine, Crichton!"

"Enjoying books in quiet places brings all people together, regardless of high or low status."

"Poetry Collection -- William Ernest Henley."

"Though glory days have passed
All do not vanish to the grave
In that time on this earth
I was the King of Babylon--
You were -- a white slave--"

"I am nobody's slave. You're wrong."

"But I would become your slave."

"Aggie! Have you seen Volume 2 of Henley's poetry?"

【Page 4 Header Frame】
(4) Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78

【Page 4 Middle Section】
"I saw you and seized you, drew you to my side,
Your pride, alas, I shattered."

"Ernie! Have you seen Volume 2 of Henley's poetry?"

"Crichton, I'm looking for Volume 2 of Henley's poetry."

(Same poetry as verse 7)

"Oh, Crichton! I had no idea you liked the ancient Babylonian kings."

"But here there is someone who knows nothing of Babylon but knows very well of a certain queen who appears in Cleopatra dances. His name is Lord Brockelhurst"...Robert Cain

"Aren't he and the young lady good companions?"

"Crichton, please serve Lord Brockelhurst whiskey with soda water!"

"What concern is it to a lowly head butler that a fine young gentleman and lady were to marry soon!"

"At tea time -- this relaxed moment -- a lady named Aileen visits to confide her troubling love affair to her dear friend and seek advice."

"Aileen, we've just made plans to travel to the South Seas by yacht, why won't you come with us?"

"Thank you, but I think I cannot go. I came to consult with Mary about something."

"Mary, a friend of mine loves someone of lower status than herself. And that man also loves my friend and wishes to marry her... could these two people truly live happily?"

"The man in question is employed at the woman's house."

【Page 4 Lower Section】
"Can you put a jackdaw and a bird of paradise together in the same cage! Really, Aileen! They must be of the same kind, you and I surely cannot deny this."

Reel 3
"Well, Mary! You can say anything, but there's one thing you absolutely cannot ignore... that is love."

"You servants have recently become quite presumptuous with no distinction between high and low."

"People cannot well understand what others' hearts are like. When all people return to nature and become earth, you will no longer be a young lady and I will no longer be a manservant. We become what nature makes us."

"On the waves, gliding away in that ship,
The joyful lady passenger travels intending to return."

"Crossing the rapids--"

"Newspaper" -- Miss Aileen Duncraigie's Marriage -- Sudden Announcement -- Groom is the bride's family servant.
Miss Aileen, only daughter of Duke Morn...

"I think a woman would quickly tire of marrying such a man."

"It's quite ridiculous. It's just like me marrying Crichton..."

"Such a story might have ended there -- if the party had not been blown by wind to uncharted tropical seas..."

"I became the young lady's maid and boarded the ship just to be near Mr. Crichton, but he won't even look at me..."

"Poetry--"

"This boat is for ladies. Sir, I'll prepare another boat immediately."

【Page 5 Header Frame】
Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78 (5)

【Page 5 Middle Section】
"Where is Miss Mary?"

"I won't leave this boat until I find the young lady."

"Suddenly -- like dew vanishing in sunlight -- Mary was no longer a fine lady to him. She was an ordinary woman -- merely a pitiable yet beautiful lady."

Reel 4
"Where is Father? Has anyone seen Father?"

"You must be wet and cold?"

"Habit exerts great power over human nature, and habits don't change suddenly. The Loam family, accustomed to perfumed baths, don't yet understand that nature's alarm clock is the rising sun."

"I'll go to the wrecked ship to see if there's anything there. You and the others go down below the rocks and gather shellfish."

"Swiss Family Robinson"

"I began throwing five or six stones at the monkeys. Since monkeys have the habit of imitating people, they plucked coconuts from the trees and threw them with great force, so I quickly picked them up and peeled the fruit."

"Poetry collection"

"I keep my clothes properly pressed just as I do when I'm by your side normally."

"I need to borrow the glass cover of your watch to start a fire."

"Now Crichton! Time is quite late, so please hurry and prepare breakfast!"

"Go to the stream and fetch a cup of water!"

"If I carry water, I'll get weak."

"Tweeny! I'm taking Mr. Ernest to the river to fetch water, so don't leave the fire!"

Reel 5
"Next time, if you don't work honestly, this will

【Page 5 Lower Section】
happen many times."

"Tweeny! It's not Crichton who pays your wages. It's me."

"Young lady, we all may have to live on this island for the rest of our lives. So on this island, the only money to buy things is work. Those who dislike working will become cold and hungry..."

"Crichton, if my sister and I don't work, you won't feed us?"

"Quickly, quickly! A tiger is coming!"

"Oh Father! Since you've come, please take the highest position on this island."

"Crichton, the question of who becomes the head of this island need only be decided once! I, born a nobleman, must naturally command everyone."

"Sir, when we were in England, there was never any question of who should be head. Nor should such a thing be decided on this island. But the pressing problem now is that I'd like to borrow Miss Mary's gold-trimmed lace. It would make a perfect fishing net..."

"Will you apologize immediately, or should you expect dismissal in a month!"

"Well then, if Crichton won't leave our group, we'll separate ourselves from Crichton."

"Being aristocratic in England and being aristocratic on a desert island are separate matters."

"Having courage during the sunny day and having courage in the darkness of night are separate issues."

"Mr. Ernest! Surely an Oxford University graduate doesn't know less than a head butler -- don't you know how to warm a woman shivering with cold?"

"I'm as hungry as everyone else -- but"