【Page 6 Header Frame】
(6) Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78

【Page 6 Middle Section】
"I cannot go to bow my head to anyone. I would rather starve to death first."

"Crichton! Won't you give my daughter Agatha a cup of the soup you made."

"Miss! I don't want to leave your side, but the delicious smell of that soup is..."

Reel 6
"We can endure starvation and cold for a while. But no matter how stubborn and strong a person is, they cannot endure that bottomless, eerie feeling of anxiety."

"Forced by natural necessity, they come to realize that the wild mountains should not be left to insects and beasts alone. Grass should be made into clothing, wild boars should be brought to the dining table -- in short, abundant nature waits to serve mankind."

"When the cat's away... the mice are very worried"

"Very regrettably, Lord Loam's search party returned without finding anything... Edward Beach"

"The Loam family servants have just received notice of dismissal. Madam, I would be happy if you would employ me."

"There are tides in this floating world too -- Two years after that yacht was wrecked, Crichton becomes an unshakeable chief, riding the high tide."

"If you pull this stick, a signal fire will rise at the place set up on the coastal rocks."

"If we spot a ship passing by, we'll signal with this. We might be able to return home."

"In the kitchen, in rooms, even in fields where clover grows, no, anywhere in the world -- wherever women go, they are still 'women.'"

"Poetry"

"I'm the one who serves the master!"

Reel 7
"Tonight was my turn to serve the master."

"Where are the figs?"

"The figs are gone! The master specifically said he wanted figs tonight..."

【Page 6 Lower Section】
"Well then, please serve his meal! I'll run to the tree by the ruined old building and get some..."

"Why did you send Mary to the ruins at this time of night? Don't you know that leopards appear there!"

"In the traces of ancient glory,
There is a land of lions and lizards--"

"Seeing the color of fear rise in your eyes, I almost forgot -- England --!"

"Mr. Crichton! I often think you were the King of Babylon."

"If I were the King of Babylon, you would be a white Christian slave!"

"I'll tame you -- don't be afraid, virgin!"

Reel 8
"Poetry"

"Release the sacred lions of Ishtar!"

"You shall determine your own fate! Will you gladly submit to me, or shall I show you and let you taste the cage of wild beasts prepared for you -- virgin!"

"Seven times, eight times... however many times I'm reborn, I will have this revenge! --"

"You must have been reborn many times for revenge. But even then I loved you... and now I still think of you...!"

"You women! To cast away past regrets and future anxieties, pour the wine to the brim! What? Tomorrow's matters? Tomorrow is tomorrow! I shall return to myself who has seven thousand years of past!"

"A toast to the future Mrs. Crichton!"

"Aren't you being foolish too!"

"Do you take this woman as your wife?"

"Wait, wait, wait! A ship... a ship...!"

【Page 7 Header Frame】
(7) Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78

【Page 7 Middle Section】
"Do you understand what it means that a ship has come? Mary... the master will become... mine!"

"This means Babylon has fallen! Mary, and now this Bill Crichton must get serious about things!"

"A dream! A dream! Isn't it a dream... I don't see any ship, Mr. Crichton!"

"Let me show you all the rather ingenious design I've been struggling to create. The power of education is truly great, isn't it?"

"Miss!"

"No one shows him respect anymore -- except if we do it --"

Reel 9
"As soon as everyone returned home, they immediately waited to enter perfumed baths as if they had never bathed in forest streams, and coldly positioned themselves before the head butler giving orders as if they had never said 'please give me a cup of soup,' acting as if yesterday's events were completely forgotten. No one called the head butler chief or master."

"That happened in the ruins when a leopard was about to pounce, and I shot an arrow."

"Mr. Crichton -- even on a remote island, surely a young man remains a young man! There must have been quite surprising reforms!"

"Madam! Even on that island -- there wasn't much equality, just like elsewhere. To tell the truth, I never even dined with the other people."

"To the future Mrs. Brockelhurst!"

"Please tell Miss Mary that an old friend has come -- and would like to meet her."

"Dinner is ready."

"I'm troubled about what to do! Mary,

【Page 7 Lower Section】
I came hoping my master could help me find some work. Since I married a household employee... no one will associate with me..."

"Crichton! I'll give you a reward for being so kind to the young lady when you were on the island."

"Even a cat sometimes looks at a princess's face without reserve."

"If you truly love that person -- whether that person is of fine status or not doesn't matter at all -- I also loved someone and have experience, so I know well. For that person's sake, I would abandon everything else to marry him."

"Mary! Don't believe what's written in novels -- love isn't more important than anything else -- this world requires social status, and there are also long-standing customs."

"Miss, regarding Tweeny and myself, when convenient, we would like to take leave -- we two wish to marry and go to America."

"... I pray for your happiness."

"We could break a vase if we wished to! But -- the fragrance of those rose flowers would still float nearby.
Similarly, even after the flower of love is gone, its fragrance shall long remain fragrant as the scent of great sacrifice!"

"Look! I know the reason you're delaying marriage. You loved Crichton -- that admirable Crichton! But I await you at the world's judgment day -- won't you reconsider once more?" === (The End) ===

【Page 8 Header Frame】
Published June 25, 1920 (Taisho 9) Denkikan News Issue 78 (8)

【Page 8 Upper Section】
Domestic and Foreign Current Events
Cheerful Hero Douglas Film Coming Soon

Nikkatsu's exclusive blockbuster, the Douglas Fairbanks films from Artcraft Pictures, now has only two remaining -- moreover, the masterpiece among all his works, "The Knickerbocker Buckaroo," will soon be shown along with a certain famous film most relevant to you, so please look forward to it!
Production... May 1919, Artcraft Pictures
Director... Albert Parker
Cinematography... Hogg McClung
△ Satirical Film "The Knickerbocker Buckaroo"
"THE KNICKERBOCKER BUCKAROO"
CAST OF CHARACTERS
Teddy Drake ............ Douglas Fairbanks
Mercedes, the Girl ............... Marjorie Daw
Henry ........................ William Wellman
Sheriff, a Crook Frank ............... Campeau
Teddy's Mother ............ Edythe Chapman
Manual Lopez ............... Albert MacQuarrie
Clubman ................................. Ted Reed

Masterpiece to Open Soon
Due to certain circumstances, the Belasco film that could not be publicly shown for a while, directed by Cecil B. DeMille, starring Bessie Barriscale, Monroe Salisbury, and Dick La Reno, the Western romance "The Rose of the Rancho," will be shown soon. Though the work is old, its content is truly excellent -- a tragic tale set in the West, a curse upon society, a serious film based on love, sincerity, and strength.

【Page 8 Middle Section】
New Foreign Releases

Robertson-Cole Pictures, Sessue Hayakawa Special Production
△ Social Drama "The Devil's Claim" 5 reels
"THE DEVIL'S CLAIM"
Story by J. Grubb Alexander

First National Pictures, starring Anita Stewart and Donald MacDonald
▽ Artistic Work "The Yellow Typhoon" 5 reels
"THE YELLOW TYPHOON"
By Harold MacGrath, Dir. by Ed. Jose

Artcraft Pictures, co-starring Bryant Washburn and Wanda Hawley
△ Emotional Drama "Her Telegram" 5 reels
"Mrs. TEMPLE'S TELEGRAM"
By Frank Wyatt and William Morris

Weekly Word
This time, due to space constraints, only this one piece specially contributed on religious matters is recorded.

About Last Week's "Mormon Girl"
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Japan Mission

The Mormonism shown in last week's "Mormon Girl" greatly misrepresents the Mormon faith, so I'd like to borrow some space briefly.

The religion called Mormonism is Christianity established by God's revelation, and it exists admirably today and should continue forever.

Mormonism respects human freedom and is liberating, with no secrets within the church. Therefore, in missionary work, we never force anyone, and we are pacifists toward any nation's laws and any religion.

【Page 8 Lower Section】
Also, polygamy was practiced among a small number during the church's founding period, but there was no forcible seizure and plunder as shown in that film.

Even for Japanese traveling to America, the place that gives the best impression is Salt Lake City, Utah (the so-called city by the salt lake).

Utah is the place called the Mormon state. Even when anti-Japanese sentiment was prevalent, there was no such ill feeling -- they have true love and friendliness.

The photograph was not taken in Utah, and the place names appearing in it are imaginary. It's modeled after Brigham Young, the church's president and benefactor of American pioneer enterprises, but the name and character have been changed. It may seem petty to complain about this, but since many people in Japan don't yet truly understand Mormonism, I spoke out for fear this photograph would create prejudice.

Regarding the righteousness of our religion, I'll conclude by presenting below part of a speech given in the U.S. Senate.

U.S. Senators Thomas, Ashurst, and Henderson all spoke about Mormonism as follows: "I belong to no church and have no connection with religion, but the industriousness of Mormons, their absolute obedience to law, their respect for freedom, and thus their being citizens of great social benefit, is something I cannot help but greatly praise.

Now having the opportunity, I declare to you representatives of the people:
At a time when socialist and other dangerous thoughts arise everywhere, threatening even national law, seeing their peaceful and dignified attitude, I cannot help but hope from my heart that such people would increase in number."

【Left Side Frame】
Price: 3 sen per copy, Postage: 2 sen | Advertisement: 80 sen per line No. 6 (14 characters) Publisher, Editor and Printer: Morita Katsusuke Asakusa Park District 6, No. 3-8 Denkikan Company Phone: Shitaya 3622, 5777

【Leftmost Page: Duplicate of first image】
WEEKLY PAPER
No. 78.
"DENKICAN NEWS"

JESSE L. LASKY presents
CECIL B. DeMILLE'S
PRODUCTION

"MALE AND FEMALE"
Founded on J. M. Barrie's famous play "The ADMIRABLE CRICHTON" Adapted for the screen by Jeanie Macpherson.
A Paramount-Artcraft Picture