【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Middle Counselor Yakamochi
Born in the first year of Tenpyō, Kinoto-mi (729 CE).
Grandson of Yasumaro, son of Tabito.
Ōtomo no Sukune Yasumaro was Grand Counselor, posthumously granted Junior Second Rank. Ōtomo no Sukune Tabito and Yakamochi were Grand Counselors, Junior Second Rank.
According to the Yakumo Goshō, while there are many authors in the Man'yōshū, Yakamochi, Hitomaro, Akahito and others are considered the pillars.
One theory states that from Emperor Tenji → Prince Ōtomo → Yotato Mumaro → Yasuyoshimaru, younger brother of Kuronushi, is the same person as Yasumaro. This should be investigated.
He served as Junior Third Rank Middle Counselor, Eastern Palace Supervisor, Major Controller of the Right, Junior Assistant Governor-General of Dazaifu, etc. He was also appointed as Commanding General for Pacifying the East. He died in Mutsu Province in the eighth month of Enryaku 4 (785 CE).

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is simply about the moon setting on the bridge where magpies cross, crows crying, and frost filling the heaven. Yakamochi, encountering this scene, composed this while contemplating the moonless, clear-cold sky. Though it says "filling the heaven," this is not frost that has actually fallen before one's eyes. It describes how the clear cold night sky itself appears to be filled with frost. This interpretation follows the master's explanation.
"Kasasagi" refers to crows. When the Weaver and Cowherd meet at Tanabata, crows line up their wings to form a bridge. This is called the "magpie bridge."
○According to Kigin's commentary, this directly captures the atmosphere of a deep winter night.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Middle Counselor Yakamochi
On the bridge
　that magpies
cross
the white
　frost
that lies
when I see it, the night
　has grown deep

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Abe no Nakamaro
Middle Palace Secretary. Son of Funamori. Born in the first year of Wadō under Emperor Genmei (708 CE).
In the reign of Emperor Genshō, in the eighth month of Reiki 2 (716 CE), he sailed with the envoy to Tang, Ōtomo no Yamamori, entering Tang at age sixteen. He studied in Tang, became highly intelligent, changed his name to Chōkō. The Tang Emperor loved his talent, promoted his rank to Secretary of the Imperial Library, then transferred to Inspector, and served as Left Reminder.
After many years, he returned to Japan. In Emperor Shōmu's Tenpyō-shōhō 5 (753 CE), he went to Tang again. This was Xuanzong's Tianbao 2 (743 CE). He died in Hōki 1 (770 CE) at age seventy-nine.

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that he composed it while viewing the moon in Tang. Long ago, when Nakamaro went as an envoy to Tang, he thought of his homeland, continuing to remember the traces of his familiar life in foreign lands. The moon that rose over Mount Mikasa in Nara, the capital of his country, evokes the same deep emotion and limitless sentiment. This Nakamaro had been in Tang for a long time, and this was when Tang people composed farewell poems upon his departure.
According to the Tosa Diary, long ago a person called Abe no Nakamaro went to Tang, and when returning, at the place where he was to board the ship, lamenting parting with the people of that country, he composed Tang poems and such.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Abe no Nakamaro
Looking up at
　the wide
　　heavens
when I
　see
in Kasuga
　　lies
Mount Mikasa
　　where
that moon emerged