【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Middle Counselor Yukihira
Of the Ariwara clan, called Counselor
Emperor Kanmu
　Emperor Heizei
　Prince Aho
Ōe no Otodo
《Side note: Middle Counselor, Provisional Governor-General, Senior Third Rank | Minister of Popular Affairs, Left Military Guard Commander》
Ariwara no Yukihira
《Side note: Inspector, Nin'na 3 | Retirement and exile》
Ariwara no Morihira
Ariwara no Narihira
Ariwara no Nakahira

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that when Yukihira became Governor of Inaba and took charge of Mino Province, going down to that province, his friends came out to give him a farewell feast for his horse, and when they asked "When will you return?", he composed this poem. Mount Inaba is a famous place in Mino Province. "Tachi-wakare" (parting), "Inaba" (leaving), "mine ni ouru matsu" (pine growing on the peak), and "to shikikaba" (if I should hear) are all in the style of introductory verses. In the Kokinshū it appears as "topic unknown." However, it is also said that when that lord finished his term as Governor of Inaba and returned to the capital, he composed and sent this to someone he cared for. The heart of the poem is: if there were someone waiting for me, I would return immediately - by saying this, he implies there probably isn't anyone waiting.
○Seasonal Note: In the "Jitei-ki" it asks: "Is it good for all five lines of words to continue?" The answer is: "It is bad. 〽This poem 'Tachi-wakare-shi' continues too much, but it is interesting because 'ima kaeri-kon' (now I will return) is a distant phrase."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Middle Counselor Yukihira
Parting and leaving
Inaba's
mountain
　peak where
　　grows
a pine - if I should hear of it,
　　now I will return

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ariwara no Narihira Ason
Grandson of Emperor Heizei, son of Prince Aho. His mother was Princess Izu, eighth imperial daughter of Emperor Kanmu. Being the fifth son of Prince Aho and of the Ariwara clan, he is also called Zaigo Chūjō (Fifth Middle Captain). Born on the seventh day of the eighth month of Tenchō 2, died on the twenty-eighth day of the fifth month of Gangyō 4, at age fifty-six. The genealogy is in Yukihira's section. It is abbreviated here.

The autumn leaves
　of the peak's suspension bridge
　　looking out over
　crimson
　　　　diving
　　autumn mountain person

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is "chihayaburu kami" (mighty gods) - this heart is a makura-kotoba (pillow word) to be spoken. The beauty of autumn leaves scattered and floating on the Tatsuta River. It is said that in the age of gods there were only things that were extraordinary, but even in that age of gods, such a thing was never heard - where water dives beneath Chinese crimson brocade - this form is absolutely unprecedented. Also it says, in the headnote "When the Empress of Nijō was called the Imperial Consort of the Crown Prince, a folding screen depicted the Tatsuta River with autumn leaves flowing, and this was composed on that topic." It means autumn leaves scattered thickly without gaps on the Tatsuta River. In "Yakumo Gyoshō" it says: "Tatsuta River - in the Kokinshū it appears as the end of Mount Mimuro, and Katsuragi is also near. In the Gosenshū it says Iwase Forest is near."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ariwara no Narihira Ason
In the mighty
　age of gods
never heard
Tatsu-
　ta
　　River
Chinese crimson
　　　beneath
　water diving through