【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Minamoto no Muneyuki Ason
Eldest son of First Prince Shikibu-kyō Motoyasu Shinnō, Junior Fourth Rank Lower in the sixth year of Kanpyō, also according to the explanation of Sankō-in
Emperor Kōkō
　Koretada Shinnō
　Muneyuki
　Kan-in
　(Compiler of Shoku Kokin-shū)
It is like this, but he is not recorded in the genealogy of emperors
How is this? According to one theory, he was the grandson of Emperor Kōkō, son of Ukyō-no-daibu Munemasa (there is such a theory) Munemasa also does not appear in the imperial genealogy - how is this?

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is exactly as it appears on the surface. Though it is a mountain village, spring and autumn would have their charm with flowers and autumn leaves, but winter is indeed when both human presence and grass have withered away. Loneliness belongs to mountain villages. Also saying that winter loneliness especially surpasses others, both human presence and grass have withered together, making it limitless. It says this was composed as a winter poem. Mountains are lonely in all four seasons. Pay attention to the characters "fuyu zo" (winter indeed), and next pay attention to the particle "wa" in "yamazato wa" (as for the mountain village) - this is Sankō-in's explanation.
○Seasonal note: Mountain villages are always devoid of people and lonely, but in winter even the grass withers, making the loneliness even greater
　In this mountain village where I thought no one would visit
　I see people coming with news of flowers

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Minamoto no Muneyuki Ason
Yamazato wa fuyu
zo sabi-
　shisa
masa-
ri
　keru
hitome mo kusa
　　　mo
karenu to
　　omoeba

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ōshikōchi no Mitsune
According to ancient records: ancestors unknown, Kai no Komoku, Mizushidokoro Azukari
Seventh year of Engi, first month, thirteenth day: appointed to Tanba no Jō
Daimoku: appointed to Awaji no Jō
Gi-chū: grandson of Yukiuji, son of Shinri, Ōshikōchi is a surname
Also said to be the son of Kai no Komoku Yoshitaka
He was a compiler of the Kokin-shū

Reference poem:
Kokoro ate ni
　oru tomo
　　wakaji
　sakura hana
chiri kau
　　　sato no
　haru no
　　awa
　　　yuki

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is about being confused as to which is frost when frost has settled across white chrysanthemum flowers. He composed that there is nothing but to pick them by guesswork. "Kokoro ate" (by guesswork) is a word spoken in conjecture. This poem is said to be about white chrysanthemum flowers. Now "orabaya oran" (shall I pick, I will pick) are repeated words. "Oraba" is a case of saying "ori mo ya sen" (might I perhaps pick). Both are hypothetical matters. This is a poem that loves both chrysanthemums and frost together. It is a poem to be viewed with emphasis on the character "hatsu" (first) in "hatsushimo" (first frost). It means even the first frost is not yet familiar.
○In the seasonal note: since both frost and chrysanthemums are white in the same way, wondering if these might be flowers, I shall try picking them by guesswork, as I cannot distinguish them clearly

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ōshikōchi no Mitsune
Kokoro ate ni
　orabaya
ora-
　n
hatsushimo no
　oki madowa-
　　　　seru
shiragiku no hana