【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Harumichi no Tsuraki
Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Head of Court Music
First son of Niina-no-sukune
Doctor of Literature, Senior Sixth Rank Upper
Governor of Iki, Governor of Izumo

　Self-questioning and answering poem
　as found in the Tales of Ise

　Does autumn come?
　　Does dew
　　　　　mix with it?
　　I wonder, until
　there are tears
　　falling
　　　　indeed

In the Gosen-shū:
　On the Ōi River, the wind has
　　built a dam
　　　of branches

　so that the raft of autumn leaves
　　cannot flow
　　　　　away

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that the wind has blown many leaves onto the mountain stream, forming a natural dam in the water, so that the flow is also blocked. Wondering what this dam that the wind has built might be, one sees it is autumn leaves so thick that even the flow cannot pass - this is the form of a poem that asks itself and answers itself. The expression "built by the wind" is unusual. The commentary on this poem says it was composed while crossing Mount Shiga. These five syllables "shiga" refer to the transition from mountain to river, as mentioned in the Man'yōshū. At that time, the character for river is read clearly. Here, the river character should be voiced. This is not about a dam of leaves that have flowed and been blocked, but rather calls it "the wind's dam." One theory says this is the path that goes up from beside the waterfall at Kitashirakawa, crosses Hiei peak, and emerges at Shiga. "Ahenu" uses the character "kan" (敢). "Kan" means "to complete," so it conveys that the flow does not finish.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Harumichi no Tsuraki
Yama-gawa ni
kaze no
kake-
　taru
shigarami wa
　　nagare mo
ahenu
　　momiji nari keri

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Ki no Tomonori
Said to be the son of Ki no Aritomo,
or said to be a descendant of
Haseo-kyō. Also called Ariakira and Aratame.
Emperor Kōgen
　Prince Hikofutoshi-miko
　(Sixteen generations descended from this prince)
　Kajinaga
　　(Middle Counselor)
　Okimichi - Motomichi
　Nadora - Aritsune
　Aritomo
　　Tomonori
　　A daughter
　　Tomonori (According to one text)
　Mochiyuki (Junior Assistant in the Palace Ministry)
　Tsurayuki (Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Governor of Tosa, Head of Carpenters)
　　Tokifumi (Palace Treasury calligrapher, one of the five imperial anthology compilers)
　　A daughter (Imperial attendant)
　Muneniwa - Yukihiro
　Katsuni wa (Kokin-shū poet)
　Shōkin (Same)

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that flowers scattering in rain and wind is natural, but when no wind blows and the day is peaceful, it is regrettable that the flowers do not remain quiet but scatter anyway. On a peaceful day, why do the flowers scatter so busily - the "ran" in "chiru ran" can also be heard. One should look carefully, wondering what is happening. The headnote says this was composed about cherry blossoms scattering. When someone asked Lord Tameie whether this referred to human feelings or the flower's feelings, he reportedly answered that either interpretation would be appropriate. Seeing it as the flower's feelings is superior. He reportedly answered "the heart's inner thoughts." Where this poem could have said "hana zo chiri keru" (the flowers have scattered), by saying "chiru ran" (probably scatter), there is a heart that deeply regrets this decline. One should contemplate this deeply.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Ki no Tomonori
Hisakata no
　hikari
nodo-
　keki
haru no hi ni
shizu-kokoro naku
　hana no chiru ra-
　　　　　　n