【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Kiyohara no Fukayabu
Ancestry (details unclear)
According to one theory, son of Buzen Governor Fusanori
According to one theory, grandson of Chikuzen Governor Kaio, son of Fusanori (this should be investigated)

Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Assistant Director of the Bureau of Skilled Artisans
Miscellaneous functionary of the Chamberlains' Office
Also called Director of the Imperial Treasury

Lord Tameke took this poem and composed:

　The deutzia flowers'
　　hedge fence -
　in which cloud
　　　somewhere
　　　　does
　　the moon that has
　　　　set at dawn
　　　take
　　　　shelter?

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that summer nights dawn easily, yet still admiring the moon and feeling its pathos, the shortness of the sky - it seems as though dawn has come while it's still evening, wondering where in the clouds the moon has taken shelter, expressing regret and resentment. This is truly an elegant and moving poem. The preface says "composed toward dawn on a night when the moon was beautiful." The meaning is simply that in the brief time a summer night takes to dawn, seeing that the moon should still be in mid-heaven, but since the moon has set, he composed this. Even an already short night feels even shorter when facing the moon. It's interesting how he emphasizes that it dawns while still evening. "In which cloud" doesn't necessarily have to do with clouds, but is said as a verbal connection.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Kiyohara no Fukayabu
Natsu no yo wa
　mada
　　yoi
nagara
ake nuru wo
kumo no
　izuko ni
　tsuki yadoru ran

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Bunya no Asayasu
Ancestry (details unclear), son of Bunya no Yasuhide
A person from the Engi era

Appointed Assistant Director of Palace Attendants in Engi 2

Lady Ise composed this as an allusive poem:

The spring rain
　hanging on the branches
　　　of green willows
　looks like jewels
　　strung
　with thread

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that the dew placed on the indescribable thousand varieties of flowers in the autumn field, when the wind blew violently, scattered in disorder like unstrung jewels. The heart that admires and feels pathos is exquisite, and the elegance of the words is truly wonderful. This "wind blowing violently" refers to intense, rough wind. This poem has no special conceit but depicts the scene of wind blowing at that moment. "Not strung and held" means that since jewels are strung with thread, this expresses the idea of not being strung through. The overall meaning is the beauty of autumn dew lying thickly everywhere. 
○According to seasonal notes: "Even trying to string and hold them, because the wind is strong and they scatter quickly, they cannot be held."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Bunya no Asayasu
Shiratsuyu ni
　kaze no
fuki shiku
aki no no wa
tsuranuki
　　tomenu
tama zo chiri keru