【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Taira no Kanemori
Junior Fifth Rank, Governor of Suruga
Descendant of Emperor Kōkō
　Prince Koretada
　Prince Okimasa
　Atsuyuki
　Kanemori
　Akasome Emon (lady-in-waiting to the Jōtōmon'in)

In the Gosen-shū he is listed as Prince Kanemori.
In the Fukuro-zōshi it states that around the Tenryaku era he changed to the Taira surname.

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that though I think I must keep this secret from others and try to conceal it, I could not hide it completely, and it showed in my expression to the extent that people ask if I am troubled by something. This is a poem from the Tentoku poetry competition. The meaning of the poem is clear. It is said that guarding one's heart is like a fortress, so though I thought I was concealing it quite well, when people became suspicious, I lamented in my heart that my suffering was so apparent, which is most moving. According to Sōchō's notes, the feeling of years and months passing is held beneath. One is surprised when people reproach the appearance of being troubled.
○According to Kigin, with "iro ni ide ni keri" (it showed in my expression), it sounds like being surprised that "well, it did show in my expression after all."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Taira no Kanemori
Shinobu redo
　　iro ni
ide ni
　keri
waga koi wa
　mono ya
　　omou to
hito no
　　tou made

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Mibu no Tadami
Real name: Tadasane
Son of Tadamine, it is said
Tenryaku 2nd year
Appointed as Senior Secretary of Settsu Province
According to the Shaseki-shū,
At the time of the Tentoku poetry competition, Kanemori and Tadami were
placed on the left and right sides.
Given the topic of
"first love," Tadami
composed an excellent poem,
and Kanemori also
wondered how he could
compose such a good poem.
"The reputation that I am in love
has already spread"
─Then, when judgment was made before the emperor,
Kanemori's poem was
"Though I try to conceal it, it shows
in my expression, my love"─
Both were excellent poems.

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that "koi su chō" means "because I love." "Madaki na no tatsu" means how quickly the reputation spread. Though I kept it secret thinking people would surely not know, unexpectedly it showed in my appearance. This is a poem that followed the previous one in the Tentoku poetry competition. According to Gi's commentary, the latter poem was said to be slightly superior. Truly the word usage is incomparable. "Madaki" means "early." In poetic criticism, the previous poem is still praised more. This poem's heart is said to be the same as the previous poem.
○According to Kigin, how quickly the reputation spread after I began to have feelings. Though I began to love in secret, because of the depth of my feelings, the heart that appeared early can be heard.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Mibu no Tadami
Koi su chō
　waga na wa
madaki
tachi
　ni keri
hito shirezu
　　　koso
omoi someshi ka