【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Kiyohara no Motosuke
Governor of Higo, Senior Fifth Rank Upper Grade, grandson of Fukayabu, son of Yasumitsu, it is said. Akitada's mother was the daughter of Takamuka Toshiari, Governor of Chikuzen.

　If I were to abandon you
　and harbor a fickle heart,
　　then even the waves
　　　of Sue no
　　　　Matsuyama
　　　　　would
　　　　　　cross
　　　　　　　over

　The person who
　　promised at
　　　　Matsuyama
　　　has become
　　　　　cold,
　　　　　　　and
　waves cross over
　　my sleeves
　　　where lodges
　　　　the moon's reflection

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: Sue no Matsuyama is a famous place in Ōshū. This is composed based on the original poem "If I were to abandon you and harbor a fickle heart, then even the waves of Sue no Matsuyama would cross over." "Katami" means "each other." The origin of this poem has the saying that when waves cross this mountain, our pledge would change. Everyone composed based on this. The heart is: how fickle and changeable things are - we wrung our sleeves together and promised "the waves shall not cross the pine mountain," expressing this somewhat shamefully. Also, rather than resenting the change, it laments "if I had known you were such a fickle person, I would not have made such a pledge."
○According to Kigin, not knowing it would change like this, we made our pledge - this reproaches our own fleeting hearts.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Kiyohara no Motosuke
We promised,
　didn't we,
each
　to the
　other,
wringing
　our sleeves,
　　　that
the waves of Sue no Matsuyama
　would not cross over

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Provisional Middle Counselor Atsutada
Third son of Lord Tokihira. His mother was the daughter of Ariwara no Tōryō, Governor of Chikuzen. Atsutada was actually Kunitsune's child, it is said. His mother was first Kunitsune's wife, but later married Lord Tokihira. Therefore he was actually Kunitsune's child.

Lord Chūnin (Kunitsune, Lord Shōsen)
　Atsutada
　Tokihira
　Lord Teishin
Shūi-shū Volume 8, Miscellaneous Part 1 says:
Provisional Middle Counselor Atsutada
at the ruins of his mountain villa
at Nishi-Sakamoto,
Ise inscribed on a rock:

Otowa River dammed
　　up and falling
　　at the rapids,
a person's heart
　　can also be
　　　seen

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: Since I began loving you, I have only lamented with the single desire to meet you, but after spending one night together, from the morning of parting, if I compare the sadness of not meeting in the past with the sorrow after our separation, the past seems as if I thought of nothing at all - this shows how my feelings have grown even stronger. Also, as the element of concealment is added, before we met there was nothing to even worry about. Also, since feelings began to sprout, I wanted to see your appearance, and seeing your image, I wanted to exchange words. In Shūi-shū Volume 12, Love Section, it says "topic unknown." Though this poem sounds simple, it is a poem of deep feeling.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Provisional Middle Counselor Atsutada
After we
　　　met
and then
　compared to my heart
　now,
　in the past
　　I thought
　　　of nothing
　　　　at all