【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Fujiwara no Michinobu Ason
Fourth son of Duke Kōtoku. His mother was the daughter of Duke Kentoku.
Morosuke《Kujō Right Minister》

　Duke Kōtoku
《Ninth son of Morosuke, mother was the daughter of Tsunekuni》
　Michinobu
《Left Middle Captain, Senior Fourth Rank Upper, died in Shōryaku 5, age 23》
Shūi Collection
　When would evening come—
　　while waiting, even
　　　　the great sky
　clouding over
　　was cause for joy

Man'yōshū
　O jewel-black night, do not dawn
　　if morning comes
　　　　waiting for you
　who leaves at dawn
　　would be
　　　painful

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is about the morning after meeting one's lover. Though one knows that dawn brings parting, because meeting someone is so difficult, still the dawn is resentful—thus it was composed. In the Goshūi Collection, Book 12, Love (possibly an error for Love 2), the preface states "sent from a woman's place on a snowy day upon returning," and two poems are included together. "Does the path home change or not? Bewildered by the melting light snow this morning." The other poem is this "akenureba" poem. There is deep meaning in saying "knowing this." It means "it's not that I don't know the principle that after dawn comes evening."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Fujiwara no Michinobu Ason
Though I know
　that dawn
brings evening,
still
　how resentful
this daybreak
　　　is

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Mother of Right General Michitsuna
Daughter of Fujiwara no Tomoyasu. Wife of Higashisanjō Lay Monk, Chancellor Kanei-kō. One of the three great beauties of ancient and modern Japan. Michitsuna was the grandson of Kujō Right Minister Morosuke-kō and the third son of Kanei-kō.
Morosuke

　Kaneie

　Michitaka
　Michikane
　Michinaga
　Michitsuna

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that when the Chancellor Minister came to visit this place, the gate was opened late and so she was reproached. At his other place there are always two women, while to my place he rarely comes to visit. Always sleeping alone, how painful the passing days and nights must be. This poem expresses how even opening the gate a little late was cause for reproach. In Shūi Collection, Book 14, Love 4, the preface states "when the lay monk came but the gate was opened late, she composed this and sent it out." The five characters "asaru" should not be regarded. While he waits impatiently, she grieves, and the poem expresses her resentment at how long the nights she spends sleeping alone until dawn must seem.

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Mother of Right General Michitsuna
Lamenting
　　
　while sleeping
alone,
　the time until
　　night
dawns—
　
how could you know
　　　　
what a long
　　thing it is