【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Mother of Gidō Sanshi (Minister of the same rank as the Three Dukes)
Takashina《found in Goshūi Collection》
According to the Sakusha burui (Classification of Poets), she was the daughter of Senior Third Rank Naritada, Court Lady Kishi, called Kō no Naishi. She was the wife of Middle Chancellor Michitaka-kō and mother of Gidō Sanshi Izhou-kō.
Izhou-kō
On the 24th day of the 2nd month of Chōtoku 2, due to an incident he was demoted to Dazaifu. On the 3rd day of the 4th month of the 3rd year he returned to the capital. He was called Sotsu no Naidaijin Gidō Sanshi. I note that Gidō Sanshi means having the same rank as the Three Dukes.

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that she was visiting someone, but because the man's heart was not steadfast, when they were parting she thought that if her life ended now it would be just that, and regretting after separation would be useless. It appears at the beginning of the love poems in the Shinkokin Collection, with the preface "around the time the Middle Chancellor began visiting." The meaning of Tōsetsu's poem is that though one may say they have forgotten after many years, worldly circumstances change easily by nature, so though one might think they have forgotten, not forgetting is a difficult thing, so rather than suffering painful thoughts when forgotten... 
○In the seasonal notes: "More truly sorrowful than when there was doubt about forgetting"

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Mother of Gidō Sanshi
Since continuing
　to
　remember
until the
distant future is
difficult,
　let this day
be the
　limit of
　　　my
life

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Major Counselor Kintō
Provisional Major Counselor, Senior Second Rank, Director, called Shijō Major Counselor.
Eldest son of Hiroyoshi-kō, Chancellor and Grand Minister Yoritada. His mother was the daughter of Prince Taimei. He compiled the Wakan rōeishū (Collection of Japanese and Chinese Poems for Singing), Shūi-shō, and others. He was skilled in calligraphy and talented in both Japanese and Chinese literature.

Reference poem:
　Thinking of
　　the future is
　　　　also sad—
　Tsukoku's
　　Nakara
　　　Bridge too
　　remains in
　　　name
　　　　only

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem is that long ago there was a waterfall at Daigaku-ji temple. When he went to see this temple, the waterfall had already ceased to flow, but its name still flows and can be heard in the world. There used to be a waterfall pavilion there. Daigaku-ji was originally a place of learning. Later it is said the character was changed to "gaku" (awakening). The meaning of this sentiment is that even though this waterfall pavilion was built so magnificently, he composed this poem with deep feeling while contemplating its aged and lonely appearance.
○In the seasonal notes: "Where there are no people left to tell of it, naturally the poignancy does not remain, but because the name that is not buried remains, it evokes feelings of nostalgia for the past."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Major Counselor Kintō
The sound of the waterfall
has ceased
and it has been
long since,
but the name
　continues to flow
and can still
　　be heard