【Right Page - Upper Section】
○Minamoto no Kanemasa
Second son of Minamoto no Toshisuke. Held the rank of Junior Fifth Rank Lower, and served as Minor Secretary of the Empress's Household.
Genealogy from Emperor Uda:
　Emperor Uda
　Prince Norisane
　Masanobu
　Tokinaka (also called Naka)
　Tomotō
　Morosada
　Toshisuke
　Kanemasa

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: Having traveled and lodged at the lonely bay of Suma, awakening in the night and hearing the cries of plovers which were unbearable to hear, he thought of how the barrier guard of such a place must endure hearing the plovers' cries through many sleepless nights, and sympathized with the hardship of the guard who lives there constantly, compared to his own single night of temporary travel lodging. Suma Bay is also described in the Tale of Genji as a place where "even the fishermen's houses are sparse." If even his own single night's travel awakening was like this, how much more trying must it be for the barrier guard's heart.
○According to Kigin's commentary, it means "how many nights he must lie awake, night after night."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Minamoto no Kanemasa
　To the cries
　of plovers crossing
　to Awaji Island—
　how many nights sleepless
　lies the Suma barrier guard

【Left Page - Upper Section】
○Sakyō no Daibu Akisuke
Third son of Shuri no Daifu Akisue. Compiler of the Shikashū anthology. Founder of the Rokujō school of waka poetry.

　All the more
　　seeming to cloud over
　　　yet clearing—
　　on such a night
　the moon's
　　light feels
　all the more brilliant

【Same Page - Middle Section】
The meaning of this poem: When the autumn wind blows away clouds here and there and moonlight emerges, it appears even more brilliant than in completely clear skies. Though it may seem to lack particular interest, it has lingering emotion and is a deeply moving poem. According to Priest Genshi, the meaning is clear. However, the feeling is somewhat different from simply saying "sayakesa" (clarity). When the moon emerges from between clouds, it appears newly clear and moreover interesting to behold. The clear moon one has been waiting for seems as if seen for the first time.
○Kigin's commentary includes "The west wind polishes forth the moon through white clouds."

【Same Page - Lower Section】
　Sakyō no Daibu Akisuke
　In the autumn wind,
　through breaks in the
　trailing clouds,
　the moon's light
　leaking through—
　how clear it is