【Right Page, Upper Section】
○Kōkamon'in no Bettō
Kōkamon'in no Bettō was the daughter of Minamoto no Toshitaka. Kōkamon'in was the daughter of the Hōshōji Kampaku, her mother was the daughter of Dainagon Munemichi, she was the consort of Emperor Sutoku and the adoptive mother of Emperor Konoe.
Bettō is a position that oversees affairs.

Genealogy:
Prince Tomohira
　Morofusa
　Morosumi
　Morotada
　Toshisumi
　Daughter
　Kōkamon'in no Bettō

【Same, Middle Section】
The heart of this poem expresses the feelings of love encountered during travel lodging. One should first see Naniwa Bay as a place of temporary lodging. Comparing it to sleeping temporarily among the reeds of that place, the reeds have joints, creating a word-play with "one night." "Miwotsukushi" (channel markers) also appears frequently in poems about Naniwa Bay. The pillars where ships tie their steering ropes are called "miwotsukushi." Even the feelings for a single night's temporary acquaintance are painful; how much more so would be a familiar, intimate bond? The poem wonders what will ultimately become of such feelings.

【Same, Lower Section】
　Kōkamon'in no Bettō
At Naniwa Bay
　sleeping temporarily
among the reeds
for just one night—
must I exhaust myself
　in yearning love?

【Left Page, Upper Section】
○Princess Shokushi
Third imperial daughter of Emperor Go-Shirakawa, Saiин, Jun-san-no-miya

Mother: Junior Third Rank Nariko, daughter of Dainagon Suenari. Also called Kaya Saiin.
Emperor Go-Shirakawa (fourth imperial son of Emperor Toba, reigned 3 years, mother Taikemon'in)
Emperor Nijō (first prince, reigned 7 years, mother daughter of Udaijin Tsunemune)
Emperor Takakura (second prince, reigned 12 years, mother Kenshunmon'in Ryōshi)
Infumon'in (imperial daughter, mother Junior Third Rank Nariko)
Princess Shokushi (third imperial daughter, Kaya Saiин)
　Emperor Antoku
　Emperor Go-Toba (exiled to Oki Island)
Emperor Tsuchimikado (exiled to Tosa Province)
Emperor Juntoku (exiled to Sado Island)

【Same, Middle Section】
The heart of this poem is about secret love. "Tama no o" (jeweled cord) represents life. "My life, if you are to break, then break; if I am to live on, my heart for concealing my love will weaken, and eventually people will know and my reputation will be revealed, bringing ruin to both others and myself"—such is the sentiment of this poem. Rather than just "tama no o," saying "if it breaks, let it break" and thinking from present feelings to the future, the longer one lives, the more shameful things will become.

○Kigin's commentary notes that "taenaba taene" means "if it breaks, let it break completely." It's like saying "if the white dew disappears, let it disappear." "Yowari mo zo suru" means "it will probably weaken"—this is the particle construction.

【Same, Lower Section】
　Princess Shokushi
O jeweled cord
　if you should
break,
　then break—
if I live on,
this concealing
of love
might
weaken