【Right Page, Upper Section】
Nijōin no Sanuki
Said to be the second daughter of Shosammi Yorimasa. Nijōin was the first imperial daughter of Emperor Go-Shirakawa.
Emperor Seiwa
　Prince Sadasumi
　Tsunemoto (Rokuson'ō)
　Mitsu-naka
　Yorimitsu
　Yoritsuna
　Nakamasa
　Yorimasa
　Yoriyuki
　Daughter　Gishūmon'in

　Daughter　Nijōin no Sanuki

【Same, Middle Section】
The heart of this poem is that my sleeves never have time to dry, like rocks in the offing that appear soaked by the tide—if this were visible, people would see it too. Apart from the deep or shallow thoughts of love, the melancholy of my sleeves that people do not understand. The rocks in the sea have never been dry from the beginning—it is quite impossible for people to know whether one is crying or not. This is the heart of the poem.

○Kigin's commentary says: It does not mean "people do not know but there is no time to dry," but rather "though people should know of thoughts that have no time to dry, they coldly remain unaware."

【Same, Lower Section】
　Nijōin no Sanuki
My sleeves are
　like rocks in the offing
　　unseen
　　at low tide—
though people
　may not
　　know,
they never have
　　time to dry

【Left Page, Upper Section】
○Kamakura Udaijin
Lord Minamoto no Sanetomo. Second son of Udaishō Yoritomo. His mother was the daughter of Taira no Tokimasa, Nun of Second Court Rank Masako.
Seiwa Genji, Hachimantarō
Yoshiie
　Tameyoshi (Rokujō Hangan)
　Yoshitomo (Samanotō, permitted to ascend to court)
　Yoritomo (Junior Second Rank, Sei-i Taishōgun)
　(Resided in Kamakura, Dainagon)
　Yoriie (Sei-i Taishōgun, Saemonnokami)
　(Mother: Masako, daughter of Taira no Tokimasa)
　Sanetomo (Udaijin, Senior Second Rank)
　(Mother: same as above, titled Kamakura Udaijin)

【Same, Middle Section】
The heart of this poem is about wanting the world to remain constant, something one would always wish to see. It is a poem that laments the transience, like the fishing boats of the shore that leave no trace. Just as one cannot tie down sorrowful things or the life one desires with ropes, the fishermen's small boats cannot be moored, and this represents the transience of our world before our eyes. It is an emotion that cherishes the sight of boats and contemplates the sorrows of the floating world.

【Same, Lower Section】
　Kamakura Udaijin
Would that the world
　could always
remain—
　how sad the ropes
of fishermen's boats
　　rowing
along the shore