【Endpaper (inside front cover)】

The year Kyōhō 19 (Kinoe-Tora, 1734) marks the 900th memorial anniversary of Kōbō Daishi (Kūkai).
The year Genroku 12 (Tsuchinoto-U, 1699) marks the 1,000th memorial anniversary of En no Gyōja.
Total number of pages including the cover: nine sheets.

【Left folio】

An Abridged Record of the Life and Conduct, with an Account of the Birth, Origins, and Clan Lineage of En no Gyōja

En no Ubasoku, whose personal name was Ozunu, was of the Kamo no Ekikōshi clan, and was a man of the village of Chihara, in the upper district of Katsuragi, in Yamato Province. In that village there lived a certain woman. In the third month of the sixth year of Emperor Jomei, the thirty-fifth sovereign, in the year Mizunoto-Mi (633 CE), she dreamed that a single-pronged vajra (tokoshō) descended from the heavens and entered her mouth. From the time of this dream she conceived, and after ten months, on the first day of the New Year in spring of the following seventh year, the year Kinoe-Uma (634 CE), she gave birth to a boy. His countenance was noble and commanding, and his physical form was remarkably different from that of ordinary people. After the age of thirteen, even when it rained as he walked, his garments were never wetted. His feet never trod upon crawling insects. From the age of seventeen, he clothed himself in bark stripped from wisteria vines and subsisted on pine needles, picking flowers and gathering nuts, and climbed Mount Kongō. There he heard a wondrous, subtle sound, and following its voice, arrived at the Pure Land of Hōki Bosatsu (Dharmodgata Bodhisattva). He listened to the Dharma teachings, attained samādhi, constructed a hall, enshrined a sacred image of Hōki Bosatsu, and took up residence in a thatched hermitage. The place now known as Gyōja-bō is the site of this very hermitage. Truly, moved by the wisdom carried over from previous lives, without being taught by others, he spontaneously awakened to the Esoteric Vehicle (Mikkyō), and constantly recited the mantra of Kujaku Myōō (Mahāmāyūrī Vidyārājñī) and the dhāraṇī of Fudō Inu-ō (Acalanātha), thereby attaining siddhi (spiritual accomplishment). Riding upon five-colored clouds, he ascended above to the realm of the Four Heavenly Kings, and descended below to sport in the Dragon Palace and the Abode of Immortals. The present-day Taima-dera Temple occupies the former site of Ozunu's family home.