【Right Page】
Kumano Gongen Shrine (Kumano Gongen-sha)　Located at the edge of the Senju River in the northern part of Senju. The enshrined deity is Izanami-no-Mikoto, one deity. According to shrine tradition,
　During the Eisho era (1046-1053), when Minamoto no Yoshiie Asomi was on his expedition to suppress Oshu, he arrived at this place and was about to cross the river when
　a mysterious divine manifestation occurred. Therefore, he left the sacred offerings of Kumano Gongen from Kishu, which he had kept in his armor chest, at this place
　and enshrined them as Kumano Gongen.
　　《Note: Upon consideration, both Kumano Gongen and Asuka Myojin are enshrined in Kishu Province. There should be reasons why both shrines exist in this location, but current records are fragmentary and detailed information cannot be obtained. I would like to present other theories, but I omit them here to avoid complexity》
Senju Great Bridge (Senju Ohashi)　This bridge spans the Arakawa River and serves as the throat of the Oshu Highway. The flow of people and horses on the bridge is continuous without interruption. One or two cho north of the bridge, there is a post station. This bridge was first constructed in the ninth month of Bunroku 3 (1594), year of the Wood Horse, with Ina Bizen-no-Kami as magistrate, and has continued to the present day.
Kanrozan Enmei-ji Temple (Kanrozan Enmei-ji)　Also called Omiin. Located in Shimo-Numata, it is an ancient temple of the Shingon sect
　founded by the great master Gyoki. The principal image, Amida Nyorai, is of the same creation and is considered the second
　of the Six Amida. Many people visit during the spring and autumn equinox periods.
Fuji Sengen Shrine (Fuji Sengen-shi)　Located downstream in the same area, within a deep forest. According to local tradition, long ago there was a person in this area who was an Adachi manor overseer
　called Miyagi Saisho. He had one daughter named Adachi-hime. 《Note: First of the Six Amida》

【Left Page】
　《Note: In the dual origin stories of the fourth, it is said to be the daughter of Toshima Saemon-no-jo Kiyomitsu, in the second origin story the daughter of Numata-no-shoji, and in the third, fifth, and sixth origin stories the daughter of Adachi Junior Second Rank Chancellor Fujiwara no Masashige》The parents tried to marry her to a person who was Toshima Saemon-no-jo in the neighboring county. 《Note: The first origin story of the Six Amida says she was to be sent to Adachi Shoyu, and also the fourth, fifth, and sixth》
　《Note: origin stories say she was to be sent to Numata Shoyu. The third origin story and the origin stories of Kiamari-no-Mida etc. are the same as above》However, the daughter had no interest other than revering Buddhist deities. Therefore, she would not comply with the marriage, and even though her parents forcibly arranged the marriage, she still deeply
　worried about this matter and finally threw herself into the Arakawa River and died. 《Note: Also called Numata River. This refers to Toshima River, which is upstream of Senju River》Her lady-in-waiting also threw herself in and died
　together with her. Therefore, the manor overseer was inconsolable with grief. The villagers also praised the noble conduct of the daughters, and since it happened on
　the first day of the sixth month, they enshrined their spirits as Fuji Sengen in a shrine. However,
　the details of this account are unclear.
Sengen Pool (Sengen-no-fuchi)　This refers to the river pool in the same location. It is said to be where Adachi-hime drowned.
Juniten Forest (Juniten-no-mori)　The remains of Adachi-hime's lady-in-waiting were buried here and called Juniten. It serves as the tutelary shrine of Funakata Village.
Kiamari Amida Nyorai (Kiamari-no-Amida Nyorai)　Enshrined at Ryutosan Shooji Temple in Miyagi Village. Long ago, when the great master Gyoki carved six statues of A-
　mida Nyorai, he created this one from the leftover materials and it was placed in a grass hut.
　Much later, around the Meio era (1492-1501), the priest Shoyo Ryuton reformed it into a proper temple building.