【Right Page】
　(Myoo-in) disliked Tanba Province's Shimamura Castle and moved to live there, then moved again to Mineyama Castle in the same province, but was ultimately killed by enemies 《The eldest son Hisayori and Hisatomo subsequently lived at Mineyama》. Afterward, the people violently entered the temple and it was eventually destroyed, but around the Keicho era, Raisen-bo 《younger brother of Hisayoshi》 moved it to the present location and revived the temple, making Shinchi Hoin the restorer and founder. Also, in the spring of Kan'ei 20, the Shogun stopped by during falconry and graciously heard the temple's history, granting it temple lands and other privileges.

　Fudo Hall 《Located to the right of the main hall. The principal image of Fudo Myoo is said to be created by Kobo Daishi, and when Saint Kakuban founded Negoro Denpo-in, it was enshrined as the principal image of the Goma Hall, but in Tensho 3 it was moved to Seikan-ji in Utanakayama, Kyoto for certain reasons, and again in Kanpo 1》
　《Due to its miraculous spiritual power, it was finally enshrined at this temple》

　Tenmangu Shrine 《Located under an old pine tree on a small hill behind the Fudo Hall. Its origins are detailed in the temple records》

Shoichii Washi Daimyojin Shrine: Located in Hanamata Village, it serves as the tutelary deity of this area. The enshrined deity is not clear, but its honji is Shakyamuni Buddha in the form of riding an eagle. The managing temple belongs to the Shingon sect and is called Shogaku-in.
　Every year, the day of the Rooster in November is observed as the festival day. According to the origin story, the honji Shakyamuni Tathagata is a sacred image worshipped by Shinra Saburo Yoshimitsu, and during the Tenki period when Abe no Sadato plotted rebellion in Oshu, there was victory in that battle through the manifestation of the principal image, though this account is not detailed.

【Left Page】
　　《Upon consideration, this shrine's Washi Daimyojin is probably Haji Daimyojin. The kana for "haji" may have changed and been transmitted incorrectly. This shrine is commonly called the inner sanctuary of Asakusa Kannon. Considering this, the Sensoji origin story mentions the names of three people - the fishermen Haji no Omi Nakatomo and Hinokuma no Hamanari》
　　《and Takenari, master and servants. The Nihon Shoki states that in the 32nd year of Emperor Suinin, Nomi no Sukune was first granted the surname Haji no Omi, so this Nakatomo must also be a distant descendant 《Nomi no Sukune was the 14th generation descendant of Amenohohi no Mikoto. The Kojiki states that Amenohohi no Mikoto was the remote ancestor of the Izumo no Omi, Musashi Kokuso, and Haji no Muraji clans》. Also, the Shoku Nihongi》
　　《states that Hinokuma no Toneri no Atai Yukamaro was from Kami District in Musashi Province and shared the same ancestor as the Haji surname, so this Hamanari and Takenari were also from Musashi Province, and all three master and servants probably had the Haji surname. In the Kojiki, there is a deity called Takehiratori no Mikoto, child of Amenohohi no Mikoto. This deity is the ancestor of the Haji surname》
　　《so those three fishermen and their group probably worshipped these deities. This shrine has a festival on the day of the Rooster in November each year, popularly called "Tori no Machi" (Rooster Market). "Machi" is an abbreviation of "matsuri" (festival). On this day, farmers from nearby villages offer domestic fowl. The next day, all the offered fowl are released in front of Sensoji》
　　《Kannon Hall as an old custom. This too may have origins. We await the consideration of future scholars》

Ishihama: Now called Hashiba. The Yoshitsune-ki records that on September 11th, Jisho 4 《The Azuma Kagami dates Yoritomo's crossing of the Sumida River into Musashi Province as October 2nd. The record of September 11th is》
　《probably an error》. Under the section where Right General Yoritomo crossed from Shimosa Province to Musashi Province, it states that the place called Ishihama was the domain of Edo Taro 《Upon consideration, the same work states that Edo Taro Shigenaga was the great wealthy man of eight provinces. Shigenaga was a member of Hatakeyama Shoji Shigetada's clan, and at that time the land of Edo in Toshima District》
　《was entirely within his domain》. Later it became the domain of the Chiba family, and they administered it for generations 《In Eiroku 2, ancient documents of the Odawara Hojo family include the names Senzoku and Ishihama among the domains of Ota Shinrokuro and the same Taizen no suke. Also, it records that Kiuchi Kunai no Shoyu governed Imatsu of Ishihama, or it was attached to the domain of Ege-dera. Ege-dera refers to Sosen-ji. The fact that Kiuchi Kunai no Shoyu governed this land is detailed under Ishihama Castle ruins》

Ishihama Castle Ruins: The location is now uncertain. The Shiseki Gokko states it was north of Shinmei-gu 《Upon consideration, at Kameido》
　　《In the inscription on the great bell of Fumon-in mentioning the Sumida River 《Kanegafuchi》, it states that Fumon-in was anciently located within the castle at Mitsumata on the Sumida River. Fumon-in was a Buddhist temple founded by Chiba Yoritane, and the land of Mitsumata was also a domain of the Chiba family, as detailed in ancient documents of the Odawara Hojo family》
　　《The place called Mitsumata is where the downstream waters of the Arakawa and Ayase rivers meet the Sumida River, hence the name. If so, then as recorded in Shiseki Gokko, the area north of Shinmei-gu would be the castle site》. The Kamakura Ososhi states...