【Right Page】
Hōgen Temple
《Furigana: Kagami-ga-ike｜Mirror Pond》

Kagami-ga Pond
Hōgen Temple
Ancient Monument

　Part
　Five

【Left Page】
　His lordship (Sukethono) declared it to be excellent, crossed over Futoi and Sumida, and arrived at Itabashi, it says《Note: The Sumida River in ancient times｜connected to the sea》
　《Note: That this was a seaside village is also clear｜from the text of the Gikeiki》
　《Note: From Fuboku-shō｜》
　　The Sumida River - I never heard of it in the past, but now it has become a world with floating bridges　　　Mitsutoshi
　《Note: The preface says that this poem was composed in the first year of Kōgen when visiting Kashima Shrine, and upon seeing the ferry at Sumida River, there was now a floating bridge｜built at that crossing. Also》
　According to the Poetry Commentary of Baika Mujinzō: Sumida is located on the road between Musashi and Shimōsa provinces. There are small mounds with willows. Lord Ōta Dōkan constructed three long bridges to attack the Chiba clan of Shimōsa.
　《Note: Upon consideration, what is recorded in books such as the Genpei Seisuiki and Mitsutoshi's Kashima Kikō were likely temporary bridges. The name "Hashiba" does not appear in the Genpei Seisuiki, Taiheiki, or other books either. The name Hashiba probably originated around the time when Dōkan attacked the Chiba family of Shimōsa.｜Nankōtei says that about one chō upstream from the Sumida River ferry, old bridge pilings remain on the riverbed｜and obstruct the passage of boats and rafts, though it's unclear when that bridge was built. Therefore, considering this, the area around Shinmei Shrine's main gate, about one chō upstream from the current ferry,｜might be the old site. Also, according to local elders' traditions, both the area around Hōgen Temple's main gate｜and the area around the boat guard post south of the current ferry are said to be old sites of Hashiba. If so, all three locations seem suitable for｜bridge construction. Considering this, it would align with what Baika Mujinzō calls "constructing three long bridges."》

Asahi Shinmei Shrine　Located in Hashiba, also called Ishihama Shinmei《Note: According to one theory, because there is a Shinmei Shrine in this area,｜it was called Isehama in ancient times》or commonly called Hashiba
　Shinmei. The enshrined deities are the same as Ise - both Inner and Outer Imperial Grand Shrines are worshipped. According to shrine tradition:
　In the reign of the 45th Human Emperor Shōmu, it was enshrined on September 11th of the first year of Jinki (724), year of the Wood Rat.
　Gozu Tennō Shrine《Note: Located to the left of the main shrine, it is the tutelary deity of Hashiba with festivals held annually on June 15th. Known as the Shioiri Oshiai｜Festival, the portable shrine crosses Imado Bridge. All the parishioners participate in carrying the portable shrine, and this portable shrine...}}