【Right Page】
In this way, they sweep away the attachments of substantial existence of phenomena, and with a single shout under the words, they blow away the dust of heterodox learning and rigid understanding. Before the platform of kōan study, they pile up 1,700 cases to transmit mind-to-mind transmission, and under the quilts of zazen meditation, with the help of "three in the morning, four in the evening," they separate from the verbal discussions of letters and phrases.

Asaji-ga-hara - Refers to the area around the main gate of Sōsen-ji Temple
(In "Kaikoku Zakki" it states "at a place called Asaji-ga-hara")
"Even human eyes have withered in the lonely evening twilight, parting the frost of Asaji-ga-hara" - Dōkō Jun-gō

Myōki Mound - Located in the same place. It is said to be the tomb of Myōki-ni, the mother of Umewaka-maru. A grass hall was built on a small elevation and is called Myōki Daimyōjin.

One Ancient Tomb - Located below Myōki Hall. It is a single piece of blue stone over two feet long, with the name "Hōa" carved within a circular form above a lotus flower on the stone face, and "22nd day of the 1st month of Kōan 11" carved below (the era name was changed to Shōō in the 4th month of this year). According to "Enkō Daishi Gyōjō Yokusan" Volume 42, on the 22nd day of the 6th month of Karoku 3 (the era name was changed to Antei in the 12th month of this year), the monks of the mountain gate attempted to destroy the tomb of Ōtani Genkū after receiving imperial permission. That night, Hōren-bō and Kaku-a-bō secretly dug up the master's coffin, and Renshō-bō (Utsunomiya Yasaburō), Shinshō-bō (Shioya Nyūdō), Hōa-bō (Chiba Rokurō-Tayū Nyūdō, this person was the ancestor of the Tō clan, Junior Fifth Rank Lower), Dōhen-bō (Shibuya Shichirō Nyūdō), and Saibutsu-bō (Tongu Hyōe Nyūdō), though they were monks, wore weapons over their religious robes and escorted it to Kōrai-bō Enkū of Kōryū-ji Temple. Upon consideration, this Hōa is likely Chiba Rokurō-Tayū Tanetoshi. Tanetoshi was a son of Tsunetane and younger brother of Kokufu Rokurō Tanemichi. This ancient tomb is probably the grave marker of this Hōa.

Kagami-ga-ike (Mirror Pond) - Located to the southwest of the same place. According to tradition, Myōki-ni wandered here from Kyoto following the traces of Umewaka-maru, but when she heard that Umewaka-maru had died, she threw herself into this pond and perished (In a booklet called "Edo Kanoko" published in the Genroku era, it states that this pond was formerly called "Namida-no-ike" [Pond of Tears]). Nearby is a small hermitage called Kagami-chi-an,

【Left Page】
which enshrines Benzaiten. This is also said to be a place where Myōki-ni is worshipped.

Kesa-kake Pine - Located beside the pond. Also called Kinu-kake Pine (Robe-hanging Pine). It is said that Myōki-ni hung her robes on the branches of this pine and then perished. The old tree withered and now a young tree has been planted.

Uneme Mound - Located in the same place. During the Kanbun era, there was a courtesan named Uneme in Yoshiwara-machi, but due to certain circumstances, she came here under cover of night and threw herself into the pond, perishing. After daybreak, when people from the area came here, they found a kosode robe hanging on a nearby pine tree with a poem attached:

"Though you may not know the name, know this: I sink the traces of Sarusawa into Kagami Pond"

Because of this, people knew she was an uneme (court lady), so they pitied her and built a mound.

Grave of Master Tōya - Located in the same place, at a Zen temple called Fukuju-in on Hashiba Street. The master was from Shimotsuke Province, his personal name was Kanto, Tōheki was his courtesy name, and he was called Jin'emon. Andō was his adoptive family name, and his original family name was Nasu. He studied under Master Sorai and greatly recited ancient literature, together advocating the study of restoration to antiquity. The inscription on his grave marker was composed by Master Nankaku Fuku. That text is omitted here.

Kimyō-san Hōgen-ji - Also called Muryōju-in. It is an ancient temple of the Pure Land school, adjacent to the south of Sōsen-ji. In the spring of Hōki 1, year of Kanoe-Inu (770), Dharma Seal Chikai first built a Dainichi Hall at this site. Later, in the autumn of Enryaku 3, year of Kinoe-Ne (784), the people of the village joined forces to make it a Buddhist temple, calling it the Dōjō of Sunao Ishihama (The founding abbot Great Monk Superintendent Dharma Seal Chikai died on the 14th day of the 3rd month of Daidō 1, year of Hinoe-Inu [806]. The second abbot, Provisional Great Monk Superintendent Dharma Seal Ryōkai, died on the 15th day of the 4th month of Tenchō 7, year of Kanoe-Inu [830], and the third abbot, Dharma Seal Keikai, died on the 15th day of the 4th month of Saikō 1, year of Kinoe-Inu [854]. Each has a tomb).

Grave Marker of Ryūshō-in Junior Second Rank Fujiwara-no-Ason Yotsutsuji Ariyoshi - Located within the temple grounds. "Saikō Edo Sunago" records the 27th day of the 6th month of Enryaku 8, year of Tsuchinoto-Mi (789). Also, "Nankōtei" states that there is a blue stone monument, and upon examination, there are family names of the Yotsutsuji house and official names and real names of three people, but they cannot be clearly identified, and their origins are also difficult to know. The temple records are also not detailed.