【Right Page】
According to consideration of the "Chifu Setsu-ki," Yotsutsuji Gon-Dainagon Shōnii Sanefuji-kyō, the fourth son of Saionji Daijō-Daijin Kintsune-kyō, had a descendant in the fifteenth generation, Gon-Dainagon Shōnii Kinmichi, who died on the 27th day of the 6th month of Enpō 5, Hinoto-Mi (1677) at the age of sixty-eight. Sanefuji-kyō lived during the period from Antei to Einin and was the ancestor of the Yotsutsuji family. The Enryaku era is greatly different in time period. Probably "Jūnii" should be "Shōnii," "Ariyoshi" should be "Kinmichi," "Enryaku" should be "Enpō," "eighth year" should be "fifth year," and "Kinoto-Mi" should be "Hinoto-Mi." The month and day of death match. However, the characters are worn away and cannot be read. We can only await further investigation.

Grave of Saitō Bettō Sanemori - Located in the same place. The stone pagoda is carved with the image of a monk holding prayer beads, and on the back is inscribed "Shinohara-in Saki-no-Sakingo Jūgoi Tokusan Kakudō Shin'a Daikoji, 7th day of 5th month of Jūei 2, Year of Mizunoto-U." Also, the seventh head priest of this temple, Hōyo Shōnin Gentai Oshō, felt a divine dream on the night of the 21st day of the 5th month of Genroku 7, Kinoe-Inu (1694), and his grandson Hyōgo-no-suke Nobutoshi built this, as recorded. Hōyo Shōnin was said to be of Sanemori's clan according to "Nankōtei Sawa." The Buddhist name was newly given at that time. Sanemori died in battle at Shinohara in Kaga Province in the 5th month of Jūei 2 (1183).

Stone Pagoda of Kamakura Gon-no-Taifu Kagemichi - Located in the same place. On the stone face is written "Amida Buddha, Tanraku, 22nd day of 10th month of Enkyū 2, Year of Kanoe-Inu," and it is the body section of a five-ring stone pagoda. The Buddhist name and year of death have not yet been investigated. This too was probably erected later by someone from his clan. Kagemichi was the son of Muraoka Kogorō Tadamichi, second son of Saemon-no-jō Tomatsune, great-great-grandson of Chinzei-fu Shōgun Yoshikane. In addition, stone pagodas of successive head priests of this temple, and ancient tombs carved with era names such as Ninjū, Shōtai, Shōryaku, Jūei, Kōgen, Bun'ei, Kōan, Shōan, Kagen, Shōwa, Bun'ō, Shōkei, Bunshō, etc., all existed within the egg-shaped pagoda area. However, for some reason, many have been scattered and lost in recent years.

This temple is an ancient site of the Tendai sect, and was revived during the Hōgen period and called Hōgen-ji, but much later fell into great ruin. From the time of Myōrensha Sōyo Shōnin Yūkō Oshō, the Tendai sect was changed to the Pure Land sect. From that time, the characters were also changed to Hōgen, and the temple was restored (This temple preserves an old wooden seal that was used in medieval times. It still exists today, and its characters read Hōgen-ji. Also, in the temple grounds there is an ancient tomb with images of Amida, Seishi, and Kannon as the three honored ones in one light, with the five characters "Myōgu Shikirin Soku" inlaid below, and on the back "Kōhei 2, Bushū Hōgen-ji," which should serve as evidence).

Shin'ei-san Chōshō-ji - Adjacent to the south of Hōgen-ji. This temple is an ancient site of the Nichiren sect within the imperial capital and belongs to Eisan

【Left Page】
The founding priest Nichijaku Shōnin was initially the head priest of Sensō-ji Temple, and in ancient times followed the Tendai doctrinal lineage and was called Jakkai Hōin. In the 2nd year of Kōan, Tsuchinoto-U (1279), at this place he debated doctrine with Nichijō Shōnin, a disciple of Nichiren Shōnin (Nichijō was the founding priest of Myōhoke-kyō-ji Temple in Nakayama, Shimōsa Province. Some say the doctrinal debate occurred in Kōan 5, Mizunoe-Uma). He finally converted to Nichiren's sect, climbed Minobu-san to meet the founding master and performed the rites of discipleship. He changed his name to Nichijaku, later returned to Asakusa, left Kinryū and built a hermitage, calling it Myōshō-ji and living in seclusion there. The two monks who followed him also received ordination together and changed their names to Nichizō and Nichika. In the 9th year, Hinoe-Inu (1286), on the 1st day of the 11th month, Nichijaku Shōnin died (Nichijaku Shōnin's tomb is in the temple grounds, erected in medieval times). Therefore, afterward Nichizō (called Hongaku-bō) and Nichika (called Kawachi-bō) built a temple hall at Hashiba and called it Chōshō-ji. According to the inscription on this temple's newly cast bell, that place originally bordered the Sumida River. By chance it suffered flood damage, the halls and pagodas drifted away, and the bell also sank. That place is called Kane-ga-fuchi. Finally in Genkō 1, Kanoto-Tori (1321) the temple was moved to its present location (Upon consideration, the origin of Kane-ga-fuchi is similarly described in the bell inscription of Fumon-in in Kameido Village, and we don't know which is correct. It is detailed in the seventh volume under Kane-ga-fuchi section. It should be compared and examined).

Doctrinal Debate Lawn - Located in front of the main hall. In the center of a lawn made in the shape of a fan is one pine tree, and beside it a marker stone is erected. It is said that this was left to show forever to the world the proof that long ago Jakkai Hōin questioned Nichijō-shi of Toki about religion and finally converted to the propagation of Nichiren Daishi.

Imado Hachiman Shrine - Located about one chō north from Imado Bridge, on the left side of the road. The deity enshrined is from Iwashimizu in Yamashiro Province