【Right Page】
Iriya
　Kōshin Hall
　　Enshrined at Kihōin Temple
　　A sacred statue by the same artist
　　as the blue-faced Vajra (Shōmen Kongō)
　　at Shitennōji Temple in Settsu Province
　　　　It is said
　　　　　to be

【Left Page】
Konkōzan Yōgyokuin Temple　Located south of Shitaya Sakamoto 1-chōme, this is a Tendai sect temple that was formerly located near the Ōte gate area of the current Edo Castle grounds, but was relocated to its present site around the Keichō era. In ancient times it was called Sanmyakuin, but during the Hōei era it was renamed to its current name. This temple houses a hanging scroll painting of the reclining Buddha (Shakyamuni's nirvana). Above it is an inscription by Jigen Daishi, marked as "written by Sankoku Dentō Dai-sōjō Tenkai." Every year on February 15th, this is displayed for public viewing.

Yakuōzan Zenyōji Temple　Also called Enjuin, located on the left side of Sakamoto 1-chōme in the same area. This Tendai sect temple enshrines Yakushi Nyorai as its main deity. 《According to the temple monks, this main deity is the honji-butsu (original Buddhist form) of Ono Terusaki Myōjin, and for this reason, although the Ono Terusaki Myōjin shrine is located far from this place, it faces toward this temple's Yakushi Hall》The temple was founded by Jikaku Daishi during the Tenchō era, and the main statue is also said to be his work. The characters "Enman" (perfection) are carved on a plaque, written by Ōbaku Mokuan Rōjin. There is also an Emma Hall within the temple grounds, and the statue of Emma-ō (King of Hell) is by Unkei. On New Year's Day and July 16th, worshippers gather in crowds. 《Someone says that this temple's Emma-ō statue was originally a sacred image at Ashikaga School in Yashū Province, but was moved here in later times due to certain circumstances》

Ono Terusaki Myōjin Shrine　Located on the right side of 3-chōme in the same area, the enshrined deity is said to be the spirit of Ono no Takamura. Although there are shrine records, they are not clear, so we will omit them here for now. This shrine is on a slope