【Right page】
1. When there is a death, report to the inspectors beforehand and receive instructions.
　　　　　Same as above
1. Peddlers and beggars from outside the long houses shall not call out or place items at the base of the long houses.
　　　　　Same as above
1. In the front long houses, kouta (short songs) and joruri (narrative music) performances are prohibited.
　　　　　However, the gate long houses shall be treated as exceptions
　These articles must be strictly observed, and instructions must be thoroughly given to all retainers down to the lowest ranks. Those who violate them will be severely punished according to the nature of their transgression. Particularly for matters outside the mansion, even minor infractions will result in severe punishment, so keep this in mind at all times and give strict instructions in advance. The above.
　　　　　Shotoku 3rd year, Year of the Water Snake, 4th month

【Left page】
　　　　　　Additions
1. Head administrators, guard captains, and officials shall report to the mansion every morning from the fifth hour to the eighth hour to conduct official business.
　　　　　Note: When there are guests, this shall be treated as an exception
1. When samurai go elsewhere, they must report to the mansion between the fifth hour and the fourth hour and inform the head administrators or ceremonial attendants. If this time limit is exceeded, only unavoidable urgent matters may be reported and one may go out. Of course, when returning, one must report again. Other matters are unnecessary.
　　　　　Note: During severe wind, unless there is urgent business, everyone should refrain from going out
1. Visitors from elsewhere must be sent back by the sixth hour of evening. The above should be observed. The above.
　　　　　5th month of the Rabbit year　　　　　　Inspector

1. Regarding the prohibition notices in the general stables, strict observance should be instructed to all horse handlers.
　　　Masaaki notes: This article appears after "visitors from elsewhere" with "8th month of the Horse year, inspectors." There is an original version, and there is also a version containing the following three articles. This is recorded for reference.
1. Those who bathe at nearby bathhouses are permitted to do so. However, instruct them not to go too frequently.