1. On the 6th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 13 (1728), during official duties outside the gate, a man named Iwaemon who carried the document box cut through the retinue of Lord Toki Tango-no-kami. Although he should have been well aware of the established regulations, due to his carelessness and misconduct, his stipend was revoked, and he was furthermore ordered never to enter the Edo residence or the domain.
○ The three advance foot soldiers who should have stopped him at that time but let him pass through were also guilty of misconduct and were placed under house arrest after inquiry.
○ Regarding the three palanquin attendants and three retinue inspectors, although there are established regulations that should have been communicated beforehand, since such misconduct occurred, His Lordship considered everyone careless. Therefore, after his reprimand, orders were given to be more careful in the future. However, house arrest was deemed unnecessary.

1. On the 2nd day of the 3rd month of Kyōhō 17 (1732), due to Lady Seishin-in's serious illness, His Lordship had not yet returned to castle duties after recovering from smallpox and was not performing his duties as senior councilor. On the 1st of this month, he reported this situation to the duty councilor Matsudaira Izu-no-kami, and on the 2nd was instructed that he could pay a courtesy visit at his convenience. He immediately made the visit at 9:30 and returned to his residence after 6 in the evening. By mid-month, as her condition worsened critically, His Lordship attended from early morning until night every day. However, on the 6th of this month, he completed his first courtesy inquiry to the senior councilors since recovering from smallpox.

1. On the 1st day of the 10th month of Kan'en 1 (1748), one document from Nakane Yukie was handed over with orders to communicate its contents to the foot inspectors, and this was accordingly conveyed. In the domain on the 12th day of the 9th month, Lord Hotta Sagami-no-kami summoned Lords Ogasawara Nuinosuke and Kuze Chuemon and told them: "Two years ago, when Lord Hotta Kaga-no-kami came as an envoy to inquire about Lord Matsudaira Noto-no-kami's illness, there was a dispute between the retinues of Lord Sakai Yamato-no-kami and Lord Kaga-no-kami. Since then, we have heard of various incidents among the retinues of daimyo lords. The senior councilors have been earnestly instructed that there should be no disputes especially in crowded places, so we believe that even stricter orders should be given to others. Please convey this message to each domain." This is what Lord Sagami-no-kami communicated.

1. On the 5th day of the 5th month of Kyōwa 2 (1802), a private message came from Edo stating that when intelligence officer Kanie Zen'emon attended the castle, he received a speech document from the foot inspectors for his reference.
The said document is as follows:
【Lower section】　　Cycad Room　Foot Inspector
　　　　　　　　　　　　Takeuchi Den'emon
　　　　　　　　　Co-present
　　　　　　　　　　　　Furuya Heizaemon

Regarding the unexpected disorder in the retinue formations during the Ueno pilgrimage last 4th month and the withdrawal from the Western Citadel this 4th month, when we inquired about proper conduct, we were told this was extremely careless, so we will note this for now. Regarding retinue matters, there have been repeated official notices, yet such incidents occurred twice, which ultimately stems from inadequate instruction up to this point. Should such incidents occur in the future, there may be severe reprimands. Moreover, since domain retainers are secretly brought along, this may seem suspicious, but generally bringing domain retainers is reasonable. However, if they are inexperienced, the retinue leaders should exercise strict control, but we hear this has been inadequate. Therefore, strict orders should be given for the future. Although this should be communicated verbally, due to the length of the matter, it has been written down.
　　　　　End