When making reports, the details should be communicated thoroughly, so this should be kept in mind beforehand.

1. Depending on the situation of the fire, additional firefighting personnel may come. In such cases, exercise even greater caution and strictly avoid disputes over firefighting positions. If anyone from the additional firefighting forces makes unreasonable demands, this should be immediately reported to the inspectors. We will investigate the matter from our side.

1. In case of fire within the sacred mountain, His Lordship the Gate Abbot will also come out. Of course, the Senior Councilors, Junior Councilors, and other officials will also come out, so one should always be mindful to avoid any disrespectful behavior.

As ordered above, understanding this intent, it should be strictly communicated to all those with supervisory responsibilities and down to all subordinates. The above.

Inspector Group
Each Group

Vertical Markers
1. East from Kōtokuji Temple to behind Banzuin Temple, north to Shitatani Kanasugi Sanowa Yanaka Sanzaki, west bounded by Hongō Sanchōme Tomizaka Oyumichō and the moat edge, south to the outer area of Kanda Sujikai checkpoint. If fire breaks out in these locations, immediately report to the inspectors and foot inspectors, and after investigation, sound the board signal and deploy personnel.

1. If fire appears to be within the gate area, sound the board signal immediately without waiting for reports.

1. Even if outside the designated areas, if there is fierce wind and upwind fire, personnel should be deployed.

Procedures for Board Signaling
1. When fire breaks out in the designated areas, immediately notify the inspectors, magistrates, caretakers, fire brigade commanders, and foot inspectors. At that time, also notify for inspector group rotation. When officials investigate and deploy personnel with instructions, continue the board signaling until personnel exit through the gate.

1. For three-chō emergency response locations and neighborhoods near the residence: south around Daiku-machi area, east to Nihonbashi, north around Nagata-machi area. Strike the encirclement boards three times in succession as described. Officials should also be notified urgently.

The above articles should be strictly observed day and night without negligence.

Horizontal Markers
Route to Tōeizan
Exit through Kandabashi Gate, pass by the side of Lord Inaba Sado-no-kami's residence, proceed via the front of Lord Matsudaira Iga-no-kami's residence, then to Shōhei Bridge, then past the front of Takasago-ya, to Ueno Kuromon Gate where there are three bridges. The middle bridge is damaged, so cross via the left and right bridges after inspection by the advance party.

1. The second unit firefighting personnel should understand the above procedures.

Regulations
1. This time, fire watch duty at Tōeizan has been ordered. When departing, not only the attendants but also the first unit...