Regarding the investigation of the Christian sect and Hita sect, we have investigated the religious sects of the men and women of the palace quarters (gohirosiki-kata), and they are not Christian nor of the Hita sect. For all of the above, we have obtained sect certificates from their respective temples. We also keep on hand the religious sect certificates of our male and female servants. This guarantee certificate is submitted for future reference, respectfully as above.
　　　　[Year] [Month]　　　　　　[Name and sealed signature]
　　　　　To the Inspectors (Metsuke)

1. For those on permanent duty (teifu), there are cases of the Hita [sect], but for those on rotating duty (tsumekoshi), we exclude the Hita sect matter when sending them over. Of course, regarding rotating duty assignments, only those who will continue their rotation into the following spring [are included]. Those on rotation until autumn return home and submit [certificates] at the domain, so they do not submit them in Edo.

1. Those attached from the Hitotsubashi house submit annually to the Hitotsubashi house, so we have been requesting for some time that they be included in the certificates we submit. However, since there has never been a year when certificates were not submitted, after consultation, we inquired with Koma Tatewaki's office. [We were told that] if such is the case with the Hitotsubashi house, there is no need for us to separately submit [certificates], and from Angen 4 (1775), we do not send official notices to them.

1. From previous times, regarding the religious sect investigation with official notices on March 5th, the submitted certificates collected are sealed and stored in the official use boxes in the treasury. Naturally, certificate drafts, official notices, and Christian-related [documents] are stored in the Christian affairs box.

　　　　　Religious Sect Investigation
1. When samurai are appointed as family heads, they are instructed to submit temple certificates. Temple seal verification is conducted by dispatching ashigaru inspectors. For minor officials and below, their colleagues go to verify the seals. Regarding the guarantee certificates for servants' religious sects submitted each spring, these are replaced when there are changes in supervising officials.

1. Regarding the annual religious sect investigation guarantee certificates on March 5th: Certificates must be submitted by the March 20th deadline. This applies to retainers of both residences and town houses as well. However, official notices regarding religious sects are not sent to Magara Kankei's office.