1. When domain retainers (mata-mono) wish to visit relatives elsewhere on business, if they petition for this, it shall be granted as requested. There are precedents. There are examples of sending retainers of Hagiwara Kinbei and retainers of Yokota Sakutayu.

1. There is an example of a stipend recipient (go-fuchi-nin) being granted permission as requested to stay one night with relatives elsewhere on business. The elder brother of a person named Shimano Sajibei of the御□□□ guard served as head priest at a temple called Joseiin in Futamatagawa, Bushu Province, so he departed on the 15th day of the 11th month of Meiwa 5 (1768) and returned on the 16th. The aforementioned Joseiin temple was located behind Kanagawa station.

1. There are examples of permanent Edo residents (jofu-samurai) with ailments being granted permission as requested to take hot spring cures in Soshu Province and elsewhere.

1. There is an example of Suzuki Juzaemon petitioning in the 4th month of Horeki 6 (1756) to invite a healer from outside the gate to stay in the domain compound for two or three days, which was granted as requested.

1. There are precedents for monks coming from the home domain and similar persons from outside the gate petitioning for one night's lodging.

1. Regarding women's lodging, this should be acknowledged and handled accordingly. Of course, even for permanent residents, this is not permitted where there are no women.

1. When house arrest or restraint is ordered, after relatives petition for passage rights and these are granted, in Edo those who serve frequently may travel alone but this may not be noticed, so they often petition for another passage companion and travel in pairs. Those without relatives or family connections may travel with non-relatives.

1. When those at Reiganjima estate are ordered into house arrest or restraint, each time passage companions visit, they must report to the Reiganjima inspector. When passage is granted as requested, they must first report to the upper estate inspector, and when permission is granted they must visit the upper estate inspector and report that nothing has changed during passage.

1. When advance unit commanders (go-saki-monogashira) stationed at Reiganjima are appointed as temporary inspectors, the head inspector shall witness the signing of the oath document.
However, this is arranged in the long sunken hearth room. For all those of commander rank, temporary positions do not require oath documents before the senior councilors.

1. Oath documents for positions that do not require appearance before senior councilors shall be administered in the long sunken hearth room. In all cases, the head inspector shall witness the signing. Depending on the type of position, a magistrate shall attend. For personal attendant positions, a chamberlain shall attend.