Correction mark

Article 1: At the time of arriving at the castle, at Imajo
When entering, when horses are stationed within the iron gate, issue an oral notification so that the lower ranks do not become confused

Article 1: Same as above, those of the retinue guard who are off-duty shall go ahead and directly perform iron gate guard duty as ordered
As Shibuya Yazei reports:

Article 1: On the 2nd day of the 11th month of Genbun 4, Year of the Sheep, when members of the guard units under the military commanders go to Edo or other provinces on official business, they are to go to the ceremonial attendants well in advance of their departure date and report this. However, in recent years there have been some who fail to make this notification, and if the date limit is not known, it is difficult to communicate to Edo, and this would make it appear that the ceremonial attendants are negligent, which would displease his lordship. Therefore, this was discussed with the administrators, and when the administrators report to the senior retainers, it was ordered that future urgent matters should be communicated in consultation with the inspectors. Accordingly, Yazei consulted and reported to the unit commanders through Yazei, and to the military commanders through the inspectors as appropriate.

[Left page]
Article 1: Record of Kyōho 20, Year of the Rabbit, 6th month, 13th day - on the 4th of this month, at Edo, his lordship's instruction to Tochiya Hanemon: This time during the journey at Kanaya station in Tōtōmi province, the designated inn Kashiwaya Hachirōzaemon committed misconduct and the designated inn status was revoked. Henceforth, all members of the domain retinue, down to the lowest ranks, shall refrain from stopping at or staying at Hachirōzaemon's establishment, and this shall be communicated to all as appropriate. This instruction came, and in the home domain as well, this matter shall be communicated to all as appropriate. However, the Kanaya designated inn was reassigned to one called Satsukaya Sajiemon.

Article 1: Record of Genbun 4, Year of the Sheep, 8th month, 14th day - last month on the 17th, the relay official document box had problems at Hakone, so the designated inn of Amano Heizaemon had its designated inn status revoked, and there have been successive such cases.

Departure and Arrival

Article 1: For departure baggage of ten pack-horses or less, group members shall present and inspect it. There should be no evening inspections. Of course, no inspections should be conducted at the long barracks. Inspections should be conducted at the gate. The stationed foot inspectors generally do not come out, and some request that inspections be done at the barracks, but inspections shall not be requested.

Article 1: Those without urgent official business shall not depart before 6:00 in the morning.

Article 1: During departure, it is acceptable to summon day laborers from the evening, have them stay one night at the long barracks, and take them along in the morning. For townspeople and others who come for one night's stay, depending on the circumstances of the request, one night is acceptable.

Article 1: When samurai and various officials travel from the home domain, this shall be promptly entered in the fire duty roster, and the residence regulations shall be shown to them.

Article 1: For those arriving from the home domain, if hired personnel stay at their master's place, permission shall be obtained and recorded. If they depart the same day, upon receiving permission, they shall be sent to the gate immediately.

Article 1: For retainers returning to the home domain, if they request travel permits for checkpoint passage, instruct that these be delivered to the residence administrator.

Article 1: There are no restrictions concerning foot soldiers. When we do not communicate with the residence administrator from here and there are obstacles, we receive word from the residence administrator.