Item: On the same day, in connection with the aforementioned matter, a letter was written to Honda Ōkura (Naganori) and the other chief retainers (karō).
　　Note: The practice of writing such letters on these occasions became standard procedure hereafter, and will therefore not be recorded further.

Item: On the same day, in connection with the aforementioned matter, a letter was sent to the Kyoto Deputy (Shoshidai), Matsudaira Iga-no-Kami (Tadachika).

Item: On the same day,
　The posthumous Buddhist name of Lady Shōan-in was conveyed by Ōgoban Mōri Yoshishichi (Takete), who had served as escort during the journey, upon his arrival in Edo, and was immediately forwarded to Tentoku-ji Temple. Lady Ume-hime is henceforth to be called Lady Yōju-in.
　　Note: The hair-cutting ceremony (okiri-gami) took place on the third day of the sixth month of the following year of the Tiger (Kyōhō 7).
　　　(The hair) was interred beneath the mausoleum of Lady Shōan-in.

Item: On the same day,
　The official inquiry document (gofusho) from the domain regarding Lord Yoshikuni's illness having returned from the domain, it was submitted to the duty Senior Councillor (goyōban) Mizuno Izumi-no-Kami (Tadayuki), and was passed on as-is without further action.

Item: On the 21st day of the 12th month, the envoy from Edo, the Sōja-ban (Chamberlain) Shimada Uemon (Shigetame), arrived in Fukui. The domain retainers and the samurai of Matsuoka assembled at the castle. Honda Ōkura (Naganori) and the other chief retainers, along with Akita Hachirobei (Toshiaki), attended, and seated beside Uemon, the monthly duty chief retainer Sakai Tange (Tomofusa) conveyed the lord's wishes to those assembled at their respective seats.

Item: On the 22nd day of the same month, a communication arrived from the Inspector General (ōmetsuke) Hikosaka Iki-no-Kami (Harunori), requesting that a detailed account (meisaisho) be submitted in connection with the current succession. Accordingly, the domain's Edo caretaker (rusuī) Miyanoki Jūrozaemon (Sadayoshi)... (continued on the next page)