Ryōshū, acting on behalf of the female heir of the Taira family, the principal lord of Kamikatsura Estate (also called Nosho) in Yamashiro Province, respectfully submits this petition.

We humbly request that this matter be brought to His Majesty's attention as soon as possible, and that the position of estate manager (ryōke-shiki) of this estate, which rightfully belongs to the female heir according to hereditary law, be returned to her complete control.

Submitted alongside:
One scroll containing sequential documentary evidence

The aforementioned Kamikatsura Estate is one of the thirty-eight properties that belonged to the posthumous holdings of Retired Empress Shūmei-mon'in. Among these holdings, seventeen properties belong to the Yotsuji Imperial Prince's house, as clearly stated in an imperial directive (in-sen) from the Kōan era. From among the seventeen properties under the Imperial Prince's house management, this estate was granted to a female heir of the Fujiwara family on the 25th day of the 10th month of Shōō 3 (1290). During that time, she received official documents from the government office on a day in the 8th month of Einin 1 (1293), and after many years of management, on the 10th day of the 11th month of Kagen 1 (1303), the female heir of the Taira family acquired it along with sequential documentary evidence. She continued to manage it without incident until, from Enkyō 3 (1310) onward, Senior Third Rank Shigetsune appropriated it unlawfully, and it was confiscated during the reign of Retired Emperor Go-Uda. Though harboring grievances, we have spent years in vain, but now, encountering this era of constitutional government, we wish to present our long-standing complaint. Generally speaking, regarding the matter of the Yotsuji Imperial Prince's house management, without needing to waste humble words, how could imperial agreements be altered? Yet the confiscation of this particular estate represents a most unreasonable course of events. Therefore, we request that this matter be brought to His Majesty's attention as soon as possible and that our hereditary domain be returned to us. We increasingly revere the nobility of His sacred judgment. Thus we roughly submit this matter as stated.

Kemmu 1 (1334), 12th month, [day]