【Back Cover】

【Left Page】
Totsuka (戸塚) - Currently belongs to Takada. In ancient times, this was the general name for this region. In the Hojo family's property register (bunken-cho),
　it is recorded that Tsuneoka Danjonomitchu held territory in Totsuka from Ushigome. 《The Edo Kanoko states that in ancient times, during floods, this area was like being protected by temporary doors (kari no to), thus avoiding water disasters, which is why it got this name, but this is not credible. According to local elders, there was a place called Tomitsuka at the site of Hosen-ji temple, and the area was also called Tomitsuka village. Now the character "tomi" (富) has been changed to "to" (戸). Some say that in ancient times, there was an old burial mound on the grounds of a certain Mr. Okamoto's residence that served as a den for white foxes. Totsuka might be a mispronunciation of Kitsunezuka (fox mound). Also, it is said that since there were many old burial mounds in this area in ancient times, it was called Totsuka (ten mounds). Upon consideration, Kitsunezuka probably refers to the mound beside the Mizuinari shrine. In a booklet called "Takada Hibari," it states that the Totsuka shrine is at Hosen-ji temple, and because there are stone doors shaped like foxes there, it has been called Totsuka since ancient times.》

One Hundred and Eight Mounds (百八塚) - Their current location is uncertain. According to the oral tradition of local elders, in ancient times, a wealthy citizen named Shoren
　built a total of 108 mounds in the area from Takada to Okubo as offerings to Buddha.
　Now their locations are completely unknown.
《Upon investigation, there is a Zen temple called Jogwan-ji that serves as the administrator (betto) of Kumano Twelve Shrines Gongen in Nakano village. According to the temple records, there was a descendant of Suzuki Shoji Shigekuni named Suzuki Kuro, who lived in Fujishiro, Kishu, but came to Bushu around the Oei period and settled in Nakano. His family became very wealthy, but due to karma, his daughter died young. Kuro grieved greatly, demolished his residence to make it into a temple, used his daughter's Buddhist name Shokan as the temple name, and changed his own name to Shoren. Since Sho and Sho have the same pronunciation, these 108 mounds might have been constructed by this person. Some say that calling present-day Babasita-machi "Kuyo-zuka-machi" (Memorial Mound Town) is also a remnant of that old name. Upon further consideration, the fact that this area was once called Tomitsuka was also due to a wealthy person's creation, so the memorial mounds were called Tomitsuka, but from the medieval period onward, the character "mi" (美) was omitted and it was mispronounced as Totsuka.》

Takada Tenmangu (高田天満宮) - Located on the left side of the road going toward Baba from the local Hachiman shrine. The administrator is