【Right Page】
Watato-yama (Watato Mountain)　This is the land of the Owari domain lord's residence, called Toyama Mansion (written as either Toyama or Sotoyama). According to local tradition, this place was once the residence of a warrior called Watato So-and-so, and Minamoto no Yoritomo, the Right General, came from the Sumida River to this place, entered Watato's residence, and rested from military campaigns (it is said that there is now a shrine called Watato Myōjin at that location). South of Takada Horse Ground, in the fields toward the Bishū mountain estate, there is a single road, which according to village elders' tradition was the ancient Kamakura Highway.

Arai-yama (Arai Mountain)　Same location. Refers to the area between Toyama and Ōkubo (Suwa Forest). This area is famous for skylarks.

Yamabuki no Sato (Kerria Rose Village)　This is what they call the area around the private houses north of Takada Horse Ground (this place is now called Mukō-Jari-ba). According to tradition, when Ōta Mochisuke was stationed at Edo Castle, one day he went hawking near Kanagawa in Totsuka. When the hawk he brought soared up and flew away, he pursued it and came here. As it suddenly began raining heavily, he entered a nearby farmhouse and asked for a rain cape. A young woman came out from inside and picked some abundantly blooming kerria rose flowers, offering them to Mochisuke, but

【Left Page】
without speaking a word. Mochisuke could not understand her meaning and returned home with resentment, telling his retainers about what had happened. One of them stepped forward and said, "This must mean there was no rain cape. In an ancient poem: 'Though kerria roses bloom in layers seven and eight deep, how sad that not even one bears fruit' (in the Goshūi-shū it says 'how pitiful'). She must have answered using the heart of this waka poem." When he heard this, Mochisuke was deeply ashamed and later came to pursue the way of waka poetry.

(This "seven and eight layers deep" waka is attributed to Prince Kaneakira, the Minister of the Center, in the Goshūi-shū. Its preface says that when he was living in the house at Ogura, on a rainy day when someone came to borrow a rain cape, he had them take a branch of kerria roses. Unable to understand the meaning, he let it pass, and the next day they sent word that they had not understood the meaning of the kerria roses either. It was said to be an exchange in a romantic affair.
Note: This story of Yamabuki no Sato appears in the Wakan Sansai Zue, Zokusetsu-ben, Endō Tsūkan and other works, but some associate it with Kanagawa in Totsuka and claim it was in Kamakura, or say it was at Kanagawa station on the Tōkaidō, but none of these seem to capture the truth. The small ditch that flows from in front of Ana Hachiman toward Hōsen-ji is now called Kani-gawa (Crab River). In ancient times it was called Kamu-gawa. This might be the Kanagawa mentioned earlier. Though the truth of this is not clear, I simply record what is traditionally told here.)

Mishima-yama (Mishima Mountain)　Same location. Located in the back garden of a private house, with a shrine to Mishima Myōjin in the shade of four or five flourishing old pine trees. According to tradition, Right General Minamoto no Yoritomo assembled his military forces at this Takada location