【Right page】
Inside the paper there is the divine calligraphy of Shichimen Daimyōjin, with even the sacred name written alongside, which was given to this temple《annotation: It is said that this is still preserved and revered as one of the three sacred treasures of the temple》

Sesondō Hall《annotation: Houses a statue of Shakyamuni Buddha》

Asahi Hall《annotation: Houses a statue of Saint Nitchō. The constant recitation of the daimoku performed in this hall was founded by Hōzen'in Nichiyō and endowed by Lord Kiyōkun. The third abbot of this temple, Shōin Nichiryō, who constantly suffered from eye disease, prayed to Saint Nitchō and was cured. Later, having received a divine dream, he had a new statue of the sect founder Saint Nichiren made. It is said that many people still receive immediate benefits from the sacred amulets for eye diseases issued by this temple》

Asahi Cherry Tree《annotation: Located to the right facing the Jōshō Hall. It is said to have been Saint Nitchō's beloved tree}}

Omokage-no-hashi (Shadow Bridge) Located to the north, spanning the aqueduct. It is over twelve ken long. It used to be a wooden bridge, but recently has become an earthen bridge《annotation: It is an error to think this bridge is Sugatami-no-hashi, as will be explained next》The fireflies in this area are large in form and their light surpasses others.

Sugatami-no-hashi (Appearance Viewing Bridge) This is the name of a small bridge also built to the north. In the past, there were ponds on both sides of this bridge where the water pooled without flowing. Thus when travelers looked down, the water surface was so still and clear it was like facing a mirror, hence the name. Alternatively, during the Kan'ei era

【Left page】
when the shogun came here for falconry and his falcon escaped, it was found near this bridge, so by imperial command this name was bestowed, according to local tradition《annotation: Also, according to local explanation, when Ariwara no Narihira came east seeking poetic inspiration, he reflected his appearance in this water, hence the name, though this is not credible}}

Taikyōzan Nanzōin Located in Shariba village. It belongs to the Shingon sect and is affiliated with Gokokuji temple in Ōtsuka《annotation: This temple is called Taikyōzan because in the past there was a large pond in front of the temple called Kagami-ga-ike (Mirror Pond), hence this name. The bridges in this area called Sugatami and Omokage derive their names from this. The temple was also anciently nicknamed Yatsumon-dera (Eight Gates Temple) because when the shogun came for falconry, he entered the temple grounds from various points through the hedges, and these were all made into gates, so at that time there were gates built in eight places, hence this nickname}}

The founding priest was called Enshō Biku. The principal image, Yakushi Buddha, was carved by Prince Shōtoku and is a standing statue three shaku and four sun tall. This sacred image was said to be Hidehira's personal devotional Buddha, and until around the Yōwa era it was in Hiraizumi in Ōshū. When the priest Enshō Biku was traveling around the provinces for religious practice, he received a divine dream and obtained it from a farming family there, bringing it to be enshrined here. The three large characters "Yakushidō" hanging in the outer sanctuary of the main hall were written by Great Priest Dōjo of Rengekōin. The plaque at the main gate inscribed with "Taikyōzan" was also written by the same hand. The Yakushi Hall of this temple