【Right page】
Hikawa Myōjin Shrine　Located in the same area, in the direction of sarutori (southwest), within a cedar forest north of Tajima Bridge. The enshrined deity is Kushiinada-hime-no-mikoto, one座 (single deity). This is called "Nyotai-no-miya" (Shrine of the Female Deity). It is maintained by Yakuōji Temple in the same location. 《Since the deity of Takada's Hikawa Myōjin is Susanoo-no-mikoto, together with this shrine they form a married couple shrine. It is quite wrong for the local people to mistakenly say that the spirits of Ariwara no Narihira and Nijō-no-kisaki are enshrined here》

Nanamagari-zaka (Seven-Turn Slope)　Refers to the slope ascending from the same location toward Nezumi-yama. It is named for its winding turns. This area belongs to Shimo-Ochiai Village.

Ochiai Earth Bridge　Located in the kun (southwest) direction of the same place, built on the road from Kami-Ochiai to Shimo-Ochiai. Local people say that about one chō upstream from Tajima Bridge, there is a place where the flow of the Tama River and the downstream of Inokashira Pond converge, hence the name "Ochiai" (meeting/falling together).
　　　《Upon examination, in the Hōjō family's domain registry, among the domains of Okitsu Kaga-no-kami and Ōta Shinrokurō, the name Edo Ochiai is included, ruling over lands of Nagano Yarokurō's portion and also Suzuki's portion. The use of Tama River's water supply as supplementary water for Kanda's water supply and this aqueduct is quite a recent development, gradually beginning from the Jōō era onward. Therefore, one should know that attributing the origin of the name Ochiai to the meeting of these two water supplies is mere speculation》
　This area is famous for fireflies. They are large in form and their light surpasses others. Exceeding even those of Uji in Yamashiro and Seta in Ōmi, they flutter in disorder like jewels and stars, creating a most wondrous spectacle. Many people come for evening cooling in summer months.

【Left page】
Ōshū Bridge　Refers to the earth bridge built at the inui (northwest) corner of the same temple. It was part of the ancient Ōshū Highway, passing over the Suijin shrine, and the row of pine trees still remaining in the Kuroda family's estate garden is said to be remnants of this old route.

Shukusaka Checkpoint Ruins　Refers to the slope entrance ascending from in front of Konjōin Temple, a Shingon sect temple to the north, toward Yotsuya-machi. Near the back gate of the same temple is a small flat area that locals call "tattēba." 《"Tattēba" is probably "tatechōba" (standing station)}} This location was part of the ancient Ōshū Highway, and is said to be the site where checkpoint gates once stood. 《Someone says that there was a checkpoint keeper named Yakasa Katsu at this location, whose family has passed down through generations items such as striking poles, forked spears, and travel diaries}}

Konohanasakuya-hime Shrine　Located on the middle slope of a small hill in the same area. 《Locally it is also called Hachihē Inari or Sakuya-hime Inari, and the shrine is also referred to as "Sakura-hime-no-miya" (Shrine of Princess Cherry Blossom)}}
　《This slope is called Seigen-zaka. Upon consideration, since the deity of Fuji Sengen Shrine is Konohanasakuya-hime, what was originally called Sengen-zaka has been mistakenly transmitted this way, which is laughable}}
　The six characters "Konohanasakuya-hime-no-mikoto" on the shrine's plaque are written in the hand of Mito Kōmon Mitsukuni. They are now preserved at the affiliated temple Konjōin.

Fuji-no-mori Inari Shrine　Located along the base of a hill in the same area. It is also called Higashiyama Inari. Said to have miraculous efficacy, it attracts quite a number of worshippers. Yakuōin Temple of Ochiai Village conducts the religious services.