【Right page】
《Annotation: A noted disciple of the Hayashi family, renowned for his erudition, he was therefore summoned by the vice-minister of Kii Province》Later, she informed her husband and took the tonsure, entering various Zen temples of the Rinzai and Ōbaku sects, diligently practicing the way of meditation without negligence. Finally, in the winter of Tenna 1 (1681), year of the metal rooster, she went down to Edo and sought to meet the priest Hakuō to request the Dharma, but《Annotation: The Shin Chomon-shū states that priest Hakuō was with Lord Inoue Yamato》《Annotation: The Murasaki no Hitomoto states that priest Hakuō was a disciple of Mokuan and at that time lived in Komagome》the priest would not permit it because of her beauty. Therefore, nun Ryōnen heated a fire poker and scorched her own face. At this point, the priest was moved by the nun's earnest resolve and transmitted the great Dharma completely to her. At that time she composed a verse and recited a waka poem:

　In the past I played in the palace and burned orchid and musk
　Now entering the Zen grove I sear my face
　The four seasons flow by leaving no trace
　Who knows who moves within this?

　If I had not thought of this living body I abandon and burn as merely kindling for the final pyre　Ryōnen

Thus later achieving great enlightenment, in her later years she founded this temple. After priest Hakuō's death, she enshrined his remains at this temple, built a stone pagoda, composed the inscription herself, and called the priest the founding patriarch of this temple《Annotation: The portrait of priest Hakuō is to the left of the main image, with Ryōnen's image placed on the right》

【Left page】
She called herself the second generation《Annotation: It was a nunnery at that time, it is said. The Edo Kanoko states that Bikuni Bridge was in front of the nunnery - perhaps this refers to this temple》Finally she passed away on the 18th day of the 9th month of Shōtoku 1 (1711), year of the metal rabbit《Annotation: A stone pagoda was built at this temple. The Shin Chomon-shū states that near Edo in a place called Ochiai she built a monastery herself and called it Ichijō-in. The Edo Sunago states that nun Ryōnen founded a nunnery at the end of Ichigaya, and at that temple also built a tomb for her husband Bansui, and the temple's plaque was also in this nun's handwriting - both accounts differ. This should be further investigated》

　Tomb of Founding Patriarch Priest Hakuō Dōtai
　[Inscription in classical Chinese describing Hakuō's lineage and the founding of the temple]
　　Respectfully recorded by Ryōnen, second-generation dharma disciple of this mountain, with a hundred prostrations

Tomb of Master Rantai《Annotation: Located within the same egg-shaped pagoda. Of the Inoue clan, named Michiaki, styled Shisuku, called Kazen. He was a Confucian retainer of the lord of Okayama》

Ushi Tenjin Shrine　Located at the edge of the Koishikawa water canal. Also called Kanasugi Tenjin. It is so named because this area is called Kanasugi《Annotation: Kanasugi was formerly written as Kanasoki. This place name is recorded in the domain registry of the Odawara Hōjō family. Details are in the section on Kongō-ji temple - see that as well》The head temple is of the Tendai sect, called Senshōzan Ryūmon-ji. The body is...