【Right page】
It is said that Sugawara no Michizane himself carved this statue, which is six sun (about 18cm) tall.《The former site of this shrine was to the east of the current shrine grounds, now within the residence of the Mito domain lord. The sacred tree, the ship-mooring pine, is also said to be at the same location.》

Guardian lion-dogs (komainu) 《Housed in the shrine hall. Said to be the work of the Kamakura Buddhist sculptor Unkei. Long ago, Shogun Tokugawa Iemitsu had them moved to Edo Castle, and later they were bestowed upon Mito Komon Mitsukuni. Lord Yoritsune of Sanuki province, having deep reverence for this shrine, donated them during the reconstruction of the shrine hall in the 5th year of Genroku, Mizunoe-Saru.》

Torii gate 《The plaque on the torii was donated by Lord Yoritsune》 Plaque 《Tenmangu》 Written by Minister Konoe Iehiro

Ox Stone 《Named after a large stone at the corner of the bottom of Uramon slope. Details are in the following shrine record. According to Nankotei, this was the stone where Lord Yoritomo sat.》

The shrine record states: Long ago, in the spring of the first year of Jueiei, Mizunoe-Tatsu, when Right General Yoritomo was pursuing enemies in the eastern provinces, he moored his ship to a pine tree in the inlet here and waited for calm weather. 《This area was an inlet in ancient times, extending to the area around present-day Iida-cho east and Irihori. The slope outside Ushi Tenjin is called Amihoshi slope, and there is also Kakiuri slope in the same area - these are old names derived from the inlet.》 During this time, he dreamed that the deity Sugawara rode an ox and appeared to Yoritomo, promising him two fortunes. After his military success, he should establish a small shrine in gratitude. When Yoritomo awoke from his dream and looked around, there was a large stone that resembled the ox that the deity had ridden in his dream. He found this strange, but indeed that autumn, Lord Yoriie was

【Left page】
born, and the following year, Mizunoto-Mi summer, without moving, the Heike clan was completely defeated. As a reward offering, in the first year of Genryaku, Kinoe-Tatsu, he established this deity at this location and donated shrine lands. 《Also, in a text called Edo Meisho-shi, it states that when Hojo Ujiyasu raised troops, he saw in a dream the deity Sugawara descending while riding an ox, and afterwards established Tenmangu shrine at this location. Later, his retainer Toyama Tamba-no-kami renovated the shrine, which differs from the above shrine record.》

Suwa Myojin Shrine: Located south of the aqueduct canal in Suwa-cho at the same location. The enshrined deity is Takeminakata-no-mikoto. It is said that in the first year of Meitoku, Kanoe-Uma, the head priest of Ushi Tenjin, Umemoto-bo Jokan Hoin, received a divine revelation and established the shrine. Local people say the old name of this area was Shinobu-no-mori (Shinobu Forest). Umemoto-bo is now Ryumon-ji temple. 《Festivals are held annually on January and July 27th.》

Enichi-san Kongo-ji Temple: Located at the edge of the aqueduct canal at the same location. It is a Soto Zen temple affiliated with Kichijo-ji in Komagome. 《It was formerly Rinzai sect but changed to Soto sect in the 6th year of Eisho, Tsuchinoto-Mi.》 The principal image is Shakyamuni Buddha. The founding priest was Tenmoku Chuho Fuo Kokushi, and the restoring priest was Yozan Osho.

Monument to Kamakura Right Minister General Sanetomo: 《Located on the mid-slope of the rear mountain. This monument was erected during the Eisho period. Inscribed on the monument it says:》
　Enichi-san Kongo Zen-ji was first established by Hatano Nakatsukasa Tadatsune for the spiritual benefit of Kamakura Right Minister General Sanetomo in the 2nd year of Kencho, Kanoe-Inu, in Sagami province, Hata...