【Right Page - Illustration】
Dainichi Slope
　　Dainichi Hall

【Left Page】
《In the notes to the poem "Toyu" from the 17th year of Bunmei (1485), it mentions viewing Li Taibai's calligraphy at Horin-in, and below that it states that Horin-in is now called Kongo-ji》

《Upon examination, the Hojo family's property register records that Shimazu Koshiro held lands including Horin-in and Kongo-ji holdings in Kita-Shinagawa, Koishikawa, and Kanasoki areas, referring to it as Horin-in. Also, in the Odawara Jitsuki, under the entry for January 13th of the 4th year of Taiei (1527), when Hojo Ujitsuna fought and defeated Uesugi Shuri-no-taifu Tomooki and moved to Edo Castle, it mentions that around that time, the monk Koshu from the local Horin-in came and presented Banri Koji's "Kotei-ki." It also records that monk Koshu later resided at Kongo-in. Based on this, it is clear that Kongo-ji and Horin-in were separate institutions》

　In ancient times, this temple had extensive grounds, and the temple buildings were magnificent and imposing, with positions for shuso (head monk), shuka (main hall keeper), jisha (attendant), shami (novice), kasshiki (meal server), yuino (director of monks), nassho (treasurer), anja (practitioner), and hiban (fire watch). They diligently performed rituals of prayer, dharma talks, and zen meditation without neglect, and the halls and pagodas were also magnificent.

Dosojin Shrine　Similarly located at the edge of the waterway, about two cho west of Kongo-ji. It is said to have been established during the Meitoku era (1390-1394). At the head temple Ryumon-ji, there is what is called a stele commemorating the establishment of this shrine.

Hikawa Myojin Shrine　Also located over two cho to the west, at the edge of the waterway, in the zen temple called Jishosan Nichirin-ji. The deity enshrined is the same as the provincial first shrine (ichinomiya). The beginning of its establishment is ancient and unclear. It was restored by Ota Dokan in medieval times and serves as the tutelary deity of Kohinata.