【Right page】
　Due to hardships, from the 7th day of the 4th month of Genna 3 (1617), year of the Fire Snake, for 37 days, he practiced Hokke-zanmai (Lotus Sutra meditation) before the precious altar of Fudo Myoo. On the night of the 25th day when the retreat concluded, in a dream
　Myoo appeared and told the master: "In your previous life you were a practitioner of the Lotus Sutra, but at the time of death you gave rise to thoughts of emptiness and eternal extinction, and due to this slanderous attachment you fell into the view of emptiness and nothingness. However, now the wonderful seed from past lives has appeared and you have returned to your original mind. Quickly abandon the provisional teachings and enter the true teaching. I too have long wished to taste the nectar of the Wonderful Law. Now is precisely the time when the lotus of the One Vehicle teaching is about to bloom. You should establish a foundation in the northeastern direction of the shrine. In that place there will surely be the sacred sound of Myokyo (Lotus Sutra) recitation, and you will obtain a mysterious statue." The master finally decided based on this sacred dream, and on the 28th day met with Nichion Shonin,
　received the precepts, and changed his name to Nichigyo. 《Nichion Shonin was the head priest of Shinsho-in temple at Mount Teishoyama in Suruga Province》 Also, following the divine revelation,
　in June of the same year, when he tried to open a temple and divined the location, on the night of the 13th
　day, suddenly the sacred sound of Myokyo recitation came from underground. Waiting for the next day, they dug that ground

【Left page】
　several feet deep and indeed obtained this sacred statue. 《This Fudo-son is called Namikiri (Wave-cutting) Fudo-son in the world. It is recorded in the next section below》
　They built a incense hall and enshrined it there. 《Since it is unknown who created this sacred statue》
　《At that time, when Nichigyo Shonin practiced Hokke-senpo (Lotus Sutra repentance ritual) for 100 days, the sacred statue told the master in a dream: "You have encountered my statue due to your karmic connections. Long ago, when I traveled from Kamakura to Shimosa, there was a believer in front of the Fudo hall at this place who, saying there was a revelation from Myoo, invited me to his hermitage, received teachings, and made a master-disciple vow. At the time of parting, he took a pine tree from in front of the hall, carved my statue, and gave it to that believer. The statue you have obtained is precisely this one." From this revelation, they finally learned it was carved by the great being's own hand》

Namikiri Fudo-son: Located to the right from the main road of Otsuka-cho in the same area. The temple administrator is of the Nichiren sect, called Tsugen-in.
　According to the origin story, this principal image was originally enshrined at Daijo-ji temple in Ohata village, Ichishi district, Ise Province. However,
　in spring of Kencho 5 (1253), when Nichiren Shonin was passing through the Ise road, due to continuous rain the Miya River
　had flooded and he could not cross. At that time, an old man came and said,
　"If the master wishes to cross the river, I have the technique to cut through water," and then guided the master
　and easily helped him cross over the water. 《For this reason it has the name "wave-cutting"》 The great being found this miraculous,
　and when he asked about the old man's residence, he only said that he lived in a mountain temple at Ohata.