【Right page】

(Chisoku-in's Yūshun) also held administrative authority over the four temples of the Shingon Shingi school, and at the beginning of the Keichō era (c. 1596–1615), by the strict order of Daijin-kun (Tokugawa Ieyasu), the temple was designated as the guardian institution (goji-sho) of Edo Castle. In the same year of Kanoe-inu (1610), a temple site was granted in Shirogane-chō, Edo. 《The exact location has not yet been determined — perhaps it refers to Kuken-chō.》 Accordingly, Kōyo relocated Chisoku-in and constructed the temple buildings. In the same year of Mizunoto-i (1623), around the time of the Siege of Osaka (Osaka no Jin), Kōyo received orders and performed prayers during the military campaign. After that, in Kan'ei 3 (1626), the year of Hinoe-tora, the Lord of Great Heroism (Taiyu-kō, i.e., Tokugawa Iemitsu) had the various temple halls constructed. In Enpō 2 (1674), the year of Kinoe-tora, the Yūbyō (Tokugawa Hidetada's mausoleum) underwent renovation, but in the twelfth month of Tenna 5 (1682), the year of Mizunoe-inu, the temple was struck by fire. Therefore, in Jōkyō 1 (1684), the year of Kinoe-ne, it was relocated to Yushima Kiritōshi. 《This is the site of the present-day Konjō-in.》 The Kenpyō (Tokugawa Tsunayoshi) held deep devotion to the temple, and in the year Mizunoe-saru (1692) of Genroku, it was relocated to a site outside Kandabashi that had been the grounds of samurai residences. Lords Matsudaira Wakasa-no-kami and Sengoku Echizen-no-kami were given orders (to oversee the construction), and the halls — including the Goma Hall, the Patriarch's Hall, the Kannon Hall, the Sutra Hall, the Initiation Hall, the Bell Tower, the Niōmon Gate, and the residential quarters — were lavishly adorned with gold and silver. Ryūkō was designated as the founding abbot and appointed to the rank of Junior Senior Ecclesiastic (Gon-Sōjō). A Goji Hall was also constructed and a Shakyamuni Buddha enshrined therein. In the eighth month of the fourth year of Genroku (1691), the temple was granted a stipend of 1,500 koku, was ranked among the in-ke (imperially affiliated temples), designated as the head administrator (sō-roku) of the Kantō Shingi school, and the authority to grant permission for the wearing of colored robes (shiki-e)

【Left page】

was decreed to be issued from this temple. On the twelfth day of the twelfth month of the fifth year (1692), at the time of the posthumous promotion of the Venerable Kakuban, Ryūkō was reassigned and advanced to the rank of Dai-Sōjō (Senior Archbishop). In the ninth year (1696), the name "Genrokuyama Goji-in" was bestowed upon the temple, and the three large characters "護持院" (Goji-in) on the plaque of the Goma Hall were personally brushed by the Taiju (the Shōgun, i.e., Tsunayoshi). The true likeness of Kōbō Daishi (Kūkai), said to have been made by the saint himself, was procured from a Shingon temple called Jissō-in in Ōno-gun, Nōshū (Mino Province), and enshrined in the Patriarch's Hall. The principal image of the Kannon Hall was the guardian Buddha held in deep veneration by the Yūbyō (Tokugawa Hidetada). At the request of Dai-Sōjō Ryūkō, on the twenty-fifth day of the second month of Hōei 4 (1707), the year of Hinoto-i, he retired and moved to Surugadai, taking the name Shōman-in. Accordingly, the chief priest of Gokoku-ji Temple, Kaii Sōjō, was appointed as his successor, and with the Shōgun's visits (gon-nari), the temple flourished as before. On the sixth day of the eighth month of Hōei 6 (1709), the year of Tsuchinoto-ushi, since Ryūkō had proceeded to Yamato Province at his own request, the Shōman-in residence was granted to Kaii, who accordingly retired there. The subsequent chief priest was ordered to be the incumbent of the Koike-bō of Chishaku-in and duly entered the temple. However, on the twenty-second day of the first month of Kyōhō 2 (1717), the year of Hinoto-tori, a fire broke out and every single hall and pagoda was burned to the ground without exception. As a result, around that time, in accordance with the chief priest's wish to retire, from that point onwards, the temple name and its stipend…