It produces millet, wheat, beans, sweet potatoes, cotton, bananas, red palm, black palm (whose nuts can be pressed for oil), arhat pine (which is oak wood), mulberry, and bamboo. Livestock includes cattle, horses, sheep, dogs, pigs, and chickens (but no geese). Wild animals include wild boar and rabbits. Birds include mandarin ducks, wild geese, ducks, hawks, wild ducks, herons, green doves, sparrows, and crows (but no magpies). Marine products include grass fish and sea melons (a type of razor clam). Fruits include chinquapin nuts. Items such as distilled liquor, rice, brown sugar, and cycad are all available. There are Shimizu Mountain, Chrysanthemum Mountain, and Eimei Mountain. About one li north of the island, there is a large stone like a round pillar, one li wide, named Akase. It is pure purple in color and uninhabited.

[Kikaigashima] is also named Onigashima (Devil's Island). It is 900 li from Chuzan. It forms the northeastern most distant boundary of Ryukyu. People eat with their hands. Many are dark-skinned. It produces oak wood, which is considered excellent quality.

　　Regarding the above eight islands, the people of the country call them all "Ohoshima." Beyond these lie the Tokara (also written as Tokara) Seven Islands (For the distances by water routes among the various islands of the Seven Islands, see Wang's records. As they are not tributary islands of Ryukyu, they are not recorded here).

　　The Southern Seven Islands
[Taiheizan] is also named Mako Mountain (originally called Miyako, later Meiko, now Mako). It is located 2,000 li south of Chuzan. It has an extremely high mountain called Chiku Mountain, with the local name Chiku Mountain. On top is the Hekiutei pavilion. Using the northeast-by-north compass bearing leads to Naha Port in Chuzan. To reach Taiheizan from Fujian, one opens the ocean from Toyuku, reaches Diaoyu Platform, and can arrive using north winds with east-by-south and southeast-by-east compass bearings. The mountain's circumference is 50-60 li. It is quite prosperous and fertile. It produces the five grains, and cattle and horses are very numerous. It exports cotton cloth, hemp cloth, grass mats, and red wine, named Taihei wine. Every year in the fifth month, it pays tribute taxes to Chuzan.

[Ikema] is translated as Ikema. It is located southeast of Taiheizan.