Kunigami Province. It had nine affiliated prefectures. The local names of the prefectures are called "makiri." All those under their jurisdiction are called "village heads." The local names are called "mura." The country also has five peaks. Ben Peak is in Chūzan. Hattō Peak is in Sannan. Kaso Peak, Nago Peak, and Onna Peak are in Sanhoku. Compared to other mountains, these are considered high. Kaso Peak is the steepest and is said to be Ryukyu's foremost peak.

Shuri. The location of the royal palace. It is not called a makiri. It has twenty-one affiliated village counties: Sakiyama 《Marginal note: Located southeast of the royal palace. There is Sakiyama mountain. Going from the left of the mountain leads to the Eastern Garden.》 Kinjo 《Marginal note: Located southwest of the royal palace. Has Kinjo Bridge, Suigan, and Ryōshō Pavilion. The family garden of Kunjan Mō family. There is a spring named "Mysterious Spring."》
Uchi-Kinjo, Shinbashi 《Marginal note: Located northeast of the royal palace. Has Shōryū Mountain. Sashiki Palace. The former king Shō Eki, when he was crown prince, was granted Sashiki as his fief. Hence his residence was called Sashiki Palace. Now it serves as the residence of former palace people.》 Akahira 《Marginal note: Located north of the royal palace. Has Ishitora Mountain.》 Gibo 《Marginal note: Located north of Shuhira village》 Nishi-Gibo
Sueyoshi 《Marginal note: Located north of the royal palace. Has a shrine altar. Has Turtle Mountain. Has Kichi Spring.》 Yamakawa, Arakawa, Tonokawa, Samukawa
Ōnaka, Torikui, Teihakuji, Akada, Kobagawa, Tōbaru
《Marginal note: Has Kasa Spring》 Tōkura, Mawaji, Tategishi 《Marginal note: Has Banshōrei, Chasakibashi, and Kannon Pavilion. Below is Jigen Temple.》

《Marginal note: Chūzan Province》 Tomari 《Marginal note: Located five ri west of Shuri. Has Tomari Mountain. Has Tomari Bridge spanning the sea. Also called Takahashi Village. In front is Tomari Port. Flows west into the sea.》 Has two affiliated village counties:
Tōkyō, Saikyō

Naha 《Marginal note: Located ten ri west of Shuri. Naha River. At the harbor entrance, north and south gun batteries stand in parallel. By the sea gate is a huge rock. Located in the middle current, named "Baka." All around are iron-plate sands. The sand is hard as iron, and flat as a plate. The plate surface has embedded hollow jagged teeth. All along the coast is like this. When the tide rises, the sand is submerged. If a boat mistakenly touches it, none remain intact. Therefore, the people of the country rely on this as their impregnable fortress. The north and south gun batteries both extend from the river mouth into the sea. Built with oyster stone, the long embankments meander for about half a ri. In the north gun battery embankment, three bridge gates were made to allow the tide to pass through. In the south gun battery embankment, there is one stone monument with native script. The title reads "Monument of Yaalan Shinmori Castle." Erected during the thirty-third year of Jiajing, during the reign of King Shō Sei. The rest is all in native script. The stone is considerably weathered. There is also one stone with one Sanskrit character inscribed above. The small characters below say "Writing the Lotus Sutra. One character per stone." The stonework of the two gun batteries is very orderly. All were newly repaired in the fifty-fifth year of Kangxi. Minister Sai On has a monument inscription recording their construction》