《Marginal note: There is a spring.》 Nakamuraku, Tomisato, Itokazu, Kakihana, Funakoshi, Maekawa,
Tōyama, Wana, Ōu, Shikenhara

Tomigusuku 《Marginal note: Located fifteen ri south of Shuri. The former castle of Ō Ōso, younger brother of the Sannan King. When praying for rain throughout the country, it is customarily done at Tomigusuku.》 Seventeen affiliated village counties:
Tomigusuku, Nōha 《Marginal note: There is Mount Sekika. Below the mountain is Sekika Bridge. Water flows northeast to form Nōha.》 Nagadō, Okinaga, Madambashi 《Marginal note: The bridge has five water gates. Below forms Gyokukoō Lake.》 Morishima, Okudaira, Takamine, Gi-
bo 《Marginal note: Also called Gibo》 Ganaha, Tokashiki, Takayasu, Iraha, Naka-
chi, Tagashira, Hoemo, Kakazu

Oroku 《Marginal note: Located twenty ri south of Shuri》 Eleven affiliated village counties: Oroku 《Marginal note: Located below Mount Oroku》 Uehara, Tō-
ma, 𤘩Miyagi, Ōmine 《Marginal note: Located by the sea. The village has no other trees. All plant gatanni to form forests. South of the village, Ōmine has good stone. There is a spring that flows south into the sea.
Going south it becomes Sunagawa. There is Sunadake located about one ri out in the sea. The rocks are strange. No one lives there.》 Gima 《Marginal note: Mount Gima is located across from Geion Pavilion in Naha. Due south of the Chinese envoy's residence.
Below the mountain is Kakihana village. The village has many rice granaries. To the east is Rakuhei Spring.》 Kojō, Gushi, Takara, Anshi-
mine, Akamine

Kanegusuku 《Marginal note: Also called Kinjō. Located thirty ri southwest of Shuri.》 Ten affiliated village counties: Kanegusuku, Zanami, Teruya,
Kakazu, Hahira, Taketomi, Ahagon, Itoman 《Marginal note: Located by the sea. The village stones are very strange. There are white gold rocks.》 Shiohira 《Marginal note: Located by the sea》 Shimoda

Takamine 《Marginal note: Local name Takakamine. Located thirty ri southwest of Shuri. The former castle of the Sannan King. Named Ōsato Castle. Below the castle is Keisen Spring. There is also Hōsen Spring. There is Ōsato Bridge. Originally a stone bridge with three water gates. Now wooden planks are laid to make it. The descendants of Sannan bear the surname Na. Northeast of Takamine is Mount Hattōdake.》 Five affiliated village counties: Ōshiro, Ma-
esato, Kuniyoshi 《Marginal note: There is Mount Kuniyoshi. Located southeast of Takamine.》 Yoza, Yako