Kei

Onna 《Marginal note: Located one hundred ri north of Shuri》 Nine affiliated village counties: Onna 《Marginal note: Located on Mount Onna. Also called Mount Sado.》 Afuso,
Nakama, Yamada, Maeda, Nakatohaku, Koraha, Tani-
cha, Futsuki

Nago 《Marginal note: Located one hundred fifty ri north of Shuri》 Nine affiliated village counties: Nago 《Marginal note: Located on Mount Nago-dake. On the mountain there is Banshoin Temple. It produces orchids. The leaves are like cassia. Drawing arrows like cymbidium. Clustering flowers like orchids. The fragrance is even more intense. It is called Nago orchid. There is Moroki Spring. A waterfall hangs from the cliff top.》 Yabe, Yofuke, An-
wa, Kise, Koki, Matsudo 《Marginal note: There is Todoroki Spring》 Kyoda 《Marginal note: There is hand water. Nearby there is Temizu-kan. It is said that long ago a traveler met a woman and asked for water. The woman offered water with her hands. The traveler drank it. Hence the name. There is Lake Kyoda.》 Miyazato

Kushi 《Marginal note: Located one hundred fifty ri northeast of Shuri》 Eleven affiliated village counties: Kushi, Matsuda, Henoko,
Ka, Kayo, Gisakuji, Sedake, Teima, Matsuhama, Taei-
ra, Kawata, Ufura

Haneji 《Marginal note: Located one hundred seventy ri north of Shuri》 Six affiliated village counties: Ikeshiro, Yaka, Isashikawa,
Makiya, Genka, Jashiki

Nakijin 《Marginal note: Located two hundred ri north of Shuri. There is Mount Kaso. Also named Mount Ukatsu-dake. It is the highest. It is the first peak of Chuzan. Below the mountain there is water. It flows southwest to become the Taiei River.》
Eleven affiliated village counties: Nakijin 《Marginal note: The former castle of the Hokuzan King. Inside the castle there is the Sword-Receiving Stone. The Hokuzan King originally revered one stone as a deity. When defeated in battle, because the stone did not protect him, he cut it into four pieces. The Hokuzan King's lineage ended. Wild boars emerge.》 Oyatonari 《Marginal note: There is Oyakawa Spring and a horse-racing platform. East of the village there is Sword-Obtaining Ravine. The Hokuzan King had a treasured sword named Jukongmaru. When defeated, he wished to commit suicide. The sword was dull and would not penetrate. The king threw it into the Shikei-ma River. After a hundred years it flowed and arrived. Water filled the ravine, and light pierced the sky. A person from Iheya obtained it and presented it to the Chuzan King. Now it is the royal court's greatest treasured sword.》 Jana, Nakagusuku, Unten 《Marginal note: Also called Upper Unten. There is the tomb of the Hokuzan King. The local people call it》