【Right Page】
On the Rise of Tobacco (Tanhako) in Various Provinces and Its Aromatic Benefits

Here there is a famous leaf called tanhako (tobacco), a wondrous smoking substance. When we inquire into its origins,
though it was originally born on remote islands overseas, by nature it possesses the four colors of blue, yellow, red, and black, and
embodies the three virtues of wisdom, benevolence, and courage. It is a renowned aromatic substance skilled in various arts. Blue, yellow, red, and black
manifest their differences according to the land. In meetings for consultation and investigation of major and minor matters, it has
the strategic wisdom to assist in deliberation, judgment, and planning.
Though it is the body of an aromatic herb, it becomes a friend to widows, the solitary, and those in quiet retirement, or
supplements the entertainment of pleasure-seekers, or provides the benevolence
to help ease the hardships of servants and outcasts. It has the brave power
to immediately subdue the fierce enemy of angry fire that erupts from unreasonable and unjust arguments within
a single puff of inhalation and exhalation. For officials it assists in the breathing of advance and retreat, for farmers it
becomes an aid in cultivation and also provides remittances for tax payments. For carpenters and craftsmen it
enables decisive deliberation and planning, for various artisans it
helps with breathing breaks in their work, and for merchants it brings prosperity to buying and selling. For those with little capital for their livelihood,

【Left Page】
it allows them to sell cut tobacco. In internal medicine and surgery, it provides various
efficacies and miraculous remedies according to illnesses and wounds. For Confucian scholars and Buddhist disciples, it opens up melancholy, banishes sleep, and enables academic achievement.
Here we understand the manifold abilities of this aromatic herb. Though it is not always given voice, people naturally show it affection,
and though it holds no office, it is invited by the noble. In all ways it helps and delights the people,
truly like a divine immortal. Therefore, because it was appreciated in both northern and southern capitals of China, Korea and
Ryukyu also revere its aromatic fragrance. Moreover, its tobacco reached each of the five regions of India, and finally
even to the western extremes of Holland it is praised - how wondrous this is! Recently its
varieties arrived in our country, taking residence in Nagasaki's Tōdosan, or perhaps establishing
grounds at Sakurababa, first making one island of Nagasaki popular, then ascending to Kyushu, Shikoku, Naniwa, and
the capital, gradually spreading eastward to Matsumae and Ezo - throughout the sixty-odd provinces,
in mountain shadows and coastal areas, there is nowhere that does not love it - truly a marvelous
and mysterious renowned aromatic substance.