【Right Page】
Regarding the naming of Yamato Province (Yamato no kuni), the "Nihon Shoki" (Chronicles of Japan) in its Age of Gods chapter states "Oyamato-toyoakitsu-shima" (Great Japan, the Island of Abundant Dragonflies), where "Japan" is read as "yamato." When Emperor Jinmu, the first human emperor, became ruler of the realm, he continued the legacy of the Age of Gods and established his capital at Miyazaki in Hyuga Province. At this time, the realm was in its formative period and territorial boundaries were not yet established. After the emperor's eastern expedition, he first established his capital at Kashihara Palace in Yamato Province. Utsuhiko was appointed as provincial governor (kuni no miyatsuko). Therefore, Yamato Province became the general name for Japan, and since it was the province where the imperial residence was established, it became known by this name as a single province.

The "Shoku Nihongi" (Chronicles of Japan Continued) states that in the ninth year of Tenpyo under Emperor Shomu, "Oyamato Province" was changed to "Oyamatoku Province," and in the nineteenth year of the same era, it was changed back to "Oyamato Province" according to the old usage. (The "Shugaisho" states it was changed to "Yamato Province" during the Tenpyo-shoho era.) The "Engi Kaidaiki" states: "In the beginning of Yamato Province's formation, there were no dwellings yet, and people simply lived according to the mountains. Hence it was called 'yamato' (mountain door)." The "Shaku Nihongi" states: "At the beginning of creation, the land was wet and would not dry, and when climbing mountain paths, human tracks appeared, hence it was called 'yamato' (mountain tracks)." The "Zenrin Kokuhoki" states: "The 'Hou Han Shu' (Book of the Later Han) records that the Wa king resided in Yamatai. Presumably, when people of this country reached that land, they called it 'Oyamato,' hence it was written thus." The "Nihon Seiki" (by Shaku Doyen) states: "It is the Eastern Court (yamato). The continuous use of the two characters for Oyamato began either when our court first wrote them and foreign courts followed, or when foreign regions first proclaimed them and our court later harmonized with this usage." The "Nihon Shakumyo" (by Kaibara Atsushin) states: "When Emperor Jinmu conducted his eastern expedition from Hyuga, he first...

【Left Page】
...proceeded from Naniwa to Hirakata, then crossed Mount Ikoma to enter Yamato. Because it was a province outside Mount Ikoma, it was called 'yamato' (mountain-outside). The province within the Yodo River was named Kawachi (river-inside), and 'yamato' was named in contrast to Kawachi. Also, the northern province behind Mount Ikoma was written as Yamashiro Province. 'Behind' means north." The "Shoku Nihon Koki" (Later Chronicles of Japan Continued) states that in the third year of Jowa, on the day kinoe-mi of the tenth month: "Following previous precedent, Yamato Province is placed first among the provinces within the capital region. By imperial edict, this should be changed according to the new regulations, placing Yamashiro Province first."

The "Nihon Seitōzu" states: "Yamato Province has fifteen major districts, surrounded by mountains where crops grow ten times more abundantly than shown in the provincial diagrams. Famous places and historical sites are numerous - it is a superior province of the highest rank."

Nara is in Sōnokami District. The "Nihon-gi" states that in the tenth year of Emperor Sujin, Takehani-yasuhiko and his wife Atahime attempted to overthrow the state, advancing from Yamashiro Province. The imperial army encamped at Nara-yama and trampled down the vegetation, hence that mountain was called Nara-yama (flattening mountain). They also challenged each other to battle across the Wakara River. People of that time called that river Idomi-gawa (Challenge River). (In waka poetry it was sung of as Izumi River, and when Tōdaiji was built, it was renamed Kizu River.) The rebel army was defeated and the imperial forces easily captured and killed Takehani-yasuhiko and his wife. Sacred jars were then enshrined at the top of Takesuki-no-saka in Wani to pacify the spirits. The sacred jars were made of blue porcelain. Porcelain refers to sake vessels. Hence the pillow words "aoni-yoshi Nara" (blue-red good Nara) and "aoni-kite Nara" (wearing blue-red Nara) are used in poetry about Nara. (There are still secret explanations that should be clarified through the way of poetry.)