Kasuga Great Shrine Four Deities Great Bright Gods (Kasuga Ōmiya Shisha Daimyōjin) - The sacred seat is located at the foot of Mount Mikasa, eleven ri from the imperial capital. The Engishiki Shinmyōchō states: "Kasuga Festival Gods, Four Seats."

From Continued Kokin Collection - Sacred Song of Kasuga Great Bright God:
Know me as Shakyamuni Buddha, who appeared in this world to illuminate the world with the pure moon

In the ancient age of the gods when the myriad forces stirred, when Emperor Amatsuhiko first entered the Central Land of Reed Plains, evil gods obstructed him. Therefore, Futsunushi-no-mikoto (Katori Bright God) and Takemikazuchi-no-mikoto (Kashima Bright God) were sent as pursuit commanders, receiving the spear to govern the land. They pushed open the heavenly rock cave, illuminated the eternal darkness, and pacified the sorrows of all people. Thus the deep divine covenant between Amaterasu Ōmikami and Amenokoyane-no-mikoto, like the unceasing flow of the Mimosuso River and the gentle spring winds of Mount Mikasa, manifested their divine traces to pacify the land and support the royal law.

Looking up at the shrine precincts, there is a two-story tower gate, three corridors, night lanterns blazing brilliantly, and four shrine altars arranged in perfect order.

The first eastern shrine hall enshrines Takemikazuchi-no-kami (also called Takeikazuchi-no-shin, Tatefutsu-no-shin, and Toyofutsu-no-shin. This deity was born from the blood that dripped from the sword guard when Izanagi-no-mikoto cut the fire god Kagutsuchi, according to the Nihon Shoki). Initially descended to Shiogama Bay in Mutsu Province, subjugated evil gods, manifested at Kashima in Hitachi Province, departed from Kashima on the 21st day of the 6th month of Jingo-Keiun 1, and arrived at Nakayama of Komofu on the 7th day of the 12th month of the same year. The accompanying attendants were Tokikaze and Hideyuki (Tokikaze's descendants became shrine custodians, Hideyuki's descendants became construction custodians). As a retainer, Otonomaru was summoned (ancestor of shrine priests, Umeki family). At that time, when Tokikaze and Hideyuki offered provisions, they presented chestnuts from the vicinity.

[Left Page]
The deity was greatly pleased and bestowed the surname Uekuri (Planted Chestnut). This was the origin of the Uekuri clan being established under the Nakatomi surname as descendants of Tokikaze and Hideyuki. On the 9th day of the 1st month of the 2nd year, moved to Mount Abe in Yamato Province, and on the 9th day of the 11th month of the same year, established traces on Mount Mikasa (from Kasuga Ancient Records. Some parts differ from the explanation in Kuji Kongen. The Seisui-ki states that the bright god rode a white deer with a sacred tree on the saddle, covered by five-colored clouds above which five divine mirrors appeared, shining brilliantly as they moved to Mount Mikasa).

The second shrine hall is Futsunushi-no-mikoto (also called Iwainushi-no-kami and Iwai-no-ushi. This deity was formed from the blood dripping from the blade of the sword when Izanagi-no-mikoto cut the fire god. Descended to the small beach of Isotasa in Izumo Province and pacified the evil gods of this land, according to Nihon Shoki). This is Katori Bright God of Shimōsa Province. Moved to Mount Mikasa in Jingo-Keiun 2 (Kasuga Ancient Records).

The third shrine hall is Amenokoyane-no-mikoto (ancestral god of the Nakatomi clan, also called Tsuhayamusubi-no-mikoto, Koichitama-musubi-no-mikoto, Kokoto-musubi-no-mikoto, and child of Kokoto-musubi-no-kami, according to Nihon Shoki). When Amaterasu Ōmikami shut herself in the heavenly rock cave and the four seas became eternally dark, this god, together with Futotama-no-mikoto, uprooted a five-hundred-branched sacred tree from Mount Amakagu. On the upper branches they hung curved jewels, on the middle branches they hung the eight-span mirror, and on the lower branches they hung blue and white offerings. When all the gods consulted together and prayed, the rock cave opened, the clouds of eternal darkness cleared, and day and night were distinguished (Nihon Shoki).

This is Hiraoka Bright God of Kawachi Province. The enshrinement was on a Tsuchinoe-Saru day in the 11th month of the 4th year of Emperor Kōtoku (37th sovereign), moving to Mount Mikasa ahead of the three other gods (recorded in Kasuga Shrine Records. Kuji Kongen records that the enshrinement was in Jingo-Keiun 2 together with the four shrine deities).

The fourth shrine hall is Hime Ōkami (also called Ōhirume-no-muchi and Amaterasu Ōhirume-no-mikoto). This is Amaterasu Ōmikami of the Inner Shrine at Isuzu River in Ise Province (from Kasuga Shrine Records. Another theory says this is a branch spirit of Amaterasu Ōmikami, and yet another theory states that the fourth deity, Hime Ōkami, is a daughter of Takemikazuchi-no-mikoto and consort of Ōkoyane