【Right Page】
As this is a female deity, she is enshrined in the auxiliary hall of Hiraoka Myōjin. According to Shoku Nihongi, in the 9th month of Kashō 3, Councilor Fujiwara no Tasuku was dispatched with an imperial command to confer court ranks: Senior First Rank to the two great deities Takemikazuchi-no-mikoto and Iwainushi, Junior First Rank to Ame-no-koyane-no-mikoto, and Senior Fourth Rank Upper Grade to Hime-no-kami. Based on these court ranks, the theory that she is a consort deity seems plausible.

Middle Precinct Minor Shrines (Six Seats) - The area outside the sacred fence is called the middle precinct:
- Iwamoto Shrine (located southwest of the main shrine, dedicated to Sumiyoshi Myōjin)
- Shingoji Temple (located to the east)
- Aosakaki Shrine (south of Shingoji, blue cloth offerings)
- Karasakaki Shrine (south of Aosakaki, white cloth offerings)
- Anakuri Shrine (south of Karasakaki, deity Anatsugi)
- Ikuri Shrine (south of Anakuri, Takamusubi-no-mikoto)

Inner Precinct Minor Shrines (Two Seats) - The area behind the sacred fence is called the inner precinct:
- Tajikarao-no-kami (southern seat)
- Hirai Tenjin (northern seat, Ame-no-minakanushi-no-mikoto)

The Naorai Hall is where imperial messengers and senior court officials conduct their affairs. It is also called Hakkōya because the Lotus Eight Lectures were held there (the Eight Lectures began in the first year of Tenryaku under Emperor Murakami, held twice yearly. The chief patron was Lord Teishin, and the administrator was Great Priest Hyōgen. The "Ōnao Day" mentioned in the Kokin Collection also refers to this place).

Heiden (Offering Hall) - located alongside the Naorai Hall, where imperial messengers present offerings on festival days
Maiden (Dance Hall) - adjacent to the Naorai Hall, built in Jōgan 1

Shishi-hashiri (Deer Running) - According to Kanbun-ki, located between the corridors. Every year on the night of the 5th day of the 2nd month, officials from the three schools Konparu, Kongō, and Hōshō visit and perform Okina. This is called Shishi-hashiri. At this time, sacred sake offerings come from the third shrine hall.

Ringo-no-niwa (Apple Garden) - in front of the Heiden, where offerings are presented on Kasuga Festival days
Mitarashi River - refers to the small stream between the corridors where imperial messengers perform ritual ablutions on Kasuga Festival days

First Rank Bridge (the bridge behind the tower gate)
Second Rank Bridge (the bridge in front of the tower gate)

From Kasuga Koki, a poem about the First Rank Bridge:
"Pray, people, for the prosperity of this sorrowful world, for the path of health, longevity, and good fortune"

First Torii (According to Hōei-ki, this gate is called the Nirvana Gate, also known as the Purple Gate)
Saints' Platform (located within the corridors. According to Kanbun-ki, this is where biwa priests who recite the Earth God Sutra seclude themselves)

【Left Page】
Utsushi-den (Transfer Hall) - north of the Hakkōya. According to Kanbun-ki, this is where the temporary relocation takes place during shrine reconstruction.

South Gate (called the tower gate. According to Kanbun-ki, it was originally a torii with a plaque, but was struck by lightning in the summer of Hōki 3. Afterwards it became a two-story tower gate. Some say it was built by Fujiwara no Mitsuyori)

Eikō-seki (Manifestation Stone) - south of the south gate, the manifestation stone of the Red Child deity
Nyoi-seki (Wish-fulfilling Stone) - south of the manifestation stone. In Kōhō 4, a bottomless pit opened here, and it is said that Head Priest Sukehito deposited purification offerings of the complete Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sūtra in ten thousand seats.

Fushō Bridge (also called Oai Bridge)

From Kasuga Koki:
"How grateful! Crossing over Fushō Bridge, how joyful to hear the sacred kagura music offerings"

Sake-dono (Sake Hall) - west of the corridors, where ritual sake is brewed. Contains two shrines: Sake-dono Shrine and Hettsui-dono Shrine
Gokyū-sho (Offering Preparation Place) - located west below the Naishi Gate, built in Jōgan 1

Shunki Sakura (Shunki Cherry Tree) - between the Naishi Gate and Gokyū-sho. According to Kanbun-ki, called a famous tree unparalleled in the land.

Kasuga Wakamiya enshrines Ame-no-oshikumone-no-mikoto, the child of Ame-no-koyane, as recorded in the Myōhōyōshū (namely, the Wakamiya of Hiraoka Myōjin in Kawachi Province is Ame-no-oshikumone-no-mikoto). According to certain records (from the Yoshida family archives), it is Ninigi-no-mikoto. However, this is only the secret teaching of the Wakamiya head priest family, unknown to others (Kasuga Shaki).

The enshrinement of Wakamiya occurred when the deity manifested between the second and third shrine halls on the 3rd day of the 3rd month of Chōhō 5. Nakatomi-no-muraji Kore-no-tada, fifth-generation descendant of Tokikaze, moved the deity to the third hall and offered prayers. After 130 years, on the 27th day of the 4th month of Chōshō 4, Sukefusa, eighth-generation descendant of Tokikaze, separately constructed a shrine hall for the enshrinement. This is the present Wakamiya Daimyōjin.