[Right page]
The great torii stands in Kasuga Field
　《Note: The Kasuga Koki records: "Two vermillion torii pillars with one green willow tree planted alongside them, about which this was composed"》
　　With sacred sakaki leaves adorned with hemp fibers for purification, there are no clouds or mists of defilement upon my body
Umadashi Bridge is located slightly east of the torii
　《Note: Kasuga Koki》
　　Drawing near the swift black steed of Kai, mounting and galloping courageously across the plains of Kasuga Field
The remains of the Two Pagodas are north of Umadashi Bridge. The Eastern Pagoda was called Hon-gogan and was built in the second year of Ten-an by Minister Somedono,
　Lord Yoshifusa. The principal images《Note: Shakyamuni, Yakushi, Jizo, Kannon》were sacred
　Buddhist statues of red sandalwood that an envoy to Tang China received through spiritual inspiration and brought back in the third year of Jogan. The Western Pagoda was called Shin-gogan and was constructed by former High Priest Kakusho. Like the Eastern Pagoda's
　four Buddhas, it enshrined silver Buddhist statues. Later, a Manjushri statue was added to make five Buddhas, all seated upon lion
　pedestals《Note: In the 18th year of Oei, both pagodas were struck by lightning and reduced to ashes, but the sacred Buddhas remained unharmed and were moved to the rebuilt Choko-do Hall》
　《Note: The Saigyo Senshusho states》
　　The scenery of Kasuga Field, the appearance of the two pagodas, treading upon Umadashi Bridge as a foothold,
　　Having connection to young purple [flowers], picking violets. Upon the jeweled bamboo grass of Ogasawara, jewel-like
　　hail has accumulated, difficult to gather. Does that green pine contain the eternal color
　　for your sake?《Note: etc.》《Note: Kataoka should be around here, but the exact location is unknown》

[Left page]
The sacred resting place of Wakamiya is east of the great torii, also called Kasuga Angū. Normally there is no shrine building,
　only dew forming on the grass, with pampas grass withered by frost and no path through the fallen leaves. During the Frost Month
　festival, a temporary shrine is constructed with black wood pillars and pine-leaf eaves turned green, and
　Wakamiya is ceremonially transferred there《Note: Every year on August 11th, timber for this temporary hall is cut from various locations throughout Yamato Province according to established custom and transported to the Kasuga repair magistrate. On September 1st》
　《Note: there is the ceremony of the sacred ridgepole binding, performed by Kasuga craftsmen (first rank). On November 21st there is construction of the shrine hall. Sixty-four loads of pine for the hall come from seven districts and sixteen towns. Thirty-six sacred mats are offered in yearly rotation from Ikoma Valley Village. The craftsmen wear court caps and plain silk jackets while performing this construction work》
Yukige-no-sawa (Snow-melt Marsh) is a narrow path branching southeast from the sacred resting place
　《Note: Fūga Collection》
　　When spring comes, trailing sleeves at snow-melt marsh, picking still tender young greens　Emperor Sutoku
　《Note: Horikawa Taro's Hundred Poems》
　　At snow-melt marsh in Kasuga Field, touching sleeves to pick water parsley for your sake　Nakazane
Isagawa is a narrow stream east of the path. It is a river where pilgrims purify their hands. In ancient times purification rites were held
　here, and this place is called the Deer Path because it is said to be the road where the Kasuga deity descended riding upon a deer.
　In Priest Saigyo's Senshusho, this place is written as the Six Realms
Zenshu Bridge, Kurumaya Hall, Goi Bridge, the Second Torii, and other sites lie ahead