【Right page】
　should understand that when you grasp the nature of that particular plant or tree, all trees and plants follow the same principles.
○Potted plants prefer specific seasons for repotting. Though there are many difficult varieties, these two months—the third month of spring and eighth month of autumn—are excellent for camellias, sasanquas, general leafy plants, and cedar and cypress varieties.
○With all plants and trees, insects damage wood invisibly to the eye. Therefore, even if you think there are no insects on a tree, it is essential to examine it carefully and repeatedly to remove insects. This same understanding should apply to all varieties.
○People who collect and enjoy many potted plants should rely on experts to learn the distinctions, as different plants prefer sun, shade, or deep shade respectively.
○All plants and trees have seasons when they are in fashion, and at such times various types and quantities appear. You should observe and remember them well at such times.
○When cultivating, using appropriate tools for each purpose will be extremely convenient. The tools and blades devised by Mizuno-ō are detailed in illustrations and will appear in the later volume.
○Those who enjoy tree planting and cultivation, whether nobles or elderly people, should approach cultivation and transplanting with a relaxed heart, diligent physical activity, circulating qi and blood, delighting the eyes, and nourishing the spirit. Then their gardens become fairylands, truly like immortal medicinal plants and trees.

【Left page】
【Outside frame】Types of variegated plants
【Upper section】
Nagashima - Sakaki (Cleyera japonica)
Asahina - Gumi (Elaeagnus)
Araki - Twisted Yatsude Daphne
Kubota - Ishika Daphne
Inoue - Kusunoki (Camphor)
Mizuno - Aritōshi
Shiga - Cinnamon
Nagashima - Mochi (Holly)
Nagashima - Large variegated Daphne
Matsudaira - Small-leaf Chinquapin
Asahina - Kunenbo (Citrus)
Matsudaira - Mochi
Kubosa - Shikimi (Star anise)
Kinta - Kuchinashi (Gardenia)
Nagashima - Yukiyama Shikimi
Mizuno - Tsuge (Boxwood)
Enshū - Hiiragi (Holly olive)
Atosagari - Hisagi
Takamuro - Yatsude (Fatsia)
Ebisuya - Kyōchikutō (Oleander)
Monzō - Shii (Chinquapin)
Miyata - Tsubaki (Camellia)
Sakakibara - Daphne
Kawabata - Tarayō-mochi
Mizuno - Korean Gardenia
Asahina - Asebi (Pieris)
Nagashima - Crystal Masaki
Asai - Kuchinashi
Kitazawa - Golden Senkawa Holly
Yamanashi - Kakuremino
Sakisagari - Hisagi
Hatsukano - Mokkoku
Asahina - Yukiyama Shikimi
Sanuki - Cinnamon
Maeda - Taitai
Shōkei - Mokkoku

【Middle section】
[Contains similar listings of names and plants]

【Lower section】
[Contains similar listings of names and plants]