【Right Page - Illustration】
Umajiū sat neither dozing nor fully awake, staring down a desk ornament, wearing clothes like those of a Shirokiya shop clerk, tilting his pipe head and tapping the bottom of the leather tobacco pouch on his pipe stem. With bamboo bindings, as always happened strangely, from somewhere in the dim haze, a great personage appeared—just like in those popular illustrated books, he thought with his shallow knee-jerk wisdom. Like old secondhand dealer Hachirōbei, it seemed false but wasn't false, and with many people and their parents' heads, it was truly genuine, moreover blue, truly genuine indeed.

〽Banzai, banzai! Therefore, this one hundred thirty-six hells, Namu-san ni [four something] has slipped down. I am from such a subsidiary shrine of the gods, what is called the Long-Living Great Penetrating God.

【Right Center】
〽Though they say gods can see through everything, neither Professor Hirasawa nor the Shinagawa fortune-teller can match you, sir—so says this flatterer.

【Right Bottom】
〽If my affairs are investigated so thoroughly, though it's not exactly fragile, we parallel ones don't look back at recent times and simply depart.

【Left Page - Illustration】
Listen, you! You who are unmanly and lacking in feeling, yet despite being incompetent, you become unreasonably arrogant and still don't know the ways of the world. When we say "incompetent," think of the tea-cutting performers in the pleasure quarters or the sake flasks in puppet theater. You constantly want to spout worthless cunning, not yet knowing the deep reasoning of sophistication. In your unnecessary arrogance like moss, you look down upon the wise of this floating world. Pitying this, I now bestow upon you this one mirror. This is truly a divine and mysterious gift. It is called the "Human Clear Mirror." If you illuminate with this, the favoritism of the unsophisticated will be clearly revealed. Ah, doubt not! Chin-chin-pui-pui, this divine treasure—receive it gratefully! One more for free, that's grateful! In total, three gratitudes!
〽Why is this so grateful? This shall be explained later.

【Right Bottom】
〽Since I too am just a dependent at this god's place, I'm always full of threats and make people afraid.