At the same time, wicked followers came to our country from the land of the Kirishitans [Author's note: "Kirishitan" is a term following "Jesus Christ (Iesu Kirisuto)" and is not a country name. Nevertheless, even in Mito scholar Sekisui (Nagakubo Sekisui)'s "Yochi Zenzu" (Complete Map of the World), a country name "Kirishitan" appears between Spain and Portugal. Up to this point, this translated name has not been clearly established, and it appears that the whole world has been treating it as a country name], and they nearly succeeded in deceiving the entire realm. However, because the Divine Lord (Tokugawa Ieyasu) strictly prohibited it, the realm has been able to remain free from their deceptions to this day. The cessation of Jesus(uits)'s merchant vessels in the sixteenth year of Kan'ei (1639) was presumably because of the chastening lesson of the wicked rebels of Shimabara (the Shimabara Rebellion).

[Author's note]: The scriptures upon which these followers of Jesus base themselves are the Old and New Testaments. Summarizing their main points from the "Chūi Ronryaku" (Brief Treatise on Expelling the Barbarians), the barbarian doctrine states: "Only those who follow the Lord of Heaven (Deus) are considered good. Even if one insults heaven and earth and defies one's lord and parents, one will receive the blessings of the Lord of Heaven and ascend to Paradise. Those who do not follow the teachings of the Lord of Heaven are considered evil. Even if one reveres heaven and earth, worships spirits, and loves one's lord and parents, one will ultimately incur the wrath of the Lord of Heaven and fall into Hell," and so forth.

Furthermore, in the "Tianzhu Shasheng Bian" (Discourse on the Lord of Heaven and the Taking of Life), quoting the words of Matteo Ricci: "When the Lord of Heaven created the world, [omitted] He created one man and one woman, making them the ancestors of all humanity. He therefore commanded people not to be close to their fathers and mothers, but to be close to the great Father, the Lord of Heaven; not to revere their country's ruler, but to revere the great Ruler, the Lord of Heaven. [Omitted] Those who love and worship the Lord of Heaven, even if they are thieves or unworthy persons, will certainly be born into Paradise. Those who do not love the Lord of Heaven, even if they are rulers or saints, will certainly fall into Hell," and so forth.

Also, in the "Pi Tianzhujiao Shu" (Writings Refuting the Teaching of the Lord of Heaven), the words attributed to Giulio Aleni state that "even King Wen of Zhou went to Hell."

All of the above are the doctrines of their followers, and they clearly reveal the principles of their teaching. They preach that to honor one's own ruler and consort, and to be close to one's parents, is to violate the great commandment of the Lord of Heaven, and therefore one commits a sin against the Lord of Heaven and falls into Hell; while they assert that if one venerates only the Lord of Heaven, even the unfilial, the disloyal, treacherous ministers, and villainous children will ascend to Heaven.

Alas, alas! Since the creation of heaven and earth, has there ever been such a rare and wicked deceptive doctrine? If this teaching were allowed to spread further, the clear teachings of the Three Ways [Shinto, Confucianism, and Buddhism] would be immediately destroyed, the people would become worse than beasts, and the country would become [dominated by] evil demons...