This can be understood from the fact that [the deity of Christianity] is referred to as "the Most Venerable," "the Supreme and Most High Sovereign Emperor," and similar titles. The refutations found in the Ming dynasty's *Poxie ji* (Collection Against Heterodoxy), Lord Ōhashi's *Hekija shōgen* (Brief Words Against Heterodoxy), and Junsui Rōjin's *Shinkai jūritsu* (Ten Rules of Deep Lamentation) are truly sound and reliable arguments. Men of aspiration throughout the land should open their discerning eye and distinguish between the orthodox and the heterodox in these teachings.

Although China has already reached the point where that pernicious religion has spread widely, in our Divine Land (Japan), the power of the guardian deities of the Dharma is flourishing, and the heterodox religion has been swept clean without a trace. This is entirely owing to the benevolence of enlightened rulers and wise ministers. Is this not a great fortune? Yet the "theory of two spheres" established by that heterodox religion is now on the verge of spreading here. This is precisely the weapon—the spear and halberd—that those heterodox followers use to disrupt and destroy the teachings of the Buddha. Indeed, the depth of one's indignation [at this situation] should be verified by examining those [Western] writings.

By the way, in a poem by the Venerable Tenshō, it is written: "At the harbor mouth, I hear again that the foreign barbarians spy upon us; I take up my writing brush and ponder carefully. In the mountains there are fine white clouds, but this is no time to sleep upon the rocks." If this is so, then not only we [Buddhists] but also those of the Shinto and Confucian traditions—how could they calmly stand by and watch this, sleeping drunkenly morning and evening without a care? It must be the most urgent task of our times for the adherents of the Three Ways (Shinto, Confucianism, and Buddhism) to unite their efforts and refute [this heterodox teaching]. Furthermore, even earlier Confucian scholars esteemed Buddhist teachings with regard to astronomy and calendar science. Although Zhu Xi was most extreme in his contempt for Buddhism, he conceded to the land of Brahma (India) on the matter of the precision of the calendar. (According to the *Zhuzi yulei*: "I have heard that Ji Tong said there is a 'Nine Celestial Bodies Calendar' in the Western Regions, and that it is in fact more accurate.") Our Divine Land has not traditionally been well-versed in celestial phenomena. Nevertheless, in explaining the Age of the Gods, one cannot avoid speaking of astronomy. Therefore, in [works such as] Lord Kitabatake Chikafusa's (the Provisional Grand Minister's) *Jinnō Shōtōki* (Chronicle of the Direct Descent of Gods and Sovereigns), and in Lord Ichijō Kanera's (the former Regent's) compilation of the chapters on the Age of the Gods...