(Continued from previous page) How much more so, then, those who cling to the theories of the armillary sphere, the canopy heaven, and the two-sphere (terrestrial and celestial globe) model—upon hearing of the vastness of the Buddha's teachings, they should be greatly astonished and bewildered.

When it comes to realms beyond the reach of human sight, one's wisdom too is exhausted. Is it not natural, then, that such things are considered difficult to believe?

This means that, regarding what can be seen with human eyes, one can apply ingenuity and deliberation; but as for what lies beyond the reach of one's eyes, all wisdom and discernment (discrimination) is exhausted, and such things can neither be spoken of nor conceived in the mind. Thus, even though [the Buddhist teachings] were expounded through the Buddha's divine eye (天眼通, clairvoyance), which sees all things clearly, many people doubt and disbelieve what they themselves cannot see. For those who are ignorant and ordinary, it is also natural (unavoidable) that they would not accept as true what they cannot see.

If a person were to make use of a telescope (*望遠鏡*) that arrived on Western ships, then not only mountains, rivers, and seas at a distance of a thousand leagues, but even a puddle of water the size of a cup, a stone the size of a fist, a honeycomb, and an anthill would appear with complete clarity and distinctness, as if one were looking at objects in the palm of one's hand.

This means that when using a finely crafted telescope (*tōmegane*) to observe distant places, one can see mountains, rivers, and seas one has never seen before; moreover, even a puddle the size of a cup, a stone the size of a fist, a honeycomb, and an anthill all appear with perfect clarity, as though one were looking at things in the palm of one's hand. The point of this passage is that, just because a mortal's naked eye cannot see a given place, one must not necessarily doubt what the Buddha—seeing with the divine eye—has taught. The reason for this will be explained next.

Yet, once the telescope is taken away, the images become dim and hazy, and one sees only an undifferentiated blur in all directions. Even though all appears as an undifferentiated blur in all directions, does that make the images seen through the lens false? (By no means.)

This means that when one removes the telescope one has been looking through, what had until now appeared with such clarity—mountains, rivers, seas, honeycombs, and anthills—