Such matters can be well understood even by children, so there is no need to record them in detail. However, in order to help the reader comprehend the principles of glass (lenses) to be discussed next, I will not shy away from the trouble and will present illustrative examples.

○ What is shown in Figure 7 demonstrates the principle of viewing small insects through a microscope. This is an instrument [illustration of a convex lens] that uses glass with a convex surface (arc-shaped back) such as this to observe small insects on the other side. Whenever glass has a convex surface, it necessarily bends (refracts) the lines of sight. As shown in the figure, the line of sight that should travel upward (toward heaven) is bent and proceeds toward point A (甲), while the line of sight that should travel downward (toward earth) is bent and proceeds toward point B (乙). Consequently, the upper and lower lines of sight bend and converge at the center, where the actual small insect is viewed. However, the line of sight that should go upward still believes it is going upward and is unaware that it has reached point A. The line of sight going downward still believes it is going downward and does not know it has reached point B. Therefore, when one views the small insect in the center, one perceives it as a large insect spanning from top to bottom. This principle is difficult to grasp from a single reading. In general, glass that has a convex surface—thin at the edges and thick in the center—will always bend the lines of sight heading toward the thinner parts and draw them toward the thicker part. Thus, for a convex surface with a diameter of three sun, the upper and lower lines of sight converge at a single point three sun beyond the lens. This point is called "chikiri" (the focal point). If one views a small insect slightly in front of the chikiri, it appears as a large insect, as shown in the figure. If one passes beyond the chikiri and moves to the other side, objects appear inverted. This is as demonstrated in Figure 8 and beyond.

○ What is shown in Figure 8 is that the lines of sight, bent by the convex surface of the glass, converge at the center to form a single point (apex). This point is called the "chikiri." At this point, the lines of sight cross in an X pattern, and beyond this point they spread out again. When an object is placed slightly in front of the chikiri, it appears small[er]...