(Continued from previous page) Those inserted at an angle not only appear larger, but also appear cut off at the water's surface and seem to be located far to the side. This depends on whether the interior of the curved surface (convex surface) is filled or not. Also, because the line of sight bends toward the center of the curved arc, what is at point A appears to be at point B. This is because one does not realize that the line of sight traveling toward B has bent and gone toward A. The glass discussed previously also operates entirely on this same principle.

[Figure of flat glass] A flat pane of glass with no curvature like this, no matter how [Figure of angled glass] it is tilted, will not bend the line of sight. [Figure of triangular prism glass] If it is made thin at the top and thick at the bottom like this, the line of sight will immediately bend, and what one sees will appear to be in a completely different location far away. One should consider all of these together.

○Figure 15 is an illustration of filling a glass bottle completely with water, placing a bowl-fish (goldfish) inside, and observing it. Although this is similar to the previous figure, we again explain its principle in detail. In general, when a circular object bends lines of sight, whether large or small, they all bend in the direction of the center of the circle. As shown in the figure, the line of sight going upward (toward heaven) bends and, at the location of the fish, goes toward point A; that which went downward (toward earth), at the location of the fish, goes toward point B — all converging toward the center of the circular form. Because one thinks that the lines of sight traveling straight up and down continue in those directions, one perceives the small fish at points A and B as a large fish extending from top to bottom. When the fish is near the front of the bottle, it appears as its true form, but the further the fish moves away, the larger it appears. One should consider this together with the principle of the microscope discussed in section seven. In general, because lines of sight, bending from the curved surface, become narrower the further they travel, objects appear larger the further away they are. If one were to cut out the entire face of this bottle [Figure of glass bottle] in this manner, [Figure of convex lens] it would be no different whatsoever from the convex surface of a microscope.

○Figure 16 shows an illustration of arranging four triangular prisms of glass in a row and viewing an object on the other side.