[Right Page]
[Outside frame, upper right]
Table of Contents
[Outside frame, lower right]
Four
[This page is blank]

[Left Page]
[Outside frame, upper left]
One
[Outside frame, upper left horizontal]
Daijō Hōsō Kenshin-shō, Volume One
[Outside frame, lower left horizontal]
One

[Upper section]
Daijō Hōsō Kenshin-shō, Volume One
Preface to the Daijō Hōsō Kenshin-shō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Composed by Monk Gomyō of Gangō-ji Temple

The three realms and nine stages are the dwelling places of sentient beings, and the five destinies and four births are the retribution of ignorance. Therefore, the six thieves constantly follow and are difficult to avoid, and the three poisons constantly arise and easily invade. Thus the wise detest this and anticipate the time of liberation, while the virtuous are troubled by this and rarely engage in spiritual practices. Since this is already a lamentable state, who would not contemplate it? Moreover, since these are beings to be saved, why would one not investigate and study? Therefore, the great masters of India each composed lofty treatises, and the renowned monks of China together produced commentaries and annotations. These are all the excellent footsteps of transforming the ordinary into the sacred, and the ladder for retreating from evil and advancing toward good. Thus they caused all of Japan to deeply believe in the Three Treasures and to cultivate and study both Mahayana and Hinayana teachings. Since the white horse came from the west and the profound teachings spread eastward, Buddhism has been maintained, all schools have flourished, without bias or partiality, protecting the nation and safeguarding the people. Now our sacred court has universally decreed to all temples to submit the essentials of their doctrines. Gomyō has fortunately encountered this prosperous time, having long followed the Buddhist path. At eighty years of age, with body and spirit weakened and aged, nonetheless I have personally received the imperial edict and, stroking my humble heart with joy, respectfully submit five volumes of questions and answers about the world, entitled "Daijō Hōsō Kenshin-shō." I only hope that His Majesty of the nine-fold palace and the virtuous officials of the court, though this may not be worthy of perusal, will consider it as material for discussion. If so, the honor of supporting people and propagating the Dharma will continue without interruption through the generations, and the virtue of the Dharma guiding people will have eternal continuity.

[Lower section]
I humbly pray that this wisdom may be turned toward and bestowed upon the dharma realm, so that self and others, sacred and mundane, may together witness the Dragon Flower Assembly. Written in the seventh year of Tenchō, the year of Metal-Dog, in the fourth month.