【Right Page】

　　[He was appointed as an apprentice/trainee (for the gold inspection role).]

One: In the tenth month of the same year, two koku and five to were deducted from within his late father's provisional stipend (gigi-saku), and he was granted four koku, five to, and provisions for two persons. He was summoned into service and appointed as a non-active official under the jurisdiction of the Gimmijo (investigation office).

One: In the same month, he was appointed as gold inspector of the Two Treasury Offices (Ryō Onando); however, due to illness, he was relieved of this appointment as per his request.

One: In the fourth month of the first year of Meiwa, Year of the Monkey (1764), he was appointed as a temporary hired clerk (monogaki) at the district office (Kōri Yakusho).

One: In the twelfth month of the same year, having diligently performed the aforementioned assistance duties, he was granted a labor recompense fee (hone-ori-ryō) calculated at the rate of two bu of gold per year.

【Left Page】

One: In the second month of the fifth year of the same era, Year of the Rat (1768), he was appointed as clerk of the district office (Kōri Yakusho) with a supplementary stipend increase (o-ashidaka) of two koku and seven to.

One: In the eighth month of the sixth year, Year of the Ox (1769), having diligently worked day and night since the previous autumn's village inspection tour, continuously preparing the calculations for tax exemption rates (menshō), he was granted one bu of gold.

One: In the first month of the eighth year, Year of the Rabbit (1771), having performed diligently during the revision of tax exemption rates, despite the large number of drought-damaged locations, he was granted one bu of gold.

One: In the first year of An'ei, Year of the Dragon (1772), as the Edo residence of the Yonezawa domain lord suffered fire damage through a spreading fire (ruishō), [he was tasked with delivering] timber for official use, [dispatching it] from Tatsuke into Shiokawa...