Extremely foul-smelling matter, like sticky glue. Until death it does not form solid masses, the more it steams the more it closes up, so that stomach qi cannot descend, and epidemic poison has no way to exit. If not purged, death immediately follows. But once the sticky glue is removed, the purging symptoms naturally disappear and recovery occurs suddenly. Also in the lower volume, among the various symptoms requiring purging, there is a section on "intestinal adhesive obstruction," with text roughly the same as the bowel movement section.

Regarding the classic theory "initially hard but later necessarily loose, cannot be attacked": The Treatise on Cold Damage, Yang Ming section states: "In Yang Ming disease with tidal fever, if the bowel movements are slightly hard, Da Chengqi Decoction may be given. If not hard, it should not be given. If there have been no bowel movements for six or seven days, one fears there may be dry feces. The method to determine this is to give a small amount of Xiao Chengqi Decoction. If after the medicine enters the abdomen there is passing of gas, this indicates dry feces are present, and one may then attack it. If there is no passing of gas, this means only the initial part is hard and the later part will necessarily be loose - it cannot be attacked. If attacked, there will necessarily be distension and fullness, and inability to eat. For those who want to drink water, giving water will cause hiccups. Those who develop fever afterward will necessarily have bowel movements that are again hard but scanty. Harmonize with Xiao Chengqi Decoction. For those who do not pass gas, be cautious not to attack."

Regarding the similar functions of the three Chengqi decoctions: Master Taki Gensho said: "Among later generations who masterfully used Chengqi formulas, none surpassed Wu Youke. However, his saying 'focus attention on expelling evil, do not be constrained by bound feces' has led to frequent errors of purging too early. Also his saying 'the three Chengqi formulas have similar functions' particularly lacks clear differentiation. Also his saying 'the efficacy all lies in rhubarb, the rest are all products that treat symptoms' seems to show ignorance of the purpose of their formulation. In other clinical prescriptions, however, he indeed made many discoveries." See the Treatise on Cold Damage Commentary and Pharmaceutical Treatment General Principles volume 5, section on "Using purgation without being constrained by bound feces."

Regarding blood stasis: