Tan Tou Wen (Probing Head Plague)《2 Front》　Mori Tatsuo says that the violently discharged matter resembles melon
　pulp, hence the name "Melon Pulp Plague," and the vomited blood appears as if probing and extracting from the brain, hence the name "Probing Head Plague."
Ying Kai《2 Front》　Kai refers to nodules with the sickness radical. This means goiter, tumor, and nodular masses, or it might be
　an error for the character "tumor," but this is not the case.
Geda Wen (Lumpy Plague)《2 Front》　The Shanglun Bozheng Xuli states that what the common people call "Lumpy Plague"
　involves red swellings throughout the body that form masses like tumors. ○According to Shuo Yi, its symptoms include tumor-
　like masses that travel throughout the body; morning onset leads to evening death. Insert a three-edged needle three fen deep into the Weizhong point to
　draw blood, and concurrently administer Renzhonghuang Powder.《Volume 3, 4 Back》
Da Ma Feng (Great Hemp Wind)《3 Front》　Volume 2 of Dantai Yu'an, in the Li Feng section, states that Li Feng is
　Great Hemp Wind, also called leprosy.《56 Front》

All pain and ulcerative sores belong to heart fire《3 Front》　This is from the Zhizhen Yao Lun text.
Jiao Chang Sha (Twisted Intestine Cholera)《3 Front》　Volume 4 of Dantai Yu'an, in the abdominal pain section, states that twisted intestine sand pain involves
　no vomiting or diarrhea, but dysenteric pain with tenesmus. ○Wei's Effective Prescriptions states that dry cholera is commonly called
　"stirring intestine sand."
The Great Yi states "or tying it to an ox, what the traveler obtains is the disaster of the townspeople"《3 Front》　This is from the
　Upper Classic Wu Wang, sixth line of the third hexagram.
Liu Hejian《3 Back》　Liu Wansu, courtesy name Shouzhen, a person from Hejian during the Jin dynasty.
　　Discussing the Flourishing and Decline of Qi《Lei Bian Volume 1《11 Front》reads "Epidemic diseases continue year after year, but with differences in flourishing, decline, abundance, scarcity, severity and mildness - Discussion"》
Seems to feel there is none《4 Front》　"Seems" is written as "contrary" in Lei Bian.
　　Discussing How Qi Injuries Differ　《Lei Bian Volume 1《19 Back》reads "Discussion of How Qi Injuries Differ"》