This comes from the qi of regional soil《4 Back》　From the Shangshu Yugong and Suwen Yifang Fayi Lun.

Cats control rats and rats control elephants《5 Front》　Mori Tatsuo says that Su Shi said: raise cats to catch rats. Jixiao
　Xinshu, Lingmao Zhuoshu Shi, Shiwu Ganzhu, cats are called "rat generals," Wuzazu,
　Good cats sit upright and silent, and rats naturally hold their breath, recognizing their qi. Liu Ji's
　Ni Lianzhu states: thousand-pound elephants do not fear tigers but fear rats.
Crabs die when they encounter fog, jujubes wither when they encounter fog《5 Front》　Langya Daizui Xianggan Xia states that when fog
　gathers, crab claws wither. Wulei Xianggan Zhi states that fallen crabs fear dew.《Mori Tatsuo says:
　"dew" is probably an error for "fog."》Touweng Suibi states that when autumn dew falls, all jujube leaves drop. Mori Tatsuo says that according to this, the
　character "fog" in the original text is probably an error for "dew."

Slugs neutralize centipede poison《5 Back》　The Bencao Yanyi centipede entry states that centipedes
　fear slugs and dare not cross paths where they have traveled. When they touch their bodies, centipedes die. People therefore use them to
　treat centipede poisoning.《17th, 12 Back》
Cat meat treats festering rat fistulas《5 Back》　Huainanzi Shuoshan Xun: wildcat heads cure rats.
　　Roundworm Reversal　《Lei Bian Volume 3《15 Back》》
Roundworm Reversal《6 Front》　Ma Yinlin says that roundworm reversal involves cold hands and feet with vomiting of roundworms. For those with heat and
　thirst, use Huanglian Jiedu Tang. For those with diarrhea symptoms, use Chengqi Tang.《Lei
　Bian》　Liu Songfeng says that roundworm reversal originally includes cases belonging to cold patterns, but only roundworm vomiting in epidemic diseases belongs to heat. One symptom can have such
　differences between cold and heat patterns.
When the organs are cold and roundworms ascend to enter the diaphragm, that person should vomit roundworms《6 Front》　From the Shanghan Lun Jueyin chapter, wu[...]