【Upper Document】
【Title】New Edition: Laughing Temari Song

【Horizontal text】One and...
【Vertical content】Listening to people's stories is also unpleasant, becoming a single person, feeling depressed by the neighbor's earthquake

【Horizontal text】Two
【Vertical content】Construction work is completed, and this recent earthquake commotion, namu-san banzairaku, all is ruined

【Horizontal text】Three
【Vertical content】Shaken with creaking sounds, a young girl puts her hands over her important parts so they won't split

【Horizontal text】Four
【Vertical content】Earthquakes in theater are rotating mechanisms without taboo, rotating and bamboo grove fight scenes

【Horizontal text】Five
【Vertical content】Imado tile makers, plasterers, and roofers, afterwards making money with smiling faces

【Horizontal text】Six
【Vertical content】From ancient proverbs, people say the scary things are: earthquake, thunder, fire, and father

【Horizontal text】Seven
【Vertical content】A harmonious couple doing evening work during an earthquake cry roughly, the wife cries and gets flustered

【Horizontal text】Eight
【Vertical content】The great Edo of eight hundred and eight districts is safe, with neighborhood watch posts everywhere

【Horizontal text】Nine
【Vertical content】When scared, being clung to and bitten by women, the heart pounds, and below it twitches

【Horizontal text】Ten and...
【Vertical content】Being tormented by a playboy son, attacked by earthquake, even father fears

【Horizontal text】Eleven
【Vertical content】Taking a son-in-law for the unwilling pottery shop daughter, broken by earthquake, nothing can be done

【Horizontal text】Twelve
【Vertical content】The divine wind blowing from Kashima is blessed, the imperial reign is unshakeable like the keystone

【Lower Document】
【Title】Humorous Stories

【Horizontal text】Earthquake
【Vertical content】Two or three young men gathered saying "Well, let's go sightseeing toward Asakusa" and departed, arriving at Kanzeon's temple grounds.
"Hey, look at this thunder god - where did he disappear to?" "What, you're talking nonsense. You say to look at the thunder god, then right after say he's disappeared." "Oh, this is embarrassing. Hey, look at that five-story pagoda - the top part is greatly bent." "No no, just a little." "Why?" "Because it's the nine-ring spire."

【Horizontal text】Thunder
【Vertical content】Last night's rain was heavy rain, and on top of that the terror of the thunder god, and what is that sound?" "That? That's what they call vibration." "Oh, that's vibration? Then what about the sound of the warehouse's headband falling over there?" "Well, what about the sound from the night of the 2nd the other day?" "What was that?" "That was probably a courtesan." "I see."

【Horizontal text】Fire
【Vertical content】The shop firefighters returned to their neighborhood. "Come, come, good work, good work, serve the boxed meals!" "My stomach is completely empty now." "Right, let's do it." While a large group sat in a row eating their meals, one person who appeared extremely ill was shivering in the corner saying "Scary, scary, this is scary," so (the others said) "Hey, there's nothing scary at all." "Hurry up and eat." "No, no, the rice is scary."

【Horizontal text】Father
【Vertical content】In the confusion after the earthquake, the son ran through the pleasure quarters and secretly slipped back home, intending not to listen to his father's scolding. (Father) "Hey, you rascal, why did you come back? This isn't your home anymore, get out right now, come on!" (Mother) "Dear, dear, he came back without even getting hurt." (Father) "No, it would have been better if he had been crushed under a beam." (Son) "I was crushed." (Mother) "Eh, you were crushed?" "My spirit was crushed by father's scolding."