【Right Page】
Leaving Gozaemon behind, the three men searched everywhere for water, and about forty to fifty ken from the landing place, they found pooled water on top of a rock. The three took turns drinking, then brought the two they had left behind to drink as well. They truly moistened their mouths for the first time in a long while and quenched their thirst. About ten ken to the southeast from here was a rock cave, and they placed Jūsuke and Gozaemon there. The three men then searched various places wondering if there might be houses, but could see none at all. While doing this and that, evening came, and in that area there were great numbers of large birds called fujikurō. Moreover, these birds showed no fear of humans at all, so they approached and killed two or three. They left two birds there and first took one back, stripped its skin, and when Toraemon tried eating it, he said it was extremely delicious, so then Denzō and Manjirō also ate, and they took some to the rock cave for the other two to eat. Everyone staved off their thirst, and that night the five huddled together until dawn. On the morning of the fifteenth day, when Manjirō went to get the two birds they had left the day before, there were only the birds' skins with no meat. He returned to tell everyone about this, immediately went back and killed five birds, brought them back for everyone to eat. At this time, ship debris washed up by the waves, which they used to make bedding inside the rock cave, spreading out their clothing to lie down on. Since there were no people, eating those [birds] raw on the island seemed to suit their bodies well, as they had no digestive problems and managed to sustain their lives.

【Left Page】
This island was about thirty-six chō in circumference, with mountains about fifty ken high. Overall, miscanthus grass grew thickly with no trees growing. In our coastal area, there were some trees we call shashabu scattered about. Also, those birds hatched their young around the third month, and from the sixth month of the same year they built nests, then the parent birds flew away together and were no longer seen. The mouth of the rock cave faced southeast, and there was a place where water dripped down from the rocks above the cave entrance. They placed a water bucket there to collect water for drinking.

During their stay on the island for about two or three months, it did not rain and they thirsted for water, putting their mouths to damp places on rocks and sucking, among other great hardships. Also during this time, sometimes unable to bear the thirst, they even drank urine. Around the third month, they saw large ships passing about ten ri offshore from the island, and everyone was greatly delighted. They raised objects around dawn, but perhaps [the ships] could not see them as they sailed past. Around the fourth month, all those birds seemed to be gone, so they gathered shellfish and such for food. Later, they spotted birds flying down from and up to caves in the distance, and Denzō and Manjirō discussed it and climbed the mountain to search for where the birds were. Denzō found the path too difficult and returned partway, so Manjirō alone climbed to the summit. Looking around, he saw there was flat ground on the mountaintop with a place where stones were piled up. Finding this suspicious, he searched the area but saw no human presence at all. There appeared to be places that were dug out where the piled stones had been removed, and it seemed there would be water there after rain.