【Right Page】
Since birds were also there, they killed twelve and brought them back, and the four men were greatly delighted. They took turns going to catch them and made them their daily food. Now, from before this time, Jūsuke had been suffering from a chronic condition of vaginal discharge and was constantly lying flat inside the cave. They were on the island for 170 days. Since there were no particularly unusual events during those daily affairs, I will not record them in detail.

One day around what seemed to be June 3rd, a white sail was visible far away to the southeast, so everyone together prayed to gods and buddhas, wishing for that ship to come near. Around noon, that ship approached to about five ri away, but with no wind it turned southwest and disappeared behind a mountain cape, so everyone was greatly disheartened and lamented, "We will surely die on this island." Therefore, Manjirō consulted with Gozaemon, saying "That ship might perhaps land to the southwest. Let's try going to see," but Gozaemon would not agree. So Manjirō alone went to look, and when he went around the mountain about ten chō, he saw two white sails that appeared to be approaching this way, so he was greatly delighted, returned to tell everyone, and immediately went again. Then Gozaemon and Toraemon also caught up from behind, but it was a rocky shore with no landing place, and while they were observing the situation, [the ship] seemed to see three human figures and began rowing the boat around. At this time, Manjirō

【Left Page】
took off his undergarment and beckoned to the ship, and from the ship they also saw and beckoned with a hat. However, since this island had rocky shores all around with cliffs twenty ken high down to the water's edge, it was extremely difficult to descend, so Manjirō placed his clothing under his buttocks and slid down. The other two also did likewise and descended to the water's edge. At that time, the boat tried to drop anchor and moor stern-first. Therefore, when Manjirō took off his clothes and tried to swim out, the ship gestured "wrap those clothes around your head and swim over," so he did as told and swam out. The sailors of that ship took his hand and pulled him up, then the sailors gestured "we'll take you to the big ship." Manjirō thought "that ship appeared like divine assistance" and prostrated himself in worship toward the ship, at which the sailors laughed heartily. Meanwhile, Gozaemon swam over and boarded the same ship as Manjirō. Toraemon also came and boarded a different boat. Now the sailors gestured "are there no others besides you?" so Manjirō answered with hand gestures "there are still two on land but their hands and feet don't work." The boat that Toraemon had boarded was brought to the rocky shore, and they went to the mouth of the rock cave to carry out the dark-skinned person and light-skinned person (Denzō and Jūsuke). The two were greatly frightened and tried to flee, but were forcibly brought and put on the boat, then transferred back to the main ship. Then the ship captain [gave them] something like sweets