【Right Page】
Their hair is cut short (zangi-ri style).

1. In the second month of the tiger year (February 1842), they arrived at Guam Island and loaded firewood, water, etc., staying anchored for about thirty days before departing in the third month. They sailed around the eastern seas of Japan and near uninhabited islands, catching many whales. After several tens of days passed, it became the eighth month, but they lost track of the exact dates. The aforementioned Guam Island has a circumference of about thirty ri, with high mountains. The people's skin color is generally the same as Japanese people, and they wear their hair cut short. There are about several thousand houses, built with thatched roofs, and one large house with tile roofing. This is under Spanish control and serves as the office where that country's magistrate resides. Around September of the same year, they sailed eastward intending to go to Honolulu, but due to bad winds they were blown off course southward, crossed the equator to the south, and arrived at Ascension and Mauritius Islands. This place is under British control; Ascension Island has a circumference of about twenty ri, Mauritius Island about thirty ri. After staying to load firewood and water, they sailed out to the southeast. When passing the cape of South America, they saw icebergs that must have been forty to fifty ri around. In that area they saw countless icebergs, some one ri around, others four to five ri around, drifting about. They sailed through that area and headed north under sail.

【Left Page】
During this voyage they passed the New Year, but sailing various seas, they lost track of the months and days of their stays.

1. In the sixth month of the rabbit year (June 1843), they arrived at New Bedford in North America. This was the captain's (Whitfield's) hometown. At this port there is a three-ri inlet flowing east to west. At the entrance to this port there is a small island forty ken around, on which they built a large stone house with glass lamp housing where they keep fires burning all night. In the middle of the inlet there is an island about fifty chō long, to which bridges are built from both sides for passage (the foundations are stone and the bridges are wooden). On this side is New Haven (with about three thousand houses), and on the other side at Cape Cod's point they built a large house where they store large quantities of coal, and there are also other places where coal is stored. North America has many high mountains to the west, and only low mountains to the east. The east-west span is 120 degrees (2,100 ri in Japanese measure). South America's east-west span is narrower than North America's. Both Americas combined have a north-south extent of 150 degrees (3,000 ri in Japanese measure). North America has thirty-four states with one national leader, and this leader changes every four years. Each state has someone like a village headman who administers government and dispenses rewards and punishments. They pile up fired bricks (made by firing clay into pieces about three sun square and six sun long, as hard as stone) to build walls, plaster the inside with mortar, and build two or three-story structures. The interior walls are painted in various colors