【Right Page】
About one month later, he fell ill again and returned to stay home. ○ The whale oil that Whitfield caught on his ship numbered 3,000 barrels (holding four to [measures] each), which were sold in America. From the proceeds, [Manjiro received] 75 pieces of silver (equivalent to 225 kan-mon in Japanese currency, with each piece worth 3 kan-mon; 2 kan equals 112 momme and 5 bu). The captain's name was Isabel. With a crew of 28 men, they loaded seven boats and set sail, heading northeast. On the fifth day they caught whales, and after about ten days arrived at an island called Maueshitanto(?). This island was under Russian control. Here they left those two [barrels of] whale oil in storage, asking that they be delivered when there was a ship bound for America, then set sail westward, passed the cape of the black people's country, went through the straits of Jagatara (Jakarta), and around the second month of the sheep year (around February 1847) arrived at Daimon Island(?). They stayed here about thirty days to procure firewood and water before departing. This island was under the control of Holland, England, Russia, etc., with magistrates from various countries stationed there. This land has high mountains with many trees growing abundantly, producing sandalwood, ebony, and such. Various lacquerware crafts are also produced here. It's a place where people from various countries gather - I saw fair-skinned people, black people, red people, and people from China, India, etc. ○ From Dai-

【Left Page】
-mon they sailed north and again hunted whales near the Caroline Islands, then anchored at a place called Menkaira, known as a cannibal island. This island has high mountains, and the people are black and naked. They tattoo their faces and entire bodies with patterns, apply white substance to their curly hair, and paint above their eyebrows with red substance. Since no women were seen, their appearance is unknown. The men are extremely skilled at archery. Their houses have four pillars with roofs thatched with palm leaves, and they seem to sleep and wake on bare earthen floors without any mats.

1. In the same sheep year, around the fourth month (around April 1847), they departed from here, sailed north and arrived at Guam Island, staying over thirty days. From there they sailed northwest and anchored at Ryukyu. They lowered a boat and seven people in total - the captain, five sailors, and Manjiro - went ashore. Three officials from the Ryukyu Kingdom came and had mats brought to the beach, spread them out, sat down and conducted negotiations, but since the languages didn't communicate, Manjiro understood nothing at all. About forty to fifty people who appeared to be farmers came and stayed in the area. That day around the hour of the monkey (around 2 PM), someone who appeared to be a person of rank had two cattle brought as gifts. At this time the captain (continues)