【Right Page】
were aboard," so Manjiro went by boat to see, and it was Denzo and Gozaemon, so they were mutually
surprised. Now Denzo said that they were supposed to return to Japan and were taken to the Ezo coast and landed,
but all the Japanese fled and they could not meet them, so having no other choice they returned, and the captain explained the
situation, saying "Please somehow let us stay here," but [the captain said] it would not be right to leave them in an uninhabited place
and brought them back. Now for about ten days the three
stayed here, and Manjiro boarded his original ship and sailed, going south, and in the cock year
second month, again passed near Hadaka Island and arrived at Guam, took on firewood and water, sailed toward the northwest,
again went whale hunting to Japan's eastern edge, sailed southeast, and again came to Guam,
took on firewood and water, sailed south and arrived at Senekan Island,
stayed about twenty days, then departed and arrived at Metaimoe, moored the ship and
purchased provisions like pigs, cattle, chickens, etc., and returned to America around the ninth month of the cock year (2nd year of Kaei, 1849). ○ Senekan
Island is under Javanese control. The mountains are high, and the people's appearance and clothing are

【Left Page】
the same as Dutch and Baning people. They make lacquerware and crafts as their industry. ○ Returning to New Bedford,
when he went to the captain, the captain had already returned home and was greatly delighted, saying "It's been a long time,"
and with the silver Manjiro had earned and saved, after deducting various expenses and miscellaneous costs, the remaining silver was
350 pieces (equivalent to 1,050 kan-mon, exchanged at 3 kan-mon per piece. Converted to coins, it becomes 13 kan 125 monme). With this silver he purchased clothing, tools,
and other necessary items. At this time he stayed in New Bedford for over forty days, then planned to go work
at the gold mines.

1. In the same cock year (2nd year of Kaei, 1849) around the eleventh month, he requested passage on a merchant ship (ship name was Shitegi, carrying 27 people. He forgot the captain's name), paid 50
silver pieces to join the crew and sail, passed around the Cape of South America, and in the dog year (3rd year of Kaei, 1850) fourth month, arrived at Tamawana, took on firewood and water and departed. This place is under Spanish control, and [people] make their living by mining gold, silver,
copper, and limestone.

1. In the dog year (3rd year of Kaei, 1850) sixth month, they arrived at California, immediately landed and took lodging for three days.
The preparation cost for one person at this place was one silver piece each. This place is a large port with a bay width of one