【Right Page】
one umbrella each, one piece of white silver each, one grain of bean silver each, totaling six items《marginal note: According to another record, Manjiro possessed gold pieces worth 40,000 and two pieces of gold that he carried as souvenirs for his mother, but these were also confiscated at Nagasaki》

In the Year of the Rat《marginal note: Kaei 5, Year of the Water Rat》, receiving officials from the domain including low-ranking officials came and arrived at Nagasaki. On the 23rd of the same month, he was handed over to domain officials at the aforementioned magistrate's office. He stayed at the place of a Shinbashi purveyor named Nishikawa Sanjiro, and on the 25th of the same month departed Nagasaki. The journey by sea and land proceeded without incident, and on July 11th he returned to Kochi castle town. He was confined at the Matsuoya in Higashisakai-machi, and meetings with all people were forbidden until the investigation by the metsuke officials was completed. Usaura group leader Yukuro and Nakahama local officials continuously stood guard. The official business was completed by September 28th, he was handed over to the village headmen of both bays, and on October 15th he returned to Nakahama bay. Thus Manjiro first went to the headman's place and sent someone to call his mother and brothers. When people throughout the village heard this news, they all came rushing, some expressing welcome to Manjiro, and for a while the area in front of the headman's gate became like a marketplace. Meanwhile, his mother gazed vacantly at Manjiro's face

【Left Page】
and Manjiro said "I have just returned home. First, I am glad you are in good health," whereupon his mother cried "Then you are Manjiro!" and jumped to embrace him, sobbing with tears for a while. When they came before the headman, someone said this person was not Manjiro, so the headman said "This is truly Manjiro without doubt. Since we have not met for a long time, it is natural that his appearance would be forgotten." Then they gradually seemed convinced and returned together. For the first day or two, it was somehow like a dream and seemed unbelievable, but as the days passed, she increasingly thought "this is indeed my child," and with the feeling of awakening from a dream, joy gradually arose and her happiness became limitless《marginal note: According to one source, what the Nagasaki officials told the Tosa domain receiving officials was "We return him this time, but he would be a useful person to employ here. We respectfully convey that this matter should be retained by Tosa domain." Manjiro should be called a fortunate person》

In Kaei 5《marginal note: Year of the Water Rat》, due to Manjiro's return to the bay, written records were ordered from Nakahama village headman Shinsaku and Gake bay village headman Kametani Gonsuke, and the documents submitted by the bay officials are as follows:

1. North America has thirty-four states, the capital is called New York, the governor is England (and)