【Right Page】
They aim by aligning the base of the ear with the tip of the gun barrel when shooting. ○ Gambling exists in various places. Inside houses, they construct boards about two ken square and compete there. ○ There are places that sell beef, mutton, pork, and various other meats. For horses and pigs, they cut off the testicles, split the skin vertically, pinch out the organs with fingers, and insert medicine afterward. For work horses, doing this strengthens their vigor, and for pigs intended for food, they become fat and taste better. Birds are not particularly different from those in Japan. There are large squid that are sometimes mistaken for whales in offshore waters. Elephants, parrots, peacocks, etc. come from India and mainland China. These are kept in birdcages. There are tigers, camels, long-tailed monkeys, foxes, dogs, etc. They are curious creatures. Most birds and beasts are the same types found in Japan. Now, when going to hunt tigers, they carry shields made of two-shaku-square iron plates, and when tigers are driven out and attack people, they catch them with these plates. Meanwhile, people approach from the sides and stab them to death with swords. The hide is used for crafts and the meat for food. When tigers attack people, they aim for the throat and don't target other places. This is why they use such plates. ○ From the founding of America until now, Kaei 5 (mizunoe-ne year), the count is 4,855 years. There are no era names; they count the years

【Left Page】
using this number system. ○ There are no intercalary months. One year has 365 days, and every fourth year has 366 days. This is because there are variations in the sun's movement. Four months have thirty days, seven months have thirty-one days, one month has twenty-eight days, and in the fourth year there is one month with twenty-nine days. Japan's tenth month corresponds to America's twelfth month. Now it is the tenth month of the ne year. There are no ten celestial stems and twelve earthly branches. The cardinal and ordinal directions number thirty-two. Day and night consist of twenty-four hours. ○ Gold is called "gold." One piece of currency gold equals ten pieces of silver. Silver is also called "silver." One piece of silver equals one hundred copper coins. The copper coins are called "cents." Paper money is called "paper." It is white paper about eight sun long and three sun wide. ○ Lanterns and paper lanterns are made from tin, stone, glass, etc. The wicks use cotton thread. ○ Rouge and face powder are rarely used. ○ White sugar comes from sugar cane - when you cut into the main trunk, juice comes out, and when you put it in a pot and boil it, white sugar is produced. ○ Wood for making barrels is as hard as oak, and the hoops are made with iron bands. ○ Steamships burn firewood in the ship's bottom, and the steam turns wheels, with wheels on both sides, and the ship sails as if flying from the rotational force. This ship is called a "steamboat." There are also ships that travel on land