【Right Page】
There are also [trains]. The name is "railroad" (shirou-hame). To transport cargo, they pull many house-shaped boxes about three ken long on both sides behind the main car. The route this train travels has iron laid on the roadway. Of course there are also relay stations. The main car is about twenty to fifty ken long. ○ For correspondence, they don't use couriers. They set up poles every chō and attach wire to them. There is a mechanism by which document boxes travel along these wires, and this too is as fast as flying. There are also relay systems on foot. ○ Textile machines, cotton spinning wheels for cloth, pulling lumber, etc. are all made with mechanical devices. ○ Shops are surrounded by stone and glass sliding doors, with various goods displayed inside, making them like exhibitions that can be viewed. ○ Umbrellas are shaped like Japanese ones. Of course there are large and small sizes, covered with cotton. The ribs are made from whale fins. Raincoats are made of woolen cloth. ○ Other medical treatments are the same as in Japan. They don't perform moxibustion treatment. Depending on the illness, they draw blood from the arm. Also, vaccination is commonly practiced by them. Surgery is like what was transmitted to Japan. Smallpox is not feared. ○ South A-

【Left Page】
At the edge of South America, there are three motionless clouds above a strait. There is always one white cloud and two black clouds. ○ In the area of the Ootah region, only northeast winds blow year-round. ○ A certain island is called "Kinshimerugerezu." There are no iron implements in the fields; they use stone for blades and make boats. They carve out the inside of logs about three ken long. When viewed from a distance, the boats look as if made from animal hide. ○ From Spain(?) to Nagasaki by sea route is about 15,000 ri by Japanese measurement. One Japanese ri is set at fifty-six chō. ○ Between North America and Mexico there is a country called Texas. Many gathered from various directions and it became a war, and we saw from about one Japanese ri offshore from our ship the distant gunfire exchange from the west. It was truly a violent affair. This war was finally won by America. ○ They don't say "how many ken" or "how many jō." They always call everything "how many shaku" using shaku measurements. There is something called "distance land." Its length is sixteen and a half shaku. This is also called "poles-fades." The shaku is the same as Japanese curved shaku.