【Right page】
　　　26th day of the 3rd month　　　　　　　　　　Hori Nagato-no-kami
Item: At my residence in Matsumoto, Shinano Province, from around the fourth hour of the night on the 24th day,
　the earthquake was severe. On the following 25th day, although there were no particular incidents, the effects reached
　distant areas, and tremors continue to this day. The castle interior shows no particular problems, but there are
　damaged areas in samurai residences and various other places in towns and countryside.
　Conditions in distant areas are still unclear. I first submit this report.
　Details will be reported later. The above.

　　　27th day of the 3rd month　　　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Tanba-no-kami
　In the territory of Matsudaira Iga-no-kami in Shinano Province, from around the hour of the boar on the 24th of last month, due to earthquake,
　houses in villages of Inariyama in Sarashina District collapsed, and from these collapsed
【Left page】
　houses fire broke out, burning down more than an entire village. Post-horse relay services cannot function. In addition,
　in Chiisagata District there are collapsed houses and damaged areas, with deaths of people and horses. Even reaching the 26th,
　tremors occur from time to time, as reported by local officials. Although
　details will be reported later, regarding the matter of Inariyama villages, as they are post stations,
　and since Iga-no-kami is currently stationed in Osaka, I first submit this report. The above.
　　　1st day of the 4th month　　　　　　　　　　　From Matsudaira Iga-no-kami's household
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōshima Kuni-no-jō
Item: At my residence Matsushiro in Shinano Province, from around the hour of the boar on the 24th day before yesterday, due to the great earthquake,
　residential quarters within the castle as well as turrets, enclosures, moats, etc. suffered extensive damage. Retainer residences in the castle town,
　townhouses, domain villages, and other administered areas had numerous collapsed houses and many deaths.
　Particularly in rural areas there were also fires. Moreover, in mountainous areas there were landslides and collapses into the Sai River.