【Right page】
In my administrative area, from the hour of the dog to the hour of the boar on the night of the 24th of this month, there was a great earthquake with
continuous tremors, with earthquakes occurring intermittently. On the following 25th at the hour of the rabbit, it gradually
subsided, but there were ground ruptures and collapses, muddy water gushing out, collapsed houses, deaths of people, cattle and horses,
many missing persons, some entire households perished, extensive injuries, and some villages where all houses
collapsed. As reports of these unprecedented disasters continue to arrive,
regarding the villages under my jurisdiction, there were only damaged houses,
but the administrative office itself suffered no particular damage. Details will be reported later. The above.

　　Last day of the 3rd month　　　　　　　　　　　Takagi Shirō-zaemon

Item: On the 24th of this month, day and night were clear and extremely calm, but that same night
　from around the fourth hour [10 PM], due to a great earthquake, at my administrative compound in Nakajō village in Shinano, the brick walls
【Left page】
　collapsed in various places. In addition, among the farmhouses in villages near the administrative headquarters, those of weaker construction,
　the lower houses and surroundings collapsed. The shaking was severe, continuing for a while, then gradually
　stopped, but from then on there were continuous minor tremors. From the direction north
　of the administrative office, there were sounds like thunder. Until dawn,
　there were approximately eighty tremors. The next morning it became somewhat quiet, but even now
　the tremors have not completely stopped. In the villages of Minochi District under my administration, there are also
　collapsed houses and injured people, but no formal complaints have been filed yet. From rumors I have been hearing,
　in the Kawanakajima area of the same province, around Zenkō-ji Temple and southward, in the area called Yamashiro,
　one district suffered severe earthquakes. In the Kawanakajima area, entire villages of private houses,
　or more than half, collapsed, and moreover due to fires, some
　villages were completely burned down. In one village, out of about 300-400 people, some 200-300 died instantly