【Left Page】
　　　《Title: Preface》
　The distinguished achievements of the late Dr. Haga Yaichi, Professor Emeritus of Tokyo Imperial University, who long served in charge of the Japanese Language and Literature course at Tokyo University, guiding numerous students and serving as a pioneer of new research in our nation's literary studies, contributing to the academic world, need no elaboration at this point. In March of Taisho 11 (1922), he was relieved of his official position at his own request due to illness, but regardless of whether one knew the doctor personally or not, there was no one who did not regret losing him from the academic podium. Therefore, a proposal arose among the doctor's acquaintances and disciples to undertake a project in Japanese literary studies as a memorial to the doctor, and in March of the 12th year (1923), this association was established and began fundraising. Along the way, we encountered the great earthquake and fire disaster, but fortunately we were able to raise funds totaling over five thousand yen. The executive committee then immediately planned to use this fund and its interest to create a comprehensive collection of commentaries on The Tale of Genji, and decided to entrust research toward this goal to promising young scholars. With Dr. Haga's approval, it was decided to commission this work to Mr. Ikeda Kikan, Bachelor of Literature.
　From the time Bachelor of Literature Ikeda accepted this commission, he devoted himself day and night to the collection of materials and their study. As his research gradually progressed, he came to doubt the textual variants cited in the ancient commentaries, and came to keenly realize that unless the foundation of original text research was first solidified, complete research of the various commentaries would be difficult to achieve. The executive committee also accepted this view, so he came to engage in original text research as the first phase of the project.
　Since then, he has concentrated his main efforts on searching for and collecting original texts, seeking them widely throughout the country, and as he obtained them, either copying them by hand or photographing them,
　　　　　Preface　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1