【Right Page】
　　　　　Preface　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2
His meticulous research, covering almost every existing valuable resource and neglecting not a single character, reached unprecedented territory, and in Showa 6 (1931) he finally completed the first draft of the Textual Variants of The Tale of Genji. However, he was not satisfied with this, and layering research upon research, revising the manuscript multiple times, he reached the final manuscript in Showa 7 (1932).
　At this point, a proposal arose to hold an exhibition of this manuscript together with important selections from the old manuscripts, printed books, copied manuscripts, photographs, films and other materials he had collected over the years, both to report on the project to members and to serve as reference for the general academic world. This was entrusted to the Tokyo University Japanese Literature Research Room and the Murasaki Shikibu Society. Thus, on November 19th and 20th of that year, a total of 678 items were classified into four sections: Part I, various texts of The Tale of Genji; Part II, various commentaries on The Tale of Genji; Part III, general research works on The Tale of Genji; Part IV, materials concerning the influence of The Tale of Genji, and were made available for viewing by members and many from the general academic world.
　Thus the Textual Variants of The Tale of Genji finally reached the publication stage, but the publication of such a massive classical critical edition presents considerable difficulties in typesetting and proofreading, and moreover requires setting aside profit considerations, so we encountered formidable obstacles in its realization. The executive committee repeatedly held discussions with Mr. Ikeda to devise methods, but while we could not easily find suitable means, years passed by several times.
　Eventually the executive committee resolved that, as a temporary measure, they had no choice but to donate the manuscript as it was to Tokyo Imperial University under the name of the Haga Memorial Society for the research of various scholars, and if Mr. Ikeda had intentions regarding publication, to leave it entirely to him. However, Mr. Ikeda did not abandon his original intention of publication, believing that only by carrying this out could he truly complete his assigned mission. He redoubled his determination, further revised the manuscript, devised the difficult task of reforming it into a form with the greatest publication potential while not diminishing its academic value, and worked tirelessly for its publication. Fortunately, Mr. Shimanaka Yusaku, president of Chuo Koron Company, was moved by his sincerity, showed deep understanding and sympathy for this difficult undertaking, and promised to undertake its publication following the completion of Mr. Tanizaki's translation of The Tale of Genji.
【Left Page】
With this promise, Mr. Ikeda added the project of creating a detailed vocabulary index to ensure the perfection of this undertaking, and came to devote himself to the final organization of the manuscript, forgetting food and sleep. Thus, this Textual Variants of The Tale of Genji, which had unavoidably remained buried for many years, together with Mr. Ikeda's many years of hardship, finally came to see the light of day. The executive committee was also able to feel as if they could look up at the autumn sky for the first time in a long while.
　During this time, he used subsidies from our association and the Toshogu Memorial Society to cover the collection, copying, and photographing of some materials, travel expenses required for this, and the cost of producing manuscript paper. These materials are kept by our association, but needless to say the personnel costs and all other miscellaneous expenses that he required for this project over more than ten years, and the collection, copying, and photographing of most materials, he invested his private wealth, and moreover mobilized his father and entire family to cooperate in this difficult undertaking, devoting himself single-mindedly to its completion—this was to a degree that could hardly be expressed with ordinary words of sacrifice.
　During this period, in February of Showa 2 (1927), Dr. Haga passed away, and that he could not see the publication of this book as the first phase completion of this project is a matter of eternal regret, and is extremely unfortunate and inexcusable to the members. However, we earnestly request that members please understand the nature and results of this project and the circumstances described above, and grant us your forgiveness. Furthermore, we report here that Mr. Ikeda plans to continue his research independently and publish the second and third phases of this project, and that part of that research has already been completed.
　The Imperial Household Ministry granted opportunities to view and photograph imperial treasures, and the Takamatsu Imperial Family graciously permitted the viewing and photographing of manuscripts in the imperial family's collection. We are truly filled with awe at such gracious imperial encouragement of academic research. Moreover, there are very many people who assisted Mr. Ikeda's research and aided in the publication of this project. The Toshogu Tercentenary Memorial Society provided research funding, and beginning with the Imperial Household Ministry Library, the houses of Duke Konoe, Marquis Maeda, Marquis Tokugawa, Count Sanjonishi, Viscount Sakakibara, and Mr. Oshima Masataro—
　　　　　Preface　　　　　　　　　　　　　　3