【Right Page】
　　　　　Preface　　　　　　　　　　　　　　4
Mr. Yokoyama Keijiro, Mr. Hirase Riku, Mr. Hosaka Junji, Mr. Sasaki Nobutsuna, Mr. Takano Tatsuyuki, Mr. Nishishita Keiichi, Mr. Nanami Hyokichi, Mr. Tomita Sensuke, Mr. Miyazaki Hanbei, Mr. Iijima Shunkei, Mr. Haseba Junkei, Horaiji Temple, Manshu-in Temple, and the Seikado Library permitted the lending, copying, and photographing of valuable materials, enabling us to adopt them in this book. Besides these, there are very many others who facilitated the collection of materials required for various forms of textual research in the compilation of this book.
　Moreover, those who assisted Mr. Ikeda and provided convenience in the collection of materials, copying, photography, collation, vocabulary research, manuscript preparation, proofreading, and so forth number very many, but to mention the principal ones: Bachelor of Literature Matsuda Takeo, Otsu Yuichi, Matsuo Satoshi, Suzuki Chitaro, Sakurai Yuzo, Iwashimizu Takashi, Matsumura Seiichi, Kiyota Masaki, Osafune Shogo, Shimizu Fumio, Takemura Yoshikazu, Tanaka Tsunemasa, Hagitani Boku, Nakasei Tetsu, Oguroyama Hei, Sakai Hisao, Arisaka Nagao, Mizukoshi Sakujiro, Takahashi Soichi, Kida Sonoko, and Okuno Akiko. These people devoted their efforts for periods ranging from one year at the shortest to more than ten years at the longest.
　Moreover, the noble spirit of the president of Chuo Koron Company overcame all the difficulties of the current situation and finally made the publication of this book possible. Regarding the practical matters of publication and printing, we troubled Mr. Kiuchi Takane and Mr. Aizawa Tadashi of Chuo Koron Company, and Mr. Kohiki Kunimasa of Seikosya Company. The existence of this project today owes very much to the goodwill and assistance of these people. We hereby respectfully express our gratitude.
　　　　April, Showa 16 (1941)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Executive Committee of the Dr. Haga Yaichi Memorial Society
【Left Page】
　　　Guide to the Textual Variants of The Tale of Genji
　　　　　　　　Texts Adopted for Textual Variants
　The various texts adopted for the textual variants in this book were selected from among the many existing manuscripts based on the results of strict comparative research. For Aoboyoshi texts, they are generally manuscripts up to around the Yoshino period; for Kawachi texts, generally manuscripts up to around the Kamakura period; for Beppon (variant texts), generally manuscripts up to around the Muromachi period, though items deemed particularly important did not necessarily follow these limitations.
　Even among manuscripts of The Tale of Genji that have all fifty-four chapters complete, it is rare for all of them to possess text of the same lineage. In extreme cases, there even exist manuscripts where some chapters have Aoboyoshi lineage text, some chapters have Kawachi lineage text, and some chapters have Beppon lineage text. Therefore, the lineages of the various texts adopted for the textual variants in this book are detailed at the beginning of each chapter. What follows below is a comprehensive table of the abbreviations, abbreviated titles, scribes, and owners of the various texts adopted for the textual variants in this book, divided into Aoboyoshi texts, Kawachi texts, and Beppon texts, but since this merely indicates to which lineage each text primarily belongs, detailed information should be referenced in the table at the beginning of each chapter. For works by multiple scribes, individual scribes are not listed here but are deferred to the table at the beginning of each chapter.
Aoboyoshi Texts
　Tei　Teika text　　　Written by Fujiwara no Teika　　　　　　　Collection of the Maeda Marquis House
　　　　　Guide　　　　　　　　　　　　　1