1. Among those who ascended to the castle for the musical performance, those of jijū rank and above wore hitatare, fourth court rank wore kariginu, fifth court rank wore
   daimon, those without court rank wore suhō, and officials wore ho'i
1. His Lordship appeared in the great hall《marginal note: wearing ko-nōshi, imperial yellow (turmeric color)｜hakama in deep purple shimatedukuri pattern》
　　　Imperial sword《marginal note: this is a scabbard-wrapped imperial sword》　Ōsawa Uemon-no-suke
　　　Imperial blade《marginal note: regular imperial sword》　Miyahara Gyōbu-dayū
1. The upper dais《marginal note: three thick tatami wrapped with gold thread, with large tassels at the four corners｜white and red silk twisted tonbō knots, with imperial cushion and sword rack》
1. Bamboo blinds were hung
1. After the lord's seating, in the rear seats were the imperial sword bearer, imperial blade bearer Manabe Echizen-no-kami,
   and the pages lined up
1. The close attendants and privy chamber attendants remained in the privy chamber structure
1. The junior councilors waited in attendance at the veranda side
1. Matsudaira Higo-no-kami (senior councilor) and Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami were seated in the fourth section of the lower level
1. Behind the bamboo blinds, the inner pages raised the blinds, and after the opening music concluded, the blinds were lowered
   Satsuma-no-kami withdrew to the secondary chamber, the Ryukyuans withdrew to the palace chamber, and the screens of the Pine Chamber were drawn
1. Again Satsuma-no-kami appeared for audience, which was announced by the chief page, he was summoned to the middle level,
   the senior councilors coordinated and made their report, received the lord's words and withdrew, then
   standing at the edge of the lower level flooring, the audience with lords of ten thousand koku and above and all others
   was completed, and the lord withdrew
1. For Satsuma-no-kami, a meal was served in the Maple Chamber, with senior councilors in attendance exchanging greetings
　　　Entertainment magistrate　　　　One chief
　　　Service attendants　　　　　　　Gift officials
1. For both envoys, a meal was served in the lower section of the palace chamber, with senior councilors in attendance exchanging greetings. At this time