They came forward to offer their respects, received the御流 (go-ryū) sake cups, and were given御長蚫 (go-chōsen, dried abalone) through intermediaries. After this was completed, the yoriki (assistant officials) and various officials had their respects received, were given large-style sake cups, and御長蚫 through intermediaries. In the Teppō-no-ma (gun room), from the court physicians to the court painters offered their respects, received sake cups, and were given御長蚫. In the Dattan-no-ma (Tartar room), the inner pages and outer pages offered their respects, received御流 sake cups, and were given御長蚫 through intermediaries. In the Long Hearth Room, the horse keepers, construction officials, page supervisors, foot soldiers, falconers, record keepers, horse doctors, and food tasters all sat together in rows and offered their respects.

1. On the same day, as New Year's congratulations, following the precedent of the previous generation, through the messenger and council member Sakai Jūnosuke (Genchika), a ceremonial sword and horse代 (yellow gold, ten ryō) were presented.
　　　　　　Note: Jūnosuke departed from the domain on the 6th day of the previous December

1. On January 2nd, in the御座の間 (lord's sitting room), starting with Honda Asajirō (Naganori) and other eldest sons of senior retainers, they brought ceremonial swords and catalogs to offer New Year's respects, received sake cups, and were given御長蚫. In the書院 (study), eldest sons of those of hakama rank and above brought swords and catalogs to offer respects, received御流 sake cups, and were given御長蚫. After this, starting with Takachi's younger brother through to番外 (irregular ranks) and second sons, they offered respects, received御流 sake cups, and were given御長蚫. From the various military commanders to the eldest and younger sons of the guard units, they offered respects, received御流 sake cups, and were given御長蚫 through intermediaries.

1. On the night of the 3rd of the same month, at the御座所 (lord's quarters), there was a celebration for the first Noh chanting of the year, and sake cups from the senior retainers