2. Organization and Facilities of the Temporary Earthquake Relief Office・・・・31
3. Security Situation・・・・・・・・・・・・・・32
4. Supply Distribution Situation・・・・・・・・・・39
5. Shelter and Accommodation Facilities・・・・・・・52
6. Medical and Sanitary Conditions・・・・・・・・・59
7. Transportation, Logistics, and Communication・・・・70
8. Information Publication・・・・・・・・・・・・87
9. Charitable Donations・・・・・・・・・・・・・88
10. Financial Administration・・・・・・・・・・・94

Chapter 1: Earthquake Damage Situation
1. Overview
The prefectures that suffered damage from the earthquake disaster following the first severe tremor at 11:58 AM on September 1, Taisho 12 (1923) were Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba, Saitama, Shizuoka, Yamanashi, and Ibaraki - one metropolitan prefecture and six prefectures. Since accurate surveys of the number of affected households and population have not yet been conducted, reliable statistical figures cannot be obtained. However, a separate table has been compiled by comprehensively estimating various surveys and reports up to the present day. This is not the result of an accurate survey, and since there was no unified survey of damage types across prefectures, accurate statistical observation and comparative analysis of damage scale cannot be made based on this data, though it can provide a general overview.

The total number of affected households in the six prefectures outside Tokyo Prefecture exceeded 680,000, accounting for just over 32% of the total households in the one prefecture and six prefectures. Tokyo and Kanagawa were particularly severely affected, with the proportion of damaged households reaching 52% in Tokyo Prefecture and 64% in Kanagawa Prefecture. Since these figures represent rough calculations of considerable damage or worse, if all damage were to be included, the proportion would increase even more dramatically. In areas like Tokyo and Kanagawa, virtually all households suffered some form of damage without exception. Moreover, it is completely impossible to know exactly how many households suffered total collapse, partial collapse, or damage solely due to the earthquake, because total collapse, partial collapse...