The vacant house at No. 4, the earthen walls beside the collapsed gate at Daibutsu, and others all crumbled. The roof-tile kilns in Daibutsu Kawaramachi were more than half destroyed, and the tiles already manufactured were also greatly damaged. There was extensive damage to pottery kilns and ceramics in Awata, Gojōzaka, and other areas. At one pottery kiln in Daibutsu Umamachi, the kiln collapsed while firing was in progress, and the fire spread to a neighboring small house, threatening to become a serious incident. However, the pottery workers who were present gathered together and barely managed to extinguish it, thus averting a fiery tragedy. In any case, this was a rare earthquake for Kyoto; even while writing this article, several minor tremors occurred, and so the author lays down the brush with a cry of "Manzairaku! Manzairaku!" (This section is based on the Hinode Shimbun.)

●The Earthquake in Ōtsu City　In Ōtsu City, Shiga Prefecture, a great earthquake struck on the same day at the same time. Its character was somewhat sudden and violent, and citizens rushed to flee outdoors—the commotion was no different from other places. The Shiga Prefectural Government Office was among the first to suffer damage; the damaged areas included the main hall, the Governor's secretariat, the clerk's room, the head of internal affairs' office, the First Section, the Third Section, the tax collection department, the assembly hall, and others. The eastern fireplace chimney collapsed, the arch of the Third Section on the upper floor also crumbled, and cracks appeared in the walls in numerous places. The Normal School, Ōtsu Garrison, Ōtsu Schools, and others fortunately suffered no significant damage. However, four or five pottery shops in Kawaguchi-chō within the city suffered enormous losses as their displayed ceramics all fell from shelves and shattered. The chimney of the Ōmi Hemp Yarn Spinning Company in Baba Village was destroyed in its upper section. At the residence of Takahashi Ikujirō in the same village, plaster fell from inside the ceiling, injuring his father Jintarō in the face and right arm. The roof-tile kiln of tile-maker Inoue Yahei in Matsumoto Village burst due to the earthquake, and the nearby rented residence also suffered some damage. The large stone torii gate at Tennson Shrine in Shinomiya-chō tilted about three sun (approximately 9 cm) southward from its middle joint. Stone lanterns at Gichūji Temple, Mio Shrine, and other shrines mostly toppled and shattered. Beyond these, tile and wall collapses, the overturning of high walls, and so on were too numerous to list, but fortunately there were reportedly no fatalities whatsoever.

●The Earthquake in Hikone Town　The earthquake in Hikone Town, Ōmi Province, was somewhat more violent in force than that in Ōtsu. In households throughout the town, items placed on shelves were shaken off, walls cracked, high fences toppled, and the displacement of sliding doors and paper screens was among the lesser damages. Twenty-four houses were completely destroyed and fifty-four were half-destroyed. Those who were crushed to death beneath collapsed buildings were: Ōno Matsūemon (age 60) of Aza Nakayabu, Kita-Aoyagi Village, Inukami District; Katano Jirōkichi's younger sister Taki (age 6) of Kamikatabara, Aza Nakayabu, Hikone Town; and Agui Sutekichi's eldest son Jinnosuke (age 8) of Dobashi, Aza Nakayabu, Hikone Town—three persons in total, all of whom met a tragic end, struck by ridge beams and the like. Those who were injured included: Sotomura Gaiya (age 52) of Aza Nakayabu, Kita-Aoyagi Village; Kobayashi Sutekichi's birth mother Sono (age 62) of Dobashi, Nakayabu, Hikone Town; Agui Sutekichi's mother Wae (age 62) of the same town; Kamakura Sue of Aza Anyōji, the same town…