(Continued from previous page) …such events occurred. These are thought to have perhaps been precursors to the earthquake.

●The Earthquake at Yokkaichi Town　Around this time, many reports of earthquakes were coming in from various regions, and people had been observing intense lightning flashing in the southeastern sky every night. As this was the thirty-seventh year — exactly three cycles — since the great Ansei Earthquake, people had been anxious that some calamity might occur. It was precisely at around 6:36 a.m. on the 28th that a great earthquake suddenly struck. The duration of the tremor was seven minutes, its direction was northeast, and small tremors continued unabated thereafter. Seventeen houses were completely destroyed, nine partially destroyed, nineteen locations had eaves fall from storehouses and dwellings, ten locations had damaged embankments, and the chimneys of most factories collapsed. There were casualties among people and livestock, though details remained unclear. Near the harbor, the ground cracked in some places, and a steamship that had been sailing from the port toward Atsuta was unable to land its passengers due to the collapse of the coastline, and returned to port as it was. Furthermore, at the height of the tremors, every bird flying in the sky fell to the ground, and many fish in the water leapt out onto the surface.

●The Earthquake at Kuwana Town　To note two or three aspects of the damage in Kuwana town, the most devastated area was the place in Ōaza Tonomachi commonly called Ura-Tonomachi, where nineteen houses in a row collapsed. Fortunately, casualties among people and livestock were few, with only four injured persons reported. There were also about twenty other collapsed houses. The theater that fell was one called the "Shichimi-za." Several temples, shrines, and storehouses had tiles fall, eaves fly off, and became half-collapsed, but the number of injured was comparatively small and, including those from Tonomachi, likely amounted to about ten persons in total. However, the newly reclaimed land suffered extensive damage in general, with many areas of ground cracking. In the various villages of Kuwana District, not only were many houses and temples collapsed in the village of Nanato, but approximately fifty ken of the Katori embankment sank underground to the level of the water surface. The embankment along the Kiso River in Kusunoki Village subsided underground by four shaku across a stretch of several tens of chō, causing dozens of houses to collapse, and the elementary school was also destroyed. In Fukatani Village, one house collapsed and one person died. In Akasuka Village as well, it is said that four houses collapsed entirely and fourteen were half-destroyed.

●The Earthquake at Nara Town　In Nara Town, an earthquake occurred at around 6:37 a.m. on the 28th. A summary of the damage in the town includes: 10 houses, 3 gates, 13 earthen walls; 213 stone lanterns at the Kasuga Grand Shrine; and over 30 stone lanterns at other shrines and temples — all of which toppled. Three pillars of the Great Buddha's Niō-mon Gate tilted eastward by more than nine sun. The ground cracked for approximately twenty ken in the area west of Sanjō Station and east of the character Takahashi. In Kōryama Town, in addition to the ordinary elementary school building, sixteen houses completely or half-collapsed; approximately 250 locations of walls and fences were heavily damaged; one girl died instantly. In Katsu-ge District, one house collapsed. Other areas including Takada and Gojō also suffered no small amount of damage, and investigations were still ongoing. In the Shimoichi area, people all rushed up into the mountains to escape harm. In particular, the five-story pagoda by Sarusawa Pond swayed east and then west, and the carp in Sarusawa Pond leapt in great numbers onto the road — a spectacle that was yet another (remarkable sight to behold).