●Drying Up of Well Water: Present-day Fukui in Echizen was formerly called "Kitanosho," but since the name Kitanosho was considered ill-omened due to events such as the rebellion of Shibata Katsuie, the city was fortunately renamed Fukui after a well of that name from which natural water sprang forth. This well had existed until recently, but as a result of this great earthquake, the well water dried up completely, and the very origin of the name "Fukui" was thus lost. In addition to this, there were very many other places where well water dried up.
　Besides these, there were those who spread rumors at the time of the earthquake that Mount Tado was rumbling and that Mount Ibuki showed unusual signs, but these were said to be nothing more than speculation by those who had misheard underground rumblings.

◎Earthquake Damage to the Tōkai Railway
The damage sustained by the Tōkai Railway line in this great earthquake will amount to approximately one million yen. The Nagoya-Ōgaki line, where the seismic force was particularly strong along this railway, was laid mostly across flat plains, so the construction of embankments and cuttings was relatively straightforward. However, within this section there are the famous iron bridges spanning the three great rivers — the Kiso, Nagara, and Ibi — and in addition to the Biwajima River and other waterways, the number of small iron bridges spanning thirty to fifty ken is beyond counting. In particular, the Kiso River iron bridge cost more than 300,000 yen to construct, while the Nagara River bridge that collapsed this time was valued at over 204,000 yen. Initially, the engineers responsible for the area observed that the damage to the bridge piers (piers) was confined to just above the riverbed, and they believed the damage would not extend to the foundations. However, after digging through the riverbed sediment and carefully inspecting the damage, it was found that the brick cylinder wells (brick wells) of the Kiso River bridge piers, which extend to a depth of over fifty shaku underground, had all cracked, and some had twisted one to two shaku from their foundations, completely shifting from their original positions. Therefore, the damage was greater in places dozens of feet underground — where human eyes cannot easily see — than in the portions visible above water, making it clear that thorough repairs could not be achieved without completely rebuilding the bridge piers. Thus, in cases such as the Nagara River bridge, where the cast-iron piers were completely destroyed, work equivalent to constructing an entirely new iron bridge would be required. Furthermore, even small iron bridges that appear outwardly sound would mostly require major repairs due to extensive damage underground. It is said that the day when all these repairs are fully completed will be nearly one year from now. The state of track damage within each district area is listed below in general terms:

Ōbu–Nagoya Section: The stations of Ōbu and Ōtaka show no abnormalities in their buildings, but the bridge piers of the Tenpaku River iron bridge to the north of these stations were severed at two locations at the waterline, producing millstone-shaped misalignments. Atsuta Station's main station building, the stationmaster's residence, and other structures all tilted and collapsed.

Nagoya–Gifu Section: At Nagoya Station, the main building, freight warehouse, and platform roofing collapsed, the passenger car shed tilted, and the locomotive shed's brick [continues on next page]