This is merely minor evidence of the weakness of the structures themselves, and one should not necessarily conclude that these were the areas of strongest seismic intensity. Take, for example, the Nagoya post office and the spinning mills — is there any reason to suppose that only this particular ground in all of Nagoya was subjected to exceptionally violent shaking? Similarly, the very numerous cracks observed in roads built on reclaimed land in rice paddies and in river embankments are to be explained by the same principle.

As stated previously, a graben consists of several parallel fault lines forming a belt-like zone. Therefore, it is quite possible that among the settlements on the ground within the Ise Bay graben, some naturally sit directly above or near the seams where these minor faults meet. If a settlement is situated at such a location, it stands to reason that it would experience more intense shaking than others. That is to say, in the several towns and villages indicated previously, and in Echizen — to the north of Hakusan near Fukui, in Imadate and Ōno districts; to the south of Hakusan in the Neodani Valley; and in the lands of Nō, Sei, and Bi [Mino, Ise, and Owari] belonging to this graben belt; and among others located within the belt, such as the flat lands of Azai and Sakada districts to the east of Lake Biwa; and in Mikawa, the Hazu, Atsumi, and Nukata regions — the particular severity of disaster is, I believe, attributable to this very reason.

　　　Disturbances at Sea (Large Waves)

The seismic shaking on land became known through communications from various localities. However, the situation at sea was different. Unless one happened to be aboard a vessel sailing near Ise Bay at the time, one would not have felt it, and reports were limited to such chance encounters; consequently, few people in the world were aware of it. Fortunately, I was able to obtain an account from a certain scholar who, on the 29th of last month, encountered large waves in the waters off Tōtōmi Province while returning to Tokyo from Yokkaichi. I shall summarize this account below.

　At the time the earthquake struck, the scholar was en route from Takefu in Echizen to Tsuruga. Under calm, windless conditions, a sudden great wind arose, swirling up sand and dust, and simultaneously there came a thunderous roaring sound. He was riding in a vehicle and felt strong shaking, while boulders tumbled down from the sides of a newly cut road. On the road leading to Kanegasaki station, a great many roadside embankments had collapsed. That night, while lodging in Maibara, he felt tremors approximately once every fifteen minutes. From there, he proceeded to Kusatsu, took the Kansai Railway to Yokkaichi, where the Suruga Maru — which was due to arrive from Tokyo at nine in the morning — did not enter port until four in the afternoon. It weighed anchor at eight that evening, passed Cape Irago, and entered the waters off Tōtōmi Province, where the vessel pitched and rolled severely. Yet the weather was clear and the barometer showed no unusual readings. When the light of Cape Omaezaki came into distant view, the captain, fearing for the safety of the vessel, turned back to Yokkaichi. On the eastward leg, the ship had maintained a course more than six nautical miles offshore; on the return westward leg, the distance was a mere three nautical miles — sufficient evidence that the vessel had been pushed toward shore. Furthermore, another vessel...