On the day before the earthquake, when passing through Enshu-nada (the sea off Tōtōmi Province), the sea water west of Cape Omaezaki had appeared black in color, and the crew members were rumoring among themselves that perhaps a volcano had erupted on one of the islands of the South Seas. The Suruga Maru, on the following day, passed through Enshu-nada again, and although the waves were still high, proceeded on the grounds that there was no danger like the previous day, and by the time it passed Cape Omaezaki, the waves had subsided and conditions had returned to normal. It is also reported that vessels heading westward from Tokyo turned back midway on account of these rough seas.

These high waves are what seafarers call "great sea waves" (tsunamis), and that they are the result of changes in the sea floor is described in detail by Mr. Foster in his theory of earthquake origins, under the section on the subsidence of the Gulf of Corinth in Greece, where the sudden turbidity of seawater is also mentioned. A recent example of sailors encountering such great sea waves is the report from fishermen at the time of the Kumamoto earthquake, and similar events are said to occur frequently in the West as well.

It is somewhat difficult to explain why no reports of high tides were obtained along the shores of Ise Bay and other coastal areas of the open sea. However, the cause of this agitation was not in the distant islands of the South Seas; rather, unless it extended along the seafloor of the depression zone where this earthquake was felt, could it not be a phenomenon of ground movement induced by this earthquake, originating from a fault or depression in the sea off Mikawa and Tōtōmi Provinces that we have not yet investigated? I shall record this here for the time being and await future investigation.

　　　　Cause of the Earthquake

No phenomena that might be considered as volcanic activity in connection with the cause of this earthquake were discovered in the areas through which this official traveled; indeed, what was observed was generally contrary to such an explanation. Specifically: the fact that the volcanic vein is distant from the zone of strong shaking; the fact that the collapse of houses and other buildings, and the surface cracks, showed no consistent direction (unlike the case of the Kumamoto earthquake); the fact that there were no notable emissions of gas; the fact that there was no identifiable epicenter; the fact that the area of shaking was very wide; and the fact that the zone of strong shaking was not circular but elongated in a north-south direction—these are the reasons. As for subsidence, since this too is limited to a localized area, it is naturally not the cause either. There are those who identify the Neodani Valley, where damage was most severe in one section, as the epicenter; but might it not be closer to the truth that this was a localized subsidence earthquake induced by the present earthquake? All the more so given that it is said that cave-like formations had previously existed in the mountains. Furthermore, those who advance this theory insist on the earliness of the time of occurrence, but this official, during a geological reconnaissance survey nineteen years ago, passed through here on the way to Echizen Province, and found it to be a poor, isolated hamlet where there was not necessarily a traveler's inn in every village—