【Header Note】
The ninth volume of the Azuma Kagami (Mirror of the East) states:
On the day of kinoe-ne (甲子) in the twelfth month of Bunji 5 (1189), Hirooto (Ōe no Hiromoto), the Former Governor of Inaba, went up to the capital as an envoy, and so forth. Regarding the three districts of Iwai, Isawa, and Esashi, seeds and other agricultural supplies are to be sent from the northern side of the mountains to the agricultural districts, and so forth.

The same work's tenth volume states:
On the sixth day (辛酉) of the first month of Bunji 6 (1190), Kanetō, the Second Son of the Ōkawa clan, a retainer of the late Yasuhira of Ōshū, and his followers, having plotted rebellion since the previous winter: some calling themselves Yoshitsune, Governor of Iyo, emerged from the Kaibe Manor in Dewa Province; others, calling themselves Asahi Kanja, the eldest son of Yoshinaka, Lord of the Left Stables, rose up in the Yamakita district of the same province. Each gathering rebel factions, Kanetō ultimately set out toward Kamakura with his eldest son Tsurутарō, second son Kinai Jirō, and over seven thousand mounted rebels, their route passing through Kahoku, the foot of Akita Castle, and so forth.

This reference to "the district of Yamakita" most likely refers collectively to the three districts of Ogachi, Hiraka, and Yamamoto, called together "Yamakita district."

【Main Text】
　　　　　Moon's Dewa Road　　《Annotation: The Senboku District Section》

"Senboku" was not originally a district name; it was likely a place name used in contrast between Yamakita (Mountain North) and Kawakita (River North), referring to east and west respectively. "Kawakita" may have referred to places like Noshiro and Hinoyama. On ancient Buddhist statues and old utensils, the characters for "Kawakita" can be found carved or written. Considering this further, the Sandai Jitsuroku (Veritable Records of Three Reigns), Volume 37, Leaf 5, states: "Yamakita: the three districts of Ogachi, Hiraka, and Yamamoto." In the present age, these three districts are collectively referred to as "Senboku," reading the characters for Yamakita with their Sino-Japanese (on'yomi) readings. The Wamyō Ruijushō (Japanese Names for Things Classified) also shows the name "Yamakita" in the Ikuha District of Chikugo Province; similar place names likely exist elsewhere as well.

At some point, the "Yamakita" of Dewa Province began to be read in the Sino-Japanese manner as "Senboku," and then this was also written as "Sanboku" (山乏, meaning "mountain-scarce"), and since the character 乏 (meaning "scarce/lacking") was felt to be inappropriate, it was changed to "Senbuku" (千福, meaning "thousand blessings")—this change does not appear to be entirely recent, as it can be seen in both the Azuma Kagami and the Shasekishū (Collection of Sand and Pebbles). "Yamakita" most likely refers to being in the shadow (on the north side) of Mount Komagata《where the Komagata deity, a nationally registered shrine of Mutsu Province, is enshrined》. The current characters "仙北" (Senboku) have mostly been in use since around the Tenshō era (1573–1593). Today, the name has become firmly established as a district name, with the ancient Yamamoto district now being counted and incorporated into the category of Senboku district. There are likely many more matters worth further investigation.