【Right Page】
【Header Notes】
In the southern part of Michinoku, there is a mountain called Sennin-toge (Hermit's Pass). In a mountain village called Ikada in Hiraka District of Dewa Province, there is a shrine to Sennin Gongen (the Hermit Deity), but its origins are not clearly known.

【Main Text】
It is the horse-shape formed by snow. For this reason it is also called Kasuge-ga-take (written variously as "kasu" or "kasumi"), and this name is also used as the village name at the foot of the mountain. It is said that this village name came from the fact that a swift horse of white kasuge coloring was born here; however, looking at the dappled pattern of the snow horse that appears, one can see a kasuge-colored horse standing on the mountainside. It seems most appropriate that the mountain be called Komagatake based on this snow formation. Furthermore, it is recorded in detail in the Shinchomon-ju (New Collection of Curious Tales) that a sacred horse still exists today at Komagatake in Shinano Province, and the appearance of the snow horse formation there has been reported by people from Ina District in that province. The areas around the foothills of the sacred Mount Koma in Michinoku were formerly called "Komagata-no-sho" throughout both Dewa and Mutsu Provinces. The people at the foot of the mountain make annual pilgrimages to this sacred Koma Mountain, performing purification rituals for the sacred peak. Also, the consort of Lord Kanpaku Hidetsugu was the daughter of Mogami Yoshiakira, and was called "O-Koma-mae" (Lady Koma) — perhaps this name was inspired by Mount Komagata? It is said that long ago there was a divine hermit (kami) at Komagatake, and because this divine hermit dwelt there, the name "Yamakita" (Mountain North) was rewritten and changed to "Senboku" (Hermit North). At Komagatake, a divine hermit still resides today, and that place is also called Sennin Gongen (Hermit Deity), and this deity is said to be enshrined in various locations. This divine hermit is said to be Hitachibō Kaison. Occasionally, woodcutters and mountain folk say they have seen him. Also, the Seietsū Monogatari (Tales of Seietsū) states regarding the final fate of Yoshitsune, etc.: the funeral rites were established at Numagura, within Sannō-no-hazama, at the residence of Ōkura-dono,

【Left Page】
【Main Text】
and Yoshitsune's remains were conveyed on a portable shrine (mikoshi), with Yoritomo on horseback in solemn procession, escorting him all the way to Numagura. The remains of Benkei, the Suzuki brothers, Sato Saburo Yoshinobu, his brother Shiro Yoshitada, and Kanefusa — ten persons in total — were also laid to rest in an equivalent manner to the funeral procession of Lord Hangan (Yoshitsune). Yoritomo then departed for the capital. On the ninth day of the seventh month he entered the capital, and Yoritomo was appointed Seii Taishogun (Commander-in-Chief of the Expeditionary Force against the Barbarians). He returned on the twenty-fifth day of the tenth month. Then on the nineteenth day of the seventh month of Bunji 5 (1189), the year of Tsuchinoto-Tori, General Yoritomo once again dispatched forces to Hiraizumi. His forces numbered over 284,000 mounted warriors. This was for the purpose of punishing the descendants of Hidehira. Nishikido Taro was executed on the third day of the ninth month, and Senboku no Jiro — (perhaps recent pedants wrote "Senboku" when it should be "Yamakita") — was captured. The General issued a command, asking via messenger: "Why is it that in thirty days, the Oshu faction has not engaged this Yoritomo in battle?" Jiro came forward and spoke rudely and abusively, causing the messenger to become agitated. When this messenger reported exactly what had transpired, Yoritomo dispatched Shibata Shiro as a second messenger. Shibata went to Yamakita (in the battle records it appears as "Yuri no Jiro" — which is correct is unclear) and conveyed the Lord's command: "His lordship commands: why do you not fight freely against Yoritomo? Are you afraid..."