In addition, shrines and temples, and the earthen walls surrounding areas outside the capital have all been knocked down. There is not a single storehouse in or around the capital that remains undamaged. Among the temples, the Bukkōji monzeki (temple head) has been completely destroyed - truly beyond description. Throughout the capital and its outskirts, many people of all social ranks, men and women alike, have been injured, with some killed instantly. From the 3rd to the 6th, people of all ranks could not remain in their residences and all had to sleep outdoors in the streets or vacant lots. For three days, there was no distinction between day and night as people wept and lamented, their voices echoing through the fields and mountains. Furthermore, due to these circumstances, all well water has turned to mud, and river water is the same. During this intense late summer heat, drinking water has become scarce, causing great hardship for people of all ranks. Even for cooking rice, all the stoves have been completely smashed and are useless. Everywhere people are digging holes in the ground to cook. Gradually white rice is running out, and townspeople are

cooking brown rice to get by. Taking advantage of this chaos, bandits roam about. Moreover, although fire watch is maintained day and night, fires break out from time to time. It is truly difficult to write down all the damage to temples and shrines in detail.

1. The Tsuchimikado family makes daily divinations and reports to the court. On the 2nd of this month, they reported that some natural disaster would surely occur, most likely an earthquake. From early morning on the 2nd, they attended the court and reported that it would definitely be an earthquake. Because of this, preparations were made within the Imperial Palace. Therefore, there were no casualties at all. Both Imperial Palaces evacuated to their gardens and made full preparations, so the Tsuchimikado family gained great renown. Moreover, the shoshidai attended court from just before the earthquake began, and when the earthquake started, both御附町