The total number of people [who perished] remains impossible to determine, but in any case, it was a catastrophic event.

The neighboring post town of Inariyama-juku in Ueda domain, located to the west of Shiozaki village, was also destroyed by the earthquake and subsequently burned to the ground in the fires that followed. There were reportedly a great many immediate deaths among travelers and others, though the exact number is also unknown there. Rumors put the death toll at two or three thousand people. In other post towns and villages that were destroyed by fire, there were naturally a great many deaths as well.

Regarding the Sai River (犀川) in Shinano Province, the flow of water stopped during the great earthquake on the night of the 24th, and up until noon on the 26th, when we departed the area, there was no water whatsoever. This was said to be because the mountains on either side of the area, some seven or eight ri upstream from Tabajima-juku at a place called the Minoji Bridge (Kumejibashi), a type of drawbridge (hanebashi), had collapsed and blocked the Sai River. It was impossible to predict from which direction the floodwaters would come, and the residents along the river and in low-lying areas were evacuating one after another. In response to this, officials were dispatched from Ueda, Matsushiro, and other domains to the main roads, and travel toward Zenkoji was prohibited. Rumors spread variously that the backed-up waters of the Sai River would turn the area around Matsumoto in Shinano into something like a lake, then the waters would push out to a place called Kikyogahara, from there flow into Lake Suwa, and then into the Tenryu River — but most people believed that once enough water accumulated at the site of the landslide, it would burst through all at once and cause a massive flood.

In any case, it was thought that because of the Sai River, there would again be enormous numbers of homes swept away and countless other damages.

We departed the area around noon on the 26th, after the earthquake, and managed with difficulty to make our way through the areas where the ground had cracked open. The steward (yōnin) of Lord Hidanokami also departed in our party, when from the direction of the hills beyond Shiozaki village, a great clamor of voices arose and people gathered one after another, surrounding this steward. Among them were those separated from their parents, those parted from their wives and children, all wailing and crying out, "Please help us! Please give us food!" — whereupon the local magistrate (daikan) and his assistants (tedai) who were stationed in the area were summoned, and...