(Continued from the previous page)

The earthquakes have continued repeatedly since then. Although not as severe as the first one, we cannot bring ourselves to enter the buildings, and everyone has been living in the garden until today. As for the domain's territory, many roads are still impassable, so we are unable to obtain detailed information. We have heard that many houses have collapsed in Komatsubara Village and Yashiro Post Town. A fire broke out from a place called Ishidō, around Daimon-chō near Zenkoji Temple—this too started from houses that had been destroyed by the earthquake. Fires have also broken out in various other locations, and even this morning the fires have not been extinguished. Although it is now just before the Hour of the Rooster (around 2 p.m.), we are told the fires are still burning. Although the main hall of Zenkoji Temple has survived, all the other halls, shrines, and the Daikanjin (the temple's administrative headquarters) have all burned down. As the temple was in the middle of a special public viewing (kaichō) and there were exceptionally many travelers present, I understand that most of them have perished.

As for the Sai River, it seems that a landslide has occurred somewhere, and the water has stopped flowing—reportedly it could be forded at a depth no higher than the ankle. Everyone fears that flooding may come at any moment, and those living in the nearby areas have fled to the mountains.

Unlike ordinary earthquakes, there have been occasional rumbling sounds from the mountains, and I wonder whether this might be an eruption of Mt. Asama, though this is not yet known. Today again, I am outside in the garden. I have also heard that Inariyama has burned down entirely.

Fortunately, there has been no fire outbreak (in Matsushiro), and for now I am relieved. I am concerned about how things are with you there (in Edo). I do not think the earthquake reached as far as Edo, but everyone here is safe and there is no particular damage to the castle, so please be at ease. I do not know how things are in the Ueda area. There is a rumor that fires have broken out in Iiyama as well. This is the first time I have encountered such an unprecedented great earthquake. Until today I have been living outdoors as if it were summer, but I am not unwell at all, so please do not worry. I am also concerned about things in your location. (The rest is omitted.)

　　The 25th day of the 3rd month

P.S. I believe the earthquakes will gradually become less frequent from here on. Having heard about the Kyoto earthquakes, I expect it will take about seven days (for the aftershocks to subside). Since everyone is now on their guard, I trust we will all remain safe. It is fortunate that the weather is clear—in rainy weather, everyone would be in a much harder situation. While I was writing this, yet another large earthquake struck. I find this to be truly outrageous. End of letter.