Even monks of Zenkoji Temple, who in ordinary times would proceed to the main hall accompanied by three or four attendants and pages, were now wearing padded robes (dotera) and using three-shaku sashes or even rope as belts. At present, the main hall of the temple has been relocated to a makeshift shelter built about eight cho (approximately 870 meters) up into the mountains. Until recently, even such distinguished monks had been walking there alone. Furthermore, throughout the lodging towns, village headmen, senior monks, and mountain ascetics alike had become completely blackened with soot and dirt, clearing debris from collapsed houses and walking about covered in earth. Since last month, no one has been able to take a bath; the water available is muddy, and distinctions between social ranks have become impossible to discern.

One account: Between the towns of Shinmachi and Mure, in a place called Yoshimura, a landslide occurred, burying the inhabitants alive and causing floodwater to emerge. When the courier who carried our first letter passed through, the road was flooded for about three ri (approximately 12 kilometers). When Shunsuke returned, the former road was made impassable due to collapsed houses, so everyone was now traveling along the mountainside over high mounds of pushed-up earth. Upon asking a person who was wandering about in this area,

[He reported that] all the other houses were buried, and in one spot a deep hole had been dug. Upon peering in, one could indeed see a house; the thickness of the soil above the ridge beam of the collapsed house was about one shaku (approximately 30 centimeters). This hole had been dug by relatives of the household who had traveled from afar to retrieve the dead. Six bodies had been recovered. It is said that one hundred and sixty people were buried alive at this location, and six were recovered by this digging.

One account: When traveling from Echigo into Shinano province and seeking lodging, one was turned away at house after house throughout the area. Even when lodging was finally secured, there was of course no bath; one could only wash one's feet with water. Upon entering what was essentially a makeshift shelter, one was given a bowl of rice and a single piece of some pickled vegetable salvaged from the fire, for which two hundred mon was charged. There may or may not have been a single bedding set. Furthermore, when requesting a boxed lunch for the following midday, even that was refused — and the refusal stood even when payment was offered in advance. As a result, there was nowhere to obtain a midday meal, and travelers in both directions had to prepare themselves before entering this area. People were eating uncooked rice as-is, and since all water from roadside rivers and wells was turbid with mud, they searched the mountain cliffs and various other spots to find even a little clear water.