The cattle and horses that survived in the area had no fodder and were emaciated, unable to carry even half of their normal loads. As relay transport was also impossible, everyone was suffering from a shortage of food. There were also reports of occasional highway robberies and break-ins. In the Matsushiro domain, however, relief efforts were well-organized, and such offenders were immediately arrested. People were beset by earthquake, fire, flood, and food shortage, and upon going outside, one could smell the stench of burned corpses, and there were also injured people, causing great hardship. Such rumors were heard in the area, but according to the person who had actually traveled through, there were no such incidents on the roads they took, and these were deemed false rumors.

Item: Regarding the previously mentioned flooding from the cut channel — the water released at the seventh hour of the evening (approximately 4 p.m.) on the 13th reached Niigata as muddy water that very night. By the morning of the 14th, the muddy water had increased further, and by midday it had reached the level normally seen during the peak snowmelt season each year. The water rose higher than the riverside barriers (shigarami) along the Monzen-dōri and riverbank areas, reaching a point of near overflow — rising more than three shaku (approximately 90 cm) above normal water level. As a result, the water encroached upon the roadways in some places. The water became turbid, carrying red clay, and corpses began floating down the great river. Six or seven bodies were spotted at the guardhouse (Obansho), some dressed in clothing and others naked, and various household items also floated downstream. Since this was a wide river, only those things that drifted to this side were visible; others likely drifted to the far bank or out to sea. A considerable number of bodies were reportedly washed ashore on the coast of Numatari domain and were buried there. News of this reached here (Niigata) two days later, and town officials quickly issued orders for any flotsam that washed ashore to be promptly reported and collected; however, this only continued for the one day of the 14th, after which nothing more came. In Sanjō and elsewhere, the floodwaters rose as high as nine shaku five sun (approximately 2.88 meters), with many deaths and large quantities of household goods swept away. Even upstream from Nagaoka, there were those who had been on the riverbanks and were caught by the sudden flood, with some drowning. From this location (Niigata) to the Sai River is a distance of approximately seventy ri, and some water flowed down quickly. By around the 16th, two days later, the river had returned to normal water levels, but even now... (continued on next page)