Illustration of hemp rope braiding at Ichibu-ura, Ikitsuki Island

Masutomi, the group leader of Ichibu-ura, practices frugality himself but has built a sake brewery on his property to produce daily sake. He employs numerous craftsmen including carpenters, barrel makers, blacksmiths, and plasterers. He also invites talented retainers and medical practitioners of internal and external medicine, treating them with great hospitality. Therefore, famous artisans and cultured men from distant places also come to observe the fishing, and nothing is lacking.

High stone walls are built along the shore to prepare for wind and wave disasters, and several hundred houses of clan members and clerks line up to form a town, allowing the island's people to obtain the convenience of livelihood through this arrangement.

Among the clerks, there are about ten leaders called "Ōbettō" (Great Stewards). 《This title seems to infringe upon the name of an important position in the imperial court administration, but since this is the post-transformation era in a remote border region, it probably came to be called this way》 Two of these Ōbettō govern one group and serve as the heads who execute all affairs. When the stewards and clerks go out, they are always accompanied by servants, and at home they always have knowledge of refined taste and elegance, differing from ordinary fishermen.

Every year from August, they begin the work of hemp rope braiding. This involves gathering the women of Ichibu-ura's households, giving each person two kan (about 7.5 kg) of hemp fiber, and having them braid it inside warehouses. The women are accustomed to this work and produce very large quantities in the blink of an eye. Since this is for the women's livelihood, men do not participate.

Among the various types including net ropes, pulley ropes, body ropes, root hemp, kagasu, shirase, arrow ropes, thrust-out ropes, ibara, bottom hemp, branch cords, tagai, and small attachment ropes, the net ropes are extremely thick and difficult to manufacture. Therefore, they summon skilled practitioners from Tajima in Bingo Province, gather together what the women have already braided in small quantities, and have them manufacture the ropes at the plaza of Misaki. The total hemp fiber for this Misaki group amounts to over 16,000 kin (about 9,600 kg). 《Of this, over 13,000 kin is for net rope material, and 3,000 kin is for rope material attached to tools》