Diagram of Rowing a Right Whale to the Nayaba (Processing Station) at Cape Ikitsuki

The whale is sandwiched between support vessels (mochisou-bune) and drawn close to the shore. Then winch ropes (rokuro-zuna) are attached to wind it in, the support vessels that had been tied to it are released, winches are used on the front left and right to freely turn the whale, positioning it in a convenient direction, and the nets are removed. For right whales, bowhead whales, and whale calves, the length is determined by measuring from the edge of the blowhole to the boundary between the backbone and the round-cut section.

For fin whales, the length in fathoms is determined by measuring from the tip of the head to the three-point junction at the tail end.

Then, receiving instructions from the master fish-cutter, five or six main fish-cutters take up their large cutting knives and begin cutting according to proper procedure. Even when drawn to the shoreline, until the whale is received from the boat and winch ropes are attached, the support vessels are not released. While right whales have a gentle nature, fin whales and similar species are fierce and strong, so when caught in nets, harpoons are never used. Instead, identification cuts are made immediately, body ropes are threaded through, the whale is entangled as-is in the nets, clamped and tied to support vessels, and sword-cutters stab the entire body to kill it.

For one species called the white fin whale, it is tied to support vessels as usual, all boats are assembled raft-like, and while being pulled by the whale, it is stabbed to death with swords. During this sword-cutting process, the whale feigns quiet death, but after being tied to the support vessels, it may rage wildly, tear the nets, snap the mooring ropes, and damage the boats. Sometimes when drawn to the processing station and thought to be dead, when the support vessels are released, it may suddenly escape. Therefore, from ancient times it has been said that a whale is not considered captured until it is secured with winch ropes at the processing station.

This practice of feigning death (kara-jini) to deceive humans is not limited to whales, but is common among living creatures including foxes, raccoon dogs, monkeys, cats, otters, mice, and other birds, beasts, insects, and fish. While some feign death too early and are consequently captured by humans, the whale's ability to endure suffering until the support vessels are released should be called extraordinary.