Diagram of Dissecting Right Whales at the Processing Station of Ikitsuki Cape

When a whale is pulled ashore to the beach in front of the processing station, the chief supervisor (daibettō) and numerous assigned workers gather, each busily working. The daily labor supervisor calculates the manpower needed according to the size of that day's whale and hires day laborers from nearby villages.

There are four methods for dissecting a whale. First, cutting from below the nose to below the eyes, bounded by the ears, is called "kabachi" (head). Second, cutting from below the head to about the middle of the body is called "ate." Third, cutting the large bone section below the ate is called "ōbone" (large bone). Fourth, everything from below the large bone to the tail area is called "marugiri" (round cut). There is a proper sequence for dissecting these four sections.

First, they cut eight inches below the blowhole, around both ears, beginning to cut the skin, then cut the shelf. Second, they peel the left and right back skin from the edge of the marugiri section. Third, they peel the mountain skin (referring to the head skin). Fourth, they take the red meat from the back, which contains the backbone. Fifth, they peel the left and right side skin and cut off the fins. Sixth, they cut off the head and take the baleen, beak, and tongue. Seventh, they cut off the large bone, which contains udaki red meat and sinew. Eighth, they cut off the marugiri section, which contains sinew. Ninth, they cut off the ribs and extract the internal organs. Tenth, they cut off the three sections of tail flukes.

These ten procedures are performed by six primary fish cutters. Eleventh, they take the base skin. Twelfth, they take the opening base. These two procedures are performed by secondary cutters, who properly process the large sections cut off by the primary cutters and carry them to the main processing house, small processing house, bone processing house, sinew processing house, and so forth.

During this time, people from nearby villages come to the beach and secretly steal whale meat; these people are called "kandara." No matter how much they are forbidden, they somehow manage to put it in their bosoms, wrap it around their waists, and even hide it in secret places. This reminds one amusingly of the story in the Uji Shūi Monogatari where a large boy had salted fish discovered hidden at his waist.

The reason why the dissection and transport workers can gather and completely remove a fish as large as a mountain while you watch is that their methods are well-organized and they are very skilled at their work.