【Upper Section】
Right Whale (Sebi-kujira) [Boxed text]
It is called "sebi" because the width of its back is beautiful. It is also written as "㔟美." The entire body is black in color. Some have white spots about three to four shaku square in three or four places on the belly. Large ones measure six fathoms from the blowhole to the boundary between the large bone and round cut, with a total length of about fifteen fathoms. Medium ones are about five fathoms with a total length of twelve fathoms and more. Small ones are about three fathoms with a total length of seven fathoms and more. If a right whale has a back width of six fathoms, its total length is fifteen fathoms—a ratio of four to six. It has a thick girth, abundant meat and oil, delicious taste, and is the finest grade among whales. Fishermen call this the "main whale" and refer to all other whales as "miscellaneous items." The right whale has nothing in its belly, and it is unknown what it eats. Perhaps it only breathes seawater. Those twelve fathoms long are probably mature whales. They are fat and have much oil. One can obtain seven to eight hundred barrels of two-to capacity, and rarely even a thousand barrels. Those fourteen to fifteen fathoms long are old whales with little oil. All whales have small upper jaws with curved left and right lips, large lower jaws with protruding left and right lips. When the mouth is closed, the lower lip covers the upper lip, matching the upper curve.

[Illustration] Right Whale (Sebi-kujira) [Boxed]

【Lower Right Section】
Humpback Whale (Zato-kujira) [Boxed text]
The humpback whale gets its name because in western provinces, blind biwa players carry biwa on their backs and go from house to house reading something called "Chijinkyo" to worship the kitchen god, and people call all of these "zato" (blind musicians). This whale also has a dorsal fin that resembles those blind musicians carrying biwa boxes, so it was named the zato whale. The back is black, the belly is also black with wrinkles. Between the ridges of wrinkles are white diagonal stripes. The back and belly are greatly expanded and full, and the head is somewhat flattened. The tail hangs downward with the left and right ends facing each other and curved inward. The fins are also slightly narrower and longer than those of the right whale. The outside is black and the inside is white. Large ones measure about seven fathoms from the blowhole to between the large bone and round cut, with a total length of about fourteen fathoms. Medium ones are about five fathoms with a total length of about ten fathoms. Small ones are about three fathoms with a total length of about six fathoms. Overall smaller than the right whale. The back width is long while the head and tail are short. If the back measures seven fathoms, the total length is fourteen fathoms—a one-to-one ratio. This is a superior whale second to the right whale. It especially cares deeply for its young. It likes to eat ami (small fish). There are two types of humpback whales: true humpback and false humpback, but their shape and color are the same, and only experienced fishermen can tell them apart. Those ten fathoms long yield about three hundred and forty to fifty barrels of oil.

[Illustration] Humpback Whale (Zato-kujira) [Boxed]

【Lower Left Section】
All whales are scaleless fish. Although various whale histories show that there are many species, in the western seas only the right whale, humpback whale, and long-snouted whale are considered legitimate species and are exclusively hunted. There is also the sardine whale that opens its mouth and chases sardines all four seasons. In the southern seas it is called the bonito whale. Its body resembles the humpback whale but is smaller. The skin is thin and does not remain, the fat is little and the meat does not taste good. Therefore, they do not prefer to catch these. Also, types called Takamatsu (also known as Sakamata) and others are different species and are despised and not caught, so now I omit their illustrations. It is said that a sardine whale five fathoms long yields no more than twenty barrels of oil.