【Right Whale Skull】
【Skull Cross-section Diagram】

【Blowhole】
The place where sinews are drawn along the edge of the gums is called "unagi" (eel), and from there to the edge of the teeth is called "una."

【Eye】
The flesh that wraps between the root of the upper jaw and the root of the lower jaw is called "denzuru." It is white in color and the same as what is called "mawashi-niku" (surrounding meat).

【Baleen】
The long parts range from about nine shaku to over one jō in length. The number of baleen plates is approximately 368 on both left and right sides. Baleen grows from the upper jaw but does not grow from the lower jaw.

The baleen of sei whales and fin whales is the same as that of humpback whales, though the color is slightly darker. The baleen of fin whales is wide.

The baleen of young whales is generally about one shaku five to six sun long and four to five sun wide. Its color is pure white and appears transparent. It is of the highest value. The white color of fan pivots is made using this material.

【Cross-section from Gums to Baleen】
The inner gums are called "ko-hige" (small baleen). There are hairs on the side facing inward.
What is cut by hooking the tooth root to the gums is called "enba."

【Gums】
The gum flesh between baleen plates is called "nimai-haku" (two-layer peeling).

【Baleen】
This area is about one shaku wide. Both ends are thin while the middle is thick. Large ones are five to six bu, small ones are three to four bu.

【Head Skin Diagram】
【Right Whale Head Skin】
This place is called "chausu-yama" (tea mortar mountain). It is the skin of the upper beak.

【Back Skin Diagram】
【Back Skin】
This is one piece obtained by cutting the back skin into left and right halves and peeling it off. The thickness ranges from seven to eight sun to over one shaku. Right whales are measured in fathoms based on the length of this back skin. Generally, about five fathoms is called a medium-sized whale.

【Tongue Diagram】
【Tongue】
The tongue is called "saya." It is mouse-colored. The tongue of humpback whales is like crepe fabric.

【Cross-section of Gums and Baleen】
【Humpback Whale Baleen】
The long parts are about three shaku four to five sun.

【Tongue Skin Diagram】
【Tongue】
【Lower Jaw】
This area of the right whale is called "kabachi no shiki."
【Beak Bone Cross-section】

【Lice Diagram】
【Lice】
The lice are about the size of bell crickets and are yellowish-black. They look like spiders with short legs flattened against the surface. They attach to the tea mortar mountain of right whales, above the eyes, and between the fins, tail feathers, and genital opening of humpback whales. These are not used for food.

【Barnacles Diagram】
【Barnacles】
Barnacles are three to four sun long. The outer skin is soft and light pink in color. They are good for food. The white patches found in various places on right whales are all attached barnacles.

【Sea Acorns Diagram】
【Sea Acorns】
Sea acorns are about the size of small sake cups. They are the same as those found on rocky shores, having five to six angles with hard outer skin and white color. The flesh can be eaten. These also attach in the same way as barnacles.

【Red Meat Diagram】
【Back Red Meat】