Record of Ebisu's Apology

While we gods were entrusted with watching over during the absence of others, we caught such fine sea bream that we indulged in drinking and became greatly intoxicated. Taking advantage of this opportunity, the catfish immediately overturned the keystone and went forth to Great Edo, destroying the foundation wrappings of storehouses, removing their headbands, crushing many houses, causing not a few deaths, and causing fires - committing extremely violent and unreasonable acts. Therefore, we immediately captured and interrogated them closely. The catfish trembled with fear and could not utter a single word in reply. At this time, what appeared to be their leader respectfully spoke:

"With all due respect, we humbly acknowledge your words. Please hear about this great disturbance. Though we need not explain what you already know, within the four seasons of spring, summer, autumn, and winter, there are cold days during hot periods and warm days during cold times. With such climatic irregularities, years with proper seasonal order are few. Though this year was most irregular, the good harvest of five grains was due to the protective power of the myriad gods. Since heaven and earth have established seasonal order, but spring and summer have been extremely irregular, we thought it had become an extraordinarily interesting season in our country's dwelling. Ignorant beings went mad like retainers, and though we tried various means to restrain them, they paid no heed and rioted violently, ultimately causing unexpected reverberations in Japan and damaging places under your dominion.

Whatever punishment we may receive, we have no excuse. However, we especially petition that even if you hunt down all of us, since the damaged houses and storehouses cannot be rebuilt thereby, please spare our lives for now. From this point forward, we will protect Japan's land, and no matter what seasonal irregularities occur, we will never again cause such events as this time. We shall protect the realm's peace, the nation's prosperity, and abundant harvests, and guard your eternal reign."

Since they all made this petition, I offered my apologies on their behalf, and you graciously accepted them immediately, for which we are truly grateful.

Due to the tenth month of Kyōhō, therefore a year of hardship

Earthquake Protection Charm

East　West　South　North
[Sanskrit characters]
Should be pasted in each of the four directions

[Sanskrit characters] Paste on the ceiling inside the house, or it is also good to keep in a protective charm