[Right page]

　　　　Owari Domain, Nakasendō Highway
　　　　　Niekawa Post Station
　Plaintiff　　　Kyūzō
　　　　　 Representative relative
　　　　　　　 Chūshichirō

Regarding plaintiff Kyūzō of Niekawa post station on the Nakasendō Highway in Owari Domain, with the accompaniment of inn keeper Aizu-ya Kamajūrō, I respectfully submit: In the 9th month of Kaei 2nd year, Year of the Rooster, 200 ryō in gold was lent from Kyūzō to Denjirō of Hirade Village with proper documentation exchanged. This occurred because the late Kyūzō's actual elder brother Tokozaemon of Yokogawa Village and Denjirō's elder brother Hachiemon both traveled to Iwamura in Mino Province, which was Kyūzō's trading destination, and earnestly requested the loan. These two persons acted as intermediaries for the loan to Denjirō. Sehachi served as guarantor with his seal, and as security, a sake brewing license along with various brewing equipment and warehouse, as well as this location were pledged to both persons. To Kyūzō's side, both persons provided witnesses for this intermediary arrangement, and the transaction was conducted with sincerity. However, when the late Kyūzō died of illness in the 9th month of the Year of the Rabbit, regarding the 200 ryō principal plus interest for the Rabbit year, when collection was demanded, 5 ryō from the interest was paid to Tokozaemon of Yokogawa Village. When the remaining interest was demanded in the Dragon year, through Tokozaemon an early refusal was given and payment was delayed.

[Left page]

Last year in the 6th month of the Snake year, when Kyūzō and Tokozaemon of Yokogawa Village went together to demand payment, they claimed that during the late Kyūzō's lifetime in the previous Boar year, 55 ryō had been returned from the principal, and furthermore they had requested annual installment repayment. In response, Kyūzō replied that if 55 ryō had been returned from the principal in the Boar year, there would be no reason not to pay the interest of 20 ryō each for the three years of Rat, Ox, and Tiger. When this was explained, they said that according to the annual installment arrangement, the money...