galloped. When consulted with the deputy administrator, it was ruled a restart.
Deputy Administrator Junior Fourth Rank Upper Mitsuaki《Marginal note: Guardian》 Ujito Muneji

5th day
1. On April 19th, after breakfast, all senior and junior officials assembled at the council chamber, and Tsuneyori of the meeting place
《Marginal note: Matter of attendants wearing white court dress》【Written in red】
announced the following proposal: that the attendants at horse racing should wear white court dress
as before. In exchange for this, whether it would be appropriate to discontinue the two tail-groomers henceforth,
and what the senior and junior officials think about these matters.
In the discussion, wearing white court dress was deemed reasonable, however, regarding the tail-groomers,
discontinuing them henceforth was deemed inappropriate
since this has been a long-standing practice. Regarding this matter, it was unanimously decided to continue as before,

and this decision was communicated to the meeting place.
1. On the 21st, after breakfast, the senior and junior officials' position was that regarding the recent matter, when they responded to the standing committee,
if permanently discontinuing the tail-groomers was deemed inappropriate,
《Marginal note: Temporarily discontinuing the two tail-groomers》【Written in red】
they would like to suspend their use temporarily for one or two years. Therefore, everyone
agreed to this. What was decided at this meeting was that regarding the two attendants in plain robes
that the riders bring with them, this matter should also temporarily be reduced to one person each after consultation,
and since everyone agreed this was appropriate, this decision was communicated to the meeting place to be decided by the standing committee.
1. Around the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM) on the 27th, the senior and junior officials assembled. The reason was that the Aoi messenger
arrived in Kyoto late last night, so today's standing committee meeting was convened. Senior and junior officials, at this meeting, twenty