All the following are like this. According to precedent, both times should be performed with the knee raised.
　　Regarding this matter, on New Year's Day of Tenmei 4th year, Head Priest Yasuyoshi said to the head priest,
　　"When pairing, one should straighten the knee to receive your approval," claiming this was a deviation,
　　but it was answered that the tradition from ancient times has always been thus, and the matter was settled.
　　Perhaps Yasunaga, having received this instruction, performs in this manner
　　in order to reform the practice. This should be understood.
《Marginal note: Matter of the Director and others appearing while in mourning》【Red ink】
　1　Today Director Hotta Sagami-no-kami appeared, but he is in mourning.
　　The viewing stand is the same place as the usual inspector's stand. It was
　　prepared from that side, and viewing is done from this location. The town magistrate Miura Ise-no-kami
　　also appeared.

　5th day
　　　　　Left　Senior Fourth Rank Lower Yasumoto《Marginal note: Guardian》Kisue Kanaki
　　　Below the stairs
　　　　　Right　Junior Fourth Rank Upper Ujinao《Marginal note: Guardian》Naomochi Naoichi
《Marginal note: Matter of attendants changing from (lower) white silk jacket (upper) court dress to two zōshiki each》【Red ink】
　　Previously the attendants wore court dress and white silk jackets, but this year two zōshiki each were brought along.
　Kansei 9th year (1797)　《Marginal note: According to Kanaki's horse racing record: New Year's Day preliminary selection, this year abbreviated and reduced from the second group onwards, etc.》
　5th day
　　　《Marginal note: Izumo-shō》　Left　Echizen-no-gon-no-kami Yoshiaki《Marginal note: Descended to left》
　　　Tenth race　　　Holder
　　　《Marginal note: Assistant priest》　Right　Uneme-no-shō　Nobuyuki
《Marginal note: Matter of requesting a substitute due to sudden illness when the lead horse withdrew and re-entered》【Red ink】
　　When the right lead horse withdrew and the pursuing horse remained in reserve, Nobuyuki approached the right side below the stairs,
　　but due to his ceremonial cap and headgear not fitting properly, it was decided he should re-enter. However, Nobuyuki having sudden