Below the stairs: Left - Nishi-ichi-no-shō Fukubumi
                 Right - Tonomo-no-shōjō Kanehide 《Marginal note: Among the deputy officials》

《Regarding the New Production of Gongs, Drums, and Left-Right Stools》【Red ink】
This year new gongs and drums were completed, and the left and right stools (below the stairs) were likewise newly made.

《Regarding the Donation of Crown Old-hangings》【Red ink】
This year Kimura Chikugo donated twenty crown old-hangings (twenty sets).
The gongs, drums, and left-right platforms were newly constructed by the shrine community.
Zassho Yasufuku (second race, right), Shoshi Ujimori (sixth race, left), and Shoshi-dai Ujikane (ninth race, left) were all at the bottom rank of the seasonal festival riders - one wonders what manner of person spoke of this.

《Regarding the Donation of Vermillion Umbrellas》【Red ink】
This year three vermillion umbrellas were donated by the monk Tenyū. The bettō, shoshi, and mokudai pointed to these and took their seats. It is said that there should be a preference for vermillion umbrellas.

When assigned to the lowest position among the shrine riders, not hearing a response was a good thing.

Meireki 3rd Year
《Regarding Yasunori Serving as Acting Head Priest by Decision of the Entire Shrine Following the Shrine Officials' Memorial to the Throne》【Red ink】
Current Acting Head Priest, member of the Uji families: Okamoto Genba-no-suke Yasunori 《Marginal note: Details below omitted》
Due to the petition regarding the assistant priest position last winter, Matsushita Norifumi, Hayashi Shigesuke, and Seki Michihisa submitted a memorial to the throne through the court liaison Dainagon Hazama Yorinari. When this reached the Emperor's attention, imperial permission was granted for the Uji family members to serve in this capacity. The deputy of the five court officials among the Uji families completed their service, and from last winter onward, Yasunori has served as Acting Head Priest by decision of the entire shrine.
Details of the shrine officials' memorial to the throne are found in the records of the assistant priest position.

Meireki 4th Year