it is certainly a contest that must be investigated. Moreover, arguing with someone of lower rank than the steps

{{Marginal note: First time requesting guardianship from those below the steps}} [Red ink]
is a shameful sight before others. Therefore, it was decided by vote that four supervisors should be requested:
Toraaki, Yasumitsu, Seiyu, Kiyohiro - the above. Next, regarding the general horses, Shitori and Kanatsu are excluded.
{{Marginal note: First time hiring subordinates to bring out horses}} [Red ink]
Two grooms were hired from among the jockeys - namely, the two sons of Yukimatsu from Okamoto-cho.
Based on the jockeys' decision, one to (measure) of rice was given to these two men. At that time, Shitori and
Kanatsu were treated similarly. It was decided that the first-riders among the jockeys should be handled accordingly.

Kanbun 7th year
　　　　Left: Sakyō-no-shin Kanename {{Marginal note: Early major replacement}}
　Ninth bout
　　　　Right: Minbu-dayū Suezumi {{Marginal note: Kiuchi fell from horse, both hands drew steel, therefore counted as loss}}

Ujinawa privately records: On the first day of last month, the retainers of the magistrates were extremely extravagant and there were those who severely beat the jockeys. Therefore, members of the shrine community appealed to the head magistrate, saying:
"With such people, there will be no one to serve as jockeys in future years. Then the divine services will become neglected.
The divine power will also become a regrettable thing. Therefore, please petition the district deputy
to have this stopped." At that time, the head of the magistrates replied: "The appeal is justified.
However, if so, there would be dozens of people to blame, including several who did the beating and various magistrate officials.
How then should this matter be handled? In any case, as the head, I will definitely
take responsibility for one or two individuals. I will order the cessation of such violent conduct again. Please observe
the situation on the coming fifth day, and then make your appeal accordingly. It will probably
be stopped." Therefore, the appeal was withdrawn. Indeed, when observing the situation on the fifth day, the various magistrates