Left　Kambu-no-jō Ujinori《Marginal note: The left rider fell at the exit, thus ruled as defeat. Later heard this was due to a bad horse》
10th match
　　　Right　Shuzen-no-shō Suemoto
Head Priest Yasuyoshi《Marginal note: abbreviated below}}
　　　Left　Governor of Bungo, Kei'aki  
Lower officials
　　　Right　Ukon-no-shōsō Kanemune

This year on New Year's Day, Tanba-no-suke Nobuaki finished riding the regular negi priest's horse. During the solo run, he fell four times and still could not complete the run, so Yasuharu served as his substitute. At that time, all the local people mocked this.

《Marginal note: Having a substitute for the New Year's Day solo run has no precedent in ancient or medieval times》【Written in red】
The reason for this mockery was that having a substitute for the solo run has had no precedent from ancient times through medieval times until today - this was the beginning of an unprecedented practice. Since such bad precedents must be proven never to occur again in the future, this was recorded.

《Marginal note: Regarding the matter of determining victories between the head priest and lower officials》【Written in red】
The attendance at the horse racing meet on the 5th was greatly delayed, with the advance riders arriving at the hour of the Sheep (1-3 PM). How inappropriate! Also, Head Priest Yasuyoshi arrived at the late hour of the Sheep. At that time, the head priest sent Oribe-no-shō Yasuyoshi as a messenger, whose words were: "Today's match results should be determined by the head priest, yet they have been decided by the lower officials. Under these circumstances, I shall not take my seat in the office building." Lower official Kei'aki replied: "This is a new pronouncement. The head priest's role is to take his seat for attendance upon the temporary shrine. We are the officials responsible for striking the gongs and large drums to determine match outcomes. According to shrine law from ancient times, we have made this determination. As for taking seats in the office building, that is each person's individual matter - this is entirely at your discretion." This response from the lower official was indeed most reasonable and extremely appropriate.