This was the reply. Since this is a matter to be kept in mind for the future, Sueyoshi said he would record the following details in full.
This year, when the shoshidai (Kyoto deputy) was replaced for the first time, Lord Inaba Tango-no-kami's horse competed. It was extremely fast, and though it fell back slightly by the御田 (mita) area, it was still considered a match.

Tenna 3rd year (1683)
　　　Left　Takumi-no-suke Takehira《Marginal note: The right rider dismounted at the sutra recitation place and withdrew in defeat as usual. The left rider used Lord Inaba Tango-no-kami's horse, competing as the shogun's representative. Takehira fell when his horse stumbled at the Sueko embankment, his court cap was damaged and unusable, so he wore a tachitate eboshi instead. Everyone mocked this saying "Is this not unprecedented?"》
1st match
　　　Right　Izumi-no-kami Sadahisa
《Marginal note: In the first match, left rider Takehira's court cap was damaged and unusable, so he temporarily wore a tachitate eboshi》【Written in red】

Jōkyō 2nd year (1685)
　　　Left　Echigo-no-kami Suetome《Marginal note: Fell in front of the temporary shrine and lost》
8th match
　　　Right　Sama-no-jō Jutchoku
Head Priest Matsushita Nobuhisa《Marginal note: abbreviated below》

《Marginal note: New Year's Day》
Today when attending the gosho-ya (palace building), from in front of the bathhouse, Shoshidai Kanemune was wearing asagutsu (shallow shoes). Sanmi Okihisa said "This is unlawful." He stated that while it might be acceptable in rainy weather, wearing them was unnecessary. But Kanemune did not listen, asking if there was some reason not to wear them, insisting it was most appropriate to wear them. Now, when taking seats in the gosho-ya,
《Marginal note: On New Year's Day, Shoshidai Kanemune wore asagutsu, causing disorder with Sanmi Okihisa and others》【Written in red】
《Marginal note: The matter of similar disorder regarding the arrangement of tatami in the gosho-ya》【Written in red】
The arrangement of the tatami mats was different. Regarding the directive that they should be re-laid properly, Sanmi Norihisa and Okihisa immediately became extremely agitated about this disorder. However, Kanemune did not listen and took his seat. At that moment, Sueyoshi