【Right Page】

...were blooming beautifully in white. Seeing this, one of the party said: "Take the five syllables of the word 'kakitsubata' (iris) and place them at the beginning of each line to compose a poem expressing the feeling of travel." Thus was composed:

*Karagoromo / kitsutsu narenishi / tsuma shi areba / harubaru kinuru / tabi wo shi zo omou*
(Just as I have long worn and grown accustomed to my Chinese robe, I have a beloved wife in the capital — and thinking of her, I feel all the more keenly the longing of this journey to distant lands.)

When this poem was recited, everyone wept tears onto their dried rice, until it became soft and swollen.

Traveling further, they arrived in the province of Suruga. Coming to Mount Utsu, they found the road they must take was very dark and narrow, overgrown with ivy and maple, and as they were feeling lonely and disheartened at encountering such unexpected hardship, they came across a wandering Buddhist monk. "How do you come to be on such a road as this?" he asked. Looking at him, they recognized him as someone they had known. They wrote a letter to entrust to him, addressed to a certain person in the capital:

*Suruga naru / Utsu no yamabe no / utsutsu ni mo / yume ni mo hito ni / awanu nari keri*
(Here at Utsu Mountain in Suruga, neither in waking reality nor in my dreams am I able to meet the one I long for.)

Looking at Mount Fuji, though it was the end of the fifth month, snow lay brilliantly white upon it:

*Toki shiranu / yama wa Fuji no ne / itsu tote ka / kanoko madara ni / yuki no furu ran*
(Oh, peak of Fuji — a mountain that knows no seasons — when does it think it is, that snow should fall upon it in dappled, fawn-spotted patterns?)

That mountain, if compared to things here, would be like stacking twenty Mount Hieis upon one another, and its shape was like a salt cone (*shiojiri*).

Continuing ever onward, between the provinces of Musashi and Shimōsa, there was an exceedingly large river called the Sumida River. Gathering at its bank, they lamented amongst themselves, "We have come so very far from the capital," when the ferryman called out, "Get on the boat quickly — it will soon be dark." As they boarded and prepared to cross, everyone felt a nameless, forlorn sadness, for there was not one among them who had no one dear to them left behind in the capital.

【Left Page】

Just at that moment, there were white birds with red beaks and red legs, about the size of a snipe, playing on the water and eating fish. As these were birds never seen in the capital, no one recognized them. When they asked the ferryman, he said, "Why, those are *miyakodori* — 'capital birds.'" Hearing this:

*Na ni shi owaba / iza koto towamu / miyakodori / waga omou hito wa / ariya nashi ya to*
(If you truly bear the name "capital bird," then let me ask you this: does the one I love still live and fare well in the capital?)

At this poem, everyone on the boat burst into tears.

【Section 10】

Long ago, there was a man who had wandered as far as the province of Musashi. There he courted a woman who lived in that province. Her father intended to give her to another man, but her mother had become attached to this man of noble birth. The father was of ordinary birth, while the mother was of the Fujiwara clan. It was for this reason that the mother wished to give her daughter to this nobleman. A poem was sent to this prospective son-in-law. Their home was in the district of Iruma, in the village of Miyoshino.