【Right Page】

(Section 22, continued)

More than ever before, the two continued to visit one another with tender, heartfelt affection.

---

【Section 23】

Long ago, children of people who lived in the countryside used to come out to play by the side of a well. As they grew into adults, the boy and girl became shy with each other; yet the boy thought only of making this girl his wife, and the girl thought only of this boy as her husband — and so, even when their parents tried to arrange other matches for them, neither would listen. Then, from the boy next door, (a poem arrived for the girl):

*Tsutsui-tsu tsu / izutsu ni kakeshi / maro ga take / sugi ni kerashi na / imo mizaru ma ni*
(The height I once measured against the well's round frame — it seems I have long since surpassed it, in all the time I have been without a glimpse of you, my dear.)

(Reply)
*Kurabe koshi / furiwake gami mo / kata suginu / kimi narazushite / tare ka agubeki*
(The hair I once let hang loose and compared with yours has now grown past my shoulders. Who but you should be the one to put it up?)

Exchanging poems such as these, they at last came together as they had always wished. As the years went by, however, the woman's parents passed away and she was left without support; and thinking to himself, "Can the two of us really go on like this, struggling together to no avail?", the man found himself a place he began to visit in Takayas u in Kawachi Province (present-day southeastern Osaka Prefecture). Even so, the woman at home showed no sign of resentment and always sent him off (without complaint). Suspicious that she might have feelings for someone else, the man hid himself in the garden shrubbery one day, pretending to leave for Kawachi, and watched secretly. He saw the woman carefully apply her makeup and, gazing out into the distance with longing, compose:

【Left Page】

*Kaze fukeba / okitsu shiranami / Tatsuta-yama / yowa ni ya kimi ga / hitori koyuran*
(When the wind blows, white waves rise on the open sea — and at Tatsuta Mountain, are you crossing over all alone in the dead of night?)

Hearing this, the man was moved to boundless tenderness for her and ceased going to Kawachi altogether. Occasionally, though, he would come to Takayas u to see (the new woman), and whereas at first she had comported herself with admirable refinement, she had now grown quite at ease, and he saw her with her own hands scooping up grains of rice and heaping them into a shaggy wicker bowl. At the sight of this, he found her disagreeable and stopped visiting altogether. Left thus, that woman of Takayas u looked out toward Yamato and said:

*Kimi ga atari / mitsutsu woран / Ikoma-yama / kumo na kakushi so / ame wa furu tomo*
(I shall go on gazing toward the place where you are. O Mount Ikoma — do not let the clouds conceal you, even should the rain fall.)

She gazed outside, and word barely reached her that "the man from Yamato is coming." She waited with joy, but night after night passed without his arrival, and so she composed:

*Kimi kon to / iishi yo goto ni / suginureba / tanomanu mono no / koitsutsu zo □(furu)*
(Every night you said you would come has now gone by without you; I have given up hoping — and yet I spend my days longing for you still.)

So she said, yet the man came no more.

---

【Section 24】

Long ago, a man lived in a remote, rustic place. He parted sorrowfully from a woman to go up to the capital for court service, and from that point on he did not return for three years. She had grown weary of waiting, and had made a secret promise to meet that very night with a man who had been pressing his suit most ardently — when her former man arrived. (She was at) this door (when…)