【Right Page】

---

【Section 39】

Long ago, there was an Emperor known as the Emperor of the West Palace (Saiin no Mikado). This Emperor had a child called "Takaiko." That child had just recently passed away. On the night of the burial rites, a man who lived next door to that prince's residence rode together in a woman's carriage, intending to witness the funeral procession. The carriage remained stopped for a long time without proceeding to see the deceased off, and while it seemed as though the passengers would simply go on weeping there, a man renowned throughout the land for his amorous ways — a man named Minamoto no Itaru — came to watch the procession as well. Seeing this carriage and taking it for a ladies' carriage, he drew close and began to behave in a flirtatious, seductive manner. While doing so, that Itaru caught a firefly and tossed it into the woman's carriage. The person in the carriage said, "The light of this firefly might give us away — let us put out the light." At this, the man who had ridden along composed:

*Idete inaba / kagiri naru beki / tomoshikeshi / toshi henuru ka to / naku koe wo kike*
(Do not snuff out this light, which, if extinguished, will be gone forever — and do listen to the sound of weeping, as if one who has lived through long and weary years.)

The reply from that Minamoto no Itaru:

*Ito aware / naku zo kikoyuru / tomoshikeshi / kiyuru mono to mo / ware wa shirazu na*
(I hear the sound of your weeping, and it is deeply moving and touching. Even though you speak of snuffing out the firefly's light, know that I do not regard my feelings for you as something that can simply be extinguished.)

As poems by a man celebrated throughout the land for his amorous ways, these are, after all, rather fitting compositions. Minamoto no Itaru was a cousin (*ōji*) of Narihira, the great lover. And so the man in the carriage was left unable to fulfill the true purpose he had come for — to pay his respects to the prince.

---

【Section 40】

Long ago, a young man was in love with a woman who was not of particularly low birth. There was a meddlesome parent who, fearing that the young man might become too attached to this woman, attempted to send her away to some other place. Even so, the woman had not yet been sent away. Since she was another person's child, she could not simply be driven out by force; and furthermore, the young man did not yet have the means or influence to resist, so he could not stop what was happening. The woman, too, was of low standing,

【Left Page】

and had no power to remain of her own accord. In the meantime, the man's feelings for her grew ever stronger and more overwhelming. Suddenly, the men came to move this woman away by force; the man shed tears, but there was no way to stop them. She was taken away and gone. The man, weeping as he went, composed:

*Idete inaba / tare ka wakare no / katakaran / arishi ni masaru / kyō wa kanashi mo*
(If you go away, who could find this parting anything but unbearable? Today is sadder even than the days when we were together.)

Having composed this poem, he collapsed unconscious. The parent was thrown into a panic. The parent had indeed said it was all out of care for the young man — but had never imagined things would come to this. When the young man truly lost consciousness, the parent was thrown into such confusion that they made vows of prayer. He fell unconscious around the time of the evening bell (*iriai*), and only on the following day, around the Hour of the Dog (approximately 8 o'clock in the evening), did he barely manage to revive. In times of old, the young people suffered such intense and devastating heartache. Could an old man of today truly die of such feelings? Surely not.

---

【Section 41】

Long ago, there were two sisters. One had taken up with a man who was of low station and poor; the other had a man of noble birth as her husband. The one who was with the lowly man, on the last day of the twelfth month, washed her husband's outer robe (*uwagi*) and starched and mounted it herself by hand. Her devotion was deep, but she was not accustomed to such lowly domestic work, and she ended up starching only one side of the robe. With nothing she could do to remedy this, she simply wept and wept. When the noble man who was husband to the other sister heard of this, he felt great compassion for her, and took out a most beautiful (*kiyora*) outer robe made of fine lustrous silk (*rōsō*) to send to her, composing a poem with it to say —