【Right folio】

(Episode 78 — continued)

(Tsuneyuki laid out his plan, saying:) "At the time of the imperial progress to Sanjō, there was a most exquisite stone found on the beach at Chisato in the Province of Ki (Kii), which someone had offered up to the Emperor. It was presented after the imperial progress had concluded, and so it had been placed by the side of the drainage ditch in front of someone's private chamber. Now, the Prince of Shimako (Prince Koretaka) is a person who has long desired this very stone. Let us present this stone to the Prince" — and so saying, he dispatched a servant responsible for the water stones to go and fetch it. Before long the stone was brought back. "This stone is even more wonderful to see than what I had heard tell of it. To present it just as it is, without any artistic flourish, would be without elegance," and so he had the assembled company compose poems. The man who had served as the Right Master of the Horse (Ariwara no Narihira) finely carved green moss (around the stone) in the manner of lacquer inlay (*makie*), and attached this poem to it as an offering:

　*Akane tomo / iwa ni zo kawaru / iro mie nu / kokoro wo misen / yoshi no nakereba*

(Though it cannot be stained with madder red, it shows only the colour of the rock — and since there is no way to show you my invisible heart, I offer this stone instead as its visible proof.)

And so the poem was composed and offered.

---

**Episode 79**

Long ago, within Uji, a Prince was born into (a royal) household. People gathered at the birthing-room and composed poems. The grandfather on the paternal side, an elderly man, composed:

　*Waga kado ni / chihiro aru kage wo / uetsureba / natsu fuyu / tare ka / kakurezaru beki*

(Now that I have planted at my gate a shade of a thousand fathoms' depth, who, in summer or in winter, could fail to shelter beneath it?)

This was concerning Prince Sadakazu; people of the time said that he was the son of (a) Chūjō (Middle Captain). The elder brother of —

【Left folio】

【Illustration】