1. Food pouches (knapsacks), equipment sacks, and blankets shall be prepared

1. Domain retainers who wish to prepare Minié rifles and similar weapons henceforth shall report this matter to the metsuke (inspector)
　　However, when reported, this matter shall be communicated to the chūrō (senior councilor)

1. When requesting to acquire the aforementioned firearms, those with stipends of 200 koku or less shall be granted internal loans, and those with 100 koku or less shall be granted borrowing privileges

　　Various instructions and retainer allocations regarding military system reform

1. Although samurai have been instructed to use fumikomi, kobakama, or tatetsuke, those wearing danbukuro (field bags) shall use kyahan (gaiters) and call them kobakama

1. Armor shall be omitted in favor of lightweight campaign clothing. Although it has been announced that using chest plates and similar items is acceptable, there may be those who wish to bring armor depending on the circumstances. In such cases, the bearers for these items
　shall not be provided from above but must be arranged personally. Items to be carried will be distributed from the weapons department or supply department, so their weights should be recorded and submitted to the metsuke in advance

1. Although foot soldiers have been instructed to use momohiki or tatetsuke, tatetsuke similar to field bags is acceptable

1. Members of spear units and artillery units shall bring carbines and similar weapons
　　However, as spear unit members may sometimes be incorporated into rifle units, it goes without saying that they should practice rifle unit drills regularly

1. Spear bearers shall not be assigned individually to officials and below, but shall be organized collectively

　　However, regarding spear bearers, regardless of social status, those lacking in martial skills need not bring them

1. Drummers shall prepare firearms
　　However, they shall bring carbines, horse pistols, and similar weapons

1. Those of dokurai rank and above shall have their attendants carry food pouches and equipment sacks

1. Those below dokurai rank shall carry these items themselves

1. Even officials and below, when organized into rifle units, shall assign their attendants to the supply train
　　However, those who understand rifle unit operations and do not hinder unit formation may be brought along