1. Both provisions officers and camp officers shall learn rifle unit operations and organize formations to guard provisions and camp equipment

1. Provisions officers shall estimate per person according to the fire house regulations

1. Spear banners shall be prepared

1. Regarding food pouches, equipment sacks, and blankets: those with 50 koku or more shall prepare them personally; those with 50 hyō or less and those of minor official rank or above may also be granted internal loans when requesting food pouches and equipment sacks upon application
　Blankets shall be prepared personally
　　However, those of foot soldier rank and below shall be lent these items

1. All cannons shall use quill tubes, and friction tubes shall be prepared separately

1. Cartridge pouches and quill tube containers (cases) shall be prepared, two per cannon

1. Campaign hats shall have five or seven metal rings attached for cords
　　However, leather braiding is also acceptable

1. Henceforth, cords shall be single-width

1. Sword wearing by rifle unit members shall be at their discretion

1. Wearing of boots shall be at discretion

1. Lanterns shall be carried in bamboo storage boxes

1. Tall lanterns shall be carried by attendants for officials and above; for those below, arrangements shall be made with available personnel
　Those of upper rank shall have them carried within their retinue

1. Those with 30 hyō stipends or 7-person support allowances and above shall prepare deep campaign hats personally. Those on salary shall be lent them

1. Upper sashes shall be white with black trim, with personal crests attached at the back, all uniformly arranged

1. Food pouches shall contain camp equipment and provisions; equipment sacks shall contain clothing

1. When acquiring Minié rifles and similar weapons, those with 200 koku or less may be granted internal loans of 6 ryō 2 bu upon application

1. Those with 100 koku or less may be granted loans of 13 ryō upon application, with repayment in 10 annual installments without interest

1. 30-monme cannons shall be carried in storage boxes

　　　　Retainer Allocations

1. Unit Commander　　Banner 1 stream　　Banner bearers 2 persons
　　　　　　　　　　　Spokesman　　　　1 person
　　　　　　　　　　　Young retainer　　2 persons
　　　　　　　　　　　Spear bearer　　　1 person
　　　　　　　　　　　Equipment bearer　2 persons