Therefore, it finally resulted in peace negotiations, and they withdrew to Kurotani and Akaiwa. The foot soldiers, monks, and various equipment retreated in disarray.

○The castle of Kurotani was also held by a temple priest called Daikō, but upon hearing about the Hinoya affair, he abandoned the castle and withdrew. The site was then held jointly by Bajōken and Hachibe of Mikawa. These men were retainers of Shibata Iga-dono.

○Bajōken was called away by Iga-dono for business. In his absence, Hachibe sided with Osaka forces (marginal note: Hachibe's father-in-law was on the Osaka side, a man called Yokokita Jinzaemon. Since Jinzaemon's sister was a beauty, he had previously become his son-in-law. Due to this, his heart changed). On the night of December 18th, he raised his colors. Bajōken's forces heard of this and took precautions. When they attacked at dawn (tōhaku), about fifty skilled men from Bajōken's forces were killed.

○Kii-no-kami of the Kaga forces sided with Nobunaga and held Hoshigamine. The forces of Kaga's four districts attacked this in December. They dug through heavy snow to advance, and when they got within fourteen or fifteen ken of the castle, large logs were dropped to strike and kill them, resulting in about fifty casualties among the attackers. Kii-no-kami had a son called Yosan, a seventeen or eighteen-year-old who was considered the most beautiful in the realm. This child died from arquebus fire. Though Kii-no-kami tried to commit seppuku, his chief retainers

would not allow it. Afterwards there was peace, and he went to the temple at Ōsugi. The Kaga forces surrounded and guarded the place. Later, on New Year's Day, a message was sent to the Kamigata forces saying they should perform haramaki (ritual disembowelment). The Kamigata side replied that they would perform haramaki on January 2nd. The messenger at this time disguised himself as a beggar and slipped into Ōsugi, but the guards became suspicious, captured him, and searched him. Inside the seam of his stitched clothing was found a letter about the haramaki. The messenger was immediately executed. Later, Hikozaemon of Ōsugi falsely sent word on the morning of the 2nd that Kii-no-kami should attend a feast, but Kii-no-kami knew of this and did not go, claiming illness. Afterwards, on the 2nd day, they attacked Kii-no-kami. The attackers called out to Kii-no-kami's men in various ways, saying they would be spared if they came out. All came out without exception. Those with connections were spared, those without were executed. Only Kii-no-kami remained. When no one would enter his house, Kyūbei went in and brought out two swords. The general Kii-no-kami sat with his back against a wooden post before the Buddha altar. Afterwards they threw him in and burned him to death with pine wood. All the women also died.

○Moon Forest Castle was held by the ikki. Shibata-dono's forces attacked it, and all six to seven hundred in the castle died, while about three hundred of the attackers also died.