From there, all the major and minor daimyo throughout Tsukiji were damaged, and the Honganji temple grounds were damaged but the main hall was safe. From there, around Odawara-chō was heavily damaged. Around Kobiki-chō suffered minor damage. Hama Palace was damaged in various places. Tsukudajima burned. Around Kyōbashi, Minami Tenmachō 2nd and 3rd blocks, Tatami-chō, Gorobei-chō, Gusoku-chō, Yanagi-chō, Tokiwa-chō, Kaga-chō, Minami Daiku-chō, Inaba-chō, Nakadōri, Suzuki-chō, and Takegashi all burned. From there, to the south, from around Ginza-chō to around Owari-chō, various places were damaged. Also, north of Nihonbashi, from Muromachi to around Imagawa Bridge, various places were damaged. Kanda Street was damaged in various places in a cross pattern. The Sujikai checkpoint was safe. Also, from Surugadai to around Ochanomizu, various places were damaged. On Ogawa-chō Street, Lords Tsuchiya, Inaba, and Bingo were heavily damaged. From there, Lord Hotta Bitchū-no-kami and the Jūmonji Naitō fire brigade residence burned. Lords Okabe, Toda Ōi's long houses, Toda, Hongō Tango-no-kami, and Matsudaira Buzen-no-kami burned heavily. Lord Sakakibara Shikibu-dayū was half-burned. Lord Koide Shinano-no-kami was heavily damaged. The lord residences in this area burned. Hitotsubashi Street and the lord residences on Hitotsubashi Street were damaged in various places. From there, around Iida-chō was damaged. Around Kudan slope and Banchō, the samurai residences had no particular damage. ○Around Ryōgoku, Bakurō-chō, Yokoyama-chō, Hama-chō, Tomizawa-chō area, and also Hon-chō, Ishi-chō, Gin-chō areas suffered minor damage.

○Also, in the northern part of the府内, Senju post station was heavily damaged. All the brothels at Kozukappara burned. Also, in Shin-Yoshiwara, all five districts burned completely, with fifty houses on the west side outside Daimon remaining. From there, Tamachi, Yamamon Tanaka, Mitani, this area was heavily damaged. Yamano-yado was damaged, and Shōten-chō collapsed heavily. Umamiči and all three blocks of Shibai-chō burned completely, with about ten houses remaining from Onoe Kikujirō's house to Hitotsu River. From there, around Hanakawado was heavily damaged. Sensōji's main hall was safe, and the temple grounds were damaged in various places. Two or three houses collapsed from Kinryūzan mochi shop. However, only the top of the five-story pagoda tilted slightly. Denpōin was slightly damaged. Also, Namiki-chō was damaged in various places. Fire broke out from Komagata and burned to Kurofune-chō, Miyoshi-chō, and Riverside Street. The first fire brigade contained the fire at this location. Also, Okura-mae Street was slightly damaged. From there, temples around Asakusa Abegawa-chō were heavily damaged. The corner of Kikuya Bridge and Shinbori-bata burned slightly.

The various buildings within Higashi Honganji were heavily damaged. The west and east gates collapsed. The main hall was safe. From there, on Shitaya Kōtokuji Street, temples, townhouses, and samurai residences were heavily damaged in various places. In this area, Lords Tōdō, Tachibana, and other major and minor daimyo residences were damaged in various places. Lord Satake at Shamisen-bori had no particular problems. Also, Shitaya Sakamoto 2nd block burned slightly. Minowa, Kanasugi, and also various storehouses and tile shops on Ueno Kurumazaka Street were heavily damaged.

○Similarly, on Shitaya Sanmai Bridge Street, from Inokuchi River to Itō Matsusakaya burned. At the aforementioned Matsusakaya, twelve storehouse fronts collapsed. From there, in Okachi-machi, Lord Inoue was half-burned, Lord Ishikawa was heavily burned, Lord Kuroda was half-burned, and Lord Ogasawara was heavily collapsed. Lord Hori's palace was damaged. Chōja-chō and around Ueno-chō burned completely. Daimon-chō burned. On the Castle Highway, it burned to Izumi Bridge Street. From Ike-no-hata, Kaya-machi Street, to Muen slope burned. Lords Izumo and Sakakibara remained. Yushima Tenjin Shrine was slightly damaged. In front of the gate, from Kuromon-chō to Sangumi-chō, various places were heavily damaged. On the back street, in front of Reigan-ji, in this area the drainage ditches burst and a hole about three feet deep opened in the main road. From there, Tsuma-koi slope, Inari main shrine, and storehouses were slightly damaged. Not a single house in the district was otherwise affected. From there, on Kanda Shōhei Bridge Street, Lords Iga and Tatebe were heavily damaged. Lord Mizoguchi half-collapsed. Lord Naitō's front long houses were heavily damaged. From Dōbō-chō, Odaidokoro-chō, Kanazawa-chō, Hatago-chō, to the east was Onari Highway, west was Hongō, south to Shōhei Bridge, various places were damaged. Hongō Street had no particular problems, and around Lord Kaga's residence was damaged in various places. Around Maruyama and Komagome, various places were damaged. Both districts of Nezu were damaged. Around Yanaka, Dango slope street, and Zenkōji slope, various places were damaged, though there were no particular problems. Also, around Ōji, Inabyuki, to Jūjō, various places were damaged.

○Also, across from Higashi Bridge, Lord Matsudaira Suwa-no-kami's palace burned, and fire broke out from Honjo Ishihara through Benten alley and Hōon-ji Bridge to the same location's Warishita-mizu, and Lord Tsugaru Etchū-no-kami was heavily damaged. The small residences in this area were heavily damaged. From there, to around Kameido, various places were damaged. Also, on Tachikawa Street, fire broke out from Aioi-chō 2nd block and burned from Midori-chō to Hana-chō. Around Koume was damaged in various places with some fires. Also, in Fukagawa, around Ofunakura-mae-chō was heavily damaged and caught fire. Saishōji partially remained. Only Lord Ōkubo's residence was half-burned and the storehouse was half-burned. Also, from Yahata-gawa-chō to Rokken-bori middle bridge, from Morishita-chō to Taka Bridge, the fire was contained. Also, at one entrance, from Aikawa-chō to Ichi-no-hashi Street, half of the eastern riverside of Ōshima-chō, Hamaguri-chō, and Kuroe-chō remained. Hachiman Shrine had no problems. The front gate torii was damaged. Sanjūsangen-dō had no problems. Around Kiba was damaged in various places. In front of Reigan-ji, around Ōgi Bridge, and around Onagi River were damaged in various places. ○In the Yamanote area, around Yotsuya Shio-chō was damaged in various places. The water conduit outlet collapsed and water overflowed like a river. From there, Samegahashi was heavily damaged. Also, Kōji-chō was slightly damaged. All of Akasaka was slightly damaged. Aibatake, Lord Kuroda was heavily damaged. Around Aoyama Rokudō crossroads was heavily damaged. Around Azabu had no particular problems. Around Nishi-no-kubo and Kamiya-chō was heavily damaged. [Song] Indeed, this natural disaster was unprecedented in history, with about 3,000 deaths in Shin-Yoshiwara district alone, over 80,000 injured people in the府内, over 3,020 districts damaged, over 102,000 damaged storehouses, 37 locations of fire outbreaks and spreading fires, 630 damaged temple buildings and shrines. There is no time to count each one individually. This is recorded in detail to quickly inform relatives in distant provinces and other regions.

[Inside the black frame's left corner box]
Locations of Benevolent Relief Huts
　Outside Saiwai Bridge Gate
　Asakusa Hirokōji
　Fukagawa Seaside Shinden
Prince Ueno's Relief Hut　Below Ueno Mountain

[Outside the black frame]
Divine Song for Earthquake Protection　　Saved by the water god's revelation
　　　　　　　　How joyful to enter within the six parts