[Poetry scroll]
The isolated army resolves to die, holding fast to the solitary castle
Looking down upon a million troops of Seimei
With no reinforcements coming through and supply lines cut off
Resolute in their unified loyalty, both high and low

To Lord Kato of Higo Province - The 97-year-old Kozan Gen

(In the collection of Mr. Fukutani Tōtarō, Toyohashi)

The isolated army resolves to die, holding fast to the solitary castle. Looking down upon a million troops of Seimei. With no reinforcements coming through and supply lines cut off. Resolute in their unified loyalty, both high and low" To Lord Kato of Higo Province
The 97-year-old Kozan Gen (Lord Kato of Higo Province refers to Katō Kiyomasa; the poem is about the siege in Korea)

[Poetry scroll]
Three peaks face each other with towering majesty, carrying my brush I pass beneath Mount Nikkō
Heaven and earth's heroic spirits are hidden in the rocky valleys, golden and silver pavilions illuminate the misty vines
How dare I presume to compose praise-songs for the common people, with idle verses I merely continue the songs of a peaceful world
Who bestowed this gift of lodging in mist and wandering in clouds? Looking back through a thousand autumns, I am moved by waves of imperial grace

An old composition from Kōzan - Kozan Gen at the age of ninety-four

(In the collection of Mr. Ōyama Ginzō, Toyohashi)

Three peaks face each other with towering majesty. Carrying my brush I pass beneath Mount Nikkō. Heaven and earth's heroic spirits are hidden in the rocky valleys. Golden and silver pavilions illuminate the misty vines.
How dare I presume to compose praise-songs for the common people. With idle verses I merely continue the songs of a peaceful world. Who bestowed this gift of lodging in mist and wandering in clouds? Looking back through a thousand autumns, I am moved by waves of imperial grace. An old composition from Kōzan, Kozan Gen at the age of ninety-four (This composition was from the time when the old man was banished from Edo.)