seven years of age when he passed away. He can truly be called a jinzui (human treasure) of the sacred Meiji era.
This is why our Toyohashi City Educational Association publishes this brief biography of the Elder here, and transmits it to the world together with the previously published brief biography of Hatano Sakaki, the Elder's close friend and imperial loyalist—we believe this to be most meaningful both locally and historically.

　　November, Showa 6 (1931)

　　　　　　　　Toyohashi City Educational Association President　Fukutani Genji

Brief Biography of Elder Ono Kozan
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Edited by Toyohashi City Educational Association

　　　　　　　　1　　Birth and Family Lineage

Ono Chōgan, whose given name was Maki, courtesy name Kainosuke, also Shitasu, with the additional courtesy name Jokō, and who took the literary name Kozan. His former name was Yokoyama Sen'suke. During the reign of Emperor Kōkaku, when the eleventh Tokugawa shogun Ienari was in power, he was born on the 12th day of the first month of Bunka 11 (1814), year of the dog, as the eldest son of Yokoyama Gentoku (who took the literary name Tōko) in what is now Takahata, Ōaza, Tane Village, Higashi-Asai District, Ōmi Province, Shiga Prefecture. He had three older sisters, two younger brothers, and one younger sister. His father Gentoku practiced medicine and also farmed, and his mother was from the Iso family. The land of about six villages totaling approximately 10,000 koku around Takahata had been passed down as Yoshida domain territory since Matsudaira Izu-no-kami Nobunao, the sixteenth lord of what is now Toyohashi (formerly called Yoshida) in Mikawa Province, Aichi Prefecture, exchanged positions with Matsudaira Sukekuni in the tenth month of Kansei 2 (1790) and was transferred from Hamamatsu-chō in Tōtōmi Province to Yoshida. At the time of the Elder's birth (112 years ago from now), this territory was ruled by Matsudaira Izu-no-kami Nobuaki, the eighteenth lord of Yoshida, and was administered by district magistrate Miyawaki Chūzaemon. When the order for the abolition of domains and establishment of prefectures was issued, Toyohashi belonged to Nukata Prefecture (located in Okazaki City), and was later merged into Aichi Prefecture in Meiji 5 (1872), at which point it was transferred to Shiga Prefecture. Asai District covers an area of thirty-one square ri, divided east and west, with Mino to the east, Lake Biwa to the west, and Echizen and Wakasa to the north. Tane Village was called Tane-gō, referred to as Tanegawa in medieval times, located in the valley between Mount Ōyori and Mount Odani, where the Tagawa River flows southward from the east to join the Anegawa River. The Azuma Kagami records: "In the first year of Kenkyū, Ōmi Province Tane