Page 26

were moved by this, and eventually permitted him freedom of travel. The domain lord even summoned the old man to give lectures. At that time, domain elders Nishimura Jiuemon (styled Hō'an), Wada Hajime (Chōsen), and others were devoted to literary and military pursuits, and those below them were not lacking in talent either. Therefore, they had the wisdom to appreciate the old man. However, the old man's confinement lasted for the long period of eight years, from Ansei 6 (1859) to Keiō 2 (1866), which was extremely unfortunate for him personally, though it brought a rich harvest to the domain's seat of learning. In the third year of his confinement, in the spring of Bunkyū 1 (1861), he was first permitted to bring his wife and children from Edo, and they were housed in one of the residences in the Ōte nagaya within Yoshida Castle.

"March 6th - Wife and Children Arrive from Edo"
At twenty, I gained considerable fame in poetry circles. My chivalrous spirit before the blossoms would often startle people. Who would have thought that within the confines of this small room prison, I would welcome my wife and children and make it spring?

His son Masahiro later described the situation from the initial detention through confinement, saying:
"When the Great Purge of Boshin arose, those who conspired together were successively sent to prison. One evening, domain officials suddenly arrived, dragged away my father, and sent him under guard to Yoshida Castle. My wife and children were confined in the Yanaka domain residence, and communication between the two places was completely cut off. At that time, Hiro was still young. When he went out to play with other children, they would all curse him, saying, 'Your father is a traitor.' Hiro would run home alone, crying and complaining to his mother, but mother could only sob and could not answer. At barely ten years old, following mother to reach Yoshida, we crossed the Hakone mountains together. It was still spring cold, mountain rain dripped on our sleeves, and we often stumbled and nearly fell. Mother peered out from the palanquin and sighed sorrowfully. My little brother was in mother's arms, crying and seeking milk. I too frequently asked mother when we would see father, not knowing he was imprisoned. When we reached Yoshida, there was one old building with six or seven guards watching over it, stern as a prison. My father sat in the center with several volumes of books beside him, composing poetry as calmly as before, no different from previous days." (Abbreviated below) (Original in Chinese)

Reading this once brings a tragic scene before one's eyes. As the old man's confinement gradually relaxed, he was made to supervise the academic affairs of the domain school Jishūkan. Jishūkan had an ancient history, having been established in Hōreki 2 (1752) by Matsudaira Izunokami Nobunao after his transfer from Hamamatsu in Enshū province. As one of the rare domain schools in the country, it produced many talented individuals and its academic affairs always flourished. The domain lord's intention in housing the old man in the nearby Ōte nagaya was probably not difficult to fathom. The Ōte nagaya was located south of the current "Jishūkan Site" in front of the West Eighth District Municipal Assembly Hall. Coincidentally, Sekine Chidō had been exiled and returned from Edo, and together they established the "Seisei Poetry Society." The literary culture of our region greatly flourished, and even domain elders like Nishimura, Wada, and Matsui all began to devote themselves to poetry recitation.

"Miscellaneous Poems from Secluded Dwelling in the Shadow of Yoshida Castle (Second Collection)"
Wind shakes the cold branches and sunlight sinks. Ancient pines and old cypresses stand verdantly solemn. Sitting high by one window, I pass morning and evening. I am grateful that you small birds convey pleasant sounds.

The poetry of Tao and Du, the calligraphy of Han and Li. What is the purpose of various commentaries? If one does not witness the vicissitudes before one's eyes, how can one understand the profound intentions of the ancient sages?

When the old man was banished and set out on his northern journey, he had certain warnings in his heart and made efforts not to discuss politics with others. By chance, at an inn in Tochigi, he encountered Matsumoto Keidō (Kenzaburō), a loyalist from Kariya domain in Mikawa. Keidō saw the old man's attitude of wandering only in wine cups and devoting himself solely to poetry and books, became indignant, and left, kicking his seat. Yet it is curious that from that very Tochigi, the old man was soon detained at the Edo domain residence as one of the suspects and sent to Yoshida. Keidō later supported the Nakayama father and son in the incident at Amanogawa in Yamato province...

Page 27