Page 42

[continues the previous sentence]. When the old man became a recruited scholar (chōshi) and assistant administrator (gon-benji) as described in the previous chapter, those from our Tōkai region who were promoted to councillor (sanyō) included Tanaka Kunizō (later Fujimaro) and Tamiya Joun from Owari domain, and Senior Retainer Ohara Jinbei (Tesshin) from Ōgaki domain. There were several others in high-ranking positions, but the majority of higher positions were occupied by men from Kyushu and Shikoku, with only a few from the Chūgoku region. Led by Saigō (Takamori), Ōkubo (Toshimichi), and Iwashita (Masahira) from Satsuma; Kido (Takayoshi), Hirosawa (Hyōsuke), Inoue (Kaoru), and Itori (Motohiko) from Chōshū; and Gotō (Shōjirō), Fukuoka (Takachika), and Itagaki (Taisuke) from Tosa, large domains were well represented while small domains had few representatives. Moreover, those who had deep connections to the Tokugawa and came from Tokugawa-affiliated regions were greatly viewed with suspicion by those from the western domains (perhaps due to circumstances dating back to Sekigahara?), and there was undeniably an atmosphere of unease. In contrast, the old man's great ambitions and extraordinary aspirations should be seen as a point of comparison.

However, on the other hand, the old man's extraordinarily deep filial devotion and his exceptional longing for his mother were evident everywhere. Though he left home at a young age and became involved in the Restoration and national affairs, he took time from his busy schedule to frequently visit his mother and sister in his hometown. Even after his mother's death, he rarely failed to perform annual grave visits until around age seventy. According to his diary from a return trip at age sixty-seven: "On the return journey, I tried to buy a bamboo palanquin at Mishima but could not obtain one, so I put on straw sandals and climbed the treacherous path (Hakone), testing my old legs, but they were not yet too slow. Jigen (second son Yokoyama Gentarō) was greatly pleased." This passage shows how deep the old man's devotion to serving his parents was. In a poem from his prime years:

New Year's Day, Hinoe-Uma Year
Willows gold, plum blossoms jade, another new spring. Why speak of lodging simply and in poverty? Holding toso wine, standing beneath the trees. I offer one cup from afar to my parent in the northern hall.

[Annotation: Willows gold, plum blossoms jade, another new spring. Why speak of lodging simply and in poverty? Holding toso wine, standing beneath the trees. I offer one cup from afar to my parent in the northern hall.]

The old man's heart yearned not only for his mother but also extraordinarily for his elder sister Hamako.

Though my parent has died, I have my sister. My sister's kindness equals my mother's kindness.

[Annotation: Though my parent has died, I have my sister. My sister's kindness equals my mother's kindness.]

When the old man was eighty-three (March 1896) and his sister Hamako reached eighty-eight, though the old man never allowed a single celebration feast for his own longevity, for his sister he had a beiju cup (wooden, lacquered vermillion, over two sun in diameter) made, personally wrote the two characters for "beiju" (rice longevity) and his pen name in gold mud, and gave them to relatives, friends, and acquaintances, delighting his elder sister.

Fujimori Kōan wrote early in a preface to the old man's poetry collection: "He taught what he had learned to younger students, and though poor in clothing and food, whenever there was any surplus, he would invariably carry it a thousand ri home to present to his mother in the northern hall. Such instances were numerous. I have always considered his actions to show the depth of feeling as a son." Regarding the old man's resignation, Mishima Chūshū said: "I was in a remote place and wondered why the old man, who should have been able to achieve his aspirations after gaining position during the imperial restoration, resigned from his administrative post so early due to some dissatisfaction. Later I came to the capital and frequently interacted with the old man, read his poetry drafts, and saw how he praised the beautiful imperial plans above and described the enlightenment of customs below, expressing the calm and harmonious atmosphere of great peace..."

[Poetry panel in the center of left page]
The mad bonze acted arbitrarily with authority and power, confining the lord in the ancient palace. I love Minamoto no Sanmi for his merit in first advocating loyalty to the emperor. [Minamoto no Sanmi] Eighty-six-year-old Kozan elder [square seals]

[Below the poetry panel]
[Annotation: The mad bonze acted arbitrarily with authority and power, confining the lord in the ancient palace. I love Minamoto no Sanmi for his merit in first advocating loyalty to the emperor. Minamoto no Sanmi. Eighty-six-year-old Kozan elder... Minamoto no Sanmi Yorimasa was the founder of Toyohashi domain, and Tōjō Shrine in the eastern part of the castle enshrines him, with Matsudaira Izu-no-kami Nobitsuna also enshrined there. (Collection of Toyokawa-kaku)]

Page 43