Page 46

"There is no need to discuss skill or clumsiness. I treasure the brush of a filial son. The ancients created character evaluations. Now is the time to express that meaning."

Yonosuke had a gentle nature, respected people and loved things, and in his speech and conduct there were aspects that even men of virtue could not match. Though he himself wore rags, he never let his parents lack for clothing or food. Harmony always filled the house, and there was no one who saw him who was not moved. His grandson is called Jūsaku and currently conducts business at the foot of Iwaya mountain in Futagawa town, Atsumi district. At the same time, those who were also rewarded were: Maruchi Monjirō (grandfather of current city councilman Maruchi Seiji of Kawara-machi), his wife Chie, and eldest son Yūsaku - these three people harmoniously served their mother Rino well and received three bales of rice. Nakamura Shiki of Funa-machi lost her mother at age six and was raised by her stepmother. Her father also died soon after, and though she took a husband in her prime years, she said she could not be sufficiently filial that way, so she parted from her husband and cherished her stepmother, for which she received 2,000 mon (five ryō) in gold. Andō Kitarō, a lantern maker of Gofuku-machi, had seven siblings - second daughter Shū, third son Ribē, fourth daughter Kei, fifth son Tahē, sixth son Jikichi, and seventh son Suekichi - who were extremely harmonious in their filial care of their parents, and they also received 2,000 mon. Kitarō took the literary name Chōki and enjoyed haiku under Hōu's tutelage, and third son Ribē also took the name Choshin and similarly enjoyed it. Mase, daughter of farmer Gorōshichi of Futagaraki, Atsumi district (now within the city), lost her father at a young age, served at a nearby household, cared well for her blind mother, never let her mother know of their extreme poverty, and comforted and satisfied her day and night, for which she also received 2,000 mon. Also, Miki, wife of Kanzaemon of Koike village, Atsumi district (now outside the city), whose husband died early, had to care for three children and a sick mother-in-law. Though troubled by her mother-in-law's short temper, she cared for her well and moved the villagers, for which she received two bales of rice.

The biography of Takao (Sakaki) was published by the Toyohashi City Education Association in October of Taishō 14 (1925), and an exhibition of his calligraphy was held at the higher elementary school.

Eventually, domain lord Nobutō was enrolled among the nobility with the abolition of domains and establishment of prefectures, and moved to the domain residence in Shimizu-chō, Yanaka, Tokyo. The old man accompanied him, traveling east together and lodging within the residence.

"Carrying children from afar, I enter the capital. In temporary lodging welcoming spring, laughter and conversation are lively. I remember well the beauty of Sōzan's verses. Neither becoming a lonely traveler nor establishing a home."

"No need to don a fisherman's straw coat by the river. No use being bound by vines in the mountains. In old age, what place is best for peaceful dwelling? In Tokyo castle there are many old friends."

Thereafter he resolutely never served in office again, wandering in the realm of poetry, wine, and refined pleasures. Former domain lord Nobutō treated the old man as his honored teacher and guest.

On August 17 of the fourth year, his mother in Kohoku died at age eighty-five (the old man was then fifty-eight), and in the following fifth year, second month of Mizunoe-saru, he transferred the Toyohashi residence to his son Masahiro and moved his permanent residence to Tokyo. Ah, "the great hermit hides in the city" - was this not said of the old man? In this year Masahiro (age twenty-two) entered government service and became a secretary of the Sa-in [Left Academy], about which the old man composed a poem.

Recording Joy
"My son has barely passed the age of capping, his name enrolled among court officials. Heaven's grace is thus great. Do not forget how difficult repayment is."

Thus the entire family moved from Toyohashi to Tokyo. The old man constructed a residence beside Shinobazu Pond at the foot of Ueno hill the following sixth year, calling it "Kozan Shōin" (Small Hermitage of Lake and Mountain), spending his days and evenings in poetry and song to ease his heart, his poetic reputation rising ever higher at home and abroad.

Twelve Poems on the New Residence by Shinobazu Pond (Number Two)
"Rising and resting amid smoky light and water colors. The small tower is perfectly suited to bear the name Lake and Mountain. The lotus pond wishes to continue Master Liang's collection. This too is our family's summer retreat."

Master Liang refers to his teacher Yanagawa Seigan. Seigan once lodged here and formed a poetry society, which the old man continued.

"Special beauty and lofty sentiment naturally possess truth. Meeting by chance, we immediately become intimate. Dark bamboo and green cypress are not their match. In the end, lotus flowers are truly lovable."

Page 47