Silk thread <<marginal note: for food preparation>> wrapped packages, two bags each of dried persimmon eaves to three senior ladies-in-waiting, turnip stems and other single-layer items
were sent. An audience was granted with celebratory gifts, same for the princess's quarters, celebratory sake was bestowed, one hundred hiki of gold was returned as
a bestowment. Cotton batting and other items were given from the princess's quarters, and after everything was completed without incident, it concluded auspiciously with withdrawal.
However, participation was after the noon hour. The lord's evening conclusion, I went out for the night watch and paid respects to the lord.

8th day, kinoto-i, clear - At the Satsuma estate, New Year delicacies were bestowed as in previous years, so Chiyozō went to work after morning rice.
All matters were as in previous years. ○On the 4th of this month, clerk Kurase Yobei was
summoned for New Year greetings and celebratory sake was served. Before that, at the palace, entering from the ladies' entrance to the inner quarters, an audience was granted.
New Year gifts of three sets of folding fans, ten small chrysanthemums, etc. were bestowed. The princess's quarters received the same, and sweets were bestowed.

13th day, kanoe-tatsu, clear - Today the following appointments were made:
Basic stipend of 20 koku bestowed - Namba Mino-no-kami
Three-person stipend bestowed - Retired Iga-no-kami  
However, three days monthly service and temple visits are suspended.
Five tō increase - Suzuki Hayato
Three koku bestowed - Kawase Miyoshi
Five tō increase - Yamamoto Shōzaburō
Clerical assistance - Ijichi Saburōemon
The above

15th day, mizunoe-uma, clear - The family ceremonial cups and gifts were bestowed as in previous years. Since last year, those who received promotions and increases
献上した各所の御肴 and celebratory items were presented to all. Since I received appointment to the samurai ranks last winter,
after group consultation, one hundred hiki of gold was presented.

17th day, kinoe-saru, clear - The Western middle group gathering began with assembly, Tsuneki and Tsunehiro did not attend. ○Tsuneki went to the Shimobashi area for
utai recitation practice, Tsunehiro went to the Mitsukumo area for the u-meeting beginning. ○For the ox year portion, the Ōkawa levy assessment was 7 tō 3 shō
9 gō 1 shaku, this levy money was 417 mon at 15 mon per koku, submitted to the junior official in charge. ○Elder sister Hideko
received 14 ryō of gold from the Fujii family, and a receipt certificate was submitted.