20th day, hinoto-i, clear - After lunch at Seikai-tei, a hand soup gathering was convened, and the repair magistrate resigned.
Nariki and Kaneyori took charge. The rotating offerings: Hitsukenaoshi and Atsunari served on the 1st day, Bashitaoshi on the 5th day,
Seigyo served as guardian. Due to Ujihiko's first riding and the thousand officials' records, all lots were excluded.

28th day, kinoto-hitsuji, clear - Lady Masu's group was disbanded, and Lady Chiyo's first meal service celebration
took place.

2nd month, long month

4th day, kanoto-ushi, clear - The third lecture group's village agreement association, second meeting of the conclusion fund, lunch duty at Hitsukena-tei
was held with Kyōho in charge. After completion, there was one round of drinks among the group before dispersing.

5th day, mizunoe-tora, clear - The palace 100 monme-stake lecture, 18th meeting, took place at Sanbongi as usual, duty completed.

8th day, kinoto-mi, cloudy - The lantern lecture proceeded to Sanbon village as usual.

10th day, hinoto-hitsuji, clear - At Yamamori Shrine, Hiiragi-hara, a deranged peasant destroyed all three shrines and disturbed the inner sanctuary,
so there was an order to stop musical performances. Tonight temporary shrine relocation, etc.

11th day, tsuchinoe-saru, cloudy - Kasuga Shrine festival. ○Western middle group accounting meeting convened, but Tsuneki and Tsunehiro,
who were annual officials, did not attend.

12th day, tsuchinoto-tori, clear - Lady Jun, consort of Lord Nijō Safu, passed away in late January of this year,
and tonight her funeral procession went to Nison-in. She was the elder sister of the daughter of Lord Mito and Lady Takatsukasa Mandokoro.
Tsunehiro accompanied Sub-Minister Saichō as an attendant, etc.

13th day, kanoe-inu, clear - Kagura lecture, third meeting, proceeded to Sanbongi as usual, duty completed.

15th day, mizunoe-ne, rain - The family's Nirvana gambling took place as in previous years.

17th day, kinoe-tora, clear, later cloudy with rain at night - Today the first formal visit to Yoshida Kasuga Shrine, then
to the villa. After lunch, Middle Counselor Kuga made an unexpected visit. Previously arranged for physician Shingū Ryōtei
to visit Nanzen-ji study hall today for introductions, so from early morning went to the villa,
with Tsuneki and Tsunehiro accompanying. In the afternoon, Lord Dainagon, Lord Kame, Lady Manju Myō, Lady Chaku