19th day, kinoto-inu, overcast - Today being an auspicious day, Hideko celebrated her obi-tying ceremony (chakutai). The obi (two sashes in red and white) was presented by Tsunenori. After Hideko passed them from the right sleeve to the left sleeve, the midwife handled the procedure. Then Okane-dono and elder brother Akinori were invited, with the elderly woman also present, and celebratory sake was served. Of course Akishu was also invited, with clear tai soup, inkstone lid, octopus, soft roe, noodles, pickled dishes, tai roe, marinated vegetables, etc.

23rd day, kanoe-tora, clear - The shrine's 5-kan monme loan association was held as usual after lunch at Sakaiya. I was the organizer. After settling accounts with the main lottery, there was a surplus of over 200 monme of silver. Due to a previous request from Ōtsu, using the ratio of offering 20% of the current distribution amount, the remaining silver of 2 kan 278 monme was received as part of the annual reserve. ○ Tsuneaki, seeking promotion to Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade before the Aoi Festival, submitted a petition. Tomorrow the 24th there will be an imperial inquiry, so he was summoned to appear at the middle lodging at the half-hour of uma (1:30 PM). The official payment was submitted to the shrine group on a previous day as usual.

24th day, kanoto-u, clear - Regarding the marriage arrangement between Lord Takatsukasa, Minister of the Left, and Lady Kame, yesterday the 23rd an official envoy arrived and the private agreement was settled. The public announcement will be made after the Aoi Shinto ritual on the coming April 13th. Accordingly, I attended work today in regular dress and expressed my congratulations. ○ Today Tsuneaki received the imperial decree for Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade, which was completed around the half-hour of tori (6:30 PM), most gratefully and humbly received. He immediately offered thanks before His presence.

25th day, mizunoe-tatsu, rain then clear - The day after tomorrow, the 27th, is the Crown Prince's coming-of-age ceremony, and the outer court officials will participate. Today for the preliminary inspection, they entered the palace from the hour of tatsu (8 AM).

27th day, kinoe-uma, brilliantly clear - This is the day of the Crown Prince's coming-of-age ceremony. For attendance and the seasonal banquet, the outer court officials participated, entering the palace at the true hour of u (6 AM), with the imperial procession returning before the hour of inu (8 PM). All imperial affairs were completed without delay, which is most joyous. I began service at cockcrow as Tsuneaki's attendant. Everyone changed into formal dress.

28th day, kinoto-hitsuji, clear - Imperial visit at the hour of uma (12 PM). Congratulations were offered to the Eastern Imperial Palace.

29th day, hinoe-saru, clear - Regarding the adoption arrangements through the mediation of Mikawa-no-kami Kiyomoto for my uncle Tsunetake's adopted son, concerning the consultation with Hōki-no-suke Kiyoo's son, Ukon Kiyosaki, there has been a private agreement since last year...