1. Goshūi-shū (Later Collection of Gleanings) - Compiled by Middle Counselor Michitoshi in the 3rd year of Ōtoku under Retired Emperor Shirakawa. Contains 20 volumes.

2. Kin'yō-shū (Collection of Golden Leaves) - Compiled by Toshiyori in the 1st year of Tenji by imperial order of Retired Emperor Toba. Contains 644 poems in 10 volumes.

3. Shika-shū (Collection of Verbal Flowers) - Compiled by Third Rank Akisuke in the 1st year of Ten'yō by order of Retired Emperor Sutoku. Contains 10 volumes.

4. Senzai-shū (Collection of a Thousand Years) - Compiled by Shunzei in the 3rd year of Bunji by order of Retired Emperor Go-Shirakawa. Contains 20 volumes.

5. Shin kokin-shū (New Collection of Ancient and Modern Poems) - Compiled by Michitomo, Ariie, Masatsune, Teika, and Ietaka in the 3rd year of Genkyū by order of Retired Emperor Go-Toba. Contains 20 volumes.

The above are called the Eight Imperial Anthologies (Hachidaishū). After these:

6. Shin chokusen-shū (New Imperial Collection) - Compiled by Teika in the 1st year of Jōei by order of Retired Emperor Go-Horikawa.

7. Zoku gosen-shū (Continued Later Collection) - Compiled by Tameie in the 2nd year of Kenchō by order of Retired Emperor Saga.

8. Zoku kokin-shū (Continued Ancient and Modern Collection) - Compiled again in the 2nd year of Bun'ei of the same reign by Kujō Motoie, Tameie, Yukie, Mitsutoshi and others.

9. Zoku shūi-shū (Continued Collection of Gleanings) - Compiled by Tameuchi during the Kenji era by order of Retired Emperor Kameyama.

10. Shin gosen-shū (New Later Collection) - Compiled by Tameyo during the Kagen era by order of Retired Emperor Go-Uda.

The above, combined with the previous eight anthologies, are called the Thirteen Imperial Anthologies.

11. The Man'yōshū was compiled by Minister of the Left Tachibana no Moroe during the Daidō era in the time of Emperor Heizei. Contains 20 volumes.

12. The Tales of Ise (Ise Monogatari) gets its name because it describes how Narihira went to Ise Province as an envoy for hunting, violated the Saigū (Ise Priestess), and glimpsed other very elegant women. There is also a theory that it is called this because it was written by a woman named Ise.

13. The Tale of Genji is a story created by a court lady called Murasaki Shikibu, who secluded herself at Ishiyama Temple in Ōmi Province and prayed to Kannon.