According to "Yamato Honzō": Wild pea　　　　　According to "Honzō": Gyōyō (commonly called "iira" by the people)

　　　　　　　　　　　　According to "Kyūkō Honzō": The common name is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Wild pea　　also called "sōriroku"

According to "Kyūkō Honzō":
　　　Mountain black bean (aki-fuji, there are plants with the same name, kamagiri-sō)
　　　(tsuru-fuchi-hakama)

　　　In Kyūkō, one plant is recorded
　　　but treated as two plants
　　　The wild pea in Kyūkō
　　　corresponds to the beach wild pea

　　　Mountain pepper thorn

According to herbalists and "Yamato Honzō":
　　　Hōsō-ka (treasure appearance flower)　　Butsu-ken-shō (Buddha's laughter)
　　　Kin-ō-shi (golden cherry)　one species

The common name for Butsu-ken-shō is botan-ibara, and
Hōsō-ka is also one thing with two names. According to the "Avatamsaka Sutra":
"The exterior resembles a bodhisattva but
the inner heart is like a yaksha," hence the name Butsu-ken-shō

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　15th day of the 4th month, year of the Wood Rooster
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Drawn from life

　　　　According to "Wakan Sansai Zue," Shrub Category:
　　　　　　　Bi (dog vetch)　 Wild pea 　Tarumi　Ōsu-na (commonly called inu-endō)

　　　The commentary on Bi has various theories and is difficult to determine. In the "Shijing" Shao chapter:
　　　"Climbing that southern mountain to gather bracken, climbing that southern mountain to gather that Bi"
　　　(Zhu Xi's note: Bi resembles bracken but is somewhat larger, has awns, tastes bitter, and mountain people eat it). The commentary treats the two as the same type but different species,
　　　while "Wamyōshō" treats the two characters Bi-ketsu (Japanese name: warabi) as one plant, which is greatly
　　　mistaken. I think this error arose from the parallel phrases of Bi and bracken in the "Shijing" being mistakenly considered as one
　　　plant. "Erya" and "Shuowen" also have similarities and differences, but Shizhen identified Bi with
　　　wild pea. However, "Yamato Honzō" states that Bi grows in deep mountains and secluded valleys, resembles bracken but is
　　　larger, and that the Bi in Honzō is a different plant. There are very many such different plants. Commonly,
　　　Gyōyō (isu-yara-mame) and wild pea have a distinction of size, and already dividing them, making Gyōyō into
　　　wild pea, and Bi being wild pea - this is an inventive theory. (I say) This is not so; the name Bi is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōsu-na, which is the large variety of wild
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　pea and one species, while
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　the name of the different plant is Kōbō-ketsu-
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　mei. The collected theories about wild pea
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　are confused, so I provide this collective explanation only.