【Page 4 Upper】
The suffering exceeds the previous. Hence the name. This has three forms of suffering. First is piercing with three-pronged spits, second is wrapping with iron sheets, third is boiling and cooking in hot liquid. Also called Great Scorching Heat.

Eighth is Avīci Hell (Uninterrupted Hell).
From the hot great iron ground extending hundreds of yojanas in four directions, there is fierce blazing fire that burns sentient beings. It penetrates their skin and enters the flesh, severs tendons and breaks bones, penetrates the marrow and burns like fat candles. Thus the entire body becomes fierce fire. Such beings mix with fierce flames, and only fire masses are seen. Fire flames from four directions intermingle with no gaps. The suffering experienced has no intervals. Only hearing the sounds of anguished cries, one knows there are sentient beings. Hence the name. This suffering has six aspects: first, fire flames from four directions come to stab and burn; second, winnowing with iron baskets; third, iron great mountains above and below; fourth, beating the tongue with a hundred hot iron needles; fifth, forcing them to swallow hot iron balls; sixth, pouring molten copper into their mouths. In Sanskrit called Abījī. This means "uninterrupted." The lifespan is equal to the upper six starting with Sañjīva.

Regarding similarities and differences between the eight hot and eight cold hells. The eight hot hells each measure ten thousand yojanas in length and width. The eight cold are only ten thousand in width, not so in length. Among the eight cold, the first hell is beside Sañjīva. The remaining seven are all located two thousand yojanas below Sañjīva. According to Mahāyāna Yogācāra understanding, they are all located thirty-two thousand yojanas below ground from here. According to Mahāyāna Yogācāra understanding, going down thirty-two thousand yojanas underground from here (※The twenty characters following "all exist there" may be superfluous) is Sañjīva Hell. Four thousand yojanas below Sañjīva is Kālasūtra. The six hells below this are each separated by two thousand

【Page 4 Lower】
yojanas. However, both Mahāyāna and Hīnayāna have two interpretations: vertical stacking and horizontal arrangement. Both Vibhāṣā and Abhidharmakośa have two interpretations. Considering the Mahāyāna view, the Abhidharmakośa's statement about going down twenty thousand from here is quite shallow and near. Therefore Xuanzan Volume 6 states: "The Abhidharmakośa says going down twenty thousand to reach the bottom of Avīci, which is extremely shallow and near." My opinion is that the horizontal arrangement interpretation would be good. See Xuanzan Volume 6. According to Mahāyāna understanding, both vertical stacking and horizontal arrangement place Sañjīva Hell thirty-two thousand yojanas below from here. Kālasūtra Hell is four thousand yojanas below Sañjīva. The six hells below are each separated by two thousand yojanas. The Saddharmasmṛtyupasthāna Sūtra mentions 136 hells. Each of the eight hot hells has sixteen neighboring hells, totaling 128. Adding the fundamental eight hot hells makes 136. The eight cold and solitary hells are not mentioned. If mentioned, there would be very many hells. Because they receive increased suffering, they establish the name "increased." The four increased are: first, burning coals; second, excrement; third, sharp blades; fourth, violent river. The Lotus Sutra Commentary Volume 6 states: "The lifespan in Avīci Hell is one intermediate kalpa. That is, decreasing from eighty thousand years to ten years, then increasing again from ten years to eighty thousand years is called one intermediate kalpa. This is the kalpa measure of Avīci. It is not like the heavenly lifespan of the Thirty-three Heavens. The lifespans of animals and hungry ghosts are indefinite. Also, the lifespans of the eight cold hells, when compared successively with the eight hot great hells, are nearly half. The lifespans in the neighboring and solitary hells are indefinite." The lifespans of the seven hells starting with Sañjīva are as usual. Regarding body size, see Guang Ji Volume 11. Abhidharmakośa Volume 11 states: "Four on each of four sides, therefore called

【Page 5 Upper】
sixteen. These are places where increased punishment is received. Therefore they are named 'increased.'" The Record of Commentary on Volume 5 states: "From 'in Naraka' in the treatise to 'because of non-discrimination.' Commentary: Naraka means 'vessel of suffering,' the place of sin. Nāraka refers to those who receive that suffering. Therefore the two are different." That is, because they receive increased suffering, the name "increased" is established. Xuanzan Volume 6 states: "The eight hot are: first Sañjīva through eighth Avīci. These eight places of suffering vessels each measure ten thousand yojanas in length and width. The eight cold are: first Arbuda through eighth Mahāpadma. Thirty-two thousand yojanas below here is Sañjīva. Equal ground below one yojana has Kālasūtra and others. Thus the six Narakas below are each separated by two thousand yojanas. Those eight cold hells are all smaller than the hot hells. Regarding the fundamental hells explained above. One interpretation: the hells are stacked vertically above and below. Roughly calculated, the bottom of Avīci is 128,000 yojanas from the ground. This interpretation is incorrect. Below the water of Sumeru, it only mentions eighty thousand immediately resting on the golden wheel. This is definitely impossible. Therefore another interpretation says: Going down thirty-two thousand yojanas from here is Sañjīva. Four thousand below Sañjīva are the other seven. The other seven also correspond horizontally, not vertically. The first cold is level with Sañjīva. Two thousand below the first cold are the other seven. The other seven also correspond horizontally, not vertically. Those eight hells are ten thousand yojanas wide. The vertical dimension is not mentioned. Yogācāra only says: thirty-two thousand below here is Sañjīva. Four thousand below Sañjīva are the other Narakas. The first cold is beside Sañjīva. Two thousand below this are the other cold Narakas (※Xuanzan may have the character 'na' after 'cold'). The place of cold Narakas is ten thousand wide. It doesn't separately mention the vertical distance of four thousand and each hell being ten thousand. Therefore Vibhāṣā has two explanations. Abhidharmakośa says going down two

【Page 5 Lower】
ten thousand to reach the bottom of Avīci is extremely shallow and near." Sections and Commentaries Volume 3 states: "The commentary's 'one interpretation says hells are stacked' etc. interprets that Yogācāra text and has two different teachers, placing the phrase 'one interpretation.' It's not that the Yogācāra treatise has two teachers. Regarding the commentary from 'first cold' to 'ten thousand wide': Question: Previously it said 'the eight cold are all smaller than the eight hot,' now it says 'ten thousand.' What's the difference between cold and hot? Answer: The eight hot are said to be ten thousand in both length and width. The cold are said to have ten thousand only in width, not mentioning length. Therefore we know there's a difference. Question: The hot and cold are vast in measure. How can they fit below this continent? Answer: This continent is broad above and below like a grain heap. Therefore it can accommodate them. Question: Do the other three continents have great hells below them? Answer: No. Therefore Yogācāra says 'below here.' Also Vibhāṣā Volume 172 states: 'The Great Virtue explains thus: Below Jambudvīpa there are great hells, and also neighboring and solitary hells. In the other three continents there are only neighboring and solitary ones, no great hells. The reason is that only Jambudvīpa people are vigorous in creating good and also vigorous in doing evil, unlike the other continents. One explanation: the small continents have no neighboring hells because they are places for receiving the fruits of pure good karma.' Question: If so, the other continents have no great hells below. When those sentient beings create uninterrupted karma and sever good roots, where do they receive retribution? Answer: Right in the great hells of Jambudvīpa." See Abhidharmakośa and Verse Commentary Volume 11.

　　　　The Eight Cold Hells:
First is Arbuda Hell.
This means "blister." Sentient beings are oppressed by extremely severe and vast cold winds, and all their body parts completely shrivel up.