【Page 8 Upper】
Since there is no equivalent, it is not translated. However, previous masters have translated this as "Superior Gold." Jambu refers to superior gold, and nadi refers to continent. The Lotus Commentary and Xuanzan should be consulted.

Third is Western Godānīya.
This means "Cattle Currency." Below a tall tree is a treasure cow. The people of this continent regard this as treasure. Or because they trade goods with cattle, it is called the Cattle Currency Continent. The continent name follows these two meanings.

Fourth is Northern Uttarakuru.
This means "Superior Place." Among the four continents, this place is most superior. Or called "Superior Birth" because among sentient beings born in the four continents (also called Uttarakuru continent), these are most superior. Since body size and lifespan are easily [understood], they are abbreviated and should be consulted. The first verse of the Abhidharmakośa states: "People of Jambudvīpa measure three and a half to four cubits. People of the eastern, western, and northern continents progressively double in size. ○ The northern continent [lives] definitely a thousand years. Western and eastern [live] half and half reduced. This continent's lifespan is indefinite. The last ten and first [periods] are immeasurable."

There are eight intermediate continents. (Each of the four great continents has two intermediate continents as retinue.)
　1. Cāmara continent (meaning "yak")
　2. Aparacāmara continent (meaning "superior yak" - these are the two intermediate continents bordering the southern continent)
　3. Deha continent (meaning "body")
　4. Videha continent (meaning "superior body" - these are the two intermediate continents bordering eastern Pūrvavideha)
　5. Śatha continent (meaning "deceit")

【Page 8 Lower】
　6. Uttaramantriṇa continent (meaning "superior ceremony" - these are the two intermediate continents bordering western Godānīya)
　7. Kurava continent (meaning "superior border")
　8. Kaurava continent (meaning "having superior border" - these are the two intermediate continents bordering the northern continent)
　　　The above eight intermediate continents are all inhabited by humans. All human forms are short and small, like dwarfs in this region.

　　　　Fifth is the Heavenly Realm
The six desire heavens plus the form and formless heavens. However, the heavenly realm among the five destinies of the desire realm should exclude the form and formless heavens. But when generally speaking of the heavenly realm, the upper two realms should be included. According to the Yogācārabhūmi, what they receive is natural, therefore called heaven. According to the Abhidharmakośa and others, having freedom, luminosity, and spiritual powers is the meaning of heaven. The Mahāyāna view is also the same. The Supreme Commentary should be consulted. Also stated, the Commentary on Comprehensive Praise is the same as the Abhidharmakośa.

　　　　The Six Desire Heavens are:
First is the Four Heavenly Kings Heaven.
This is the fifth level on the mid-slope of Mount Sumeru, the dwelling place of the Four Heavenly Kings. They also reside on the peaks of the seven golden mountains. Their lifespan is five hundred years, with fifty human years equaling one day and night. The verse states: "Fifty human years ○ equal one day and night in the lower heaven ○ multiplied by this, lifespan is five hundred ○ the upper [heavens] increase by five times each." Also: "Twenty-four fingers make a cubit, four cubits make a bow's length, five hundred krośa

【Page 9 Upper】
equal eight yojanas." One krośa equals two ri. One yojana equals sixteen ri. One ri equals six chō. Different theories are not uniform. The Declining Dharma section should be consulted.

Second is Trāyastriṃśa Heaven.
This means "Thirty-three Heavens" - eight on each of the four sides plus Indra in the center combine to form the name. The above two heavens are both earth-dwelling heavens because they reside on Mount Sumeru. The thirty-three heavens are explained in the Saddharmasmṛtyupasthāna Sūtra, cited in the Water Extract.

　1. Sudharmā Assembly Hall Heaven  2. Peak-Dwelling Heaven  3. Mountain Peak Heaven  4. Good View City Heaven  5. Pāricchattaka Heaven  6. Koṭṭa Valley Heaven  7. Mixed Palace Heaven  8. Nandana Garden Heaven  9. Luminous Heaven  10. Pārijāta Tree Garden Heaven  11. Precipice Heaven  12. Mixed Precipice Heaven  13. Maṇi Treasury Heaven  14. Practice Ground Heaven  15. Secret Palace Heaven  16. Garland Shadow Heaven  17. Soft Warmth Ground Heaven  18. Mixed Adornment Heaven  19. Wish-fulfilling Ground Heaven  20. Subtle Action Heaven  21. Song Joy Heaven  22. Majestic Wheel Heaven  23. Moon Action Heaven  24. Jambu Forest Heaven  25. Connected Action Heaven  26. Shadow Illumination Heaven  27. Wisdom Action Heaven  28. Assembly Division Heaven  29. Wheel-dwelling Heaven  30. Majestic Countenance Heaven  31. Majestic Flame Wheel Heaven  32. Shadow Illumination Heaven  33. Pure Heaven

【Page 9 Lower】
Third is Yāma Heaven.
This means "Time Division" because the time periods for receiving pleasure are different. Body height is three-quarters of one krośa - 270 jō.

Fourth is Tuṣita Heaven.
This means "Contentment" - receiving pleasure while knowing satisfaction. This is the meaning of having few desires and knowing contentment. Or called "Joy and Contentment" because many emotions are joyfully satisfied and joyful practices are fulfilled. Body height is one-quarter krośa - 360 jō.

Fifth is Nirmāṇarati Heaven.
They enjoy transforming the five sense objects and receive pleasure therein. Although there are also environments produced by karma, the name comes from the superior aspect. Body height is one krośa plus one-quarter - 450 jō.

Sixth is Paranirmitavaśavartin Heaven.
Having the power of sovereignty, they cause others to transform the five sense object environments while they themselves receive pleasure. Although there are also five sense object environments from karmic birth and self-transformation that they use themselves, the name comes from the superior aspect. Body height is two krośa plus two-quarters - 540 jō.

The Four Kings and Trāyastriṃśa heavens dwell on earth, accomplishing sexual union through bodily contact, no different from humans. However, when wind and qi are released, heat and afflictions are eliminated, unlike humans who have other impurities. The Yāma heaven beings accomplish sexual union through embracing. All