## Record of Disaster Avoidance during the Ansei Era

The upheavals of heaven and earth arise from the interplay of the firm and the yielding aspects of yin and yang. At times, clouds form and rain falls; winds arise and thunder roars. All of these are akin to diseases arising in the human body. Alas — such is the work of Heaven, such is the work of Fate!

In the second year of Ansei (the Year of the Hare), on the night of the 2nd day of the 10th month, at the Hour of the Pig (around 10 o'clock at night), the earth suddenly shook violently in a great earthquake. Earthen storehouses and residences, sturdy as iron fortresses, were toppled in an instant without exception, and the number of dead was beyond counting. It was a pitiful and fleeting tragedy.

To the north, Senju-juku suffered great devastation. Kozukahara, struck first by the earthquake and then by fire, was completely destroyed. Shin-Yoshiwara was largely destroyed by the tremors; though a small portion remained standing, fires broke out in Kyōmachi 1-chōme and 2-chōme, and then spread from various points in Kadochō, Ageyachō, Edochō 1-chōme and 2-chōme, consuming everything. The number of courtesans and others who perished was beyond counting. However, three houses at the corner of Edochō 1-chōme survived, six or seven houses at a corner of Kyōmachi 1-chōme remained, and about half of the western side of the fifty-ken road survived.

From there, Doteshita, Tamamachi, Takemon, the north and south Umamichi, and Saruwakachō 1-chōme, 2-chōme, and 3-chōme were all completely destroyed by fire. One side of Gakuya Shindō remained. From Tanaka, the areas of Sanya, Asakusachō, Shin-Tokoshi, Shibababa, and Imado suffered massive collapses; the roads became like mountains of rubble, making passage nearly impossible, with an especially high number of fatalities. Daiōnji-mae, Minowa, Kanasugi, and Itahon (Itabashi) also suffered severe collapses, while Negishi sustained minor damage. From there, Tambo and the area around Kōryūji suffered great destruction. The estate of Lord Rokugō sustained minor damage. The areas of Shōtenchō, Yamano-shuku, and Hanakawado suffered particularly severe collapses.

The main hall of Kinryūzan Sensōji (Asakusa Temple) escaped unharmed, but the five-storied pagoda sustained minor damage. The areas along Namiki-dōri, Zaimokuchō, Hirokōji, Tawarachō, and Nakachō sustained minor damage. The lower estate of Lord Katō, Governor of Tōtōmi, at Morishita, suffered severe collapse. A fire broke out in Komagata and burned through Suwachō, Kurofunechō, Miyoshichō, and along the riverside. The fire was stopped at the corner of Miyoshichō by the First Fire Brigade. From there, Okuramaedōri sustained minor damage; the East Gate precinct (Higashi-Gomon) was unharmed, but the Chinese-style gate (Karaemon) collapsed. In Shitaya, the temples and townhouses in front of Kōtokuji suffered great destruction, though some areas among them remained unscathed...