...there were also areas that escaped unharmed. In this vicinity, the estates of ○Lord Tōdō, Governor of Izumi (320,500 koku), ○Lord Tachibana, Governor of Hida (119,600 koku), and various other great and lesser lords all suffered damage without exception. The precincts of Tōeizan (Kan'eiji Temple) were unharmed. On the north side of Hirokōji in the same area, everything from Mutsu Amida Yokochō, Itō, Matsuzakaya, Kuromon-chō, Ue-no-machi, Daimon-chō, Shichiken-chō, Shin-yashiki, Chōja-machi, Izumibashi-dōri, Naka-Okachimachi, and as far as the edge of Neribei Kōji was destroyed by fire. The Ikenohata area sustained minor damage, and Kayachō 1-chōme and 2-chōme burned together with the middle estate of Lord Sakakibara. The Nezu and Chayamachi areas also suffered great damage. The estate of ○Lord Matsubara (10,000 koku), Toyonojō, at Muen-zaka was □ (damaged/collapsed). The areas of Sendagi and Dango-zaka suffered numerous collapses. The area above Yanaka and Zenkōji-zaka survived partially. From there, Maruyama, Hakusan, Komagome, Sugamo, and Itabashi sustained minor damage. Hongō-dōri suffered only slight collapses, and the estate of Lord Kashū (the Maeda clan of Kaga) was unharmed. Yushima Tenjin Shrine was damaged, and similarly, the front gate street collapsed, with the Mikumichō area collapsing entirely. In addition, the areas of Daikon-畑, Shin-machi, Shijō, and Ninenaka saw their kōji-muro (fermentation cellars) crack open and the ground split apart extensively. The area in front of Reiun-ji Temple's gate sustained minor damage.

At Reiun-ji, the mud-plastered walls collapsed. Tsumakoi-machi and the Inari shrine were unharmed, with not a single house in the neighborhood collapsing. From there along the slope, the surface tenements (omote-nagaya) of the estates of ●Lord Takebe, Chief Artisan (10,000 koku), and ●Lord Naitō, Governor of Bungo (12,000 koku) collapsed. On Onari-dō, the estate of ●Lord Ishikawa, Master of the Palace (60,000 koku), and the estate of ●Lord Kuroda, Governor of Buzen (35,000 koku) were destroyed by fire. Lord Ogasawara's estate was damaged. Along Shōheibashi-dōri, the areas of Kanda, Dōbōchō, Odaidokorochō, Hatagochō, Kanazawachō, and Myōjin-shita all collapsed entirely. Sujikaigomon was slightly damaged. Both Uchi-Kanda and Soto-Kanda were completely shaken. However, the area around Shōheibashi suffered no particular damage, and at the Seidō (Yushima Seidō Confucian temple), the mud-plastered wall along the front street collapsed. From around Ochanomizu, the estates at Koishikawa for Lord Mito sustained minor damage. Likewise, from the front gate of Dentsu-in Temple to the Andō-zaka area, there was no particular damage, and the estate of ●Lord Andō, Governor of Hida, was unharmed. The entire area suffered only minor damage overall.

Now, turning to the south: the area inside Asakusa Gate suffered no particular damage, and from Bakurochō-dōri, through Kodenma-chō, Teppōchō, Kokuchō, and then from Yokoyama-chō through Shiomachi and Aburachō-dōri...