...burned. ●Lord Mizuno (50,000 koku), Governor of Dewa, burned; ●Lord Andō (50,000 koku), Governor of Nagato, sustained slight damage. Also, Reiganjima, Ōkawabata, and Kita-Shimbori suffered slight burning. The Hatchōbori area sustained slight damage. Also, Nihonbashi-dōri and the Nakabashi area sustained slight damage. Kyōbashi, Minami-Kajichō, Minami-Daiku-chō, Gorōbei-chō, Tatami-chō, Kita-Kon'ya-chō, Minami-Tenma-chō 2-chōme and 3-chōme, Suzuki-chō, Inaba-chō, Tokiwa-chō, Gusoku-chō, Yanagi-chō, Takegashi, Honzaimoku-chō 7-chōme and 8-chōme — all were consumed by spreading fire, which was stopped at Danshō Bridge. South of Kyōbashi toward Shinbashi, there was only slight damage; however, both sides of Shiba-i-chō were completely destroyed by fire. Rōgetsu-chō, Udagawa-chō, Shinmei-chō, and Mishima-chō suffered great collapse. Within the precincts of Shiba Zōjōji Temple, there was no particular damage. The area in front of the middle gate and Hamamatsuchō 4-chōme suffered slight damage. From there, Kanasugi-bashi-dōri, Honshiba, and the beachfront area all sustained damage. The Ohamaoteshiro (the Shogun's seaside villa) suffered slight damage, and the former temple gate area of Tsukiji also sustained slight damage — though some estates in that area did suffer substantial damage. The areas of Tamachi, Kuchō, Takanawa, Ōkido, and Shinagawa suffered no particular damage. To the west, Iida-chō and Banchō collapsed extensively. From Ushigome to Kohinata, there was widespread collapse, and Kōjimachi and Yotsuya suffered slight damage. Samegabashi suffered extensive collapse. In Akasaka, the areas of Tenma-chō, Tamachi, and Hitotsugi suffered slight damage. In Kiribatake, the estate of ●Lord Matsudaira, Governor of Mino (520,000 koku), suffered great damage. The areas of Aoyama and Rokudō-tsuji suffered extensive collapse. The Azabu area suffered no particular damage. Also, Nishikubo and Kōki-chō suffered extensive collapse. To the east, across Ryōgoku Bridge, in Honjo: Tachikawa-dōri, Aioi-chō, Midori-chō 1-chōme through 5-chōme, Hana-chō, and Tokuemon-chō — the entire area was shaken to collapse and destroyed by fire. The Minamiwari-gesui area sustained damage. The estate of ●Lord Tsugaru (100,000 koku), Governor of Etchū, collapsed. Similarly, Hayashi-chō and the Sarue area suffered great damage. Also, the areas of Ishiwara, Banba-chō, and Koume-dōri suffered great damage and destruction by fire. Also, Fukagawa, the street behind the Ofunakura (the Shogunal boat storehouse), and the Otabisho (a temporary shrine lodging) — this area suffered collapse. Yanagawa-chō, Rokkenbori, and Tokiwa-chō suffered extensive collapse and destruction by fire. Similarly, the Morishita area suffered great damage. Another direction: across Eitaibashi Bridge, the areas of Aikawa-chō, Nagisa-chō, Kitagawa-chō, Kumai-chō, Kuroe-chō, Nakachō, and the precinct before Eitaiji Temple gate were all completely shaken to ruin and destroyed by fire. The main shrine of the Hachiman Shrine suffered no particular damage. The front gate and torii suffered damage. The Sanjūsangendō (Hall of Thirty-Three Bays) suffered only slight damage. Beyond this, within five ri in all directions from the city, the Nakasendō highway sustained slight damage as far as Ōmiya-juku; the great earthquake extended as far as Kazusa and Shimōsa provinces, and the areas of Gyōtoku and Funabashi were completely shaken to ruin. Also, the areas of Kasai, Nigōhan-ryō, the Nikkō highway, Iwatsuki, and Satte suffered fires in various places. Approximately, the residential homes of the nearby provinces surrounding Edo in all four directions...