【Title】
True Record of Strange Events in the Eastern Capital

【First Section】

【Illustration】
Diagram of Noble Evacuation

On October 2nd, around 10 PM (hour of the boar), a great earthquake occurred. Houses collapsed, fires broke out, flames spread in all directions throughout the city, creating a great conflagration. The people of the city were shocked by this, and the chaos was too terrible to witness. Noble lords and ladies evacuated from their mansions, some carrying spears and halberds, cutting their way through. The turmoil in the city was beyond description, with no distinction between high and low. Unlike the Osaka incident, the situation in the city was different - some were crushed by debris, others burned to death in fires. From around 10 PM, the earthquakes did not cease, so old and young, men and women cried out for help in loud voices, but it was impossible to rescue them, and countless people were left to die. Many people from various provinces had come to Edo and were unfamiliar with the land. While they hesitated about where to flee and sat facing gates, the great fire came surging like mountains, and the voices of those dying continue even now - the tragedy is beyond comparison. Not only temples and shrines, but storehouses collapsed and various things were broken in numbers that cannot be exhausted by brush and paper. In the area of Ningyocho, the site of the great earthquake, seven-tenths of the houses were destroyed. Although the bridges suffered no particular damage, in some parts of the city, collapsed houses piled up like mountains. This was an unprecedented situation.

There are many more cases beyond this ranking, but details from other areas are separately documented in detailed reports from various locations in Edo. In particular, the fire locations have been categorized in illustrated maps, copied from those diagrams, so there are no errors. The number of deaths is unknown, but what is known is presented in small notes.

【Second Section】
At Iwakiya in Kojimachi 5-chome, there was great collapse with many deaths in the household. Five locations of collapse and fire. Along Yotsuya Temmacho street, twenty-four or twenty-five houses collapsed. In Ichigaya-machi, fifteen or sixteen houses fell. Many noble residences, and in Nezu Yanaka, a few houses collapsed, but all storehouses and warehouse-style buildings collapsed without exception. In Hongo Yushima and elsewhere, Kanda Kagokaji-cho and Sakuma-cho, 270-280 houses collapsed, but there were no fires.

Areas of Great Earthquake Damage:
Nihonbashi Takaracho Odawara-cho and vicinity, Jukken-dana Honcho Suruga-cho near Echigoya, Otemmachi near Daimaru, Abura-cho, Yokoyama-cho, Ningyo-cho, Tadokoro-cho, Horie-cho and vicinity, also Tomizawa-cho, Hase-cho, Shin-norimono-cho, Takasago-cho, Kawagishi-dori, Ryogoku Hiroko-ji, outside Asakusa Gate, Fukui-cho, Kaya-cho, Okura-dori, also Nihonbashi-dori, Shirokiya, Suwaraya. However, both warehouse-style buildings and storehouses, along with ordinary houses, about 80% collapsed. From Nihonbashi to Shiba Ookido, the number of collapsed houses is countless. Most of Takanawa collapsed, Shinagawa-shuku slightly, and Shimojuku about 60% collapsed. Most pitiful were travelers and serving women at inns, who saw scenes like hell while still asking what to do, their voices like the buzzing of mosquitoes - nothing could be more tragic.

【Illustration】
Water-drawing Diagram
Due to this great earthquake, water pipes broke and water supply stopped. Due to water shortage, people in various districts were greatly troubled, going to draw water from deep wells two, three, five, or seven blocks away. The congestion of people going to draw water from distant places was extraordinary. At the wellheads, people quarreled with each other - it was a terrible situation.

【Third Section】

【Illustration】
Diagram of Shin-Yoshiwara Collapse

Seven-tenths collapsed in the great earthquake, and with fires on top of that, everything burned down completely. Fifty houses in Shin-chaya-machi, Tamachi, all the teahouses with attendants were destroyed. All of Bado-dori was destroyed. To the east: Shoten-machi, Kawara-machi, Saruwaka-machi, the three theaters, actors' quarters, dressing rooms, new roads, and all other merchants were burned out. Among the actors, some died instantly, and Kataoka Gado suffered many injuries. Sanya-yado, Hanakawado, Kita-bado, Kawagishi-dori, Zaimoku-cho, Namiki-cho, Komagata, Suwa-cho, Kurofune-cho, Omaya Kawagishi - all were destroyed, and Sanken-cho was also completely burned. Especially in Shin-Yoshiwara, the number of courtesans, customers, elderly and young people who died reached a thousand. In the Asakusa area, people saw Kanzeon and fled into the temple grounds - tens of thousands, countless numbers. They raised their voices calling on Kanzeon, and perhaps due to that divine benefit, not one person was injured. The divine efficacy is remarkable and fearsome. However, three blocks of Shitaya Kanasugi burned.

【Fourth Section】
In Honjo, all of Ishihara-cho, Minami-warishimizu, Yoshida-cho, Yoshioka-cho, Shimizu-cho, Nagasaki-cho, Irie-cho, Fuchi-cho, Hana-cho, Aioi-cho, Tachikawa-dori, Tsugaru middle residence, and also great lords', hatamoto's, group residences, yoriki's, and many other residences burned - approximately 22 blocks square were burned and some houses collapsed. In Fukagawa, leaving a little beyond Eitai Bridge, Tomioka-cho, Hamaguri-cho, Kuroe-cho, Kumai-cho, Yamato-cho, Oshima-cho, Yagura-shita, Susotsugi, Naka-machi-dori to the first torii gate. Tsukuda Island's Hachiman Shrine survived. From Morishita-cho, Rokken-bori, Shinmei-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Takahashi-dori, Isezaki, Fuyuki-cho - approximately 12 blocks square burned. The collapsed areas are countless in number. From the second bridge of Kita-Shinbori to Reiganjima, this area had some fires. Okawabata Teppozu, Funamatsu-cho, Jukken-cho burned. Houses that survived the fire collapsed in the earthquake. Tsukuda Island collapsed and was completely burned. To the north, from Shitaya Ike-no-hata, Naka-cho, Kaya-cho, Hiroko-ji, Sanmai-bashi southward burned. Choja-machi, Okachi-machi area, Onari-michi and other substitute lands, great lords' middle residences, lower residences, group residences, foot soldier groups, advance guard groups, hatamoto all burned. However, at Ike-no-hata, the pond water surged up onto the hills like a tsunami, like dragons ascending - truly a terrifying sight.