【Right Page】
【Top right margin】
316
【Upper right margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1
【Lower right margin horizontal】
Four
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
It encompasses the three natures, three realms, three epistemic instruments, and corresponds with the eight consciousnesses. However, its support, object, nature, realm, epistemic instrument, etc., are all the same as the mind-king of one collection. Second is contact (sparśa). Through the three conjunctions, it distinguishes transformations and causes mind and mental factors to contact objects as its nature, and serves as the support for sensation, perception, volition, etc., as its function. Its distinct seeds, three natures, etc., are like the previous dharma.
Third is sensation (vedanā). Its nature is to receive and accept the aspects of agreeable, disagreeable, and neither agreeable nor disagreeable objects, and its function is to give rise to craving. Its distinct arising, etc., are also like the previous dharma. Here the five sensations are distinguished: sorrow, suffering, joy, pleasure, and equanimity. Fourth is perception (saṃjñā). Its nature is to apprehend images of objects, and its function is to establish various verbal designations. The rest is also as before. Fifth is volition (cetanā). Its nature is to cause the mind to create and act, and its function is to employ the mind regarding wholesome qualities, etc. The rest is also as above. The five object-specific [mental factors] are: {These five dharmas do not necessarily arise together. Sometimes one, sometimes two, up to all five arise together. In total there are thirty-one combinations.} First is desire (chanda). It takes hoping for objects of awareness as its nature, and serves as the basis for effort as its function. Arising from distinct seeds, it encompasses the three natures, three realms, three epistemic instruments, and corresponds with the six consciousnesses, excluding the seventh and eighth consciousnesses. Its supports, etc., are the same as the king of one collection. Second is adhimokṣa (determination). It takes firm conviction regarding determined objects as its nature, and being immovable as its function. Its arising from distinct seeds, etc., are also like the previous dharma.
Third is mindfulness (smṛti). Regarding previously experienced objects, its nature is to make the mind clearly remember without forgetting, and its function is to serve as the basis for concentration. The rest is like the previous dharma. Fourth is samādhi (concentration). Regarding objects of contemplation, its nature is to focus the mind without scattering, and its function is to serve as the basis for wisdom. The rest is also as before. Fifth is wisdom (prajñā). Regarding objects of contemplation, its nature is to discriminate, and its function is to cut through doubt. It encompasses seven consciousnesses, but excludes the eighth. The rest is also as before. The eleven wholesome [factors] are: {Among these, excluding tranquility, the remaining ten necessarily arise together.} First is faith (śraddhā). Regarding truth, virtue, and ability, its nature is to deeply accept, desire, and purify the mind, and its function is to counter disbelief and delight in wholesomeness. Arising from distinct seeds, it is only of wholesome nature.

【Lower section】
It encompasses the three realm-bindings, definitely encompasses direct perception and inference, encompasses the six consciousnesses, excluding the seventh and eighth consciousnesses. Its supports, etc., are the same as the mind-king of one collection. Second is effort (vīrya). Regarding the cultivation and abandonment of wholesome and unwholesome qualities, its nature is to be courageous and vigorous, and its function is to counter laziness and encourage wholesomeness. The rest is like the previous dharma. Third is shame (hrī). Relying on the power of oneself and the Dharma, its nature is to revere the worthy and good, and its function is to counter shamelessness and stop evil conduct. The rest is also as before. Fourth is moral dread (apatrapā). Relying on worldly power, its nature is to reject violence and evil, and its function is to counter lack of moral dread and stop evil conduct. The rest is also as before. Fifth is non-attachment (alobha). Regarding existence and the requisites of existence, its nature is to be without clinging, and its function is to counter greed and create wholesomeness. The rest is also as before. Sixth is non-hatred (adveṣa). Regarding suffering and the causes of suffering, its nature is to be without anger, and its function is to counter hatred and create wholesomeness. The rest is also as before. Seventh is non-delusion (amoha). Regarding all principles and phenomena, its nature is clear understanding, and its function is to counter ignorance and create wholesomeness. The rest is also as before. {The above three dharmas are called the three wholesome roots.} Eighth is tranquility (praśrabdhi). Its nature is to distance oneself from grossness and to make body and mind pliant and workable, and its function is to counter dullness and bring about transformation of the basis. The rest is also as before, but it exists only in two realms and is absent in the desire realm.
Ninth is conscientiousness (apramāda). Effort and the three wholesome roots, regarding what is to be abandoned and cultivated, take guarding and cultivating as their nature, and their function is to accomplish all mundane and supramundane wholesome activities. It has no separate seeds and encompasses the three realms. The rest is like the dharma above. Tenth is equanimity in action (upekṣā). Effort and the three roots cause the mind to abide in equality, uprightness, and effortlessness as their nature, and their function is to counter restlessness and abide in tranquility. It also has no separate seeds. The rest is also as before. Eleventh is non-harmfulness (ahiṃsā). Regarding sentient beings, not causing harm or distress, with non-hatred as its nature, and its function is to effectively counter harmfulness through compassion. It has no separate seeds, etc., also like the previous dharma. Non-hatred is loving-kindness; non-harmfulness is compassion. The afflic-

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】
317
【Upper left margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1
【Lower left margin horizontal】
Five
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
The six afflictions are: {These six are expanded to be called the ten afflictions, as explained below. These ten afflictions sometimes arise together and sometimes do not arise together, differing in various ways, as explained in the sixth volume of the Vijñāptimātratā treatise. However, when ignorance arises, the others do not necessarily arise, but when the others arise, ignorance necessarily arises.} First is greed (lobha). Its nature is to be attached to existence and the requisites of existence, and its function is to obstruct non-attachment and generate suffering. Arising from distinct seeds, it encompasses the two natures of unwholesome and obscured. It encompasses the three realm-bindings, encompasses the three epistemic instruments, encompasses the seven active consciousnesses, excluding the eighth consciousness. Its supports, etc., are the same as the mind-king of one collection. Second is hatred (dveṣa). Its nature is to feel aversion toward suffering and the causes of suffering, and its function is to obstruct non-hatred and serve as the basis for unrest and evil conduct. Arising from distinct seeds, it is only unwholesome, exists only in the desire realm, encompasses the three epistemic instruments, encompasses the six consciousnesses, excluding the seventh and eighth consciousnesses. Its supports, objects, etc., are also the same as the mind-king. Third is pride (māna). Its nature is to rely on oneself and be arrogant toward others, and its function is to obstruct non-pride and generate suffering. Arising from distinct seeds, it encompasses unwholesome and obscured neutral karma. It encompasses the three realm-bindings, is definitely not direct perception, encompasses the sixth and seventh consciousnesses, excluding the five sense consciousnesses and eighth consciousness. The rest is like the dharma above. Its supports, etc., are also the same as the king of one collection. Here seven types of pride and nine types of pride are distinguished. Fourth is ignorance (avidyā). Its nature is to be confused and dark regarding all principles and phenomena, and its function is to obstruct non-delusion and serve as the basis for all defilements. Its seeds, three natures, and realm-bindings are the same as above. It encompasses the three epistemic instruments, encompasses the seven active consciousnesses, excluding the eighth consciousness. Its supports, etc., are also the same as the king of one collection. Fifth is doubt (vicikitsā). Its nature is to be hesitant regarding the truths and principles, and its function is to obstruct non-doubt and wholesome qualities. Its seeds, three natures, and realms are also the same as above. It is definitely neither direct perception nor inference, exists only in the sixth [consciousness]. The rest is like the dharma above. Sixth is wrong view (mithyādṛṣṭi). Its nature is defiled wisdom that makes erroneous inferences about the truths and principles, and its function is to obstruct right view and attract suffering. It has no separate seeds. Its nature and realms are also the same as above. It is only non-epistemic, exists only in the sixth and seventh [consciousnesses], excluding the five sense

【Lower section】
consciousnesses. The rest is also as above. It is expanded into five views. {These five views never arise together.} First is satkāyadṛṣṭi (view of the transitory collection). It grasps self and what belongs to self regarding the five grasping aggregates, and its function is to serve as the basis for all view-tendencies. Second is antagrāhadṛṣṭi (extreme view). It grasps eternalism or nihilism regarding that [self], and its function is to obstruct the middle path and liberation. Third is mithyādṛṣṭi (wrong view). It slanders cause, effect, function, and real entities, and includes various other wrong grasping that are not among the four views. Fourth is dṛṣṭiparāmarśa (view-grasping). Regarding views and their basis aggregates, it grasps them as supreme and capable of attaining purity, and its function is to serve as the basis for all conflicts. Fifth is śīlavrataparāmarśa (grasping at rules and vows). Regarding rules and vows that accord with views and their basis aggregates, it grasps them as supreme and capable of attaining purity, and its function is to serve as the basis for useless painful effort. The twenty secondary afflictions: {Among these twenty, some may arise together and some may not arise together, as distinguished below.} First is anger (krodha). Its nature is to become enraged when confronted with immediate unbeneficial circumstances, and its function is to obstruct non-anger and take up weapons. This is a state of hatred. It has no separate seeds, is only of unwholesome nature, exists only in the desire realm, is definitely not direct perception, exists only in the sixth [consciousness]. Its supports, objects, etc., are the same as the king of one collection. Second is resentment (upanāha). Its nature is to harbor evil without abandoning it, preceded by anger, and to bear grudges, and its function is to obstruct non-resentment and cause burning distress. It is also a state of hatred. It has no separate seeds, etc., the same as the dharma above. Third is spite (pradāśa). Preceded by anger and resentment, its nature is to pursue with violent heat and stubbornness, and its function is to obstruct non-spite and cause stinging pain. It is also a state of hatred. It has no separate seeds, etc., also the same as the previous dharma. Fourth is concealment (mrakṣa). Its nature is to hide one's own committed sins out of fear of losing profit and reputation, and its function is to obstruct non-concealment and cause regret and distress. It is a state of greed and delusion. It has no separate seeds, etc., also the same as the dharma above. Fifth is deception (śāṭhya). Its nature is to falsely display virtue and be deceitful in order to gain profit and reputation, and its function is to obstruct non-deception and pursue wrong livelihood. It encompasses unwholesome and obscured neutral