【Right Page】
【Top right margin】
320
【Upper right margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1
【Lower right margin horizontal】
Eight
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
the meaning of bringing peace and harmony to the body. This is a state of the seeds of the mind that is capable of aversion. However, this is the mindless concentration cultivated by non-Buddhists. It only extinguishes the six consciousnesses. Sixth is the concentration of cessation (nirodhasamāpatti). It also means bringing peace and harmony to mind and body. It is also a state of the seeds of the mind capable of aversion. This is the mindless concentration cultivated by sages. It extinguishes both the six consciousnesses and the defiled manas. Seventh is the state of no-perception (asaṃjñika). Namely the meaning of requiting causes. It is a state of the sixth retributive mind-seeds of that heaven. Eighth is name-aggregate (nāmakāya). Namely the meaning of being able to indicate inherent nature. It is a state of sound-dust. This includes one name, two names, and many names. Ninth is phrase-aggregate (padakāya). Namely the meaning of being able to indicate distinctions. It is also a state of sound. This includes one phrase, two phrases, and many phrases. Tenth is phoneme-aggregate (vyañjanakāya). Namely the meaning of being the support of names and phrases. It is also a state of sound. This includes one letter, two letters, and many letters. Eleventh is arising (jāti). Namely the meaning of arising - what was originally non-existent now exists. It is a state of form and mind. Twelfth is aging (jarā). Namely the meaning of not being unchanging. It is also a state of form and mind. Thirteenth is duration (sthiti). Namely the meaning of temporarily being useful. It is also a state of form and mind. Fourteenth is impermanence (anityatā). Namely the meaning of later non-existence. It is also a state of form and mind. Fifteenth is flow and transformation (pravṛtti). Namely the meaning of cause and effect being uninterrupted. It is also a state of form and mind. Sixteenth is distinctness (prthaktva). Namely the meaning of good and evil causes and effects being mutually different. It is also a state of form and mind. Seventeenth is correspondence (yoga). Namely the meaning of cause and effect responding to each other. It is also a state of form and mind. Eighteenth is swift force (java). Namely the meaning of all conditioned phenomena being rapid. It is also a state of form and mind. Nineteenth is sequence (anukrama). Namely the meaning of being arranged in order. It is also a state of form and mind. Twentieth is direction (diś). Namely the meaning of spatial demarcation. It is a state of material phenomena. Twenty-first is time (kāla). Namely the meaning of being limited and appropriate. It is a state of form and mind. Twenty-second is number (saṃkhyā). Namely the meaning of measurement of all phenomena. It is also a state of form and mind. Twenty-third is harmonious combination (sāmagrī). Namely the meaning of not being mutually conflicting. Twenty-fourth is non-

【Lower section】
harmonious combination (asāmagrī). Namely the meaning that is the opposite of the harmonious combination above. These twenty-four all have no separate seeds. They are objects of the sixth consciousness.

The fifth is unconditioned dharmas (asaṃskṛta). There are briefly six types. {These are the nature of the previous ninety-four dharmas.} First is space (ākāśa). Because it is free from all obstructions, it is called space. This has two types. First, depending on consciousness-transformation. This is the characteristic of unconditioned space transformed by mind. It is called so due to resemblance; it is actually conditioned. Second, depending on dharma-nature. This is true principle. It is not a characteristic of mind-transformation. It is truly unconditioned. Second is analytical cessation (pratisaṃkhyānirodha). Through the power of discriminative analysis, all defilements are extinguished and ultimately realized. Hence it is called analytical cessation. This has two types. First, depending on consciousness-transformation. This is the characteristic of analytical cessation unconditioned transformed by mind. The rest is the same as the dharma above. Third is non-analytical cessation (apratisaṃkhyānirodha). Not through analytical power, it is originally pure by nature. Or it is revealed when conditions are lacking, hence called non-analytical cessation. This has three types. First, depending on consciousness-transformation. This is the non-analytical cessation unconditioned transformed by mind. The rest is also the same as above. Fourth is immobility (ānñja). When suffering and pleasant sensations cease, it is called immobility. It is the dharma revealed in the fourth dhyāna. The two types follow the above. Fifth is cessation of perception and sensation (saṃjñāvedayitanirodha). When perception and sensation do not function, it is called cessation of perception and sensation. It is what is revealed in the concentration of cessation. The two types follow the above. These five are all provisionally established depending on suchness. Sixth is suchness (tathatā). Because the principle is not false and inverted, it is called suchness. "True" means real, revealing that it is not illusory. "Such" means constant, indicating there is no change. The two types follow the above. Suchness is also a provisionally established name.

Question: What are the two obstructions of affliction-obstruction and knowledge-obstruction? Answer: Affliction-obstruction refers to the various afflictions clarified above. Knowledge-obstruction exists in each of the various afflictions. Being deluded about function is called afflic-

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】
321
【Upper left margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1
【Lower left margin horizontal】
Nine
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
tion. Being deluded about the dharma-substance is called knowledge-obstruction. Therefore, the two obstructions have no separate substance. The deluded-function aspect has the function of generating karma and moistening birth, disturbing sentient beings and causing them to revolve in birth and death. Hence it is called affliction. The deluded-substance aspect has no function of generating karma and moistening birth. It merely conceals the realm of knowable objects and prevents attainment of bodhi. It is called knowledge-obstruction, also called cognitive obstruction. Therefore, affliction-obstruction obstructs true nirvana, while knowledge-obstruction obstructs great bodhi. The former is what is cut off by the wisdom of emptiness of persons; the latter is what is cut off by the wisdom of emptiness of dharmas. Because the functional power of the noble path has limitations, they are divided into two obstructions, but they are actually of the same substance. Based on the six afflictions, their characteristics are properly clarified. Taking greed as an example: when greed arises toward a sentient being, loving the provisional entity is called affliction, while being attached to the dharma-substance is called knowledge [-obstruction]. The five aggregates are the substance; the provisional entity is the function. Because the five aggregate dharma-substances collect and combine, resembling the function of permanent, unified, sovereign agency, they are called sentient beings. If one understands that the five aggregates are illusory and false like magic, how could one generate greed toward this provisional entity formed by the combination of dharmas? Because of delusion about the dharma-substance, one becomes deluded about the provisional entity and generates this attachment. One should know that afflictions necessarily depend on the knowable to arise. Therefore, within this greed there must be cognitive obstruction. All other afflictions are similarly constituted. Question: Among the afflictions, there are view-delusions and cultivation-delusions. Which are view-delusions and which are cultivation-delusions? Answer: Those that arise through discrimination are cut off by the path of seeing. Those that merely arise naturally are cut off by the path of cultivation. Because they are coarse and easy to cut off, the path of seeing cuts them off. Because they are subtle and difficult to cut off, the path of cultivation cuts them off. Among the ten afflictions, doubt and the latter three views are only discriminatively arisen. Hence they are only view-delusions. The remaining afflictions each encompass both. That is, discriminative aspects within greed are cut off by seeing. Innate greed is cut off by cultivation. The rest - hatred, pride, etc. - can all be under-

【Lower section】
stood accordingly. Question: Within knowledge-obstructions, are there also such distinctions between seeing and cultivation? Answer: There are also such distinctions. The knowledge-obstructions within afflictions cut off by seeing are knowledge-obstructions cut off by seeing. The knowledge-obstructions within affliction-obstructions cut off by the path of cultivation are knowledge-obstructions cut off by cultivation. This is discussed in terms of bodhisattvas. Because the two vehicles do not cut off knowledge-obstructions. Only regarding concentration-obstructions there is some similarity. However, they actually do not cut them off but merely suppress them. Question: Among those afflictions, which are unwholesome and which are obscured? Answer: All afflictions in the upper realms are obscured. Among delusions in the desire realm, those that are discriminatively arisen are solely unwholesome. Among those that are innately arisen, those that generate evil conduct are also solely unwholesome. The remainder are obscured. All knowledge-obstructions are obscured. They do not encompass unwholesomeness. However, in relation to the two vehicles, they are also called unobscured, because they are not obstructions for them. {The above [completes the discussion of] the hundred dharmas.} Next, the two emptinesses: {They negate all false attachments above the hundred dharmas and are the gateway to entering true principle.} First is emptiness of persons (pudgalaśūnyatā). This is the selflessness of pudgala. Pudgala is called saṃsārin (transmigrator). This is a name for the personal self. "Personal self" means the meaning of sovereignty and autonomy. However, there is no solid sovereignty and autonomy, hence it is called selfless. Self is identical to person; selflessness is identical to emptiness. It is also called emptiness of persons. Second is emptiness of dharmas (dharmaśūnyatā). This is selflessness of dharmas. Dharma means standard and maintenance. Standard means exemplar, capable of generating understanding in things. Maintenance means sustaining, not abandoning inherent nature. However, having no solid inherent nature and superior function is called selflessness of dharmas. Selflessness is identical to emptiness. It is also called emptiness of dharmas. Question: One can clearly see in the world that there are sentient beings, and the forms of humans, animals, etc., are plainly before one's eyes. Now you speak of no-self - who would believe this? Answer: What do you take as the substance of this so-called self or person? If you say color [form] is the substance, why is color impermanent? And why does it have illness and suffering? If this were the self, it should be autonomous. The other [aggregates]