【Right Page】
【Top right margin】
326
【Upper right margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1
【Lower right margin horizontal】
Fourteen
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
sufficient as doctrine. Though speaking of dharmas within mind, one still permits non-mind dharmas. How could this be the teaching that there are no separate dharmas outside mind?
Answer: Dharmas like form and sound have material obstruction as their substance. *[Margin note: Although form produced by meditative concentration has no visibility or resistance, in relation to mind it still has material obstruction]* Even if they do not serve as objects of mind, they can still be dharmas like form and sound, etc. Therefore, there is no principle of object-substance transforming to become mind. All minds and mental factors have cognition as their substance. If there were no things to be cognized, what would be cognized as the dharma of cognition? Therefore, mind-substance must transform to become objects. This is precisely the dharma of cognitive discrimination. Being superior among dharmas, it has autonomous power and can create all dharmas. Non-cognitive dharmas have dull and inferior substance-nature. How could they endure having their substance transform to give rise to cognitive dharmas? However, there are many principles for not permitting real external objects. The various textual principles by which Consciousness-Only, etc., refute the real self and real dharmas of heterodox schools and the two vehicles are all precisely these. There is no time to enumerate them all. However, now I will briefly raise what is explained in the Abhidharma Sutra regarding the four wisdoms accomplished by bodhisattvas in their contemplation, and briefly indicate their characteristics. The four wisdoms are: First, the wisdom of conflicting consciousness-characteristics. This means that at one place, ghosts, humans, gods, etc., following the power of karmic causes, have different perceptions. Ghosts see fire, humans see water, gods see lapis lazuli, animals see dwelling places. Such perceptions are variously different. If objects were really existent, how could they undergo such various transformations following the karmic causal differences of the perceivers? Second, the wisdom of objectless consciousness. This means when cognizing objects like past, future, dreams, etc., that are not real, though the objects are not really existent, mind can manifestly be obtained. If mind necessarily arose by relying on external objects, how would such situations be possible? By this example, one understands all object-realms. Third, the wisdom of naturally being without error. This means if object-substances were definitely really existent, all ordinary beings should be sages, because they would originally realize and witness objects external to mind. If so, without relying on effort, one could naturally attain liberation. Why is this not

【Lower section】
the case? Fourth, the wisdom that follows the transformations of the three wisdoms. The three wisdoms are: First, the wisdom that follows the transformations of the wisdom of autonomous ones. This means those who have already realized and attained mental autonomy can, following their own desires, accomplish transforming water, etc.—all such matters they can achieve. If objects were real, how could they be transformed by such mental transformations? Second, the wisdom that follows the transformations of the wisdom of contemplators. This means those who have attained superior concentration and cultivate dharma-contemplation, as they contemplate one object, various characteristics like blue-black decay appear. If objects were real, how could they appear following mind in this way? Third, the wisdom that follows the transformations of non-discriminating wisdom. This means when one arises the non-discriminating wisdom that witnesses reality, all object-characteristics do not appear before one. If objects were real, how is it that they all do not appear before the wisdom that witnesses reality? When bodhisattvas accomplish these four wisdoms, they definitively realize and enter the consciousness-only principle. Therefore, they do not permit objects external to mind. Next, the self-witnessing aspect is the function of mind returning to know itself. How could it directly cognize object-aspect objects? Therefore, when mind gives rise to the function of cognizing objects, this is precisely the perceiving-aspect. If so, saying that self-witnessing directly cognizes objects is insufficient. Next, whenever there are dharmas of measurer and measured, there must be a measurement-result. If not, there would be no successful fruition in this measurement-knowing. How would this accord with principle? Therefore, there is a third aspect that witnesses and knows the perceiving-aspect. The perceiving-aspect can measure and know the object-aspect. For example, when a person uses a ruler to measure silk, etc., the silk, etc., is what is measured, the ruler is what measures, and the person is the measurement-result. That the ruler can measure silk and other things means that the person witnesses and knows the accomplishment of that measurement. If one did not invoke that person's witnessing knowledge, what use would there be for the ruler's measuring and the silk's being measured? When the ruler can measure silk, etc., the person can witness and know the ruler's extent. Therefore, the meaning of measurer and measured can be established. If there were no ruler, how could the person come to know the extent of silk, etc.? If there were no silk, etc., what would the person use the ruler

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】
327
【Upper left margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1
【Lower left margin horizontal】
Fifteen
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
for? If there were no person, who would know that the ruler can measure silk, etc.? The subtle principle of the three aspects is also like this. The object-aspect is what is measured, the perceiving-aspect is what measures. When the perceiving-aspect can measure the object-aspect, it necessarily witnesses and knows the perceiving-aspect's measuring internally. The meaning of measurement-knowing is established by this. If there were no perceiving-aspect, how could mind come to know object-realms like form, etc.? If there were no object-aspect, even if mind gave rise to cognizing function, what purpose would there be? If there were no self-witnessing, who would know that the perceiving-aspect can cognize the object-aspect? Therefore, a third aspect is definitely established. Next, the function of inner witnessing is profound and subtle. Therefore, it is necessarily direct perception. But that perceiving-aspect is the function of external cognition. In principle, it is connected to the three [types of] valid cognition. *[Margin note: The perceiving-aspects of the fifth and eighth consciousnesses, etc., are direct perception.]* *[Margin note: However, generally speaking, perceiving-aspects are dharmas connected to the three [types of] valid cognition. Therefore, we discuss this comprehensively.]* How does one come to know one's inner substance? If we speak about the time when perceiving-aspects are direct perception, this might be so, but when perceiving-aspects are inference or invalid cognition, who knows the self-substance? Clearly knowing: because perceiving-aspects are originally functions for cognizing object-aspects, even with direct perceptual seeing, the meaning of witnessing and knowing self-substance cannot be obtained. How much more so—if there were no fourth aspect, the third measurer should have no measurement-result. Would this not be a great fault? *[Margin note: The three supernatural powers of Buddha-result, matters like cognizing the four, etc., can be known when we reach below.]* Therefore, the witnessing-self-witnessing aspect is necessarily established. Since that self-witnessing aspect already dwells in the middle and is inner cognizing direct perception, it knows the perceiving-aspect and also knows the fourth. Its meaning is established. Why make this an analogy? Next, these four aspects are all aspects of mind and should all be witnessed and known. If not, there would be something within one mind that one does not know oneself. This would not accord with principle. Therefore, though the latter three aspects are all cognizing, within them there is still such meaning of subtle mutual cognition. They all become knowable. Is this not profound and subtle? Next, mind is subtle and its substantial characteristics are difficult to know. We only use functions to reveal and indicate it. Therefore, the four aspects are all mind-functions. However, if we forcefully distinguish substance and function within these four aspects, the third self-witnessing alone corresponds to that

【Lower section】
substance. It alone dwells in the middle and universally witnesses before and after. The fundamental meaning of mind differs from the rest. Next, consciousness-only seeks the source of all dharmas and discusses the arising of the conditioned. It is not at all that there is only one individual mind-dharma with absolutely no other dharmas. Therefore, though it permits that all the myriad different dharmas arise from mind, there is not one dharma that is not within mind. Though dwelling within mind, dharmas like form, sound, water, fire, eye, ear, etc., exist distinctly with various differences. Though they exist, they all arise from one's own mind and are like dream-objects, therefore they are called consciousness-only. Based on this, one should say: dharmas within mind—all dharmas exist; dharmas outside mind—all dharmas are nonexistent. What the sutras mean by "no separate dharmas outside mind" is precisely this meaning. People who do not understand this principle become confused by consciousness-only teaching texts and instead generate the evil view of rejecting cause and effect—this is extremely lamentable. Question: How should these four aspects be correlated with the eight consciousnesses? Answer: Each of the eight consciousnesses has four aspects. Each of the corresponding mental factors is also thus. Clarifying the four aspects in the eye-consciousness: when this consciousness-substance arises, it takes the form-dust transformed by the eighth consciousness as the remote object, therefore its own substance transforms and manifests a form-image. Taking this image as the immediate object, it therefore gives rise to the cognizing function that cognizes it. That form-image is called the object-aspect, and the function that cognizes it is called the perceiving-aspect. These two aspects are what appear on mind's own substance. The self-substance that depends on giving rise to these two functions is the self-witnessing aspect, and the function that witnesses the self-substance is precisely called the witnessing-self-witnessing aspect. Thus, the four aspects of the remaining consciousnesses like ear, etc., can be known by analogy with this. Correlating the five sense-object realms with the five consciousnesses of eye, etc., in this way, their characteristics are evident. The sixth, mind-consciousness, cognizes the dharmas of the eighteen realms as objects. It correspondingly transforms and manifests images of various dharmas. It correspondingly gives rise to these cognizing functions. This is precisely the self-substance of the sixth consciousness.