【Right Page】
【Top right margin】
328
【Upper right margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Middle Volume
【Lower right margin horizontal】
Sixteen
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
what the aspects transform. The seventh manas-consciousness takes the perceiving-aspect of the eighth consciousness as its object. The eighth ālaya-consciousness transforms and manifests three types of object-realms: seeds, five sense faculties, and container-world. Other meanings follow what was said before. However, all the latter two aspects (self-witnessing aspect and witnessing-self-witnessing aspect) are solely direct perception. The valid cognition of the perceiving-aspect differs according to consciousness. That is, each perceiving-aspect of the five consciousnesses and eighth consciousness is invariably direct perception. The perceiving-aspect of the seventh consciousness is invariably invalid cognition. The perceiving-aspect of the sixth consciousness should be connected to all three [types of] valid cognition. Since object-aspects are not cognitive, they are not included in the three [types of] valid cognition. The four aspects of corresponding [mental factors] can be known by analogy. Question: Do the object-aspects of the eight consciousness-groups all have substantial objects? Answer: The five consciousnesses and seventh consciousness necessarily have substantial objects. The five consciousnesses rely solely on the object-aspects of the eighth consciousness. *[Margin note: Among the three types of objects, container-world and five sense-objects form the substance, and the five consciousnesses cognize these as substantial objects]* as substantial objects. The seventh consciousness constantly cognizes the perceiving-aspect of the eighth consciousness as a substantial object. Whether the objects of the sixth consciousness have substantial objects or not is indefinite according to time. Sometimes there are substantial objects, namely when cognizing the five sense-objects, etc. Sometimes there are no substantial objects, namely when cognizing past, future, and turtle-hair, etc. The objects of the eighth consciousness are invariably without substantial objects, because it transforms objects spontaneously according to the power of previous karma without following supported substantial objects. However, regarding remote contributory conditions, their presence or absence is indefinite. That is, regarding the support-body and container-world, transformations by other sentient beings serve as remote contributory conditions. The proper faculties and seeds have only immediate contributory conditions without remote contributory conditions. Though substantial object-realms and remote contributory conditions are generally the same in principle, there are slight differences. This should be deeply contemplated.

【End】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Volume 1

【Lower section】
《Title: Kanshin Kakumu-shō》 Middle Volume
Three Categories of Objects

Question: How many types are there among the object-realms transformed by various minds and mental factors? Answer: Generally judging all objects, there are three different categories. First is nature-objects. This means everything arises from real seeds and has real substance and function. The cognizing mind attains their individual characteristics. Because these objects maintain their nature and do not follow mind, they are called nature-objects. Within this there are three non-followings. First, nature non-following: they do not necessarily share the same nature with the cognizing mind, because they may be of different natures. *[Margin note: Nature means the three natures of wholesome, etc.]* Second, seed non-following: they have different seeds from the cognizing mind. Third, bondage non-following: they are not necessarily bound to the same realm and level as the cognizing mind. Objects that possess these three non-followings are called nature-objects. If we point to their substance, they are objects like the five sense-objects cognized by the five consciousnesses and eighth consciousness. Second is solitary-image objects. This means these objects arise from the same seed as the cognizing mind and have no real substance or function. The cognizing mind does not attain their individual characteristics. Since there is no substantial object and the image arises alone, they are called solitary-images. Within this there are three mind-followings. First, nature following mind: they share the same nature as the cognizing mind. Second, seed following mind: they share the same seed as the cognizing mind. Third, bondage following mind: they share the same realm-bondage as the cognizing mind. Those that possess these three mind-followings are called solitary-image objects. If we point to their substance, they are the object-aspects when the sixth consciousness cognizes turtle-hair, rabbit-horns, etc. Third is substantial-bearing objects. This means although the cognizing mind does not attain individual characteristics, because their object-characteristics have substantial objects, they are called substantial-bearing objects. Since these objects already have substantial basis, they should not

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】
329
【Upper left margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Middle Volume
【Left margin horizontal】
Seventeen
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
entirely follow the cognizing consciousness. Also, since they do not attain the individual characteristics of objects, they should not entirely follow substantial objects. Within this there are also three types of connecting consciousness and substantial object meanings. First, nature connecting consciousness and substantial object: sometimes following the cognizer, sometimes following what is cognized, because determining their nature is indefinite. Second, seed connecting consciousness and substantial object: because their seeds sometimes correspond to be called cognizing seeds, sometimes correspond to be called substantial object seeds. Third, bondage connecting consciousness and substantial object: sometimes it is explained as sharing the same realm-bondage with the cognizer, sometimes as sharing the same realm-bondage with the substantial object. Those possessing these three connections between consciousness and substantial object are substantial-bearing objects. If we point to their substance, they are object-aspects, etc., transformed when the seventh consciousness cognizes the perceiving-aspect of the eighth consciousness. If this object-aspect follows the cognizer, it is called covered nature; if it follows the substantial object, it is called uncovered nature. Their seeds are either included in the seeds of the cognizing seventh consciousness or included in the seeds of the substantial eighth consciousness. Regarding their realm-bondage, since the seventh and eighth consciousnesses are necessarily bound to the same realm, though the realm-bondage of consciousness and substantial object are not different, we explain this through corresponding to each other based on meaning, not depending on same bondage. Therefore, they possess these three types of meanings. Various doubts about same seeds between mind and objects within nature-objects can be known by analogy with this. However, these three objects are all mind-transformed. Therefore, even though they do not follow mind, they are all called consciousness-only because we discuss their source, as they are like dream-objects.

Seed-Perfuming

Question: Among the one hundred dharmas, how many are dharmas arising from seeds? Answer: Among the remaining dharmas excluding the six unconditioned, all real dharmas, whether mind or matter, are dharmas arising from seeds. Question: What forms the substance of these seeds? Answer: Seeds are the

【Lower section】
fruit-producing capacities within the eighth consciousness. There are two types. First are inherent seeds. This means beginninglessly and naturally, there exist capacity-differences within the eighth consciousness that should directly produce various dharmas. These are called inherent seeds. Second are newly-perfumed seeds. This means the seven evolving consciousnesses, according to what they correspondingly perfume, [create] all kinds of habit-energies of the myriad differences of mind and matter, which all fall into the ālaya and all become that consciousness's fruit-producing capacities. These are called newly-perfumed seeds. When these new and old two types of seeds are both complete, they definitely cause the arising of their own fruition manifestations. For example, when blue form arises at one place, if we seek the direct causal condition dharmas that can produce it, there are definitely two types. First, the beginninglessly natural fruit-producing capacity within the eighth consciousness that can produce this blue form. Second, when previous mind cognized blue form, depending on the discriminative power of its own mind, the blue form habit-energies repeatedly perfumed within the object-aspect exist in the root consciousness and again become that consciousness's fruit-producing capacity. All other dharmas can be known by analogy with this. Question: Please elaborate on the characteristics of the seven evolving consciousnesses perfuming seeds. Also, what is the substance of karmic seeds and pure seeds? Also, are there dharmas that have only newly-perfumed seeds without inherent seeds? Also, are there dharmas that have only inherent seeds without newly-perfumed seeds? Answer: The meaning of seed-perfuming is extremely subtle. Generally speaking, within the seven evolving consciousnesses there are minds with superior function. *[Margin note: Namely wholesome, unwholesome, and covered-indeterminate. Among uncovered [indeterminate], excluding maturation-mind, the other three indeterminates.]* Correspondingly cognizing objects, the perceiving-aspect can retain cognizing habit-energies. This is precisely the seeds of the latter three aspects. The object-aspect can retain cognized habit-energies, within which there are two types. First, image-aspect seeds. Second, substantial object seeds. *[Margin note: When cognizing conventional dharmas like jars, etc., mixed-perfuming seeds]* Sometimes rarely there is only perfuming the seeds of the object-aspect itself, unable to perfume that substantial