【Right Page】
【Top right margin】
346
【Upper right margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Lower Volume
【Lower right margin horizontal】
Thirty-four
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
<<Title: Kanshin Kakumu-shō>> Lower Volume
　　　Three Kinds of Naturelessness <<Marginal note: Characteristic-naturelessness is imagined nature; arising-naturelessness is other-dependent nature; ultimate-naturelessness is consummate nature. Generally it is like this.>>
Question: Among the three kinds of naturelessness, what do the latter two naturelessnesses take as their essence? If they take imagined nature as essence, what difference is there from characteristic-naturelessness? If they take other-dependent and consummate natures as essence, do other-dependent and consummate natures lack their own self-natures? Answer: Regarding the essence of the latter two naturelessnesses, there are two traditions among previous masters. If following the intention of the various masters of the Southern Temple, the essence of the three naturelessnesses are all imagined nature. If following the intention of Monk Supervisor Gōmyō of the Southern Temple and the various masters of the Northern Temple, the latter two naturelessnesses respectively take other-dependent and consummate natures as essence. <<Marginal note: And so forth.>> Among these, if we provisionally follow the intention of the latter tradition, the two natures of other-dependent and consummate are middle-way existence, so although called "existent," they are not one-sidedly existent. Because they are not one-sidedly existent, they necessarily carry the meaning of emptiness. Taking this meaning of emptiness, they are called "natureless." This meaning of emptiness refers to other-dependent arising lacking natural nature, and consummate reality being free from all characteristics. Such provisional emptiness and the emptiness of empty nature are meanings that exist upon the dharma-essence that is naturally thus from the beginning. Now taking this meaning and calling it "natureless" is because there is such meaning, so although not completely without nature, in order to eliminate false attachments, they are provisionally called "natureless." Therefore the *Consciousness-Only Treatise*, regarding the latter two naturelessnesses, commonly explains that they are "provisionally explained as natureless, not completely without nature." "Not completely without nature" means that because the dharma-essence is middle-way, although called "existent," it does not remain in existence. Although not remaining in existence, it is also not completely non-existent. That non-existence is precisely a partial meaning. Taking this partial aspect, it comprehensively explains naturelessness. <<Marginal note: So to speak>> Therefore the three naturelessnesses respectively take the three natures as essence. Based on this,

【Lower section】
analogies are explained, correlatively matching empty flowers, magical creations, and great empty space. If all took imagined nature as their essence, one could simply take only the analogy of empty flowers. Why use three separate analogies each? In the *Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra*, using these three kinds, with hidden intention it explains that "all dharmas are without self-nature." Because these three kinds of naturelessness are not clearly revealed, they are called comprehensive explanation of naturelessness. Question: The meaning of emptiness possessed by the two natures of other-dependent and consummate is precisely the emptiness of imaginatively constructed nature. Why? Because other-dependent arising nature's lack of naturalness refers to the natural nature that is negated being precisely the imaginatively constructed natural nature. The characteristic-less emptiness of consummate reality nature refers to the characteristics that are negated also being the various imaginatively constructed characteristics. If so, regarding the latter two naturelessnesses, when properly discussing what is emptied, they should all correspond to imaginatively constructed nature. Why dislike the tradition of imaginatively constructed emptiness? Abandoning this and specially preserving the tradition of essence-emptiness makes what is emptied particularly questionable. If saying one directly empties the essence of other-dependent and consummate, what aspect is the emptied aspect? What aspect is also the non-emptied aspect? Because imaginatively constructed false dharmas are emptied, there is reason. Because other-dependent and consummate are not false, there is reason to preserve them. Within what is not false, what further reason is there to have an aspect to be emptied? If not eliminating at all, it returns to constitute attachment to emptiness. If eliminating completely, it immediately falls into empty views. Examining that and considering this, it is not as good as attachment to emptiness. Answer: This meaning is profound and subtle, difficult to establish readily. After training, one may be able to understand it. But just pointing out its entrance: dharmas without imaginative construction are other-dependent and consummate. Therefore calling these dharmas "natureless." Because the name "without" already covers the dharma-essence, it is called "essence-empty." However, because it is not completely non-existent, it is called "provisionally explained naturelessness."
　　　Mutual Dependence of Two Truths

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】
347
【Upper left margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Lower Volume
【Lower left margin horizontal】
Thirty-five
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
Question: Dharma-gates are inexhaustible. Through what doctrinal gate can the gate of ultimate truth be constituted? Answer: The intention of our school establishes four-fold two truths. That is to say, the conventional has four levels, and the ultimate is also thus. The four levels of conventional are: first, worldly conventional, namely jars, clothes, armies, forests, etc.; second, logical conventional, namely the three categories of aggregates, etc.; third, attainment conventional, namely the four truths of suffering, etc.; fourth, ultimate conventional, namely the two-emptiness suchness. The four levels of ultimate are established in sequence relative to the previous conventional truths. That is, relative to the first conventional, four levels of truth are established, namely the three categories, four truths, two emptinesses, and one reality. Relative to the second conventional, three levels of truth are established, namely the four truths, two emptinesses, and one reality. Relative to the third conventional, two levels of truth are established, namely the two emptinesses and one reality. Relative to the fourth conventional, one level of truth is established, namely the true dharma-realm. This present establishment combines all three vehicles for explanation. If exclusively explaining bodhisattva two truths, real self and real dharmas constitute the first conventional; the five aggregates, four truths, and other ten skillful means constitute the second conventional; the three natures, naturelessness, consciousness-only principle, etc., constitute the third conventional; two-emptiness suchness constitutes the fourth conventional. These latter three are precisely the former three within ultimate truth. The fourth level of true ultimate truth is precisely the one true dharma-realm that abandons the expressions of two emptinesses and discusses the essential point. The meaning of establishing four truths relative to the first conventional, etc., is as before. Generally, truth is not independently true. It is necessarily the truth of the conventional. The conventional is also not independently conventional. It is necessarily the conventional of truth. This is called the meaning of truth and convention being mutually relative. Therefore within conventional phenomena there is definitely true principle. Within true principle there are definitely conventional phenomena. If lacking one, both must be lost. If losing both, this is precisely the great wrong view of negation. If there are no conventional phenomena, there cannot be true principle. If there is no true principle, there cannot be

【Lower section】
conventional phenomena. Because this is inevitable principle. Therefore, in the stage where correct wisdom takes suchness as object, the myriad forms of conditioned existence remain distinctly without being lost. The correct wisdom that is the perceiving subject is precisely one dharma within those myriad forms. The true principle that is the perceived object is precisely the self-nature of that perceiving wisdom. Speaking of "correct wisdom" provisionally raises one numerical designation among the associated [mental factors]. To discuss reality: the simultaneously gathered mind-king and mental factors—twenty-two dharmas—at this time all realize the equal real nature of their respective individual essences. Their dependent bodies, etc., are precisely what the eighth consciousness transforms over long periods. The seventh, eighth, etc., exist distinctly. The immeasurable phenomenal characteristics of all sentient beings, and the numberless dependent and principal [forms] of boundless buddhas are also like this. The equal real nature of such mind, buddhas, and all sentient beings is precisely what this correct wisdom takes as object. If such myriad different and numerous phenomenal characteristics did not exist, whose true principle would that true principle be? Therefore conventional truth becomes established and ultimate truth can be accomplished. Ultimate truth becomes established and conventional truth can be accomplished. Due to this meaning, one can discuss dharma-characteristics and know dharma-nature. If one could know dharma-nature without discriminating dharma-characteristics, there would be no such case. These present four-fold two truths are precisely four-fold correlations. First is existence-nonexistence correlation: the first conventional truth is imaginatively constructed, therefore its essential nature is completely non-existent. The remaining four levels are not imaginatively constructed, therefore their essential nature is not non-existent. Second is phenomenon-principle correlation: within the previous existence, dharmas like the five aggregates are shallow and immediate characteristics, therefore named phenomena. Dharmas like the three natures are profound and distant natures, therefore named principle. Third is shallow-deep correlation: within the previous principle, dharmas like the three natures are gates of distinction, therefore named shallow. Samenesses like the two emptinesses are one-taste principle, therefore named deep. Fourth is expression-essential point correlation: within the previous depth, two-emptiness suchness still depends on the gate of emptiness for establishment, therefore named expression. The one true dharma-realm completely transcends the gates of expression, therefore called essential point. These present four levels