【Right Page】
【Top right margin】
356
【Upper right margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Lower Volume
【Lower right margin horizontal】
Forty-four
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
For example, when the mind-kings and mental factors of one collection mutually condition each other, the sensation mental factor conditions the reflection-image transformed by the seeing-portion of the mind-king. This mind-king then takes that reflection-image as its supporting object and also transforms reflection-images to condition its own seeing-portion. The rest follows this pattern. (Though there are two interpretations, we follow the superior interpretation here.) Also, these various wisdom categories realize the conventional and ultimate in various ways.
The mirror [wisdom] and equality [wisdom] constantly combine in observing the two objects of ultimate and conventional. The wonderful observing wisdom follows accordingly and is unrestricted.
Sometimes it observes only principle, sometimes only phenomena, sometimes both. The accomplishing wisdom accomplishes phenomena, so conventional observation is fundamental. The inconceivable activities of supernatural transformations are exclusively the capacity of this wisdom. Each corresponding mind-king and mental factor, due to having the same object, are also thus. Although all these wisdoms can universally condition all dharmas, their functions differ. Namely, the mirror wisdom category manifests the characteristics of the self-enjoyment body and pure land; the equality wisdom category manifests the characteristics of the other-enjoyment body and pure land; the observing wisdom category observes the merits and faults of self and others; the accomplishing wisdom category can manifest the characteristics of transformation bodies and lands. Additionally, sentient beings have naturally belonged to each other in various ways since beginningless time—sometimes many belonging to one, sometimes one belonging to many. When their objects of transformation share conditions, even though the buddhas with such conditions may be countless, they simultaneously transform into bodies and lands in the same place and time, with similar forms that do not obstruct each other, mutually interpenetrating as contributing conditions, causing the transformed beings to perceive one buddha-body in one buddha-land manifesting supernatural powers and teaching for their benefit. All such matters are inconceivable. However, these three bodies are precisely one buddha-body, not like separate individual buddha-bodies. Those non-cognitive aspect-portion minds harmonize for long periods with the cognitive real mind of self-enjoyment, and through that function and this essence accomplish various beneficial activities. Question: How are these five stages and three immeasurable eons

【Lower section】
categorized? Answer: The two stages before the grounds—accumulation of provisions and preparation—together constitute one great immeasurable eon.
From the first ground to the seventh ground together constitute the second immeasurable eon. From the eighth ground to the tenth ground together constitute the third immeasurable eon. The vajra-mind stage is at the end of the tenth ground, which is precisely the stage of near-enlightenment. The hundred eons [for perfecting] the major and minor marks are also included here. Question: Are there types who transcend these three great eons? Answer: If they are bodhisattvas of supreme supreme diligence, some may transcend many intermediate eons, and some may transcend many great eons. However, there is definitely no transcending immeasurable great eons. Question: If so, since this time is already long and distant, on what day and at what time does one achieve buddhahood? Answer: The fundamental commentary on Consciousness-Only raises this doubt and answers itself: "In a dream one thinks of many years, as the Compendium Treatise extensively explains." Consulting the Compendium Treatise, it explains the meaning of swift realization of enlightenment: "In a dream one thinks years pass, but upon awakening it is only a brief moment. Therefore, though time is immeasurable, it is contained within a single moment." Getting this textual meaning, scholars have different interpretations. One interpretation says: The dharma-body is like an illusion, with the three times in one thought. Within one world, one moment of the present, the endless eons of the past are contained, and the eternal years of the future are also contained. This present one-thought dharma has characteristics that requite the past and is provisionally called "past"—this is the former cause. There is no real past. It has functions that draw forth the future and is provisionally called "future"—this is the future effect. There is no real future. This present dharma, in relation to before and after, is provisionally called effect and provisionally called cause. There are no real present causal dharmas. Since the establishment of the three times as illusory provisional existence and real non-existence is inconceivable, long time is not fixed and short time is not real. Saying "real long time" and saying "real short time" are all false attachments. If one attains the realization of mind-only as illusion,

【Left Page】
【Top left margin】
357
【Upper left margin horizontal】
Kanshin Kakumu-shō, Lower Volume
【Lower left margin horizontal】
Forty-five
【Two-column format】
【Upper section】
then there is no longer any fixed real measure of three immeasurable eons. Therefore, when wonderful enlightenment wisdom arises once, the three great immeasurable eons and boundless numbers of eons are all like dream-objects, contained within the aspect-portion of one thought-moment. Because substance and reflection do not differ, and mind and objects are not separate. Clinging to the three immeasurable eons as long and distant is simply the delusion of our minds. Those who repeatedly contemplate the principle of mind-only and gradually overturn such fixed real delusions should eliminate the lament of long time in every portion. Why uselessly toil through days and months? Question: What has now been established is the principle that the three great immeasurable eons, relying on the illusory principle, are observed as contained in moments, eliminating attachment to long and distant fixation. Setting this aside for now, in our school's understanding, before reaching wonderful enlightenment, even at the stages of accumulation of provisions, etc., is there a doctrine of achieving buddhahood in this very body?
Answer: If we discuss partial realization, such meaning is possible. That is, there are those of superior faculties and superior wisdom who courageously cultivate consciousness-only contemplation—such persons can enter the stage of initial arousal of the aspiration [for enlightenment] in this very body. The sectarian masters definitively judge that the stage of initial arousal can manifest the eight characteristics. Therefore, at that time there can be the meaning of achieving enlightenment in this very body. That is, partially attained enlightenment wisdom has already arisen. Though this enlightenment is the partially attained wisdom category within the sixth consciousness, since the eight consciousnesses of one body are neither identical nor different, in the aspect of non-difference, where there is no obstruction or separation between this and that, it should provisionally be called the four wisdoms of enlightenment. For example, just as through contamination by others one seems to transform into self and dharmas, reasoning from the defiled to the pure, there is no doubt about this principle. The body's major and minor marks are all transformations of this mind. Transformer and transformed, supporter and supported are also neither identical nor separate.
It should be called buddha-essence. The principle observed is precisely the consciousness-only nature, the one real realm, which can also appropriately be called dharma-body. When there is such partial attainment and provisional designation, this is precisely the buddha-essence complete with the three bodies—this principle is inevitable. Having attained this wisdom, even if one does not manifest the eight characteristics of achieving the path, one can always

【Lower section】
be called an awakened one. This is because the dharma-essence is illusory and empty, all without obstruction. Having attained one portion of enlightenment wisdom and calling it buddha has no contradiction whatsoever. However, those of superior faculties and superior wisdom are great spiritual capacities who have repeatedly cultivated this practice in previous lives and in this life are capable of entering the initial stage of arousing the aspiration. Such spiritual capacity is especially rare in the final age. Even if not of this caliber, by encouraging the mind and cultivating practice, according to one's portion and capacity, one can have benefit. This is because the power of Mahayana dharma is inconceivable, and the principle of true characteristics has great spiritual efficacy. Therefore, one should simply cease useless doubt-webs and aspire to courageous diligent cultivation. Looking at the world now, correct views and wrong views, sharp faculties and dull faculties—their spiritual capacities are clearly distinct. Among them, people of honest and sharp faculties take firm faith, practice with one mind, and gaining benefit portion by portion is inevitable. If one partially attains understanding different from before hearing the dharma, and the faults of the three poisons become slightly subtle, this is proportional benefit. One should simply deeply grieve one's own ignorance and [wonder] in what life one will gain proportional understanding. What one can only wish for is to attain awakening in the future through these subtle conditions. How could one use one's own ignorance to judge the entire world? The sectarian masters explain that even in the time of dharma extinction there are those who attain insight. Those of correct view and clarity should not be timid. The principles described above—having investigated and found fragments that accord with reality, bestowing them upon sentient beings—I wish that together with those who have conditions we may arouse the aspiration for enlightenment, be born together in pure lands, and all complete the buddha-path. Indeed, among all sins, slandering the dharma is the most serious. Even if one believes in one approach, if one slanders and destroys other dharmas, these are all hell-karma. As the Ten Wheels Sutra explains, this should be feared and carefully avoided—one cannot ignore this. See how when the Profound Secrets [Sutra] explains this meaning, others do not dispute it. One can know with certainty this is the golden words of the undisputed Vairocana. When the Yogācāra [treatises] expound this principle, the world does not doubt it. One can know with certainty this is the undoubted lamp-transmission of the regent [Maitreya]. Having already known the definitive