On the 21st day of the 3rd month of Bunsei 12 (1829), Year of the Ox, around 4 o'clock in the morning, a fire broke out from a riverside hut in the Soto-Kanda area. The north wind was particularly fierce at the time, and sparks flew to the area below the Yanagihara embankment. One rice storehouse burned down, and from there the flames spread across the entire area, reaching the prison in Kodenma-cho and Daimon Street. The fire consumed Daimaru kimono shop, other major merchant houses, storehouses, and the surrounding areas, as well as Fukiya-cho and the kabuki and puppet theaters in Sakai-cho.

To the east, the fire spread to the area around the magistrate's residence, Bakuro-cho, Yokoyama-cho, Hashi-cho, and also to Yanagibashi and Ryogoku Hirokoji areas. It burned through to Kanasugi, the residences of great daimyo, Hama-cho, Eikyubashi, and up to Eitaibashi, then moved to Hakozaki, Shinkawa, Shinbori, and Reigan Island. Starting with the Echizen lord's residence, it burned down all the townhouses without exception. Sparks flew to Tsukuda Island, completely burning everything on the island.

The fire also spread from Sujikaibashi to the Suda-cho area, Mikawa-cho area, Nabe-cho, Kaji-cho, Tatekanbashi area, Imagawabashi area, Ginza-cho, Ishi-cho, Hon-cho area, Suruga-cho, both Echigoya stores, and major merchants lining the streets around Muromachi. It consumed Odawara-cho, Setomono-cho, Ise-cho area, Nihonbashi, Dobashi, Yokkaichi, Kawarabashi, Komatsu-cho, Terifuri-cho, Koami-cho area, Hon-zaimoku-cho street, Kaizoku-bashi, and Kayaba-cho area, spreading to Kita-Hacchobori, Minami-Hacchobori, and Teppo area, leaving nothing of Tsukiji Monzeki temple grounds. Countless other residences of major and minor daimyo, including Hitotsubashi-sama and Owari-sama's storage residences, were also lost.

In the Kobiki-cho area, starting with Kishu-sama's storage residence, all other residences, the Kawarasaki kabuki theater, and townhouses burned down completely, reaching even Okudaira-sama's residence. Nihonbashi bridge itself burned and collapsed, along with Tori-cho, Naka-Hirokoji, and Kyobashi bridge. The fire consumed Ginza-cho, Sanjikken-bori, Owari-cho, Takekawa-cho, and from Shinbashi, partially burned Shiodome Wakisaka-sama's residence. It also burned Ikkokubashi, the riverside, Gofuku-cho, Himono-cho, Oke-cho, Bikuni-bashi, Yumi-cho area, Sukiyabashi, Minami-Nabe-cho area, and up to the edge of Dobashi, finally subsiding on the morning of the 22nd.

On this day, the north wind was particularly fierce, sometimes mixing with westerly winds and swirling easterly winds, blowing sand and raising dust. The flames raged terrifyingly according to the wind, as if burning the very heavens.

In the streets and alleys of east, west, south, and north, men and women, young and old, abandoned their rescued belongings and scattered in panic. Parents abandoned children, children were separated from parents, and spouses were torn apart. People stumbled over belongings, fell and rolled about, were burned to death, and their cries and screams shook heaven and earth, no different from the hell of wailing and gnashing. It was a sight too terrible to behold, beyond the word "pitiful."

The number of burned storehouses of lords and townspeople, built with such care, was too numerous to count. Moreover, that all three major kabuki theaters burned down simultaneously was truly unprecedented in history.

Therefore, after the fire subsided, all available houses in the remaining towns were immediately rented out, and with no means of securing housing, countless people had to sleep outdoors. Their hardship was beyond description, so the authorities, in their august mercy, had relief huts built in various vacant lots, housing those who had been staying on the roads. Not only that, but they also provided food morning and evening, relieving the hardships of all people. The graciousness of our lord's benevolence is so precious that however much we look up in gratitude, we should look up still more—this was truly an unprecedented event.

[Relief Hut Locations]
Outside Sujikaibashi Gate: 1 location
Edobashi Hirokoji: 1 location  
Outside Saiwai Gate: 1 location
Outside Sukiyabashi Gate: 1 location
Outside Kandabashi Gate: 1 location
Outside Tokiwabashi Gate: 1 location
Matsuya-bashi Riverside: 2 locations
In front of Tsukiji Monzeki: 2 locations
Ryogoku Hirokoji: 1 location

[Legend]
■ Upper residences
▲ Middle residences  
● Lower residences

[The map contains detailed listings of district names, bridge names, and daimyo residences throughout the burned area]