(From the bridge approach to the front of the main hall, there are vermillion railings throughout) This main hall is two ken deep and two and a half ken wide. From the center of the north side extending one ken eastward, there is an alcove three shaku deep. Next to the alcove, something like asymmetrical shelves is constructed in a triangular arrangement. Wisteria mats are spread on the alcove's tatami, and in the alcove hangs a name plaque of someone who passed the imperial examinations during the Qing dynasty as a hanging scroll. In front are glass cut-crystal three altar sets arranged in alternating positions. Below the asymmetrical shelves is placed another cut-crystal water basin. The east and west sides are walls, with pillars exposed and painted every three shaku intervals, and utensils hang on each pillar (all pillars are made of Japanese cedar bark to look like Chinese hardwood. The ceiling is covered with indigo-dominant Chinese chintz. The aspects of the house construction that appear Chinese-like are merely the joints plastered with lime mortar and the cut-out windows painted with lime, which look somewhat Chinese-like). At the base of the western wall, there is a shelf about one shaku in both width and height for sitting (all shelf boards are painted vermillion).

This shelf is also fully decorated with utensils. Now, regarding the implements hung on the pillars: on the eastern side, in front of the alcove, numerous Ming flutes, kokyū (bowed string instruments), etc. are hung on something like sword racks. Next is a sundial over two shaku long (however, it's ready-made, and among the hour markers for two or three o'clock intervals, the marker for the ninth hour has been lost. For hanging in such places, one would hang something of the caliber made by Eiji of Nagasaki, and moreover, the calibration board of this sundial has authentic coloring). Next is a glass lantern about one shaku wide and two shaku long, then cypress boards. On the western pillars are trumpets, framed oil paintings, shamisen with snakeskin, moon lutes, more framed oil paintings, and a Xianfeng calendar. On the shelf at the base of the wall are a fourteen-string koto (black lacquer), a wooden xylophone, drums (with Gekkōsai's signature), bronze horns, and other items.