[Right page]
and fly around. Silkworms are the same.
Here is another secret technique. Although silkworms prefer warm conditions, carelessly overheating them so that air becomes stagnant is
extremely bad. It is essential to maintain
a pleasant atmosphere that feels somehow peaceful and
comfortable.
Even in the teachings of Prince Shotoku,
it is said that silkworms should be raised as parents nurture their infants.
Originally, silkworms exist in foreign countries too, and it is not a matter of
regional differences. When the villagers heard this and
followed those teachings, indeed
they achieved good harvests every year thereafter.

[Left page]
On the care of silkworms during molting (the lions' resting period)

Around the 7th or 8th day after starting silkworm rearing, they stop eating mulberry leaves, their color becomes slightly white, and their heads grow thick. This is called the lions' resting period (margin note: in some regions it is called "one sleep"). At this time, it is good to quickly replace the bedding. Now, if you plan to replace the bedding at five o'clock the next morning, the night before, before feeding them mulberry leaves, as before, sprinkle fine rice bran from early rice
thinly over the silkworms, then immediately sprinkle chopped mulberry leaves. When you do this, all the silkworms will
crawl up to the fresh mulberry leaves above. After feeding them mulberry twice, replace the bedding as before. At this time too, as mentioned earlier, place the silkworms that were around the edges of the container in the center, and those that were in the center should now be placed at the edges. Also, those that were on the upper shelf should be moved down, and those on the lower shelf should be moved to the upper shelf. This is because the temperature conditions differ between upper and lower shelves. By switching positions like this, the silkworms will develop uniformly and well. Now, when the silkworms appear to be in their lions' rest, sprinkle mulberry leaves 7 or 8 times a day and give them strictly (margin note: in eastern provinces this is called "seme-kuwa" [forcing mulberry])
(margin note: in central provinces it is called "furi-kuwa" [scattered mulberry]). When doing this, even if the silkworms sleep under the mulberry leaves and leave some uneaten, do not worry about this.

[Figure caption on right page]
Morikuni
Orally transmitting to country folk
the secrets of
silkworm cultivation