【Right Page Upper Section】
Okinawa
　　The Decline of Indigenous Faith

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakahara Zenchu

　　　　　　　Introduction…………………………………149
　　　　　I　Indigenous Faith and Ancestor Worship……150
　　　　　II　Policies of Suppressing Indigenous Faith…153
　　　　　III　Ancestor Worship and Tombs………………155
　　　　　IV　Current State of Indigenous Faith…………157


　　　　Introduction

　Elements of indigenous faith that had survived—such as utaki (sacred groves), the fire deity, and noro (priestesses)—suffered devastating damage in the recent war, and in the Okinawa island group among the four Ryukyu island clusters, they can be said to be on the verge of extinction.
　This faith belonged to all the people of the island groups, as will be discussed later, until the 13th-14th centuries, but gradually lost power with cultural development, while ancestor worship centered on Confucian ethics began to gain

【Right Page Lower Section】
influence, and the two gradually replaced each other.
　Indigenous faith can be considered ancient religion, while ancestor worship was medieval religion, without any problem in this characterization.
　The former was based on communal rituals of agricultural settlements as its binding force, and its priests were women. The objects of worship were the guardian deities of settlements, with deities descending to utaki and the sun = fire deity at the center.
　The latter is Confucianism that supports feudal society, particularly ideology centered on filial piety, a product of male-dominated high culture society. The ritual forms follow Buddhism, but the content is ancestor worship, which from the end of the 15th century gradually became the backbone of feudal social order that [unclear text].
　The four Ryukyu island clusters (Amami, Okinawa, Miyako, Yaeyama) consist of over 60 islands. These islands each have their own characteristics and are also at different cultural stages. Therefore, it is not surprising that while cultural centers have already modernized, some regions remain medieval, and some islands still retain ancient customs.
　Medieval faith in the Ryukyus gradually developed through the introduction of Buddhism and Confucianism, initially showing tolerance toward indigenous faith, but