150

【Right Page Upper Section】
In the 17th century, they suddenly changed their attitude, declaring this as superstition and applying pressure. This will be touched upon again later.

　　　　I　Indigenous Faith and Ancestor Worship

　Now, the first to provide commentary on Ryukyuan religion was probably Taichū's "Ryukyu Shinto Ki" (Record of Ryukyuan Shintoism). After the Meiji period, those who attempted modern explanations were probably Orikuchi Shinobu's "Religion of the Ryukyus" and "Continuation of Ryukyuan Divine Records." Of course, before that, there was Iha Fuyū's "Politics and Faith in Ancient Ryukyu," which contains explanations of the priestess system. Orikuchi attempted a comprehensive explanation of indigenous faith, but his goal seems to be ancient reconstruction.

　Perhaps due to the influence of these predecessors, when it comes to Ryukyuan folk beliefs, there is a tendency not to focus on what is currently alive, but to think of what are merely remnants as if they were living things, or to generalize and describe fragments found in islands and remote areas to attract public attention.

　Orikuchi, however, did not overlook ancestor worship.

　　The causes for the formation of ancestor worship are, from the dark
　　side, fear of dead spirits, and from the bright side, the natural form
　　accompanying priestess religion

【Right Page Lower Section】
　　where it begins in considering divinity in the gods who impregnated
　　priestesses and in the priestesses themselves. ...Even the ancestor
　　worship that has great influence in Ryukyuan religious thought
　　cannot be seen as the source of Ryukyuan Shintoism (indigenous faith).【(1)】
　　The flourishing of ancestor worship is so extensive that even
　　mainland people who pride themselves on being most patriotic
　　cannot match it. From the old eighth to ninth months,
　　one person from each household, gathering as one family group,
　　performs what is called "kami-ogami" - making pilgrimages to
　　distant ancestral tombs, lands connected to the clan, root places,
　　and other famous places and historical sites.
　　This alone cannot be called purified ancestor worship.
　　Behind it, there is always visible fear of tombs and
　　feelings of flattery toward dead spirits.【(2)】

　Orikuchi explains ancestor worship as "beginning in considering divinity in the gods who impregnated priestesses in the natural form accompanying priestess religion (priestesses) and in the priestesses themselves," but there are incomprehensible points.

　Gods of ancient times are all expressed as female. Also, priestesses (priestesses) do not participate in ancestral rituals at all. Death was considered defilement for priestesses and was taboo. What does it mean for a goddess to impregnate a priestess? That point is also unclear.

【Left Page Lower Section】
　Only in the era of male dominance do male gods first appear. The male god appearing in Omoro (Volume 11, No. 72) is only one. Other gods are invisible, and when they possess priestesses, those women "become gods," but this male god is a deity who came from afar, wearing a sword with bells, a majestic god. It seems this should be understood as a superhuman person like a king (my work "New Interpretation of Omoro" P○○○). According to the "Ryukyu-koku Yurai-ki" compiled in the early 18th century, there are many male gods in Miyako and Yaeyama, and stories of giving birth to divine children appear.

　Regarding ancient times, Orikuchi's theory is hard to accept, but his conclusion that "ancestor worship cannot be seen as the source of Ryukyuan Shintoism (indigenous faith)" is correct. Indigenous faith belongs to ancient times, while ancestor worship belongs to medieval times. Something medieval cannot be the source of something ancient.

　There is what is called "kami-ogami" where "from the old eighth to ninth months, one person from each household, gathering as one family group, worships around distant ancestral tombs" and so on.

　Regarding family clans, please refer to another section (the section on kinship groups), but fear of dead spirits is not considered the fundamental motive of ancestor worship. If it were as Orikuchi's theory suggests, ignorant and superstitious farmers

【Left Page Upper Section・Photo Caption】
Bone Interment Ceremony　Outside Shuri City　　　Photographed by Kawahira ○○
The ○○ of a certain person who died in Tokyo was interred in a ○○ tomb. Rather than fear of tombs or flattery toward dead spirits, wouldn't ○○ and ○○○ be stronger?

Okinawa　The Decline of Indigenous Faith

151