mourned them. Additionally, twelve people are said to have resided at this place. Nakazawa Samanosuke Mitsuyori died at age forty-two, with the Buddhist name Hōdō-in-den Mitsuyori Kudoku Daizen-ji.

Mitsuyori's grandson: Nobutaka - Sakai Tonomo-no-suke
Ōjū - For the sake of ancestral memorial services, this person became the founding abbot of Zuitoku-ji Temple in Shinohara, Suruga Province.

Nobutaka's 15th generation descendant: Nobuyuki, later called Kinpō - Sakai Umanosuke Kazue, actually the second son of Takeda Izu-no-kami Nobutomi
　He built fortifications at the ancestral burial ground in that area, changed his name to Sakai Kazue, seized control of Akagi-gō, Nakashiro-gō, and Nakazawa-gō, was respected by all people, and achieved a prosperous life.

Nobuzane - Sakai Ukon-no-suke, later called Sessai
　　　By lateral document
　Since you have been ordered to serve the Tatsuchiyō faction with unwavering loyalty, there shall be no changes to the lands held for many years. Furthermore, heavy favors shall be added according to your service. In short, this is to be the faithful devotion of Kamibayashi Hoshina.
　　Tembun 21st year, 2nd month　　　　Harunobu (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Square seal

　　　　　　　　To Lord Sakai Kai Sessai
Mitsuzane - Sakai Sakyō-no-suke
　He had served the Oda house but due to certain circumstances, after Anayama's retirement he was called Nankei. He served under Kōshū's lord Ujita Harunobu (who took the Buddhist name Shingen) and was greatly favored, but due to advanced age and the burden of duties, he retired to Anayama.

Genshirō
　In the first year of Tenshō, kinoto-i year, at age twelve, he became a disciple of Kaikawa Oshō Daitsū Chishō Kokushi at Erin-ji Temple in Kōshū, took Buddhist vows and was named Chikō. Later, in the 11th year of Tenshō, mizunoto-hitsuji year, at age twenty, he became the second head priest of Erin-ji Temple, Reinen Oshō.

Chikatsugi - Sakai Shinuemon, born in the 6th month of Genki 3rd year, actually Takeda Shingen's youngest son Yoshichiyo. In his childhood he was called Kanjūrō, and in his youth served the Takeda house. After the fall of the Takeda house, he was welcomed as a guest retainer by Hoshina Danjō-chū Masanao, and during the time of Higo-no-kami Masamitsu, along with Shinoda Hanzaemon and Hyūga Heizaemon, he served as Sakai Shinuemon in administrative and financial capacities for Takatō. Considering the Senba domain territory to be of great importance, Sakai...