【Right page】
will appear. You should supplement those supplementary areas with respective items. When done this way, any number of variety combinations can be made skillfully.

First, sashimi packing method is no different. However, when vinegar miso etc. doesn't go directly in but cuts into the side of the packed items, use thin shaved boards or kyogi (thin wood sheets) as dividers. It's fine even if visible on top.

First, when combining sweet bean paste etc., same as above.

First, for fresh packing, there's no need to pack tightly pressed together. Between fish and fish, use small seaweed, kelp fronds, etc. as dividers and pack in rows.

First, simmered kelp packing, same as this. However, for this, hijiki seaweed or bamboo grass kelp etc. must definitely be used as underlining.

First, for appetizer boxes, the appearance when placed in regular flat dishes is fine.

First, if there are items that reduce in volume when stacked and left for a while, when all are packed up, these should be placed a little higher in volume than other items. Later it will be just right.

The general packing method is as above. Others should follow this example. Furthermore, cutting and cooking methods will be presented at the end.

Daily Needs - Dining Table - Family Name Rice - Spring Section

Nori rice: Toast Asakusa nori over a brazier, rub finely and mix by folding
　　　　　However, rub to the extent of sifting with a metal ladle
　　　　　As before, cook slightly firm, steam well, then mix in the nori

Hand salt: Eggplant (koji pickles), Nara pickles, serving mouth, famous pickles (finely chopped and sautéed with sake)

Small cup: Horsetail, needle grass, additional items

Medium plate: Miso-pickled mullet, cut into squares and grilled, two pieces, sweet dew plums

Flat plate: Sprinkled with dried Japanese pepper, whitebait, hackberry, bamboo, wild yam, steamed with white miso paste mixed and poured over

Tea bowl serving: Cod, green kelp (cut into strips, two pieces), bonito flakes, poured over

Additional ingredients: Sliced green onions, dried citrus peel (finely), yuzu (finely), mustard, pepper

Soup serving: Clear soup - However, sweetness is good, add a little tamari soy sauce