Jimoku officials (intelligence officials), along with Doshi-shō (treasury supervisors) and Doshi-dōchi (assistant treasury supervisors), all receive forty koku. Sangi officials (council advisors) all receive stipends of sixteen koku.

Naha officials receive fiefs of one county with eighty koku.

Atsutatsuri officials receive stipends of ten koku.

The above covers the officials of the main country at Shuri-tomari and Naha, along with the amounts of rice-land stipends and salaries.

Purple-Gold Great Masters receive fiefs of one village with stipends of fifty koku, or eighty koku, or one hundred twenty koku, all granted according to the magnitude of their merit. As hereditary stipends, heirs receive fiefs and stipends of fifty koku, or forty koku. For grandsons, differences are made according to merit. (Note: During the late Ming period, there was a Purple-Gold Great Master named Sai Ken. His stipend was three hundred koku, and his heir was granted one hundred koku.)
(Note: After the Kangxi Kimoto year, this was reduced to fifty koku and forty koku. Now, great-grandsons receive thirty koku.)

Shōgi-daiyū (senior council members) receive fiefs of one county with stipends of twenty koku, or thirty koku, with differences made according to merit. Those who have not yet been granted stipends receive annual salaries of twelve koku.

Chūgi-daiyū (middle council members) receive fiefs of one county with annual salaries of ten koku.

Chōshi (chief secretaries) receive fiefs of one county with stipends of twenty koku.

Tsūji-gashira (chief interpreters) receive stipends of eight koku. Some have fiefs, others do not.

Fuku-tsūji (assistant interpreters) receive stipends of five koku.

Tsūji (interpreters) receive stipends of four koku.

Shūsai (scholars) receive stipends of two koku. (Note: Originally there were three koku. After the Kangxi Mizunoto-i year, this was reduced to one koku.)

Waka-shūsai (junior scholars) receive one koku. (Note: Originally there were two koku. After the Mizunoto-i year, this was reduced to one koku. Children from Kume, from age seven, become junior scholars and immediately receive stipends. Shuri)