month. The king observes purification rites and conducts ceremonies to worship the gods of mountains and seas as well as the protective deities of the nation. Sometimes officials are dispatched to perform the rituals. The deity of Ben-dake is named Shukushuku, who is the second daughter of the Tenson clan. Sacred walls surround the area on four sides, with dense groves of trees clustered together. A small gate faces inward toward the south. Outside the gate are two wooden pavilions. On the left side are small stone pagodas and stone lamp stands, five on each side. Upon entering the gate, stone steps curve north and then turn east. Climbing several dozen steps to reach the summit, there is nothing there except burning dozens of incense sticks on a stone brazier. This is the place for worshipping the deity of the main mountain. In front of the wooden pavilion is flat, square land. Facing south, one can see the ocean. In the southeast direction is a stone brazier where incense is burned. This is the place for worshipping the sea god. Throughout the country, wherever there are dense groves surrounded by low walls with small inward-facing gates, all are called "dake" (peaks). They are like the earth gods of China. Every village has them.

【Sogen Temple's shrine of former kings】Spring and autumn sacrifices. Sometimes the king personally conducts the rituals, sometimes officials are dispatched. Three days of purification. Music consistently uses songs of Tenson Taihei. They sing of the merits and virtues of ancestral kings, and the meaning of divine spirits continuing through generations.

【Engaku Temple】Incense offerings of the main sect. There are seasonal festivals. There are monthly festivals. (Note: Called Bon Festival) Three days of purification. On death anniversaries there are special ceremonies. On new moon and full moon days, tea is offered. Tenno Temple and Tenkai Temple follow the same rituals.

　　Chart of Spirit Tablets of Former Kings' Shrine (Ancestral Order)
(Note: Fifteenth generation) Sho Eki
(Note: Fourteenth generation) Sho Tei
(Note: Thirteenth generation) Sho Ho  
(Note: Twelfth generation) Sho Ei
[Horizontal text] Royal uncles of successive generations with merit