have people pray.

In general, for kneeling worship, all join palms and bow reverently, prostrating on the ground for a long time before rising. Rubbing hands together is considered respectful. For women's worship, first they wave both hands left and right three times, then bow reverently and kowtow. This is the same as men's ritual. This is first performed when meeting parents-in-law and elders. Among equals, there are no ceremonial practices such as mutual bowing.

In general, when worshipping Buddha, one bows reverently, kowtows once, performs four bows and nine hand gestures, kowtows once more, stands up, and then performs thirty-three hand gestures. When fathers or elder brothers make vows to the gods on behalf of the sick, they perform three hundred thirty-three hand gestures together.

Learning

The Sacred Temple is located at Izumizaki Bridge in Kume Village. The north gate faces south. Entering through the great gate, the courtyard is about ten mu square. A worship platform is set up above. The main hall has three rooms. In front of the statue of the Master, wooden tablets are also placed, with the Four Associates each holding one sutra. On the central beam above, the four great characters "Teacher for Ten Thousand Generations" from the imperial calligraphy are also copied and displayed. The previous envoys Wang and Lin each have records written on wooden plaques standing on the left and right. <<The text is lengthy and not recorded in full>> The temple was established in the 13th year of Kangxi. There was not yet a school. In the 56th year of Kangxi, Purple-Gold Minister Tei Junsoku, seeing that the school building was not yet complete, took the intention of the temple records by the two gentlemen Wang and Lin and petitioned. He built the Meirintō Hall. Also, on the wall near the north of the hall, he divided it into three small rooms and enshrined the tablets of Qisheng and the Four Associates. In the 57th year, autumn seventh month, construction was completed, and in winter tenth month, completion was announced. In the left and right corridors of Meirintō Hall, classical books and texts were stored and generally prepared. The king also ordered Purple-Gold Minister Tei Junsoku to publish and print