The Commentary on the Sixteen Sacred Edicts is lectured in several sections on auspicious days of the month. According to old custom, one Purple-Gold Minister is assigned to oversee education. On the days of 3, 6, and 9 of each ten-day period, he visits the lecture hall to inspect the diligence and laziness of the students. He also manages the protocols for tribute missions to and from China and assists in major ceremonies. Also, from among the Kume officials, chief interpreters, and xiucai scholars, one person proficient in literature and reasoning is selected as a lecturer. Another person skilled in sentence reading and punctuation is selected as an instructor in classical commentary. The lecturer receives an annual stipend of twelve dan of rice. A school is established within the Qisheng Shrine to teach interpreters and xiucai who are completing their studies. The classical commentary instructor receives an annual stipend of eight dan of rice. A school is established at the Upper Tianfei Temple to teach beginners aged seven and above.

<<Shuri also has three village schools. The children of minor officials and commoners in the outer villages take monks as teachers and all study the national script. There is cursive writing but no regular script.>>

Inside the Lingxing Gate, there is a stone stele in the courtyard. Minister Tei Junsoku recorded it. The summary states: Ryukyu is located far overseas, ten thousand li from China. Since the early Ming, it has maintained relations with China and received royal titles. In the 25th year of Hongwu, princes and retainers' sons first entered the Imperial Academy. The thirty-six surnames from Fujian were also sent to serve as teachers. During the Wanli period, Purple-Gold Minister Sai Ken first painted the sacred image and led the local gentry to worship it at home. In the 11th year of Kangxi, former Purple-Gold Minister Kin Seishun petitioned to establish a temple. The king approved his proposal. He then selected a site in Kume Village and ordered craftsmen to prepare materials, working with axes and adzes, and applying vermillion paint. By the 13th year of Kangxi, completion was announced. The following year, a sacred image was sculpted in the temple, with the Four Associates positioned on the left and right. The king ordered Confucian ministers to perform the ritual of releasing sacrificial offerings on the first ding days of the second months of spring and autumn. It was already splendid when new, and the ritual vessels remained solemn. How magnificent it is called! I, your subject Junsoku, respectfully received the royal command, took up my brush to record the beginning and end of this construction, and had it carved in stone to preserve it for posterity. Kang-