Zen Buddhism

The country has no Daoist priests. In Buddhism, there are two kinds: the Rinzai school and Shingon teachings. The Rinzai school belongs to the Zen tradition, and besides ritual recitations, they mostly study composing poetry. Shingon teachings involve praying for people and writing talismans and incantations. Particularly in the first, fifth, and ninth months, they frequently pray for good fortune. Both abstain from meat and alcohol. Those residing in the various temples of Shuri are all of the Rinzai school. Among those in Naha, only three places—Tōzen-ji, Seitai-ji, and Kōgon-ji—are Zen schools; the rest are all Shingon teachings.

Since the Tang period, this country had the National Master Butchi Enyū, who crossed the sea to study, and thus began the Rinzai school.

The sūtras in their possession include the Lotus Sūtra, Vimalakīrti Sūtra, Śūraṅgama Sūtra, Dharma Jewel Platform Sūtra, Emperor Liang's Repentance, Records of Linji, Records of Zhongfeng, Blue Cliff Record, and others. There is also the Sanrai Collection, written by three monks: Sekioku, Chūhō, and Yūdō. All three monks were from the Yuan period. There is also Master Kōsen, originally from Fujian in the early period of our dynasty, who later resided at Mount Ōbaku in Japan. He wrote the Senun Poetry Collection, Buddhist Country Verses, and Zōrin Collection. His disciple Tenchi was a monk from Fujian skilled in calligraphy.

By national prohibition, monks are not permitted to cross the sea and enter China. However, some go to Japan for religious study. Monastic robes are mostly made using silk fabrics of vermillion-yellow and other colors. Besides the kaṣāya, there is another garment shaped like a vest, called "danshoku" (worldly renunciation). Hats are mostly made of felt, resembling Chinese bamboo hats.

Monastic Stipends

After monks undergo tonsure, those whose names are registered submit them to the Office of Buddhist Affairs. All receive rice stipends. Monks at Engaku-ji serve as the repository of the royal family's ancestral Buddhist rituals, so their stipends are particularly substantial—eighty koku annually. The Tennō [temple]...