All ingredients should be finely chopped. For vegetarian occasions, add various ingredients as desired. "Sumisen" and others refer to tofu cut very finely. Add broth to miso soup. "Gambling soup" - cut tofu into dice, same as for soup. "Hoshina soup" - add broth to medium miso, also cook and add black beans, clams, small birds, and taro. "Pregnancy soup" - cut daikon large, add lightly salted sea bream, add broth to miso soup and cook thoroughly. "Grated soup" - add grated daikon, oysters, clams etc. Add broth to miso. "Grated yam soup" - cooking through is good. Grate mountain yam and green seaweed very finely. Add seaweed in good amounts and cook. If overheated it becomes bad. Garnish with powdered pepper. "Natto soup" - scorch miso and add broth. Cut stem tofu very finely and cook small birds in it. Wash stems well before adding. Dilute natto with broth. Garnish with mustard broth and garlic.

　　　　　　　Section 3: Grilled Dishes
"Beach grilling" - just wipe scales off large sea bream, clamp with bamboo, put in jar with salt and grill, serve with sake-salt sauce poured over. "Rough salt grilling" - apply only salt to crucian carp, grill, pour sake-salt sauce over and serve. "Tree bud grilling" - salt the lizardfish, wrap in hot water leaves, then wrap in paper and steam-grill, remove and serve with sauce poured over. "Ladle grilling" - cut tofu finely, salt and grill over fire. "Snipe grilling" - boil eggplant, cut to good size, skewer and grill with sansho miso. "Grilled bamboo shoots" - remove joints from bamboo shoots, stuff with kamaboko and egg balls, grill with skin on and slice. Make kamaboko quite salty. "Stir-fry grilling" - prepare duck in large pieces, cut soy sauce mixture, fry the skin, sandwich the meat, arrange in single layer in pan and grill. If there's not enough liquid, add a little of the cut soy sauce mixture.

　　　Section 4: Clear Soups  
"Okara style" - score the back of squid in crosshatch pattern and cut finely, also cut to good size and blanch in hot water, add seaweed etc. as garnish, add to broth, simmer and balance flavors. "Mino-ni" - beat eggs, catch with ladle, break up and add salt to boiling water. This also uses various garnishes, same as soup. "Sea cucumber innards" - cut to good size, add broth to thin miso, when it comes to boil add the innards, balance flavors and serve immediately. "Matsutake" - stir-fry lightly with pepper, when there's no sake to pour over, add white water, add broth and soy sauce, let absorb, cut yuzu for garnish and add directly.

　　　Section 5: Cooking Wine
"Egg sake" - beat eggs, gradually add cold sake, mix well, add a little salt and warm