【Right page】
　　"If you open this box, if you do not open it, we shall meet again." Urashima-ko arrived at his hometown's forest garden, but it had fallen into ruin and all his old friends had died. When he asked people he met, they said, "We heard long ago that Urashima-ko became an immortal and departed, and a hundred years have already passed." Here he was startled as if lost, his mind like the dream of Handan, greatly puzzled, and when he opened the box to look, Urashima-ko suddenly transformed into an aged, white-haired old man and died on the spot.

　Man'yōshū
　　On a spring day when the mist rises, sitting on the shore of Sumiyoshi watching the fishing boats with pride in their catch, one remembers ancient times. Mizunoe no Urashima-ko, proud of his bonito and sea bream fishing, did not return home for seven days, rowing beyond the boundaries of the sea, where he chanced to meet a maiden of the sea god. After they spoke together and formed a bond, he went to the eternal land. In the beautiful hall within the sea god's palace, the two entered together, neither aging nor dying, spending long ages there. But I, a foolish person of this world, told my beloved woman: "I shall briefly return home to tell my parents of this matter, and I will come back tomorrow." The woman replied, "Return again to the eternal land

【Left page】
　　and we shall meet as we do today." Therefore she strictly warned that this box must never be opened. Returning to Sumiyoshi, when he looked for his house, no house could be found; when he looked for his village, no village could be found. Thinking it strange, in just three years since leaving home, even the fence was gone and the house had perished. Thinking that if he opened this box he might see his original home, when he slightly opened the jeweled box, white clouds emerged from the box and drifted away toward the eternal land. Though he ran about, cried out, waved his sleeves, writhed and kicked his feet, his spirit immediately vanished, his once-young skin became wrinkled, his black hair turned white, swaying unsteadily with failing breath, his life finally ended. Behold the site of Urashima-ko's house in Sumiyoshi. Though he should have remained in the eternal land, why was his heart so foolish, O lord?

　《Note: Upon consideration, the Nihon-ki refers to Tanba Province because Tango Province had not yet been separated. The Shoku Nihongi states that in the sixth year of Wadō during Emperor Genmei's reign, in summer on the day Kinoto-Hitsuji of the fourth month, five districts of Tanba Province were divided to establish Tango Province for the first time. After that, Yosa District belonged to Tango. All the documents of that region refer to it as Tango Province, such as the Tango Fudoki, Wamyō-shō, and Fusō Ryakki. It is written as Yosa. Also, Suge-kawa is written as Tsutsukawa in the Tango Fudoki. Mizunoe is written as Mitsue in the Nihon-ki. In the Man'yōshū it is sometimes also written as Sumiyoshi. Urashima-ko》