【Right page】
It is said that a person named Mizue-no-Urashima-ko loved fishing, rode in a boat to play on the sea, and never returned home for a long time. However, it is unknown how many hundreds of years passed.

According to the "Zoku Urashima-ko Den" (Continuation of the Tale of Urashima), he met only an old woman washing clothes and asked her about the old people of his hometown. The old woman answered, saying: "I am 107 years old, but I have never heard the name of Shima-ko. Only in my grandfather's time did the elders pass down orally that several hundred years had passed. According to tradition, long ago there was a person called Mizue-no-Urashima-ko who loved fishing, rode in boats, played at Kue Bay, and never returned. Probably after entering the sea, it is unknown how many hundreds of years have passed." The "Nihon Kōki" states: "I heard long ago that Urashima-ko became an immortal and departed, and barely a hundred years have passed."

Here, while playing in the immortal palace of Hōrai, the times became vastly distant, and he lamented the changes in his old village. Also, thinking that his pleasures in the immortal realm had ended, unable to bear his sorrowful longing, he forgot his previous oath and suddenly opened the jeweled box. From within, purple clouds emerged and departed like mists toward Hōrai Castle. At that time, his appearance suddenly aged and declined, transforming into a white-haired old man.

The "Man'yōshū" states: "Even his breath ceased, and finally his life died - I would see the home place of Mizue-no-Urashima-ko." The "Tango Fudoki" also says that Shima-ko suddenly became an old man and finally died, this being in the 2nd year of Tenchō. The "Fusō Ryakki" and "Nihon Kōki" say the same. The "Zoku Urashima-ko Den" states that Shima-ko broke his single promise with the divine woman, lost the opportunity for reunion in the immortal realm, and red tears in a thousand lines moistened his white temples, while his sincere heart in ten thousand threads disturbed the crimson palace. Afterward, he cried on golden beams and drank jade liquid, ate purple mist and wore blue robes, stretched his neck like a crane and stood gazing far toward the giant turtle sea of Hōrai and the divine phoenix's galloping, standing and looking back distantly at the fragrant lightness of the immortal cave. Flying and playing among rocky rivers, hiding and sinking in sea bays, finally no one knows where he ended. Later generations called him an earthbound immortal. The so-called "Urashima-ko Den" is what the ancient sages compiled. Those words do not decay and should rightly be transmitted for a thousand ages. This record was written on the first day of the eighth month of Engi 12 (year of Kanoe-Tatsu), beginning with Sakanoue no Ietaka at the Bureau of Inspection of Provincial Records on the 22nd day of the fourth month of Jōhei 2 (year of Mizunoe-Tatsu)...

【Left page】
Urashima Mound
[Illustration]