【Right page】
It was located at the holy water well (akagai) of Kiyosumi Temple for over seven hundred years. Now, due to the spiritual connection with this land, it moved from that place. "Build a temple hall and enshrine my statue. I will surely bring happiness to your descendants."
Therefore, this temple was immediately established and this sacred statue was enshrined.
《The distant descendants of Mitsuyoshi remain in this land and continue unbroken to this day》

Susaki Myōjin Shrine　Located on the right side of the highway, with Fumon Temple serving as its bettō (temple administrator). It may be the same as Susaki Myōjin in Awa Province. According to Bōsō Shiryō, it enshrines the deity Amahiri-no-me-no-mikoto, while the Genpei Seisuiki states that Susaki Myōjin venerates Hachiman Daibosatsu, so both theories are presented with doubt remaining.

Kumano Gongen Shrine　Located to the right of the highway in Kanagawa Honshuku-machi. Its bettō is Konzō-in, called Tō Mandara Temple, of the Shingi Shingon sect. 《This shrine was formerly established on the peak of Gongen-yama but was moved to this location. However, a humble shrine to Kumano Gongen was rebuilt on the original site atop Gongen-yama》

Taki Bridge　Between Honshuku West Town and Taki Town, crossing the highway where the river flows

【Left page】
It spans the river. The stream below this bridge is called Taki River, hence the name. The water source originates from a stream flowing from a place called Seki Village, seven or eight chō to the west.

Hashimoto Sōkō Temple　Located about half a chō west from the bridge along the opposite riverbank, on the left side of the road. It belongs to the Sōtō Zen sect and is affiliated with Hongaku Temple in the same area.
The principal Buddha, Shakyamuni Tathāgata, is a work by Jōchō, a seated statue about one shaku tall.
《This principal Buddha was formerly the main deity of the five-story pagoda at the Kannon Hall on the mountaintop》The clear spring in front of the hall was used for tea water when the Shogun established his lodgings at Honshuku during his journey to Kyoto in the Kan'ei era.

Kannon-yama (Mount Kannon)　Named so because there is a Kannon Hall at the mountain peak. It is managed by Sōkō Temple, with stone steps rising up directly facing the center of the temple's main gate.
The statue of the principal deity, Shō-Kannon, is said to be the work of Vishvakarma and measures five sun and nine bu. Long ago, its historical records were lost in a fire. Its origins are now unknown.