【Right page】
Aokisan Saikōji Temple - Same location
Located on the right side of the side road of Aoki-machi, this is a komusō temple belonging to the Fuke sect Kinsen branch《Note: Called a "hikae-bansho" (branch office), not a main temple》

Hongakuji Kiritōshi (Cut-through Pass) - Same location
The northern area of Hongakuji Temple was cut open to create a road《Note: This is the road to Nagatsuta-dōri and Misawa Village, etc.》In autumn of Eishō 7 (1510), Ueda Kurando, a retainer of Uesugi Jibu-shōyū (monk name Tatsuyoshi), rebelled against Tatsuyoshi and advanced to this location, establishing Kumano Gongen-yama as a fortress, using the intervals between the mountains continuing westward as moats, and making Hongakuji's Jizō Hall his base castle, as recorded in the Odawara-ki《Note: Should be read together with the section on Kumano Gongen-yama》

Aokisan Hongaku Zen Temple - Located in Nanashichiken-machi south of the same location, this is a Sōtō Zen temple belonging to Unshōin of Kozukue. The principal Buddha, Jizō Bodhisattva, is a standing statue of 1 shaku 4-5 sun in height. According to tradition, this temple was founded in Karoku 2 (1226), and later in the first year of Tenbun era, Zen Master Yōkō, a dharma descendant of Kiun Shiden from the Sōtō Taigen lineage, first resided here and established the dharma banner to promote Zen practice《Note: In early Genroku period, all halls and gates were destroyed by fire》. The Buddhist hall's

【Left page】
plaque inscribed with "Hongaku Zen Temple" was written by Dōzan Oshō, the founder of Enmyōji Temple.

Enmyōzan Yōkōin - Adjacent to the south of Hongakuji Temple, this is the site of the retirement quarters of Kasuisai in Enshū Province, and is a Sōtō Zen temple. The founding master is titled Chokutokushi Honnen Enmyō Zen Master《Note: Also called Sekigyū Tenryō Oshō》. The mountain behind is called Fukushū-hō. The gate plaque inscribed with "Fukushū-bō" was written by Eihei Enmyō Zen Master.

Dōkan-yama - Same location
This is the name of a area in the mountains to the west. It is said to be named after Ōta Dōkan Nyūdō, who once built a castle on this land.

Iizuna Gongen Shrine - Located on the mountaintop to the right of Kanagawa Taimachi Kaidō, about one chō south of Hongakuji Temple. The shrine is served by the Shingon sect temple Mannenzan Fumonji of the same location. The festival is held on May 17th. The honji-butsu (original Buddha) of Iizuna Gongen is Fudō Myōō, created by Great Master Gyōki as a seated statue of 1 shaku 7-8 sun in height. The suijaku (manifest deity) is said to be Ōyamatsumi-no-mikoto. According to tradition, Right General Yoritomo deeply revered this sacred image, and in Jishō 4 (1180)...