This is the method. For those who ordinarily suffer from roundworms, if they must undertake travel
or be stationed at military camps, they should grind Asakura Japanese pepper to fine powder
and make it into pills to take in large quantities daily, or alternatively salt should be
added and the mixture roasted, to be eaten morning and evening. This effectively
treats roundworms. Torreya nuts have the effect of treating roundworms and tapeworms.
If one abstains from all food for seven days and consumes only these,
the worms will all die and be expelled. Artemisia capillaris decoction is used to expel worms.
The prescription is: one monme and six bu of Artemisia capillaris, eight bu of Melia root bark,
three bu each of rhubarb and cattail pollen. This is the amount for one dose.
The efficacy of santonica seeds is somewhat superior to Artemisia capillaris,
but recently there are many counterfeits, so if one selects genuine items
to use, they are quite effective. Also for abdominal pain that sometimes occurs and sometimes stops,
there are cases where it is not worm pain but pain caused by feces
accumulating in the intestines. This is treated with laxatives.
If the lower back and legs are cold and the abdomen occasionally aches with
diarrhea, this is a cold abdomen. If these symptoms occur while traveling,
mix equal parts of dried ginger powder and sugar

and take large amounts morning and evening. Pepper powder is also
effective. For cases where this is ineffective, aconite preparations should be used.
Also, for sudden abdominal pain of unknown cause,
combine one monme and six bu of fennel with six bu each of licorice and costus root,
《available at any pharmacy}} add two slices of fresh ginger, and
decoct lightly for use ▲When an acupuncture needle is inserted into flesh
and breaks off without coming out, decoct about two monme of spindle tree seeds
and drink it. Charred pine needles effectively remove splinters,
but because they are such a common item,
people doubt their efficacy, yet those who have actually tried them and learned
their effectiveness are convinced. Also, there is a method for removing arrowheads
that was secretly treasured by famous generals of old.
The prescription is: take three praying mantises (Japanese name "ibojiri" or
"kamakiri," called "kamagitchō" in the Kantō region),
place them alive in separate paper bags
and dry them to death, one snail with shell removed, three cattle flies,
also shade-dried, each ground to fine powder.
When using, knead with rice paste mixed with a little oil, for arrows
with old shafts broken off and difficult to extract from wounds.