one must give as many as a hundred pills to purge, otherwise one cannot rescue from the critical situation. This should be well understood. For decoctions, use single-ingredient licorice decoction. There is something called whitlow (hyōso taishi) where various parts of the fingers suppurate and cause intense painful suffering. For those with initially mild pain, use equal parts honeysuckle and fennel to apply warm fomentation, then afterward apply camphor mixed with sesame oil containing wax. If it progresses to the severe type, these medicines are difficult to cure with. This is because when this disease becomes severe, the toxic qi increases and can lead to loss of life. Since this is a serious matter, depending on whether the initial pain is mild or severe, if the pain is unbearable and there is fever throughout the body, one should quickly select a good physician and entrust the case to them. However, in the early stages, whether mild or severe, it is good to first use the treatment method described here, so I record and show this.
▲When bitten by a snake, squeeze out the blood from the wound opening and apply tobacco tar. When bitten by a snake,

and suffering from dizziness and fever, mix tobacco tar with fine alum powder and make into pills to administer. Alternatively, use four monme of alum and two monme of licorice ground into fine powder. This should also be tried. In rural areas, I hear that sometimes snakes accidentally enter women's genitals causing distress. If such a time occurs, one must not carelessly try to pull it out. Since the scales catch backward making it difficult to emerge, this would be worse. If such a time occurs, firmly grasp the tail with the hand, and while stabbing with a small knife, quickly apply tobacco tar abundantly to the stabbed area. When the snake dies, it will naturally come out. Snakes fear tobacco tar extremely - I hear that even putting just a poppy seed's worth in their mouth causes them to immediately writhe in agony and die, so this should be superior to the method of splitting the tail and inserting Sichuan pepper. Also, when someone accidentally swallowed a small snake and was in delirium about to die, dried persimmons were decocted and administered, whereupon they quickly recovered. This substance is also known to be feared by snakes. Frost persimmons have the same effect. Using tobacco tar with these would be even better. ▲When constricted by a snake