There is no pain, so the person is unaware of it. Then suddenly touching something, they immediately feel pain, or saying it is itchy, they scratch it open and then develop severe pain. This initial outbreak of cellulitis is small, but if you look closely, there is strong induration in that area, or only that one part becomes numb and loses sensation, or there may be severe chills and fever that might be mistaken for typhoid. Or there may be strong palpitations in the chest and abdomen, depression, dizziness, etc. Various symptoms arise that are easily confused with other diseases, and before it even reaches that stage, some lose consciousness and appear as if dead, so one must understand this well and examine carefully. In general, these sores develop in places on the head and face, corners of the mouth, ears and nose, joints of hands and feet, etc., where the flesh is thin and somewhat depressed, and because they lack the power to protrude to the skin surface, they often attack inward, so rapid induction should be the primary focus. One should puncture the sore site and first draw blood, but if that is also difficult, take twenty to thirty leeches and apply them alternately to what seems to be the

center of the sore to have them suck blood. When they have finished sucking blood thoroughly, take the fine powder of what is called "葛上亭長" of "まめはんめう" (Spanish fly), 《available at any pharmacy》《this is called 芫菁, but 芫菁 is of the same family but different species, and "まめはんめう" is 葛上亭長, so one should understand this when seeking it》 mix it with sesame oil combined with white wax until the color becomes jet black, knead it, and apply it to the affected area. If that substance is not available, grind four to five grains of croton seed, add a little oil, and apply. This draws out the poison. Now around the sore, mix fine powder of hematite with vinegar adding a little starch paste, and apply it in a circle about one inch away from the sore. This is to surround it so the poison will not scatter outward. At the very beginning of this condition, if there are strong chills and the pulse is deep, faint and weak, use the formula called Maō-bushi-saishin-tō to induce sweating. The prescription is: one monme five bu each of Tang ephedra and asarum, one monme of Tang aconite as one dose, add one gō five shaku of water and decoct to six shaku, take it and cover up to induce sweating. If more than an hour passes after taking the medicine, it should be used again. If Tang aconite is not available