A chancre has developed inside the penis. Treatment must be started quickly before erosion occurs within the shaft. Even if medicine is used, inappropriate prescriptions are the same as leaving it untreated, and there would be no hope of recovery. Laypeople should also have this understanding.

Dysentery is a highly contagious disease that spreads mainly through fecal odors. At home, one can easily prevent this by using separate toilets and either throwing the patient's feces into a river or burying it underground. However, during travel, there is no way to know about such precautions, so one cannot say that infection through toilet contamination is impossible. The initial symptoms of this disease include chills and fever, but they are extremely mild and difficult to recognize. Initially, there is often diarrhea, but it doesn't provide relief, and there is a condition called tenesmus where there is persistent tension in the anus, which indicates the early onset of this disease. When initially having difficulty with bowel movements and persistent abdominal discomfort, put about 5 go of salt and about 1 go of white mustard seeds (these may be omitted) into a large basin, cover with straw matting, and pour boiling water over it. The salt will dissolve and the straw vapor will emerge. When the water reaches an appropriate temperature, sit and bathe the lower half of the body to warm it, and sweat will begin to emerge from the face throughout the entire body. At that time, add more hot water, and when the lower back and legs are thoroughly warmed, wipe well with a bathrobe, get into bed, eat hot thin rice porridge or udon, and wrap up in bedding to induce sweating. This method is what was called "yuyude" in ancient Japan, seen in works like the Eiga Monogatari, used to induce sweating for initial cold symptoms. When this is applied to early dysentery, bowel movements become comfortable and sometimes the condition resolves completely. While tenesmus may still persist in some cases, the disease progression generally becomes milder after bathing. Using Kakkon-to (Pueraria Decoction) after this "yuyude" is even better, but Kakkon-to is only effective when prepared according to the proper formula using Chinese ephedra.