For bonito poisoning, one should decoct shiitake mushrooms and take them. Cherries are also effective. For severe cases, it is good to use emetics to induce vomiting quickly. Since emetics will be discussed in the later section on cholera, one should refer to that. Olives are said to help digest various fish and meat well, and dried squid is said to neutralize various fish poisons, but I have not yet tested these. Also, if bonito and pepper are consumed at the same time, they can kill a person. This appears to be because these two substances combine to become highly toxic. I record this here and spread it widely to people because there have been confirmed cases of this.

▲For crab poisoning, one should decoct a large amount of cloves and take them. Alternatively, it is best to powder them finely, add a little ginger juice, and stir into hot water for use. Winter melon juice is also said to neutralize crab poison, but I have not tested this yet. If one extracts and uses the fresh juice of Japanese silverleaf, it neutralizes all fish poisons. It is said to be most effective for neutralizing crab poison, but when Japanese silverleaf juice is administered, it works by inducing vomiting to cure, not by eliminating the poison. One should understand it as merely a mild emetic when using it.

▲If crab and persimmon are eaten together, they become poisonous and can cause vomiting blood. Use three monme of costus root as one dose, adding about two slices of ginger and decocting for use. Alternatively, it is also good to use two monme of costus root and one monme of cloves in fine powder.

▲"Goose sores" are weeping skin lesions that appear on the backs of the knees around mid-autumn (August), when geese arrive, hence the name. If one carelessly applies topical medicines or poultices and tries to force a cure, they will turn inward and become beriberi, gout, or other conditions. In severe cases, they become diseases of the heart and abdomen and often shorten one's lifespan, so this should be avoided. When traveling and these sores develop and cause suffering, as a last resort, one may prick the surrounding area and draw a little blood to get by. One must absolutely avoid entering water. Frequent bathing is also undesirable.