It is a condition that develops suddenly, but if one considers it carefully, it is invariably a disease that has prior signs. This occurs when the stomach is pulled up toward the chest, and all the internal organs are accordingly lifted upward, causing the qi and blood of the entire body to press toward the head, blocking the spirit. As a result, one cannot recognize people, cannot speak, snores, appears to be sleeping and does not awaken. In severe cases, some lose control of their bowels and bladder. The pulse is what is called "string-like" (gen), resembling a taut bowstring, appearing to have strength but manifesting a pulse without luster. For this condition, the ancients said that opening the hands indicates a deficiency pattern (kyokou) and clenching the hands indicates an excess pattern (jitsukou). However, in general, people who develop this condition, even if their bodies are fat and fleshy, have weakened vital qi and sluggish blood circulation. It develops when external pathogens block the interstices of the skin, or when there is temporary stagnation of food and drink, or emotional binding that creates obstruction. Normally there is upward surging, dizziness, shoulder stiffness, tinnitus,

snoring when sleeping, frequent talking in sleep, often sleeping too deeply and being difficult to wake, prone to nightmares and being tormented by them, becoming angry without reason, becoming excited without reason, or having much vexation about everything with an unsettled mind. Not only is the mind unsettled, but one prefers rich and delicious foods, engages in excessive sexual activity, appears vigorous on the outside while the interior is weakened - this disease develops in such bodies. It is like a tree that is rotten inside while the bark flourishes, which gets blown down by a storm. Though the disease pattern appears like an excess pattern, it invariably arises from weakened vital qi. However, the immediate problem is that it presses on the stomach opening, qi and blood are obstructed in the upper part, there are accumulations in the abdomen, and phlegm-fluids are boiling over. Therefore, one cannot help but puncture the shoulder and use cupping to draw blood, or attach many leeches to the shoulders and neck to suck blood, use emetics to vomit up the overflowing phlegm-fluids to open the obstruction in the stomach, and after vomiting, necessarily use purgatives to purge it downward