Therefore, many cases are difficult to save. In the initial outbreak, first blow sneezing medicine into the nose to induce sneezing. Sneezing medicines include fine powder of gleditsia and asarum (two ingredients), fine powder of black pepper, sneezing grass from Hakone, and wood hellebore. When the situation is too urgent to obtain these, use tobacco powder, or pinellia powder, mint powder, or white mustard seed powder - quickly blow these strongly into the nose to induce sneezing. When blowing these medicines in, first twist paper to clean out nasal discharge, then blow well into both nostrils so it reaches the depths of the nose, after which grasp the hair and lift up the head. When sneezing occurs this way, consciousness will soon return, so first perform the vomiting method. The matter of emetic medicines will be discussed in the next section on sudden turmoil disorder. Taking blood from the shoulder should follow what is appropriate for the time, and since it may be difficult for laypeople to perform, it is acceptable to wait for a doctor to come. For moxibustion, use Tenshu point, or the eight-flower moxibustion recorded in the previous section on dysentery is good. When consciousness returns, either the right or left half of the body may become paralyzed instead. After achieving vomiting, use purgatives, and after the bowels move, use four ingredients - aconite, arisaema, asarum, and costus root, 1.2 monme each, add 4-5 slices of fresh ginger, decoct 1.5 go of water down to 0.6 go and use. Alternatively, there are many effective simple formulas such as aconite powder from the Thousand Gold Prescriptions or Three Fresh Decoction from the Formulary of the Pharmacy Service. There are various prescription differences depending on other symptoms, but here I have merely recorded one approach for rescuing urgent cases.

For buckwheat poisoning, drink fresh oyster juice. What pharmacies call yangmei bark - the bark of the bayberry tree - should be made into fine powder and used with hot water, or decocted and used. I know from frequent trials that these two items are certainly effective. Pressed daikon radish juice also effectively neutralizes buckwheat toxin. Fresh juice obtained by pounding and pressing bitter orange peel is also said to be effective. This should also be kept in mind.