should not be used. Among the martial techniques of jujitsu practitioners, the shoulder revival technique, the Tenshu revival technique, the inner thigh revival technique, and the below-navel revival technique - any of these should be well learned and applied to those who have suddenly died. I will now show their general outline here.

For the shoulder technique: when the massage practitioner goes around to the back, first grasp the shoulder muscles that are held by the thumb, index finger, and middle finger, grip firmly with the three fingertips, and with maximum force twist them around toward the back.

For the back: strike the area around the sixth or seventh vertebrae with the four fingers bent, using the palm so that it penetrates inside. Tenshu is located on both sides of the navel, left and right, about 1.5-1.6 sun from the navel as measured with a carpenter's square, with the left and right points separated by about 3.1-3.2 sun. When you press these bilateral points with your fingertips using maximum force, they penetrate extraordinarily and you feel pain there. The inner thigh technique involves strongly pressing the flesh at the root of the thigh near the genital area.

The below-navel revival technique is described in the later section on hanging deaths. That location is at the center between below the navel and the genital area, called the tanden, which is the center of the human body.

Besides these five locations, there are other points that penetrate inside, but if even one of these five locations penetrates inside and reaches the brain, breathing will emerge. If breathing does not emerge from this, untie the sash and have two able-bodied young men massage and rub from the head and face to the shoulders, back, chest and abdomen, both sides, from above the shoulders to the joints of both arms, inside and outside of the thighs, knees, kneecaps, and both legs. If there are woolen cloth or felt materials available, rubbing with those is also good. After thus kneading and softening the entire body and finishing the skin friction, insert bamboo tubes into the left and right nostrils and blow air strongly into both sides simultaneously. Alternatively, you may block the nose and have a young person place their mouth directly against the mouth of the suddenly dead person and blow in breath. Or you may insert a bellows tube into the mouth and blow air in strongly. After blowing in this way, press the chest ribs with both palms to push out the air that entered inside, and then