one should keep this in mind. If centipede poison attacks internally, the tongue swells and protrudes. For this, it is said that if you cut a rooster's comb while it is still alive and pour the blood into the mouth for the patient to swallow, it will heal. Applying or having the patient take realgar mixed with pressed ginger juice is also good. Adding vinegar is also good. Since realgar is effective against all insect bites and stings, it is good to take it internally for any of these conditions.

For any bite wound, it is good to stuff saltpeter or gunpowder into the wound site and ignite it to burn out the poison, and to apply cantharis beetles and similar substances externally to draw out the poison.

For bites and stings from various small insects, after squeezing out the blood, it is also good to light a candle or a paper twist soaked in sesame oil and drip it onto the wound. A prescription that can be used for all bites and stings from poisonous insects is: realgar, copper sand, alum, and wasp's nest, 5 parts each; musk, 2 parts; grind into fine powder, knead with honey, and apply to the wound, or it may also be used with lukewarm water.

Toothache is described in the "ha" section, under the heading on dental pain. For those with toothache, use only cold water for morning and evening mouth rinsing, and after meals, or even after eating just a little something, always rinse with cold water. If continued for a long time without neglect, the pain will stop and the teeth will become firm. If it is pain from a decayed tooth in the lower jaw, mix equal parts of frankincense powder and wheat flour, add egg white and shochu, knead together, and apply to the place where the pulse throbs in the lower jaw. This medicine, when applied to the temples, has the effect of treating headaches well.

For horse bites, bundle scallion whites cut to about 4-5 sun in length and vigorously rub the wound. The pain will heal immediately. Grinding purslane is also good.

For contusions, quickly warm vinegar with camphor added, soak cloth in it, and steam the area. If there are places where blood has coagulated, pierce shallowly with a needle or the edge of a razor to let blood