will also often be crude and inadequate. If this throat pain is in its initial stage, quickly use Chinese licorice as a single ingredient, about 3 monme per dose, decocting 1 gō 2 shaku of water down to 6 shaku, and using 2-3 doses will often heal the pain immediately in a surprising manner. This is called Kanzo-to (Licorice Decoction). If one thinks it has swollen up somewhat, add 1 monme 5 bu of dried platycodon and use it. This is called Kikyo-to (Platycodon Decoction). Most cases will heal with this.

If the swelling increases and pus ruptures, with severe pain making it impossible to speak and causing great suffering, take 1 gō of strong vinegar, add 5 bu of finely powdered pinellia and the white of one egg separated out, whip with a tea whisk until well mixed, put over fire, and when it boils once, remove from heat, strain through silk, and drink little by little while cool. This is a prescription where I have applied my own ideas to adapt the ancient Kushu-to (Bitter Wine Decoction) for present use. Also, dissolving 7-8 bu of borax in about 5 shaku of vinegar, frequently holding it in the mouth to reach the throat, then swallowing is also good. Or making equal parts borax and calcined alum into fine powder and blowing it into the throat through a bamboo tube is also good. These three methods are often effective when used for smallpox eruptions that frequently appear in the throat causing hoarseness and difficulty swallowing food, as well as for throats corroded by syphilis. For those with constipation, medicines called Ryokaku-san (Cool Diaphragm Powder) or Choi-joki-to (Regulate Stomach and Order Qi Decoction) are sometimes used. If the disease is severe with burning heat and unbearable swelling and pain inside and outside the throat, take many leeches and attach 40-50 of them from the nape to around the throat to suck blood. Also, in typhoid fever with severe diarrhea, pulse becoming faint and intermittent, and severe throat pain, using Tsumyaku-shigyaku-to (Unblock Pulse Four Counterflows Decoction) with large doses of ginseng and aconite can sometimes provide rescue. In such conditions, there are also often cases where the throat becomes corrupted and ulcerated so that food and drink cannot descend. If