There is the pedicel of muskmelon that comes from Echizen province. If left to pharmacists, they powder it as is, but since the part where the stem was attached has no effect, cut it away and use only the pedicel - 3 bu of this combined with equal parts of raw red beans, ground to fine powder, mixed into sugar water and stirred for use. Bitter bottle gourd seeds and tea seeds also well induce vomiting, so they should be used when melon pedicel is unavailable. The dosage may be slightly more than that of melon pedicel.

Other emetic substances include kusame-tamegusa (sneezewort) of the hellebore family found in Hakone. Hellebore and false hellebore, though of inferior quality, may be used as substitutes. Ipecac root imported from Holland has roughly the same potency as melon pedicel, so this too may be used as a substitute. There are other powerful emetics, but they are difficult for laypeople to use. Even just three heads of green flies can induce vomiting.

Human feces effectively induces vomiting, but being unclean, people find it repugnant and it is difficult to use, though it should be employed when nothing else is available. Ancient practitioners spoke of inducing vomiting with cow dung, so this too should be kept in mind.

Though feces and such are hard to come by, all emetics are best used with sugar water or decoctions of jujube dates. Without this, they do not settle well in the stomach. When emetics are used, extremely hot water should be drunk continuously. Even after vomiting, if hot water continues to be drunk, it hastens the urge to vomit, so drinking hot water repeatedly is good. Generally, hot substances induce vomiting while cold substances stop it, so when using emetics, water should be avoided.

When vomiting appears complete, use Xiaoshi Dayuan pills, processed rhubarb preparations, or Tiaowei Chengqi Decoction for purging. If abdominal pain persists after vomiting and retained matter remains, use the pill medicine called Biji Yuan for purging. This is made from equal parts of rhubarb, dried ginger, and croton seed ground to fine powder, formed into pills with honey that has been reduced by fire. A little paste may also be mixed in. Even if rhubarb and dried ginger are used in ten times the amount, their potency is greatly inferior to croton seed.