cases, this alone is generally sufficient.

Also, when there are no medicines available for cholera, chop 2-3 pieces of fresh ginger and decoct in hot water, or grind it to extract the juice and add to hot water - both work well. Adding a pinch of salt to vinegar and drinking it is also good. There is also a method using 5-6 large pickled plums decocted in water. A method using equal parts fine tea and dried ginger ground to powder is also effective, or having the patient drink mustard powder and applying it mixed with hot water to the navel. All of these are found in ancient texts and should be effective, so they should be remembered to help rescue those in emergency situations.

After vomiting and diarrhea from cholera have stopped, give thin rice porridge little by little. For 4-5 days, never allow overeating. It is better to prohibit all foods that are difficult to digest.

▲For those who have died by hanging, do not carelessly cut the rope. If you hastily try to cut the rope, the momentum will cause the rope to tighten, strangling even more strongly, so that even those who could live will have their breathing stopped and die. Therefore, if there is no suitable platform immediately available, stack multiple tatami mats so that the hanged person's feet can reach flat ground. One person should go behind the hanged person, interlock the fingers of both hands, firmly embrace below the navel, and lift upward while never letting go. Another person should take a sharp blade and climb a ladder. When cutting the rope, the person holding below the navel and the one cutting should call out to each other so that cutting the rope and lifting below the navel happen simultaneously without any delay. Put great strength into firmly holding below the navel, plant your feet firmly, and pull upward. This is also one of the resuscitation techniques of martial artists, so by putting strength into the interlocked fingers and pushing strongly upward so that it penetrates inward, at this moment the hanged person will generally take one sharp breath and begin breathing. Then