has been stated. In recent years, a book called "Gunchū Biyō Kyūkyū Tekihō" (Essential Emergency Methods for Military Use) was published, and to show general people, it included diagrams of bone-setting, so one should look at these, learn them by heart, and use them to save emergencies.

▲When an iron nail held in the mouth is accidentally swallowed, one should eat raw chive leaves. The chive leaves will wrap around the nail and bring it out. For this reason, it is said that blacksmith households always plant chives. Since this plant has such an effect on nails, it will also be effective when iron needles are swallowed.

▲For spider bites, squeezing out the blood should be done in the same way as described for dog bite poisoning, and crushed garlic (xiebai) should be applied as a poultice. The gecko poultice mentioned later is also good to use. Blue spiders are most venomous. It is said that in western foreign countries, they use these for poisoned arrows.

▲When arrows enter the flesh and are difficult to remove, the mantis poultice described in the earlier section on bamboo and wood splinters is good. Charred pine needles are also effective. When they are too deep to remove easily, the flesh should be cut open to extract them, but generally the mantis poultice is effective.

▲For burns from hot water or fire, chicken eggs should be ground in a mortar and mixed with an appropriate amount of sesame oil and applied. Also, a method that can be prepared in advance and is highly effective for both scalds and burns is to boil sixty to seventy chicken eggs, remove the whites, and slowly fry only the yolks in a frying pan. When oil emerges, if there is no oil press, strain through fine cloth to extract the oil, store it in a bottle, and apply this. This is considered the supreme medicine for burns. Dissolving sea urchin in water and applying it is also effective. For very mild burns, holding them over fire and enduring the pain for a while will make them better. Also, stirring much straw ash in water, straining it through cloth, and soaking in that water will lighten the pain. For those whose entire bodies are burned and festering, it is good to get naked and soak in a sake barrel for a while. Even severe cases, if treated this way, can avoid the worry of dying from fire poison attacking internally. Other effective methods for burns include kneading cattail pollen powder with fresh clam juice and applying it, old cucumber