grinding and applying the squeezed water.
Also, mixing fresh cow dung with chicken eggs and applying it. Also grinding sesame seeds to powder and applying it. Also pounding the white roots of scallions until mushy, adding honey, and applying it like a plaster. Kneading white clay (pottery clay) with chicken eggs, adding a little camphor and sesame oil to make it suitable for application. Boiling fine powder of burned earth from under a stove well in water, straining it and applying it. Kneading fine powder of rhubarb with water and applying it - all of these are reasonable methods, so they should be selected and used according to the situation.

If there is severe body heat, it is better to use the previously mentioned Tiaowei Chengqi Tang (Regulate the Stomach and Order the Qi Decoction) and similar remedies to purge once. If there is putrefaction with foul odor, it is good to put camphor in distilled liquor, warm it over fire, soak cloth in it and apply as a warm compress. Alternatively, soaking ten monme of lime and five monme of copper sulfate in distilled liquor, leaving it for a while, straining out the sediment, warming over fire and applying as a compress is also good. If fire poison invades internally, it can often lead to death, so this should be understood in advance.

▲For gecko bites, after squeezing out the blood, apply a powder made from the two ingredients copper sulfate and realgar. This medicine should be used for various insect bites.

▲For mamushi (pit viper) bites, the harm is more severe than dog poison and also faster, so one should be prepared for this. As stated in the previous section on dog poison, the saliva from the biting fangs mixes with human blood and flesh, spreads throughout the entire body causing harm, and in severe cases leads to death, so removing the poison quickly should be the first priority. Since the wound from a mamushi bite is small, it must first be cut open, then blood squeezed out and washed with water, as described for dog bites. Since the poison spreads extremely quickly, whether the bite is on hand or foot, one should tear cotton cloth and tightly bind above the wound to prevent its spread. Apply human feces and moxa a large moxa cone, or apply bean weevil