It is poison. If left as is, that area will suppurate and become like an ulcerated chancre, eventually becoming gangrenous. The powder medicine mentioned earlier should be used quickly.

▲The poison of pufferfish is not in the intestines, nor in the head, but there is deadly poison within a certain type of flesh. However, even fishermen cannot distinguish this by appearance, and people die instantly when they happen to encounter this poison. For detoxifying this well, nothing surpasses oil. If one knows they have been poisoned, they should quickly drink about one gō (180ml) of sesame oil or whatever is available. This will certainly provide detoxification. Using emetics to induce vomiting is also good. Although human fecal juice is said to detoxify this poison well, it does not match the swift effectiveness of oil. Various other antidotes are recorded in ancient books, but there are none that can be considered certainly effective. Therefore, I do not mention them in this volume. Also, there was someone who ate the dried form of this fish and for some time had weakened joints and could not stand. This must have been because they unknowingly ate something with deadly poison mixed in and were poisoned. If such a thing happens, it is good to decoct dried squid and take the broth, or drink fresh juice of Japanese ginger. I think this can provide detoxification without needing to use oil.

▲What is called "fukubyō" in dialect refers to yellow bloating. This was recorded in the previous section on hemorrhoids.

▲For motion sickness from boats and palanquins, it is said that one should take powdered sulfur internally and also stuff it in the navel, covering it with paper pasted with glue, but I have not yet tried this. It is also said that one should drink vinegar. Asen medicine should also be effective, so using much of medicines like Shikin pills and Bankin pills would be good. However, with a constitution that gets sick from boats and palanquins, one cannot accomplish anything well. Those with ambition should be deeply ashamed of this.

▲Puncture wounds occur when one steps through nails or bamboo and wood pieces from below the foot. If even a little of that sharpened material remains inside...