Soak it in shōchū for about two days, then squeeze out and discard the dregs. Add about one shō of water to one hundred monme of fish glue and boil well. When it is reduced to about five gō, add the benzoin-infused shōchū and stir. When it becomes like mizuame (starch syrup), remove from heat and spread on fine cloth or silk to store. This is abbreviated and called "water-transparent glue" - when water is added to this and it is boiled and dissolved, then spread on paper, it is called "sokukōshi" (instant effect paper) and is sold. This should be used for light wounds. This fish glue plaster can be used for abrasions, shallow blade wounds, nasal abrasions, etc., and since it is applied simply by moistening with saliva and attaching it, and is quick and convenient, it is effective for travelers and guards to carry in their pockets. To make the sokukōshi yellow in color, add a decoction of ōbaku (Phellodendron bark).

Emergency Medical Essentials

Emergency Medical Essentials Supplement - Sequel
　Recording everything omitted from the previous volume
Emergency Medical Methods Volume 1 - Medium book, one volume published
　Burns from fire, burns from hot water, bruises, cuts,
　gunshot wounds, treatment methods for all emergency illnesses, bone setting
　methods - a book that shows in detail with illustrations
　so that even laypeople can understand
Volume 2 - Same publication
　How to select water for morning and evening use, methods to clarify muddy water,
　fever, dysentery and other contagious
　diseases prevention methods, methods to prevent cold
　in cold regions like Ezo,
　methods to treat suppurating gunshot wounds, detailed recording
　of how to save all emergency illnesses.
　There is also a book combining both volumes in one set
Stable Horse New Theory - Large book, one volume published
　Horses are beasts that should necessarily be able to cross
　water with half their body floating, but because of poor training methods,
　contemporary riding horses are difficult to use for military purposes.
　This discusses how even impoverished samurai
　can keep horses at low cost, and details
　even how to discern horse illnesses through observation
Japanese Creation Origin Record - Illustrated reading book, seven volumes
　A book that records in detail from ancient texts
　the origins of Japan being the world's foremost nation,
　intended to arouse the Yamato spirit

Published Ansei 5, year of the Earth Horse, ninth month
　Book dealer: Izumiya Kinuemon