...and the distress of being in such trouble was the same story both inside and outside [of houses], and one could only sympathize with their anguish.

○ From there, the areas of Tamachi and Honshiba suffered extensive damage, while from Fuda-no-tsuji toward Mita, damage was relatively light. The front entrance and grand reception hall of the Satsuma domain lord's residence at the Nana-magari (Seven Bends) area collapsed. Along the Shiba Kanasugi beach road, houses were dragged by waves and toppled by wind, with virtually every dwelling suffering major damage. The full extent of the shipwrecks in this area is too great to capture with a short brush; I leave it to artists to depict, and ask that readers understand from their illustrations.

○ A fire broke out amid the storm in Kata-monzen 1-chōme, burning down all the surrounding areas. Along the main street, fires reached as far as Utakawa-chō; on Hikage-chō, both sides of the street all the way to Shinmei-chō were burned, stopping at the corner of Mishima-chō. The owner of the house where the fire originated had resigned himself to punishment and was keeping a low profile, but no such verdict came. When the town officials quietly inquired about this matter, they were told that since the intensity of this wind was an extraordinary catastrophe, it was difficult to lay the fault solely on one person, and the matter would be let go. The owner shed tears of joy, saying it was truly a merciful ruling.

○ In the area of Saióji Temple's gate precinct (Shin-nami area), many houses were damaged, and among them, rear tenement buildings of temporary construction were completely destroyed. Not only here but throughout the city, many houses had not been properly repaired since the earthquake, and so they all collapsed. In years past, the earthquake had shaken the storehouses and caused great hardship for wealthy households; but this time, the suffering of the poor was too numerous to count. Indeed, the fact that both the wealthy and the poor alike fell into hardship must be called the workings of Heaven.

○ Within the precincts of Zōjō-ji Temple, the lodging quarters (shukubō) were damaged in many places, and a great many large trees on the outer grounds were toppled. In the area of Kiridōshi-Nishino-kubo, some townhouses and samurai residences were slightly damaged. Along the Atago-shita road, the front fencing of residences was damaged, and fire watchtowers fell in several locations.

○ From Shinbashi to Shibaguchi and as far as Owari-chō, there were collapsed houses in various places. At the self-policing fire watchtower (jishinban) in Ginza 3-chōme, the watchtower fell into the street, carrying with it the hanging temple bell. At Kyōbashi Daikon Bridge, firewood, and also...