It was said that those who carried beads carved from the branches of this ginkgo tree would be spared from disaster.

◯ The roofs of the brothels' temporary quarters outside the Yadaijin Gate were all damaged, and some were left tilting. All three theaters in Saruwaka-chō had their roofs damaged, and many of the teahouses were badly damaged as well. The Nakata-area teahouse branch was damaged, and the Matsudaya temporary quarters were completely destroyed. Along Umamichi, every building on the inner west side of the bamboo grove was toppled, and Kita-Umamichi and Tamachi suffered severe damage. The areas of Yama-no-shuku, Hanakawado, and Shōden-chō avenue suffered no particular damage to townspeople's houses.

◯ In Shin-Yoshiwara, a fire broke out from the western riverbank, burning some of the brothels that had remained within the quarter. The thatched-roof houses around Daionji Temple gate and Senzoku village were all toppled. The Sanya avenue also suffered damage on both the front and back sides. The flooding at Hashiba and Imado was severe.

　◯ Many residents of the Yama-no-shuku and Hanakawado areas had been living temporarily in various brothel lodgings, but since these were originally temporary makeshift dwellings, they were quickly blown apart from all sides. Having nowhere else to go, they huddled together in place, when suddenly from the middle of the river, yellow-colored objects, each about the size of three or four grouped four-to barrels (approximately 72-liters each), rose up in great numbers into the air, then swooped back down and scattered in an instant — the terror of it was beyond words. It was said that this was probably like a whirlwind gathering up sand, with the wind coalescing and then falling back down.

◯ On the far side of the Azuma Bridge, the southern part of the bridge collapsed and fell. The areas of Koume and Oshiage suffered damage here and there, and many houses in the villages of Mukōjima were destroyed. Kita-Honjō, Nakanogō, Narihira Bridge avenue, Ishihara, Benten Kōji, Kita-Warishita Canal, and Hōonji Bridge avenue all suffered severe destruction. The area around Kameido village and Gohyaku Rakan (Five Hundred Arhats) was greatly damaged by severe flooding. Along the Minami-Warishita Canal avenue, both the estates of daimyo, samurai residences, and townspeople's houses alike were struck by a high tide surge: in areas with higher ground, the water swept across the floor level; in lower-lying areas, the water rose more than three feet above the floor. Houses too numerous to count were left in ruin — some collapsing under the force of the waves and wind, others swept away entirely.

　◯ A man named Matsushichi, who worked as a subcontractor for the Ginza Office, had long resided in Fukagawa-Motomachi, but lost his home in the great earthquake on the night of the 2nd day of the 10th month of the Year of the Hare [i.e., the Ansei Earthquake of 1855]. Having a slight acquaintance in a rural area two or three chō away from Honjo Rakanji Temple, he evacuated there and rented a small house to live in. However, on the night of the 25th day of the 8th month of the current year [1856], during the great storm, the high tide surged all at once, and the young and old of this area, fleeing in every direction (east and west)...