(Continuation of the song from the previous page)
…(remainder omitted)

This text is an incomplete work of six pages, attributed to an author calling himself "Daidō Sanjin" (Wanderer of the Great Way). Though written in a rustic style, it cleverly captures the situation of the time through wordplay and puns.

◯A certain friend of mine was visiting the temporary quarters (karitatku) of the Hisaki-Manjiya establishment in Fukagawa that night, when around dawn a powerful storm surge pressed in vigorously, overflowing onto the floor with barely a moment's warning, and the water continued to rise steadily. He attempted to descend the ladder and return home, but finding himself in such a situation, there was nothing he could do, so he returned to the second floor and looked out in all directions from the upper story. The streets had become one vast flood, looking just like the sea. Before long, houses with lower ridgelines appeared to be submerged up to their second floors, enough to make one's eyes swim with dizziness. Yet while he smoked four or five pipefuls of tobacco, the water gradually began to recede and decreased little by little, so his heart grew calm and he descended from the second floor. However, water still remained on the floor, and he spent the rest of the night in vain waiting for dawn, it is said.

◯At Susaki, it has now been sixty-five years since the great tsunami of the Kansei era (1789–1801), when everything in front of the Benten Gate was swept away and lost. The details of that event were carved on a stone monument, which still stands on that site. It records in detail how far one had to flee to escape death, and such particulars. This time it was not a tsunami but rather a storm surge, so there were not as many fatalities as in former times, but it is a water disaster the likes of which has not been heard of in recent years.

◯In Sunamura, the powerful storm surge swept away and the wind shattered many houses, causing great losses. The areas of Horie and Nekozane also suffered enormous numbers of collapsed houses. In the Kasai domain villages of Komatsu River and Kamada, there was extensive flooding and house collapse. The vicinity of Gyōtoku was entirely devastated, and many houses in Funabashi were swept away by the storm surge. It is said that the destruction raged all along the coast as far as the three provinces of Bōsō.

◯In the northern part of the city (Edo), the area around Senju Kamon-juku and Kozukahara suffered minor damage, while from Minowa, Kanasugi, and Sakamoto-dōri through Iriya and Negishi, more than half suffered damage. Within the precincts of Tōeizan (Kan'ei-ji Temple), the facades of the lodging quarters (shukubō) were all extensively damaged. Countless large trees were broken and toppled; hundreds of great pine and cherry trees within the precincts were broken, and the sub-temples and lodging quarters… (continues on next page)