(Continuing from the previous page) ...saying such things to her, the bride also, discerning her husband's true feelings, took even greater care of her mother-in-law and served her with all her heart. Yet the mother-in-law's heart would not soften, and her malice only grew worse. Nevertheless, Hikobei was a man who clearly understood right from wrong; whenever his wife made any misstep, he would take responsibility upon himself and smooth things over, while also quietly admonishing his mother for her wrongful ways, eventually bringing her to accept reason, so that he was able to prevent his wife from being driven out.

It was at such a time that Hikobei went to help with a celebratory occasion at a relative's home in Edo, staying overnight. Taking advantage of his absence, the mother seized upon a trivial matter to make an issue of it, saying: "Because your husband is away, you think you can make a fool of me! I cannot bear this a moment longer — leave at once, or else!" She grabbed a blade and threatened to cut her. The bride fled in a panic, barefoot, through the lightly falling rain, back to her own parents' home. The neighbors, thinking to themselves, "There she goes again, that wicked mother-in-law tormenting the bride — if it comes to blows, we ought to go stop it," waited in the rain, but before long the harsh words fell silent, and assuming things had calmed down, they did not go to check on the situation.

However, that very night, the great storm caused the large tree in the backyard to snap and fall, reducing Hikobei's house to splinters. The mother-in-law sustained serious injuries, took to a sickbed from which she never recovered, and eventually departed for the afterlife. I record this as I heard it, in the hope that it too may serve as a moral lesson.

◯ An elderly person in a certain place, thinking that what follows might serve as guidance for people after this storm, showed it to me, saying that although it was a humble piece of writing, he wished to print it on a single sheet and distribute it to people. I record it here below.

**Precautions**

This violent wind of recent times was a rare occurrence seldom seen in living memory, and it seems unlikely to recur; however, unexpected disasters and calamities are beyond the capacity of ordinary human intelligence to predict or prevent. Therefore, I record one or two precautions to instruct those who come after — this is nothing more than an expression of an old person's solicitude. Generally speaking, a violent windstorm differs from a great earthquake in that, as long as the roof has not been torn off, the wind will not for the most part cause the house to collapse. Once the roof is broken — (continues on next page)