[Right page, upper section]
precisely so. This mind is precisely the cause for being born in the Pure Land. During the process of saving sentient beings, how many times will one lose the body and destroy life? For the sake of sentient beings, even if body and wisdom were to perish eternally, if there were only benefit, that would suffice as hope. However, if it became like that, the matter of benefiting sentient beings would not be fulfilled, so one should wish to become a Buddha. Through this, one clearly knows that without bodhicitta, one cannot be born in the Pure Land. However, regarding this, one asks: Sentient beings' wish for the Pure Land is for the sake of happiness. If it is as I now hear, what would one do by being born in the Pure Land? One should simply be born in the defiled land. Saving sentient beings is still superior in the defiled land. Answering this difficulty, I say: Who says that rejoicing in the Pure Land is based on desire for pleasure? Those who think to be born for the sake of desire for pleasure should not be born there. Instead, they should be born in the defiled land and transmigrate in birth and death. Because desire for pleasure is the characteristic of the defiled land. Because the bliss of the Pure Land is not loving attachment. Therefore, being born in the Pure Land should depend on two wishes. First, one thinks to be born in the Pure Land for the sake of seeing Buddha and hearing the Dharma. Because in the defiled land, seeing Buddha and hearing Dharma is difficult. That seeing Buddha and hearing Dharma is precisely for the sake of benefiting sentient beings. Second, for the sake of benefiting sentient beings, one thinks to be born in the defiled land. Because in the Pure Land there are no suffering sentient beings, and

[Right page, lower section]
the objects of great compassion are lacking. That benefiting of sentient beings is precisely for the sake of great bodhi. Wishing thus becomes the karmic cause for being born in the Pure Land. However, bodhicitta has immeasurable and limitless levels. Generally speaking, it is simply compassion and uprightness. If we also desire it, why would we not be born in even a shallow Pure Land? Following the five natures being distinct, my personal opinion may also be biased. I speak roughly. One asks: Regarding the doctrine of the five natures being distinct, might my own body also be of fixed nature without birth? Then wishing for Pure Land bodhi would be meaningless. Since it would be something that could not be achieved in any case. If one doubts the body thus, there would be no one who arouses bodhicitta. How would one know that one's own body is definitely a sentient being who can become Buddha? I answer: One must determine whether the five distinct natures are provisional or real. This always discusses the expedient means of salvation. If the five natures are truly real, one should employ the expedient means of esoteric intention to encourage sentient beings' arousal of the aspiration. What harm would there be in that? Rather than fearing the doubt-nets of the ignorant, would one not expound the true principle of the Dharma gate? How much more so, a person who studies the characteristics of Consciousness-Only and also arouses the wish to awaken is certainly a sentient being endowed with Buddha seeds. The reason is that the Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra rejects that those of fixed nature and no-nature are not suitable for this teaching. What wise person would not believe the golden words and pointlessly transmigrate in birth and death? Also, one who reads the Lotus Sutra,

[Left page, upper section]
how much more so a person who understands its meaning—would they lack Buddha nature? The Lotus Sutra and Consciousness-Only are also one body. I shall also abbreviate that explanation. The state of seeds is generally like this. Besides this, there are karmic seeds and nominal seeds. What are called nominal seeds are the seeds mentioned above. Good seeds produce good manifest activities. What are called karmic seeds means: when one arouses evil mind, one perfumes evil mind seeds. By the power of those seeds, one is born in the three evil destinies. When one develops good mind, one perfumes good mind seeds. By the power of those seeds, one is born among humans and in heaven. Therefore, this too is not separate from the previous seeds. However, the manner of fruits arising from those seeds differs slightly. The substance of the three evil destinies, human realm, and heavenly realm is ālaya consciousness. Ālaya consciousness is morally neutral in nature. Therefore, by the power of good karma seeds, neutral fruits arise, and by the power of evil karma seeds, neutral fruits also arise. The details are lengthy. Regarding this, when a person with Buddha seeds practices and becomes Buddha, the manner of mind's arising and awakening's opening is as follows: The seeds for becoming Buddha are not just single seeds. That Buddha nature is divided into various aspects. First there are seeds of the eight consciousnesses. There are seeds of various mental factors. Mental factors number twenty-three. Six afflictions. Twenty secondary afflictions. Among indeterminate mental

[Left page, lower section]
factors, sleep and regret. These twenty-eight are absent. All of these are dharmas limited to the contaminated. Among these, the five consciousnesses are called the Wisdom of Accomplishing Activities. Ālaya consciousness is called the Great Perfect Mirror. The reason is: the five uncontaminated consciousnesses from eye-consciousness to body-consciousness all excel at performing the activities of supernatural powers and transformations. Therefore they are called the Wisdom of Accomplishing Activities. Uncontaminated mental consciousness excels at subtly observing spiritual capacities and the function of teaching Dharma and resolving doubts. Therefore it is called the Wisdom of Wonderful Observation. Uncontaminated manas consciousness permanently separates from self-grasping and realizes the equal dharma-nature, therefore it is called the Wisdom of Equality. Uncontaminated eighth consciousness permanently separates from the name ālaya and reflects and knows all dharmas, like a great bright mirror reflecting all forms. Therefore it is called Great Perfect Mirror Wisdom. Now, "consciousness" is the name for mind-king. "Wisdom" is the mental factor of wisdom among mental factors. Though both consciousness and wisdom exist in the contaminated, because consciousness is strong in the contaminated stage, they are specifically called the eight consciousnesses. It is not that wisdom and other mental factors are absent. In the uncontaminated stage, because wisdom is strong, they are specifically called the four wisdoms. It is not that consciousness and other mental factors are absent. This is because in the uncontaminated eight consciousnesses, each has the mental factor of wisdom. Besides these, there are seeds of various consciousnesses: eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, form, sound, smell, taste, touch, etc. Their nature is all wholesome. Though these various uncontaminated seeds are also inseparable from ālaya consciousness,