[Right page]
There are different types with varying degrees of urgency and severity. These are all caused by cold-heat, external pathogens, food and drink, and internal injuries, or by accumulation disorders, abdominal masses, qi stagnation, and blood clots, all of which can cause abdominal pain. There are likely many other symptoms as well. However, abdominal pain caused by excessive drinking is constantly very common and moreover difficult to treat. Its symptoms are not the same as other abdominal pains. It does not cause sudden severe pain, but rather the abdomen aches dully and constantly without stopping. Sometimes it is severe during the day, sometimes at night, sometimes daily, sometimes every other day, sometimes occurring in attacks, sometimes stopping. After meals, the pain is often severe. When the pain occurs, there is belching and nausea. It persists and interferes with eating, dragging on without end. Some cases last for one month, two months, half a year, one year, or even three to five years. How does alcohol

[Left page]
cause this condition? First, alcohol toxicity injures the stomach, and the qi of the middle burner becomes deficient and cannot circulate healthily, causing pain. Or, alcohol heat causes qi to stagnate internally, causing pain. Or, in cases where the pain does not stop after many months and years, this is because alcohol damages the blood in the abdomen, and stagnant blood coagulates and stagnates, causing pain. In cases that last even longer, the stagnant blood takes form and becomes accumulated masses. Generally, although abdominal pain from food stagnation and such may be acutely severe, once the food is digested and passes through, the pain stops immediately. Alcohol-toxic abdominal pain is not caused directly by alcohol, but rather alcohol damages the blood and stagnant blood causes the pain. This stagnant blood cannot be cleared and digested at the time. Therefore, the pain persists and is difficult to treat.
Not only that, but those who develop this condition are people who originally enjoy drinking, and particularly