【右丁】
と言っている。このように養生は常によく慎むべきことであろう。
　　酒隔病
○劉河澗の原病式に「酒の味は苦くして性質は熱い。よく心火を養う。久しく飲めば腸胃の熱が鬱結して気液が通じず、人をして心腹が痞満し、多く食することができず、好んで嘔吐し、あるいは下気する。俗に酒隔病と言う。苦い酒、冷たい酒、あるいは酒が良くない、あるいは好まずして強いて飲む者は、腸胃が鬱結して転じて閉じ、満悶して下ることができない。あるいは飲興に至り、あるいは醇酒を熱く飲み、あるいは好んで飲む者は、よく鬱結を開いて善く多く飲む。よって過酔すれば

【左丁】
陽気がますます甚だしくなって陰気が転じて衰える。酒力が散ずれば鬱結が転じてますます甚だしくなって病が加わる」と言っている。
　　酒客病
○酒客病とは金匱要略に見えている。また李東垣の蘭室秘蔵にこれを論じて「酒は大熱にして毒気がある。気味ともに陽の無形の物である。もしこれに傷つけられば発散すべきである。汗が出れば愈える。これは妙法である。その次は小便を利するに如くはない。二つの者は上下その湿を分消する。何の病がこれあろうか。今の酒病の者は往々にして酒癥丸などの大熱の薬を服してこれを下す。これは無形

<translation_en>
【Right page】
it states. Thus, health cultivation should always be carefully practiced.
　　Alcohol Obstruction Disease (Shukaku-byō)
○In Liu Hejian's Formulary of Original Diseases, it states: "The taste of alcohol is bitter and its nature is hot. It can nourish heart fire. If consumed for a long time, the heat of the intestines and stomach becomes stagnant and blocked, and qi and fluids do not circulate, causing people to have chest and abdominal fullness and blockage, inability to eat much, preference for belching, and sometimes passing gas downward. This is commonly called alcohol obstruction disease. Bitter alcohol, cold alcohol, or alcohol that is not good, or those who do not like it but are forced to drink - their intestines and stomach become stagnant and blocked, turning closed, full and distressed, unable to move downward. Or when reaching drinking excitement, or hot drinking of pure alcohol, or those who enjoy drinking can well open the stagnation and blockage and drink much well. Therefore, if one becomes excessively drunk,

【Left page】
yang qi becomes increasingly excessive while yin qi turns and weakens. When alcohol's power disperses, the stagnation and blockage turns and becomes increasingly severe, and the disease worsens," it states.
　　Alcohol Client Disease (Shukaku-byō)
○Alcohol client disease appears in the Synopsis of the Golden Chamber. Also, Li Dongyuan discusses this in his Secret Treasury of the Orchid Chamber, stating: "Alcohol has great heat and toxic qi. Both its qi and flavor are yang, formless substances. If one is injured by this, it should be dispersed and released. When sweat emerges, one recovers. This is a wonderful method. Next best is promoting urination. These two methods disperse and eliminate the dampness above and below. What disease could remain? Today's alcohol disease patients often take greatly heating medicines like alcohol symptom pills to purge it downward. This treats formless