be placed under house arrest." Tametomo did not obey the edict. In the fourth month of the second year, Yoshitomo was
removed from office due to his association with this matter. When Tametomo heard this, he said, "The dismissal of my lord father from office is
due to my crime. I shall go to the imperial court and receive punishment in place of my father." When he was about to go up
to the capital, many soldiers wished to follow him. Tametomo would not hear of this and said,
"I have committed crimes and go to the capital. If I take followers with me, my crimes will become even heavier." Alone, he took with him twenty-eight men including Su-
tō Ieri, Tōma Kazue, Takama Saburō, and his younger brother Shirō,
and went to the imperial court to await punishment. In the first year of Hōgen (1156), Retired Emperor Toba passed away. Retired Emperor Sutoku
plotted to restore himself to the throne and gathered troops at Shirakawa Palace. Fujiwara no Yorinaga was the chief strategist. He sent a messen-
ger to summon Yoshitomo. Yoshitomo declined, saying, "I, your subject, am seventy years old and too old to be of use.
Moreover, I had a dream in which the eight suits of armor passed down in our house were scattered by a whirlwind.

I, your subject, consider this ominous in my heart. Even if I go, there will not necessarily be success. My eldest son
Yoshitomo, though brave and commanding many followers, has already responded to the summons of Takamatsuden (Emperor Go-Shirakawa). The other
sons are all mediocre and insufficient to plan great undertakings together. Only my eighth son Tametomo is strong and fierce
and possesses strategic wisdom. I banished him to the western provinces from his youth. Recently, he repented of his errors and returned to the capital.
Your lordship might well employ him." The messenger would not listen and said, "It is not proper etiquette to decline an edict while remaining seat-
ed. Go yourself and make your report." Yoshitomo had no choice
but to lead his six sons—Yoriyoshi, Yoritaka, Tamesō, Tamenari, Tametomo, and Tametaka—to Shira-
kawa Palace. The Retired Emperor was greatly pleased and discussed battle plans. Tametomo sat following Yoshitomo.
When the Retired Emperor observed Tametomo from within the bamboo blinds, he was seven feet tall with piercing eyes,
wearing great armor and carrying a great bow. The Retired Emperor considered him most remarkable and imposing.

[Marginal note at the top of the first line]
The characters for "house arrest" are based on
the edict