and apologized for the crimes of the envoys. Prior to this, the Ryukyu envoy Chokaro had violated the law and been executed. The Ming Emperor reproached the king, saying: "Recently, your envoy Chokaro and others came to the capital, and We treated them favorably. When they returned and reached Fujian, at the altar they seized sea vessels, murdered government troops, assaulted and injured court officials, and stole their clothing and goods. Chokaro bore primary responsibility for the crime and was executed by the supreme punishment. The remaining sixty-seven people including Abokumakessei shared in this evil, and their crimes also deserved death. In consideration of the king's loyalty and sincerity, We specially pardoned them and sent them home. Henceforth when sending envoys, you should be vigilant and cautious not to violate court regulations."

In this year, the King of Chuzan destroyed Hokuzan. King Hanan-chi of Hokuzan relied on his courage but was dissolute and cruel. His retainer Hirahara possessed martial strength, his soldiers were quite brave and skilled, and the castle fortifications were precipitous and difficult to approach. After receiving Ming investiture, his arrogance and willfulness became even more extreme, and he plotted with Hirahara to destroy Chuzan, daily organizing his military forces. The Haniji anji, Nago anji, and others surrendered to Chuzan and reported that the King of Hokuzan was reviewing his troops, requesting that he be conquered swiftly. Thereupon the King of Chuzan commanded Crown Prince Hashi to urgently lead the military forces to conquer Hokuzan. Hashi immediately led the six anji of Urasoe, Gushikawa, Yomitanzan, Nago, Haniji, and Kunigami, departing first and reaching Nakijin harbor. Hanan-chi plotted with Hirahara, joining forces in defense. Hashi advanced and attacked the castle. Arrows rained down from the castle walls like rain, making it impossible to approach. The Urasoe anji shouted loudly: "This is the day when loyal retainers give their lives!" He courageously charged forward, and all the armies competed to be first in the attack.