84

│　　2. Caregivers or nurses must not enter the living quarters of family members　│
│　　3. No one other than the patient may eat or drink in the patient's room　　　│
│　　4. Leftover food and drink provided to the patient should be placed in　　　│
│　　　 designated containers and disinfected or burned each time　　　　　　　　│
│　　5. Tableware and utensils used by the patient should be boiled for　　　　　│
│　　   disinfection after each use　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　6. No food or drink other than that specified by the physician should　　　│
│　　   be given to the patient　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　7. Patient excreta, secretions, and contaminated materials should be　　　　│
│　　   collected in designated containers and disinfected each time, and　　　　│
│　　   feces and urine should be boiled or burned　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　   After recovery, counting from the day of recovery, for dysentery for　　│
│　　   20 days and for typhoid for 30 days, an appropriate amount of lime　　　│
│　　   powder should be added to the toilet after each use　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　8. The patient's room should be cleaned frequently, and the swept dust　　　│
│　　   and paper scraps should be stored in designated containers and　　　　　│
│　　   disinfected or burned　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　9. Mosquitoes and flies should be eliminated　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　10. Disinfectant chemicals and disinfection equipment should be prepared　　│
│　　    and disinfection should be carried out strictly　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　11. Bath water used by the patient should be thoroughly disinfected, then　　│
│　　    disposed of by digging into soil in a remote location away from　　　　│
│　　    residential areas and unrelated to rivers　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　12. Family members of the affected household should, counting from the day　　│
│　　    of the patient's onset, add lime powder to the toilet after each use　　│
│　　    for 10 days for dysentery and 20 days for typhoid. Caregivers and　　　│
│　　    others in contact with the patient should add lime powder for the　　　│
│　　    aforementioned period after the patient's recovery　　　　　　　　　　│
│　　13. If any family member is suspected of having dysentery or typhoid,　　　　│
│　　    this should be promptly reported to police officers or municipal　　　　│
│　　    officials　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　│
───────────────────────────────────────
○When this document is distributed, precautionary items and other matters
noted regarding prevention and treatment should be thoroughly explained
and their implementation should be monitored.

85