Separate Document　　　　　　　　　　From Financial Officers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To All Subordinate Officials

〇This time, through gracious consideration, strict financial discipline has been decreed. Therefore, you should keep the lord's interests at heart, serve diligently in your offices, and devote yourselves to your work. You must strictly refuse to accept even the smallest gifts (onmono) from townspeople and farmers. If there are any who accept gifts, they will certainly be punished. Moreover, in recent years, houses and storehouses have been built luxuriously, and furthermore, household lifestyles and clothing have become inappropriately gorgeous for one's station. This does not correspond with the stipend rice granted to you, and this is extremely improper and inexcusable. Therefore, those of low calculator rank and below should replace items that are currently inappropriate for their station. However, regarding storehouses, since they are for fire prevention, small ones of about nine shaku square are acceptable. Of course, henceforth you must strictly observe behavior appropriate to your station without misunderstanding. If there are those who misunderstand, they will be reprimanded at that time, so you must strictly observe these guidelines.
　　　　August 5th
　However, today the new squad financial officer Hishikawa Kuzaemon has been heard to be living beyond his means in various matters, so his position has been revoked, he has been demoted to minor official status, assigned to garden estate guard duty, and ordered into confinement. Others below him have received respective promotions and demotions accordingly.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To All Monthly Duty Officers

〇Due to financial difficulties, economy measures have been strictly decreed many times, but unavoidable increased expenses have gradually

pressed upon us, and in recent years support has become increasingly difficult, so once again strict economy and restraint measures have been decreed. Regarding the recent increased expenses, since there are no means to manage them, advance payment of tax collections has been ordered, and though this has been managed until now, due to the consequences of this, the current situation has become one of inevitable financial difficulty. Therefore, unavoidably, increased rice loans to retainers have been ordered, and special levies must be imposed on towns and rural areas as well, but since the foundation is impoverished, this will cause even greater hardship. This causes great concern and pity, and there is deep consideration that somehow those below should not suffer hardship. However, since there are no other measures available, this plan has been established: both the Financial Office and the retainer band will contribute silver, and with this silver, future financial operations will be managed. Please understand this situation. The allocation method will be communicated by the magistrates, so please be aware accordingly. The above.
　　　　August 15th　To all subordinates under administration

Attached: November 3rd notice from the Finance Office
　The proportional silver contribution previously decreed should be paid to the exchange office by the end of this November according to the silver amounts in the separate document. The above.　November　To All　Finance Office
　　　　Memorandum
　1. Silver 33 monme 1 bu 9 rin　　For stipend of 300 koku including role allowance
　1. Silver 27 monme 6 bu 6 rin　　For stipend of 250 koku, same as above
　1. Silver 20 monme 7 bu 4 rin　　Including monthly role allowance
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The above for Nishimura Koheiji's portion