It is natural that problems arise from impropriety even between good married couples. Depending on the circumstances, both parties should be investigated and judgment rendered. Since this is a serious matter, everyone should be mindful.
1. Recently, some retainers have been carelessly setting up boundaries with neighboring estate compounds or leaving poorly secured passages open as thoroughfares. Henceforth, this is strictly forbidden.
　　However, if passages must be opened due to unavoidable circumstances, this must be reported to the inspector.
1. While it is acceptable for retainers to visit townspeople's houses for unavoidable business, when meeting with townspeople, improper conduct has reportedly occurred. While everyone should be mindful of such matters, henceforth proper etiquette must be observed.
1. When retainers request permission for their female servants to go out, until now permission has been granted even for nighttime outings, with servants not returning until late at night or requesting overnight stays and engaging in improper conduct at their destinations. If visiting parents, siblings, or relatives due to illness, or for clearly apparent business, permission may be granted after confirming the destination. If the destination proves different and this is later discovered, strict measures will be taken. Masters must be mindful to prevent indiscriminate nighttime outings.
　　However, previously established lodging arrangements are an exception.
　　　　　October 25th　　Those with authority should communicate this understanding
 　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate

1. Regarding townspeople's family members going out, while evening outings for mutually agreed upon social gatherings or business are acceptable, nighttime outings or street loitering without reason are forbidden. This also applies to employed servant women.
1. When visiting retainer households, proper etiquette must be maintained to avoid impropriety or misconduct. Young people should be especially mindful.
1. When visiting among the warrior class on business, avoid impropriety and refrain from improper conduct, strictly observing these rules.
1. During the Bon festival, nighttime dancing by children thirteen and under is limited to one district without mixing with other districts, as previously announced. Children older than this age should not participate in dancing. If there are suspicious circumstances, strict investigation will be conducted.
1. Among townswomen, some reportedly resemble prostitutes in recent years. Such behavior should be prevented.
　　　　　Memorandum
1. In back streets and alleys of the town quarters, some low-class persons or widow-like individuals reportedly engage in improper meetings and lodging as if it were their livelihood. Henceforth, such behavior shall be strictly investigated and improper conduct prevented.
1. While it may be convenient for police informants to employ subordinate informants to seek connections with arrest teams, the number of subordinate informants has reportedly increased greatly in recent years. Henceforth, the number of subordinates per police informant should be fixed and regulated.
1. Itinerant medicine sellers, mimics, and sword-drawing performers from other domains lodging in the castle town must be strictly investigated. Regarding vegetable sellers, police informants have been conducting investigations and issuing permits for lodging, but henceforth permits will be discontinued for vegetable sellers