May 11th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kato Hanzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ishihara Kurorozaemon

○ Due to high prices of various goods, orders were previously issued from the shogunate to lower prices for trading. In response to this, price examination officials have now been appointed to each party. This should be understood accordingly. For others who should be appointed to such positions, inquiries should be made with written documents for proper handling.

　　　　　　May 16th

Lord's Intent　　　　　　　　　　　From Kochi to the lowest outer guards

○ Two years ago, strict orders regarding frugality among retainers were issued, and all appear to be observing them. However, regarding gatherings, clothing, correspondence, and gift-giving, there should be no relaxation whatsoever - this must be understood more than ever. Last autumn we explained the guidelines for restraint, and we hear that restraint measures are going quite well, but there must be no misunderstandings in any matter. Particularly, young people and those living in family quarters must not misunderstand - parents must diligently instruct them without negligence. Last summer during the great flood, borrowed rice was paid without delay, which was satisfactory. This spring, though we feel great sympathy, we unavoidably ordered half-reduction of borrowed rice, which will cause extreme hardship. We hope that in all matters, understanding will be shown and duties will continue to be performed.

　　However, this should also be communicated to those in charge
　　　　　May 21st, at the lord's residence audience chamber, arranged by senior councilors

○ Previously the transportation of various stones was prohibited, but this has caused great hardship. Therefore, the Mikuni wholesalers and stone dealers have respectively petitioned for permission to transport. Accordingly, transportation of stones of regulation size shall be permitted.

　　　　　May 25th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Head of Administration

○ Regarding the river transportation of donated timber from rural areas for temple reconstructions, revised orders were issued in An'ei 4 (1775). Recently it appears these have become lax, so the orders from An'ei 4 must be strictly observed. If there are any who misunderstand, they will be punished as wrongdoers. This should be communicated to subordinates.

　　　　　June 1st
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Four-District Magistrate

1. Recently, medicine sellers from other domains and bean storage imitator-type persons have been frequently entering the castle town. Therefore, regarding future matters, while routine passage is acceptable, overnight stays in the castle town and entry into small streets and alleys are strictly prohibited.