officials should be contacted, and the officials should report the matter to the office.

Regarding the above: village heads and group leaders of ten should discuss this within the town districts and arrange security measures. If there should be any negligence, depending on the matter, town officials will be held responsible, and since the appointment of village heads and group leaders of ten was originally the primary matter for security, there should be no misunderstanding. Security arrangements should be made by posting town officials up to the gates of temples and shrines.
　　　　　September 10th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrative Head　Also to Fuchu

○ Regarding pawned goods and purchases in the castle town and rural areas: although there are established laws, improper handling methods have been reported. Therefore, henceforth, if pawned goods and purchases are determined to be stolen goods, they will be confiscated, pawnbrokers and purchasers will suffer financial loss, and furthermore, depending on the manner of handling, punishment will be imposed. Each person should understand this and handle matters with sincerity and careful attention. Moreover, if someone brings pawned goods or items for sale that are inappropriate for their status, the matter should be investigated and reported, and if there are any suspicious circumstances, the items should be detained and reported to the appropriate officials. Also, it is reported that there are those who privately hold pawned goods, but henceforth, even privately held pawned goods that are stolen will be treated the same as above.
　　Note: Although there have been previous regulations, since matters have become lax in recent years, this is now being proclaimed anew. Both town and rural areas should strictly communicate these security measures.
　　　　　September 19th

○ Regarding the medicinal herbs cultivated in rural areas: various matters have been proclaimed concerning the tribute system and the prohibition of private trade.
　　　　　September 22nd
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate　Kobayashi Mataemon

○ Regarding private offices: although there seem to be precedents from medieval times onward, it has been ordered that all matters be handled according to ancient practices, so all affairs should be thoroughly investigated and handled accordingly. Since inspectors have also been assigned various responsibilities regarding this matter, consultation should be conducted.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector　Ota Saburobei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hasebe Hanemon

○ Regarding the administrative matters of the town office: since there seem to be precedents from medieval times, it has been proclaimed this time that all matters should be handled according to ancient practices, and this has been communicated to Kobayashi Mataemon. Since each person has been assigned responsibilities regarding this, you should visit the town office for the time being to consult. Moreover, since foot inspectors Nakayama Tarozaemon and Yamauchi Gonjuro have also been assigned to this matter, it should be communicated that each should accompany them when visiting.
　　　　　October 5th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Four Districts Magistrate　Also to Fuchu