After the ceremonial greeting on February 15th, at the main castle chambers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Chief Administrators
〇Regarding the tribute of medicinal plants cultivated in rural areas under the current administrative method, while trade in medicinal plants had been previously suspended for both urban and rural areas, the sale of old medicinal plants purchased and stored since last year has been permitted upon proper notification. However, as we approach the season when new medicinal plants will be ready, old medicinal plants should be sold and shipped out within this month. From May onward, old and new medicinal plants will become mixed and difficult to distinguish, so both sale and shipping of old medicinal plants will be prohibited. However, if there are items that cannot be handled for sale or shipping within this month, they will be purchased by the authorities, so this should be communicated to all parties and arrangements made to avoid any obstacles.
　　　　　April 5th
〇Due to the current policy to install tiles on the main castle buildings, various officials have been assigned to oversee this work
　Note: A tile kiln has been established at Mount Hiraoka
　　　　　May 25th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Chief Administrators

〇Recently, there have been reports of bandits or burglars roaming in various places, so if such persons are found, they should be captured on the spot and reported. If they resist, they may be handled forcefully, and it is acceptable even if they are wounded or killed in the process. Those who drive away such persons and handle the matter quietly, but later have it come to light, will be severely punished. This directive should be communicated.
　　　　　May 29th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　District Magistrates
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Falconry Chiefs
〇Regarding various construction works at the falcon hunting grounds, the falconry group designates the locations, the district group makes estimates, and using specification documents, the estimated labor force is allocated to villages through assignment certificates. Villages unable to provide direct service pay the standard rate of six bu per person to the original village for substitution. For construction projects, personnel from both groups oversee the work using this allocated labor force system. However, recently there have been many construction projects, resulting in high auxiliary labor demands, and complaints from the lower ranks about village hardships have been heard. Hereafter, a portion of the estimated labor allocation should be paid out in money, with the remainder assigned as contributions from district villages. Using auxiliary laborers paid at this rate, district villages should carry out construction according to the estimated specifications. This will greatly assist the entire district. Since construction follows the specification documents, there should be no interference with official duties. During construction, falconry group personnel should continue to supervise and oversee the construction methods as before.
　　　　　Same day