It is such a time, and truly in this period, if we do not establish methods for continuing financial management, there is no prospect for continuing the administration of high and low. Recently, when I ordered the officials to conduct detailed investigations, the particulars became clear, revealing even more obstacles than previously known. Therefore, starting with our own status, there must be particular economies in the way of life of various quarters. Both inner quarters consist of people of particularly important status, so I feel very sorry for them, but since it is for the sake of the nation, they must endure hardships.

Article 1: We also consulted in advance with Lord Hitotsubashi Chūnagon, and as he could not abandon us, he made appeals to the shogunate. As a result, financial assistance was granted twice. Although we are a family of exceptional status, we have not performed any particular service, which makes this all the more grateful. With this favor, financial recovery should have been possible, but it has not been effective. Already when the grant money was bestowed in the 9th year of An'ei (1780), there were particularly weighty pronouncements, and without concluding the methods for financial recovery afterward, it would cause problems for the Hitotsubashi side. Therefore, we should not make further appeals. However, even now the obstacles increase yearly, making it difficult to manage both public and private affairs. Given recent fortune, this has become a matter of great importance requiring much effort.

Article 1: Everyone knows this, but through the deep wisdom of our great predecessor and by command of Lord Yūtoku-in, the previous lord was adopted. However, his reign was brief, which was regrettable. At that time, there was anxiety throughout the domain about how the succession would be arranged, but when my succession was granted without question, the entire retainer band was relieved, which was a great joy. Even matters of family status have gradually returned to their former state, and particularly regarding my position, court ranks have also become appropriate...

[Two lines unreadable]

There is no appropriate basis for this, and moreover, since financial assistance has been granted repeatedly, although there are extraordinary and emergency expenses, we would like to reduce the domain's borrowed rice considerably. However, repeatedly requesting excessive borrowed rice is regrettable, and it would be shameful if this were transmitted to future generations. It is lamentable that important hereditary retainers have fallen into poverty and become inadequate in all respects.

[Attached note]
Revised in the 3rd year of Kaei (1850), year of the dog
　Hasebe