Those who maintain the allowance are two people, making a total of three people including them in the count.　Same as above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Captain of Sailors

○Same as what was ordered to the inspectors, detailed matters should be discussed with the inspectors.　Same as above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Messenger

○Same as above.　Same as above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Maeda Hikojiro

○Same as what was ordered to the chamberlain, one Confucian scholar has been designated, so this should be understood beforehand. Detailed matters should be discussed with the inspectors.　Same as above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ihara Hyozaemon

○Same as above, regarding arrangements made beforehand, discuss with the inspectors and make arrangements so there will be no hindrance in times of emergency.　Same as above.
　　　　February 16th

○To be conveyed to each respective party　　　　　　　　　　Suganuma Shichirōzaemon
○To be arranged　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

　　　　　Separate document
○The retainers have been diligent in martial arts without negligence, but due to unavoidable circumstances, financial measures have been ordered.
【Two lines unreadable】

Allowances are granted

　100 monme of silver each　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Master instructors
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Instructors

　60 monme of silver each　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ihara Hyozaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Akashi Jinzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Utsunomiya Matazaemon

Since this is a small allowance, there may be various shortfalls and unmet needs. There may be ways to reduce expenses such as student fees and caretaking duties during the designated period. In any case, thorough discussions should be held for proper management.

Since the policy has been established this time, loans of horses are available to retainers, therefore 200 coins each are granted.　　　　　　Horse attendants

　　Same day
　　　　Separate document　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

1. For gates with a square design, only the ceremonial gates shall have their gate placards replaced every year in the 1st, 5th, and 9th months as before.
2. For entrances other than gates, including the main entrance and side entrances, the current placards shall remain as they are, and the annual replacement of placards shall be discontinued hereafter.