Separate Document - Matters to be handled
○Regarding the stored goods inventory at the front treasury office, henceforth inspections shall be conducted every other year during the lord's absence years
　However, during inventory inspections, inspection officials and clerks from the accounting office shall participate in joint inspections
1. Regarding the remaining miscellaneous goods deemed unnecessary this time, auction sales were ordered. By special directive, the proceeds from these sales are to be temporarily borrowed and handled by the treasury office. This matter should be communicated to the administrative staff. Since this has been so ordered, the closing procedures should be handled with great care
1. Since biennial inventory inspections have been ordered for the treasury office, henceforth replacement paper will be provided for damaged paper goods according to their type, so arrangements should be made after inspection

Separate Document - Matters to be communicated to the treasury department
○The handling of the treasury office's special funds ordered this time shall be as follows:
1. Treasury office borrowing promissory notes shall be finalized and sent to the reserve fund office, and receipts for miscellaneous goods sale proceeds deposited in reserves shall be submitted to the accounting office
　However, the deadline for these borrowing notes shall be the end of the 11th month of the Year of the Tiger, with principal and interest to be paid without delay
1. Interest collection shall be at a rate of one bu per year consistently
　However, regarding this interest, four shu shall be allocated to the treasury office as loss allowance, and the remaining six shu shall be submitted to the reserve fund office

1. Regarding lending of borrowed silver: if the official paper merchants request borrowing of funds for procurement, lending may be made after examination. For any others requesting borrowing, lending is absolutely forbidden. Since this is handled by the treasury office, regardless of any difficulties, collection and submission must be made from official funds
　　December 13th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrative Head
○Since the town and rural household levy was ordered from last Year of the Monkey, payment has been made without delay. Particularly considering the hardships the common people must have endured, the diligent efforts of town and rural officials in achieving complete payment safely until this year is remarkable. As this has reached His Lordship's attention, it has been ordered that this matter be communicated without omission to all subordinates under administration. This clause does not apply to Kanazu magistrate
1. Due to financial restructuring, the samurai class has been ordered seven-year half-reduction borrowed rice loans, which is considered a hardship. Consequently, the circulation of gold and silver in towns and rural areas will become difficult. For the benefit of all people, if there are ideas for methods to facilitate the circulation of gold and silver, they should be reported to department heads without hesitation. Since there may be discussions depending on the matter, this should be understood and thoroughly communicated to town and rural officials
　　December 16th Also to Fuchu

　　In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　Court Official　Magistrate