In Edo
○Regarding Kawase Jiroemon, Takahata Suehachiro, and Yokoi Kyudayu, who were ordered to remain at home under investigation, they have been pardoned and should be told to return to duty from today. Also, the purport of the lord's directive is given in a separate document which must be handled strictly. However, this is not merely a matter of conveying the directive alone, but rather it represents the lord's gracious consideration, so this should be explained to them. They should understand it as such.

　　　　　Separate Document: Lord's Directive
　Regarding this incident of errors in lodging assignment records, it is considered to be entirely a mistake. Ultimately, because long-standing practices have been poor, such failures have occurred, and it is regrettable that each person has suffered difficulties. The matter of deep concern has already been instructed to the guard captains before departure from the home domain. No matter how carefully one proceeds, among many affairs there will inevitably be unavoidable failures and mistakes, and especially if work practices are not properly supervised, errors will naturally multiply. If that happens, it will cause inconvenience to superiors as well. Therefore, not limited to lodging assignment duties, regardless of past practices, consult with senior workers and henceforth be mindful to avoid oversights and work attentively - this would be good for both superiors and subordinates, according to the lord's directive.
　The scribes' office should also take note of this matter and communicate it to appropriate parties.
　　　May 19th

In Edo
　　　　Regarding the co-residence of various lords at the upper mansion
1. Imperial construction work is ordered in connection with the co-residence directive issued this time
1. Inspection tours of construction work for the inner quarters are assigned

1. Construction project supervisors are appointed
1. Construction work is ordered in connection with the co-residence directive issued this time, but considering the current circumstances, economy should be practiced as much as possible, using available old materials and such
1. Similarly, inspection tours of various site security matters are assigned, and also one of the foot inspectors for the same purpose
1. Currently [the lord] is single and feels lonely, and there are also matters of economy, so co-residence has been ordered. Therefore, after construction is completed, the move will take place
1. The rest area and small reception room are to be given to the young lord, and construction of the formal residence is ordered
1. Since co-residence has been ordered, further emphasis on economy is the lord's intention, so this should be investigated and communicated to all departments
1. There should be ways to economize and manage efficiently in the kitchen and attendants' quarters, so consult thoroughly and report
1. Investigate and report on reducing the number of various personnel
1. Following the lord's co-residence, various retainer groups should move to this mansion. Regarding this, arrangements for allocation in the longhouses
1. Evacuation procedures in case of nearby fires and other personnel arrangements
1. Since co-residence has been ordered, further emphasis on economy in the broad veranda area is ordered, and regarding allocation of long corridor rooms, senior ladies-in-waiting of various lords should also be informed so that it contributes to economy
1. Inspectors are assigned to tour and check security of various locations, and similarly foot inspectors, with two men from the unit assigned to patrol
　　　　June 20th