Both personnel are to be reduced

1. Among the broad quarters procurement staff: one cook and one lending staff member, and similarly one cooking staff member - a total of two people are to be reduced

1. One out of three accounting office assistants is to be reduced

1. Regarding the borrowed rice provided for those subject to staff reductions, this year half is to be forgiven

1. Four out of twenty-five lock guards are to be reduced from both locations

1. Among the minor officials, fourteen from both locations with no reductions, plus five lifetime-appointment minor officials and one trainee - a total of six are to be reduced

1. One from the ashigaru inspector regular assistants, one from the musket-bearing unit, two from the advance musket unit, and two minor officials are to be reduced in personnel 《Note: minor officials were previously reduced by two, totaling four reductions》

1. Previously, personnel from both inner quarters guard units, advance units, and lance-bearer units served in these roles, but since staff reductions have been ordered this time, henceforth these guard duties are to be assigned to minor officials

　　　　　August 9th

1. Due to the current co-residence arrangement, the cooking staff are ordered to work in combined teams

1. Similarly, the chamber attendant minor officials are also ordered to work in combined teams

　　　　　August 14th and 5th

1. Due to the relocation of the various lords, notifications are to be issued to both the upper mansion and middle mansion

　　　　　August 13th

1. The relocation took place on August 15th, and there was celebration accordingly

1. On the 22nd of the same month, regarding the relocation, commendations and monetary rewards were given to those who had been assigned various duties

1. On the same day, due to the co-residence, the current mansion's personnel have increased, and if discipline naturally becomes lax, this would contradict the intention behind the important economization period and the decision to co-reside, which is considered a matter of great importance. Although there should be no negligence, this is to be communicated to all departments responsible for household finances and accounting

　　　　　End

1. September 6th: Due to the current policy, three new servants are to be gradually dismissed

1. On the same day: As previously announced, regarding the broad quarters affairs being conducted in combined teams, the six regular minor officials have submitted internal requests. Accordingly, starting from the rotation in the coming Dragon Year, three at a time will be rotated, and the three replacements will be selected from laborers after examination. Regarding stipends: fourteen people during Edo attendance years and thirteen during domain residence years - stipends should not be increased beyond these numbers. Also, regarding quarters, they are to be consolidated in one location hereafter

1. On the same day: The rear guard post at Reiganjima mansion, which was increased when the young lord had separate quarters, is to be discontinued due to the co-residence arrangement

1. September 11th: At Reiganjima mansion, after the young lord took up residence there, there are few personnel and the security of various matters is concerning. Therefore, Daido-ji Magokuro is assigned to oversee this security

1. On the same day: Regarding the permanent Edo residents and duty rotation samurai stationed at Reiganjima mansion, when they have private business and wish to go outside the gates including the upper mansion and elsewhere, they must submit written notifications to the gate keeper and temporary inspector at Reiganjima mansion and report upon return