as stated, all matters concerning water supply shall be reported in detail to the Inspector (metsuke) in charge of water supply and consulted upon. Depending on the severity of the matter, there may also be communication from the Inspector to the District Magistrate.

The above should be understood accordingly. Furthermore, regarding orders given by water supply patrol officials, villages must not disobey, and to ensure there is no pollution of the water supply, village officials and villagers must be strictly ordered not to misunderstand their duties as before. Regarding the Water Supply Magistrate, since being assigned concurrent duties with road management in Tenmei 8, Year of the Monkey, arrangements may differ from before.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

〇Matters concerning water supply should also be communicated to the Water Supply Magistrate
　　　　Same day　　Note: Also issued to magistrates for their information
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrator

〇Regarding the sale of Japanese red pine (mamatsu): This has been prohibited from before, but it is heard that in recent years it has been conducted arbitrarily. Henceforth, sales shall not be conducted as before. If there are those who violate this, strict punishment will be imposed. This matter should be firmly understood and strictly communicated to subordinates.
　　　　　April 5th　　Note: The Mountain Magistrate shall be informed by the Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

〇On the land of ten villages - Shirakata, Ishishimpo, Ishibashi, Kawajiri Ryōhashiya, Nishibata, Takaya, Ōkubo, and Mentorihama-jū - the hawking grounds have been discontinued and pine planting has been ordered. This matter has been communicated to Deputy Nishimura Kangobei, and each should examine and handle appropriately. First, regarding village establishment and successive rice assessments, the deputy should handle with care as instructed, and arrangements should be made so as not to become futile. So that there are no obstacles to the land and other matters, this has been communicated to District Magistrate Ihara Jōsuke and Hawk Keeper Head Kawamura Bunpei. Furthermore, various matters should be discussed among each party, boundaries should be thoroughly investigated, and arrangements should be made so that the locations where hawking grounds were discontinued this time can be identified even in future years.
　　　　　May 27th　　The same message was respectively communicated to Hawk Keeper Head and District Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monthly Duty Officer

〇Regarding the long-term excessive rice loans that have been ordered, causing hardship to retainers, this is considered troublesome. Therefore, silver loans have been ordered to all according to previous precedent. Details will be provided in writing by the magistrates at the next meeting, so this should be understood accordingly.
　　　　　Separate document to be provided by the Magistrates

〇In recent years, emergency assistance loans have been ordered repeatedly, which provided temporary relief, but year-end payments have accumulated, possibly causing hardship instead for some. For this occasion, loans will be granted particularly to those who are impoverished and make renewed applications. For those who did not apply this time and remained, even if they cross into the new year, if they apply at an unexpected time, at that time this loan