Article 1: Generally, petitions from those of lower rank to be adopted into guard units and arranged with the samurai class will no longer be permitted.
However, those who have already petitioned to be adopted are exceptions, and from now on arrangements shall be limited to peers as stated in the previous text.

Regarding Adoptions and Daughter Marriages from Retainers of Retainers
Article 1: Since Honda Kuranosuke's house is a special case, adoptions and daughter marriages from families of the rank that serve as chief retainers and administrators to the direct retainer group are entirely without restriction.

Article 1: Among Kuranosuke's retainers, those of company commander (monogashira) rank and above
Article 1: Among Kōchi's retainers, those of chief retainer rank
For these two categories, adoptions and daughter marriages with guard units are acceptable even without lineage.

Article 1: Among Kuranosuke's retainers, those with stipended land and up to physicians
Article 1: Among Kōchi's retainers, stipend recipients
For these two categories, acceptable lineage for adoptions and daughter marriages with guard units:
For adoptions: same family name and up to first cousins of the petitioning person
For daughter marriages: same family name and up to second cousins of the person taking the bride
For these two categories, taking second wives from guard units is acceptable even without lineage.

Article 1: Kuranosuke's retainer guard units
Article 1: Kōchi's retainer junior pages
Article 1: Representatives among the retainers of council members
For these three categories, acceptable lineage for adoptions and daughter marriages with guard units:
For adoptions: same family name and up to actual nephews of the petitioning person
For daughter marriages: same family name and up to first cousins of the person taking the bride
For hereditary retainers who have served for generations, the above shall be granted, but for newcomers and such, petitions should not be submitted. The masters should also have understanding after thorough investigation.
For these three categories, taking second wives from guard units will not be accepted if there is no lineage.

Article 1: When making any of the above petitions, one must write whose retainer they are and what rank.
Article 1: Giving away is acceptable.
As stated above, this has been newly proclaimed following investigation, so from now on this intent should be understood.
Kansei 9, Year of the Fire Snake, Fourth Month, Thirteenth Day
Town Magistrate

○Previously, regarding the matter of outsiders entering and staying or residing in this town, restriction measures were ordered, and as investigations continued through written reports and re-evaluations, it was found that those under different jurisdictions and from other domains had moved here and were residing without submitting proper petitions - this was reported as extremely negligent behavior by the group leaders, which is quite reasonable. Furthermore, regarding future matters, as previously instructed...