○Regarding the long-term rice loans (go-karimai) granted to the retainers, monetary loans (go-kashigin) were issued as financial assistance. However, as the repayments have gradually increased and may cause even greater hardship, concerning the loans from the Tiger Year, they shall remain as last year, and for the Rabbit Year loan money, the principal shall be deferred and only the interest shall be paid. This matter should be communicated accordingly.
　　　　　Ninth Month, Fifth Day
　　　　　　　　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　To be communicated to subordinates　　　　Jōryō District Magistrate

○It is strictly forbidden to purchase charcoal, firewood, barrels, and any other goods brought from the villages of Nakayama and Kotōhara in Tennō domain. Moreover, collusion with people from these two villages is forbidden. Until further notice is given, this shall remain in effect, so understand accordingly.
　　　　　Tenth Month, Eleventh Day　Also to Fuchū
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chūryō District Magistrate

○Concerning the drainage work for Yamaoku Village, which was newly ordered in previous years, there was a report from the town magistrate that excavation from the residential areas below Jimonzen Kida-machi has repeatedly caused damage, making repairs extremely difficult, and that those residing in the residential areas are experiencing particular hardship as it interferes with their commerce. Consequently, upon inquiry regarding excavation of a drainage channel from the Yamaoku cutting to Shagō, an investigation was conducted for the benefit of the affected villages. Although there were various petitions regarding this new project,

since these were all speculative claims with no clear understanding, the irrigation officials inspected the terrain elevation and other factors. They reported that there would be no obstruction to the waterway, so a new excavation from the cutting to Shagō has been ordered at this time. Should any problems clearly arise in the affected villages in the future, the previous drainage construction will be ordered at that time. This matter should be communicated to the affected villages under your jurisdiction.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

○The same matter should be handled through consultation, and since a separate document has been provided, understand accordingly.
　　　　　　Separate Document
Article 1: The excavation of the cutting and construction of water gates above the cutting shall be carried out by Yamaoku Village.
Article 1: For the additional excavation of the Sueko channel from within Monzen Village territory at the cutting boundary, the excavation of the new channel, the reverse water barrier at the large river mouth, and all expenses up to water gate construction, arrangements should be made for orders to be issued from above.
　　　　　Tenth Month, Eleventh Day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate

○All barrel makers henceforth shall be placed under the jurisdiction of the timber magistrate, and each has been so appointed.
　　　　　Tenth Month, Twentieth Day