indulging in luxury or engaging in petty commerce has been heard of indiscriminately in recent times. There will be further investigation of these matters. Moreover, regarding innkeepers and wholesale merchants, while there are established regulations, it has been heard that porters and horse handlers are behaving enviously and troublesomely toward travelers. When this also becomes apparent, there may be strict orders issued, so each matter should be handled with even greater care
　　　　　Third Month, 11th Day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspectors
○The treasury guard positions were previously selected from among the gun unit squad leaders, but due to the policy of recent years, they were gradually reduced and it was ordered that the gun unit guards would assist in the duties. However, by the current lord's will, it has been ordered that these positions return to being selected from the squad leaders as before. Although previously served by six men, one is to be reduced and henceforth the duty will be performed by five men. Accordingly, the assistance from the gun unit guards is discontinued. Moreover, while these squad leaders have since recent years been selected for the Keya rowing boat guard positions, they are now to be assigned to positions selected from the naval unit as before. Additionally, the gunpowder storehouse guards are also to be assigned as before. These matters should be communicated to each respective party
　　　　　Fourth Month, 25th Day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Various Monthly Duty Officers

○As previously announced through the handwritten copy, the prolonged excessive rice tribute that was ordered has led to increasing hardship. This has caused great concern to the lord, and after various deliberations, although the difficult financial circumstances do not allow full implementation of his wishes, relief will be provided through a certain rate per bushel. Furthermore, the practice of frugality should be maintained even more strictly, and service should continue with patience and understanding. This is to be communicated. The allocation of the bushel numbers will be announced later by the magistrates
　　　　　Fourth Month, 29th Day
　　　However, on Fifth Month, 11th Day, it was also ordered to the town magistrates that assistance be provided to the family temples

In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tagaya Gonbee
○In recent years, due to the current circumstances, the number of horses among the retainers has decreased and horsemanship has become inadequate. Among the horse handlers, those with poor riding skills may naturally become negligent due to lack of practice. If this occurs, it would be a misunderstanding of duty. Sending young sons to the capital for training serves official purposes and is quite reasonable. Therefore, although these are difficult times, while the sons who are sent remain in the capital, they shall be provided with a stipend for three people. This matter should also be communicated to the domain seat through Karata Yojirō