To the Kanazu Magistrate
○Regarding salt entering Mikuni Port, according to this directive, it has been ordered that henceforth it shall be designated as government purchase and storage goods. Concerning direct purchases upon entry, those who have been conducting salt commerce at the port until now should determine prices directly with the salt ship wholesalers.
As merchants conduct direct purchases in this manner, 5 rin per unit from the high prices of salt upon entry shall be given to those conducting direct purchases, and for the remaining 9 bu 5 rin payment, sealed bid auctions with vouchers shall be ordered. For government purchase wholesalers, three Mikuni ToiMaru shall be appointed. Furthermore, detailed matters shall be arranged through consultation among the magistrates.
　　　　　Fifth Month, 29th Day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Town Magistrate
○As a silk inspection office has been established according to this directive, those conducting silk commerce, both for local sales and export to other provinces, must bring silk to said office to receive inspection seals before conducting trade. Trading in silk without inspection seals is strictly forbidden, including even when used as collateral. Of course, seal fees must be submitted, and this shall be announced to all areas of the town without exception.
　　　　　Sixth Month, 20th Day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○Regarding rice town voucher commerce, all matters have been handled by the government office until now, but it has now been ordered to be handled by the accounting office. When any disputes arise regarding this commercial activity, they shall be handled by the town office. Also, regarding voucher commerce commissions, until now 1 bu of silver from sellers and 1 bu of silver from buyers per 100 hyō of vouchers has been ordered as tribute, but according to the directive, henceforth 5 bu of silver from sellers and 5 bu of silver from buyers shall be ordered as tribute. As this has been so ordered, each party should consult to ensure there are no lapses in management.
　　　　　Eighth Month, 29th Day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Magistrate
1. Regarding the collection method for inspection fees on various goods entering and leaving Mikuni offshore, regulations have existed until now, but since the classification of return cargo is confusing, after investigation, henceforth return cargo with shipping documents from other provinces shall be stored in warehouses by Mikuni wholesalers upon ship arrival, and later sent offshore according to available ships and loaded for delivery to the destinations specified in shipping documents from other provinces. As this is similar to post horses on travel routes, entry fees of 2 bu of silver per item shall be collected as before, with no exit fees.
1. For cargo delivered to our province from other provinces with shipping documents, until now copper and iron goods have had fees of 2 bu per silver value collected, and others have had 2 bu of silver per item collected, but henceforth copper and iron goods shall not