arrangements have been made so that there would be no hindrance to people and horses at those times, but regarding the Nakasendō route,
　　　　　complaints of hardship have been made year after year, with lawsuits filed since the time when Kamio Bizen-no-kami was in charge.
　　　　　Even after I (Andō Chikugo-no-kami) was appointed to additional duties, frequent petitions have been made. For shogunal domains,
　　　　　financial assistance is provided each time, and for private domains, assistance is provided starting with the Owari domain,
　　　　　but such arrangements will be difficult to continue in the future. Eleven post stations along the Nakasendō
　　　　　are particularly impoverished. This is because they are all located in mountainous valleys with no助郷 (assisting villages), so the ten
　　　　　or eleven stations coordinate among themselves to share people and horses for their duties, but since each station
　　　　　can barely manage twenty-five horses and twenty-five people, assistance to other stations is difficult,
　　　　　they say. Therefore, I consulted with Kyūgai Inaba-no-kami and summoned representatives from the post stations to
　　　　　
　　　　　investigate the matter. As stated above, due to the lack of assisting villages, they cannot perform duties beyond what is prescribed,
　　　　　they reported. When I sought the private opinion of the senior councilors on this matter, they said that this should be conveyed privately
　　　　　to those traveling through the Kiso route. Since your house is of high rank,
　　　　　your retainers must be numerous, so you should not all travel at once but
　　　　　should dispatch them in stages. Of course, when you travel, you should also consider the aforementioned situation with people and horses
　　　　　and make appropriate arrangements. This matter is not to be formally announced but
　　　　　is to be communicated privately to each party. Of course, there is no need to report this to the duty officer.

One: April 18th - The horse that was bestowed was led here by a messenger from the duty officer, Akimoto Tajima-no-kami (Takatomo).