Procedure for Pillar Raising
1. From offerings onward to what the carpenters wear, the procedure follows that of the temporary shrine. However, it is performed by three head craftsmen. The head carpenter, assistant head carpenter, and master carpenter wear white robes. The sequence for erecting the sacred pillars is: first the southeast pillar, next the northwest, then the northeast, and finally the southwest. Other aspects follow the temporary shrine procedure, so they are omitted here.

1. After the pillar raising was completed, only the inner shrine had evening offerings presented as yesterday, and everyone withdrew.

1. The seated officials inspected the shrine area and upon completion, withdrew to their lodgings at the rest quarters. Yasunao escorted them as far as the inner gate area and exchanged greetings.

1. As soon as the pillar raising was completed, a notification document was promptly submitted to the officials stationed at Kibune. The matter of reporting to Kamo was assigned to the valley shrine servants.

1. After the hour of the Horse (noon), all matters were completed without delay, and everyone descended the mountain.
　Day 5, Kanoe-ne, Clear weather

1. Today, for the pillar raising at the hour of the Snake (10 AM) at Kibune Inner Shrine, daily offerings were presented to this shrine and its subsidiary shrines.

　The ritualist Kaneyasu of the protective deity came to serve. The morning offerings included communion as usual, but since the evening offerings were sent to the officials lodging locally, there was no communion for the evening offerings.

1. Tomorrow, the 6th day, the sewing of sacred vestments will begin at the head priest's residence. The items to be delivered to the head priest's residence are as follows:
　1　Drawing boards　　　2 pieces　　　1　Cutting boards　　　　1 pair
　1　Scissors　　　5 pieces　　　1　Hanging needles　　　　5 pieces
　1　Measuring rulers　　　5 pieces　　　1　Irons　　　　5 pieces
　1　Rulers　　　　2 pieces　　　1　Needles　　　　　　5 bundles
　1　Sewing thread　　　various colors　　　1　Chihaya vestments　　　　6 pieces
　1　White undergarments　　　6 pieces　　　1　Cotton padding　　　　600 me
　1　Floor mats　　　　6 pieces　　　1　Thick paper　　　　6 quires
　1　Small knife　　　　1 piece　　　1　Costume needles　　　　15 pieces
　1　Ceremonial brooms　　　10 pieces　　　1　Binding thread　　　10 monme
　1　Three-legged stands　　　2 old pieces　　　1　Hand-washing bucket with ladle　　　1 piece
　1　Small horns　　　　2 pieces　　　1　Earthenware　　　　10 pieces
　1　Sacred sake　　　　1 shō　　　1　Washed rice　　　　1 gō
　1　Small noshi (Ise noshi, even with 6 pieces)　1 bundle　　1　Kelp　　　　　1 sheet