Above, for the additional elder
　1. One filling wood　　1. One ceremonial rope　　1. One barrel　　1. One sacred rice
　1. One sea bream　　1. One string of dried squid　　1. Two stands　　1. One rush mat
　1. One monme six bu of silver
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Above, for the voice caller
　1. One filling wood　　1. One sacred rice　　1. One string of dried squid　　1. One bundle of kelp
　1. One stand　　1. One monme six bu of silver
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Above, for the ritual intermediary

1. Regarding the temporary shrine relocation on the coming 15th day, concerning the preparation of toso medicinal powder according to precedent by Komori Tenyaku-no-suke, a letter was sent requesting this, and it was communicated that someone would be sent to collect it on the coming 14th day
1. Regarding the same matter above, from tonight ten rotating attendants from the five officials and shrine priests of the eight shrines with half positions will begin ritual seclusion, those being: Chief Priest Hirohisa, Senior Priest Narihisa, Same Celebrant Shigeshoku, Assistant Priest Yasuhisa, Same Celebrant Horei, Kataoka Priest Isahisa, Kifu Priest Okihisa, Shingu Celebrant Hosato, Ota Priest Tsuneyasu, Wakamiya Priest Chikaki, Nara Celebrant Kenaki, Sawada Priest Ujio, Ujigami Celebrant Kaneyasu, First Group Rotating Attendant Hotatsu, Second Group Hosaku, Third Group Nobuho, Fourth Group Yaaki, Fifth Group Toho, Sixth Group Fumiyuki, Seventh Group Yasuaki, Eighth Group Yoshisue, Ninth Group Yasusue, Tenth Group Yoshisue
　The above personnel are to be quartered in the ritual seclusion building, administrative buildings, etc.

　10th day (Kinoto-I) Clear weather
1. Regarding the temporary shrine relocation at the hour of the dog on the coming 15th day, a letter was sent through representative Narihisa Suenaga to court musicians Toyo Oki-no-kami and Abe Gagaku-no-suke requesting their attendance around the hour of the cock, and they replied with their acknowledgment
1. The yin-yang master was summoned and instructed to calculate and produce a divination document for the dismantling of the main hall on the coming 17th day, or if inauspicious, on the 18th day

　11th day (Hinoe-Ne) Rain falling
1. Regarding the arrival of the imperial messenger, in addition to the regular daily offerings, one special offering was dedicated. The offering was prepared by Wakamiya Celebrant Motoyasu. Particularly concerning the offerings dedicated for the imperial messenger's visit, the evening offering follows precedent and is dedicated after the imperial messenger's ceremony is completed
1. Today, regarding the imperial messenger's visit, the notification document to the construction office is as follows: