1. After breakfast, an extraordinary assembly was held early. After the hour of the Horse (noon), the representatives Wahei and Kanemochi appeared. The purpose was
　to request that the commencement of main construction and other matters be announced as per precedent, and also that imperial edicts be issued for the dates and times of the wooden boat construction commencement, temporary relocation of the shrine, and the formal relocation of the four shrines including Wakamiya. They brought a petition to the Magistrate Ben-dono.
　They returned around the hour of the Monkey (3 PM) and gave a report. When they went to see the magistrate, they met Asano Moku and submitted the petition, but since the attendant was absent, they left it and withdrew. Then they reported to the imperial messenger and returned home.
　The copy of the petition is as follows:
　　　　Respectfully submitted
　　The reconstruction of our shrine has been announced. Accordingly, we humbly request that imperial decrees from the commencement of wooden construction to the formal relocation be issued as per precedent. During the Kanpo era, imperial edicts were issued for the dates and times of Kibune's wooden construction commencement, temporary relocation, and the formal relocation of the four shrines of Wakamiya, Nara, Sawada, and the local deity shrine.
　　For this occasion as well, we humbly request the same treatment as during the Kanpo era. The above.
　　　5th year of An'ei《Year of Fire-Monkey》, 11th month, 10th day　《Representative of Kamo Shrine》

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Awa-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanemochi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Toriiooji Mino-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Wahei
　　To Lord Kushige Dainagon
　　To Lord Nishinono Ben
　　　　　　To the Zacho officials
1. After today's consultation, the various officials in charge of shrine reconstruction were reorganized as follows:
　　　　General Shrine Reconstruction Supervisor　　《Chief Priest》
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tamba-no-kami Hirohisa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sanmi Yasuaki
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Harima-no-kami Yasuchi
　　　　Court and Military Representative　　　　Totomi-no-kami Naruhisa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Echizen-no-kami Kanetame
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　In addition, monthly duty head officials