This concerns the procedure for procuring and presenting offerings.

1. After the hour of the Rooster (around 6-8 PM), one attendant named Kanemochi went to the imperial messenger official to report that the imperial edict messenger ceremony had been completed without incident, and after properly informing the intermediary, he withdrew.

28th day - Cloudy

1. Attended the meeting after the morning meal.

1. Regarding the imperial edict presented by the head priest yesterday, the record copy is as follows:

The paper used was medium-quality danshi ceremonial paper.

From the Left Controller's Office to Kamo Wakeikazuchi Shrine
Concerning the matter of appointing an auspicious date and time for performing the reconstruction commencement and woodwork starting date:
February 4th《marginal note: Metal Ox day》 at the hour of the Sheep (1-3 PM)

Right Grand Counselor Fujiwara no Asomi Takamochi declares in accordance with the imperial edict: "It is appropriate to perform [the ceremony] according to the appointed date and time. The shrine should take note of this."

This shall be carried out in accordance with the declaration.
Eiroku 6th year, 1st month, 27th day - Senior Secretary Miyoshi no Asomi [monogram] respectfully [submitted]
Middle Controller Fujiwara no Asomi [monogram]

1. The master carpenter appeared and submitted a detailed written statement regarding the role assignments and names for the wood construction commencement, as well as matters concerning a proxy for the assistant master carpenter. The record copy is as follows:

Respectfully submitted verbal statement

1. We are most grateful to have been appointed for this wood construction commencement. However, since Assistant Master Carpenter Seiemon has been ill for a long time and cannot personally attend to perform this sacred duty, he requested through the master carpenters to bring in a carpenter from Kyoto as his proxy. However, since there have been uncertain numbers of those hindered by illness since previous years, the master carpenters have taken turns serving as substitutes in succession. We have discussed with Master Seiemon that there is no need for a personal proxy, but should he wish to appoint a proxy, [the matter should be referred to] your shrine...