If such a request were to be made, we would be most grateful and consider it an extreme blessing if you would command that where there are insufficient personnel even after rotation among the master carpenters, carpenters from among the parishioners be added to serve. We would like to arrange the names of those who will serve this time as follows, and respectfully submit this joint petition. The above.

Adze duty　　　　　　　　　Master Carpenter Saemon
Same duty　　　　　　　　　Assistant Master Carpenter Seiemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Proxy: Ichiemon
Primary ceremonial vessel duty　Master Builder Zenbei  
Secondary ceremonial vessel duty　Assistant Master Builder Mokuemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Proxy: Toemon

Primary group
　Adze-bearing duty　　　　　Head: Ichibe
Secondary group  
　Same duty　　　　　　　　　Same: Toemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Proxy: Yoshichiro

Primary group
　Vessel-bearing duty　　　　Same: Jinkuro
Secondary group
　Same duty　　　　　　　　　Same: Genshichiro
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Proxy: Toshichi

Primary group
　String-pulling duty　　　　Same: Choshiro

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Master Carpenter Saemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Guild of Master Carpenters
An'ei 6th year (Year of the Fire Rooster), 1st month, 27th day

To the Honorable Shrine
　To the Honorable Officials
Please deliberate and grant your approval.

1. Around the hour of the Horse (noon), representative Shigeuji Sueshige appeared. His purpose was to bring an inquiry document regarding the date and time for the wood construction commencement at Kifune Shrine. After the hour of the Sheep (past 2 PM), he returned to his locality and reported that the magistrate had received it, and at the imperial messenger's office, he met with Daizen. Concerning the matter of the date and time for Kifune Shrine's wood construction commencement, after consultation with the construction office, inquiry documents for both the 7th and 9th of next month were submitted to the magistrate. However, he requested that if the 9th were to be designated between these two days, it would be more convenient from a military perspective, but since the official was absent, he left this message and withdrew. The copy of the inquiry document brought today is as follows:

Respectfully submitted
We have consulted with the construction office regarding the date limit for the wood construction commencement of Kamo subsidiary shrine Kifune Shrine, and submit this for your high consideration.
　　February 7th　Kinoene (Wood Dragon)
　　Same 9th　Hinoeuma (Fire Horse)