Regarding the above inquiry, if the date and time were to be announced promptly, the entire shrine would be most grateful.
The above.

An'ei 6th year, 1st month, 28th day　　Kamo Shrine Representative
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sueshige
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Izu-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shigeuji

To Lord Kushige Dainagon
To Lord Hamuro Ben
　　To the Stewards

In addition to the above, an oral statement was submitted, the copy of which is as follows (Note: This was submitted only to the imperial messengers)

Memorandum of Oral Statement (written on horizontally folded ceremonial paper)
Regarding the date for the wood construction commencement of Kifune Shrine, the construction office has instructed that we should inquire at the imperial palace and determine one of the dates - the 7th or 9th of next month - and report accordingly. Therefore, we have submitted an inquiry document for both the 7th and 9th days on separate paper. However, if it were the same to you, the 9th at the hour of the Horse would cause no inconvenience to anyone, so if you find it acceptable, we earnestly desire that it be announced for the 9th day, and we make this informal request. The above.

1st month, 28th day　　　　　　Kamo Shrine

1. After breakfast, a rehearsal ceremony for the wood construction commencement was held in front of the standing sand mounds before the shrine (the detailed procedure is recorded in the section for the actual day).
Those who assembled were as follows: Chief Priest Hirohisa, Kataoka Negi Norihisa, Kifune Negi Okihisa, Sawada Negi Ujio, Ujigami Negi Yasutsoshi, and Hafuri Kaneyasu (each wearing purification robes and ceremonial dress); supervising former Chief Priest Yasuaki (purification robe and ceremonial dress), Yasutake; head administrators Chinkei, Moriyasu, Toshiyasu, and Usetoshi; construction administrator and director of yin-yang, Yorikira; superintendent Kaneyasu; administrative officer Yoshiyasu (deputy Yasuhiro); deputy administrator Tarukira (deputy Kanekata).
These individuals wore purification robes or ceremonial dress as they pleased. From the carpenters' group: Master Carpenter Saemon, Assistant Master Carpenter's deputy Ichiemon, two master and assistant master builders, five foremen, one cypress bark roofer, two master and assistant blacksmiths (each wearing hemp formal dress).

First, three round mats were placed at the center of the standing sand mounds in place of timber at the beginning, middle, and end positions, and the rehearsal was conducted. (On the actual day, the chief priest and below, including assistant priests and ritualists, will proceed from the Chinese gate and take their seats in the transparent corridor. The superintendent, administrative officers, and deputy administrator should gather in the banquet hall, as Yasuaki stated. However, in case of rain, it will be conducted under the tower gate eaves. In that case, the shrine officials will be seated in the offering hall, the construction administrator will sit on a round mat at the southwest corner of the offering hall's lower veranda, and the superintendent, administrative officers, and deputy administrator should gather at the shrine precincts.)