Dimensions are as follows:
　Main timber (length: 2 ken 2 shaku, 9 sun square)　1 piece　　Foundation timber (length: 1.5 ken 8 sun, 6 sun square)　2 pieces

1. The jitte youth officers were summoned and informed that the Kifune Shrine wood construction ceremony would be performed at noon on the 9th, and they could attend at their discretion.

1. That same night, head carpenter Saemon was summoned and informed about the Kifune Shrine wood construction ceremony at noon on the 9th and the rehearsal after breakfast on the 8th.

Seventh day, cloudy, rain after the hour of the sheep
1. As the Kifune Shrine wood construction ceremony would be performed the day after tomorrow on the 9th, a circular notice was sent from the head priest to the shrine officials. The record is as follows:
　　　　　Circular Notice
　The day after tomorrow, 9th, at noon: The Kifune Shrine wood construction ceremony will be performed, so please gather at the shrine grounds following the great drum signal. Attendance shall be at one's discretion. Wear hunting dress and bring one hakutei attendant each. Please circulate this quickly and return it to the head priest's residence from the final recipient. End.

　　Second month, 7th day　　　　　　　　　Head Priest
　To: From the senior shrine priests down to the clan deity priests

Eighth day, cloudy with light rain
1. For tomorrow's Kifune wood construction ceremony, as rehearsal, the head carpenter and below (each in hemp formal dress) attended. Head priest, administrator Kisakae, general supervisor Jinakai, construction supervisor and director Kanenobu, and onmyoji Akinobu each appeared in purification robes.

1. Around noon, the abbreviated procedures for the Kifune wood construction ceremony were brought to the construction meeting place. The record is as follows:
　　　Kifune Shrine Wood Construction Ceremony Procedures (folded cedar paper)
Before the appointed time of the day, the duty shrine official (in court dress) prepares the morning offerings
Next, the three sacred timber pieces are purified with water from the sacred river. This is the role of the shrine servants (in yellow robes). However, laborers wearing white cloth transport them to the new shrine courtyard. At this time, the shrine servants hold sacred branches and lead the procession.
Next, the construction supervisor takes his seat on the round mat in the new shrine courtyard
Next, at the hour of the snake, the shrine officials and various functionaries proceed to the shrine grounds (however, the 21 shrine officials are seated in the western area of the new shrine courtyard, arranged from north to south facing east)