The ritual procedures for this wood construction beginning are the same as for the main shrine's wood construction beginning, however there was no attendance of cypress bark craftsmen, blacksmiths, etc., and no ceremony of bestowing rewards.

1. Regarding the matter that after the above wood construction beginning was completed, a report should be submitted promptly by express messenger, as was conveyed yesterday from the supervisory administrator and his staff, a report was submitted by written statement, with this record remaining:

　　Record　　　　　　　　　　　Head Priest
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsushita Third Rank
　　To Lord Hōhō Administrator
　　　　Administrative Staff
　The wood construction beginning at Kifune Shrine has just been completed, therefore we respectfully submit this report. We humbly request your favorable consideration. The above.
　　　February 9th

1. Around the hour of the Sheep (2 PM), the wood construction beginning was completed without incident, so for reporting purposes, representative Kaneshige alone appeared and visited Lord Kushige (Imperial Messenger) and Supervisory Lord Hōhō.

1. Five tōne, five shrine attendants, and three treasurers appeared (two shō of sake and five dried fish were given to the tōne and shrine attendants).

1. Eight laborers for transporting the sacred timber were assigned as white-robed attendants.

1. Shrine officials, yin-yang officials, and others participating at their discretion held a communion meal with daily offerings at the registry building (three shō of sake as usual). However, of the four daily meals morning and evening, two meals morning and evening go to the seats of shrine officials and below, one morning meal goes to the shrine community, and one meal goes to the guard area. Additionally, two shō of sacred sake.

1. Of the four wooden boat meals, one meal to the head priest, two meals to both officials, one meal as communion to the general market guards.

1. Additional offerings to the main shrine - these are sent for use by the construction supervisors and below.

10th day - rain falls

1. Since yesterday's wooden boat wood construction beginning was completed without incident, to make a report, written notifications were brought to the Eastern and Western Supervisory Offices. After morning meal, representatives Shigeuji and Suehide appeared, with the record as follows:

　　　Written Report Statement
　The wood construction beginning for Kifune Shrine, a subsidiary shrine of our shrine, began yesterday the 9th at the hour of the Horse (noon) and was completed without incident around the hour of the Sheep, therefore we respectfully submit this report. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　Representatives of Kamigamo Shrine
　　　Year of Fire Horse, February 10th　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Izu-no-kami (seal)
　To the Supervisory Office