Divination report
　　　Date and time for temporary relocation of our shrine's subsidiary and small shrines
　　　Tanao Shrine, Sugino-o Shrine, Hajino-o Shrine
　　　Suwa Shrine, Hashimoto Shrine
　　　　The 23rd of this month (Kōshin day)　　　　　　Hours (Rooster, Dog, Boar, Rat)
　　　Shingu Shrine, Yamano-o Shrine, Fujino-o Shrine, Kawano-o Shrine
　　　　The 27th of this month (Kinoe-Ne day)　　　　　　Hours: Rooster, Tsuchinoe, Boar
　　　Nara Shrine, Sawada Shrine, Iwamoto Shrine
　　　　The 28th of this month (Kinoto-Ushi day)　　　　　　Hours: Boar, Rat
　　　The above divination is reported as such
　　18th day of the 2nd month, Anei 6　　　　　　Junior 5th Rank Upper Grade Kamo Iakira
　Discussion: Tanao Shrine, Sugino-o Shrine, Hajino-o Shrine, Suwa Shrine, Hashimoto Shrine - these five shrines

　are scheduled between the hours of Rooster, Dog, and Boar on the 23rd day
　Shingu on the 27th day at the hour of Rooster; Yamano-o Shrine, Fujino-o Shrine, Kawano-o Shrine - these three shrines
　are scheduled between the hours of Dog and Boar on the same day
　Nara Shrine on the 28th day at the hour of Boar; Sawada Shrine, Iwamoto Shrine scheduled between the hours of Boar and Rat on the same day
1. The head priest explained that after the temporary relocation, should painted horses (ema) be hung in the temporary hall in place of lion-dogs?
　This occurred to him, so he seeks your opinion on this matter
　Discussion: It appears there was such practice during the Enpō era, but no examples of hanging them during the Shōtoku and Kanpō eras can be found,
　so it was decided to follow recent precedent and not hang them
1. Regarding whether to send a request to the Master of Medicine for toso hakusan
　Discussion: It was decided that it would be appropriate to request preparation. The letter to be sent to Assistant Master of Medicine Komori is as follows:
　　I respectfully write this letter. I trust you are in excellent health and performing your duties admirably. Now, on the coming 27th day,
　　there will be a temporary relocation of subsidiary shrines, so please prepare one set of toso hakusan.
　　We will come to collect it around the 25th day. We would like your understanding in this matter. The above.