1. Regarding the inner shrine attachment and hauling, although the daily workers were supposed to begin preparing the foundation framework on the previous day (the 4th), the foundation timbers on the northeast side of the main hall had rotted and fallen, making them unusable. Since Naruhisa reported that the daily workers had requested to repair this rot damage from the 3rd day, after consultation, it was decided that it would be inappropriate not to proceed with the work. The foundation area in front of the shrine was to be left as is, with work to begin after the daily offerings were presented on the 4th. The rotted sections should be repaired after sake offerings are presented. Accordingly, Taguchi was instructed to prepare and present the daily offerings as early as possible. It was also announced to Taguchi and other officials that they should depart for Kifune around the Hour of the Rabbit from the local area.

1. Since the sewing and tailoring of the temporary shrine vestments will begin from the coming 6th day, the head priest instructed Yoshisue, the superintendent of the vestment office, to make arrangements with the households of the female vestment attendants.

1. The vestment administrators Shigeshoku, Kenken, Kaneyasu, and Kanekaku were informed by Kaneko of the meeting place that the vestment work would begin from the 6th day.

1. Regarding the transportation goods for the attachment and hauling, if three horses are dispatched, those items will be abbreviated.

4th day (Tsuchinoto-I) Weather unsettled between clear and rain

1. For the Kibune inner shrine attachment and hauling at the Hour of the Ox on the 5th day, around the Hour of the Dragon, daily offerings were presented to the main shrine and subsidiary shrines. The tutelary deity priest Yasutoshi participated. The communion feast and other activities proceeded as usual.

1. For this purpose, from early morning, Head Priest Hirohisa (in palanquin), Kibune Priest Okihisa, together with ritual deputy Yasunaga, the fallen offering second group Minobu, and one other person ascended the mountain, with guard duty Kunikyo taking on additional responsibilities. Besides these, overall supervisor and concurrent local administrator Yasunao, chief administrator Hisuyasu and others ascended the mountain. Provisioner administrator Moriaki had ascended the mountain from yesterday. Additionally, two toneji priests, two shrine servants, three sacred offering boxes, and Taguchi with his attendants ascended the mountain early this morning.

1. For today's daily offering transportation and other necessities for those ascending the mountain, eleven porters and one horse were assigned.

1. Yasuchi, the Kibune deputy, sent a messenger to report on the condition of the inner shrine hall, and while ascending the mountain (continues...)