Cases of Requesting Adoption of Sons of Those Who Were Granted Leave

1. In the 9th year of Kyōhō (1724), Ishizawa Nakaemon of the Shinban group requested the adoption of Hagiwara Kohachirō. Kohachirō was the youngest son of Kinameri Seizaemon, who had been granted leave from service, as recorded.
　　However, when Seizaemon was granted leave, Kohachirō was too young to go to another domain, and when he reached twenty-five years of age, his relatives petitioned for permission for him to leave for another domain. Subsequently, his uncle Yano Uemonnosaku petitioned and the adoption by Nakaemon was approved.

1. On March 11th of the 3rd year of Kansei (1791), Nakamura Gondayū of the Ōgoban requested to adopt the biological son of his younger brother Amemori Gorōhachi (Shōkichi, who had previously become the adopted son of Amemori Heihachi) as Gondayū's nephew. The request to send him as an adopted son to another family when a suitable opportunity arose was approved as requested. Later, there was a case of sending him as an adopted son to the Niwa Aemon family.
　　However, Amemori Gorōhachi had been granted leave and was confined at his elder brother Gondayū's residence.

1. In the 8th month of the 12th year of Kansei (1800), Minowa Bunemon, who had been ordered into exile in previous years, was now permitted to reside in the domain. His second son was to be adopted by his biological elder brother Arakawa Kuroji and then sent as an adopted son to Hatasa Okuzaemon, a foot inspector (otsukaime-tsuke), which was approved as requested.

1. On September 26th of the 1st year of Tenpō (1830), Hirase Gozaemon of the Shin-goban had been suffering from crane's knee wind (a type of joint disease) since mid-February, gradually worsening with little hope of recovery. Since his biological son Gosaburō was sickly despite his young age, he wished to adopt his nephew Aizawa Shōzaburō (fifteen years old that year) during his illness to care for his youngest daughter. Shōzaburō was the biological son of Aizawa Takebē, but when the adopted son Shōzaemon absconded last year, he petitioned to take him in and raise him at his residence.

1. On February 9th of the 2nd year of Shōtoku (1712), Town Magistrate Kaifuku Ihē was granted permission as requested to adopt Daihachi, the son of Kawagoe Uemon, who had been granted leave from service in previous years. Uemon had been permitted to reside in the castle town last winter and was Ihē's cousin. Since there were no other suitable persons within the extended family, he submitted a written petition and verbal statement.

1. On April 25th of the same year, Ōmachi Kichizaemon of the Ōgoban requested to adopt Kinbēzō, the son of Takeuchi Mozaemon (his nephew), who had been granted leave from service in previous years. He had been taking in and raising Mozaemon's wife and children at his residence since Mozaemon was granted leave. However, since there were precedents for adopting sons of those granted leave, and furthermore, Mozaemon had been pardoned from punishment in last year's general amnesty, when the petition was submitted for consideration, it was approved as requested.