3rd day, Tsuchinoe-saru, clear. From Seo Yahei's place, as a return courtesy for Chiyozo's first visit, two bundles of fans, one small obi fabric, etc. arrived.

○Due to the completion of Lord Daishoji's pagoda, for inspection yesterday Murata and Ijichi went, and again today Sasaki and I went, bringing along Kozaburo, and all were completed after the hour of the sheep. Previously, regarding transportation by ox cart, notification was made to the military authorities, and transportation began from the 29th of last month. The total cost in silver amounted to 2 kan 100 monme. Furthermore, a solicitation document for the pagoda dedication came from Kotokui. Since it will be presented on the 9th, for the pagoda dedication fee, three pieces of silver as per previous precedent were brought and handed to Kyojun today. Additionally, ten pieces of silver were bestowed as per precedent for memorial service expenses during the intermediate period of mourning for the guest temple Bundain, and this was also brought and delivered today. However, today sake, rice, etc. were provided at the guest temple. Returned home after the hour of the cock.

5th day, Kanoe-inu, rain fell with strong wind, later became clear. Due to the shogun's appointment, while Lord Nijo Safu and Lord Konoe Naifu were scheduled to come down [to Kyoto], both lords departed today. Since Fujiki Mokugonken Toshiaki was coming down as Lord Safu's attendant, [I] visited recently for celebration and sent one piece of silver for tabi socks money. ○Similarly, due to the shogun's appointment, the palace envoy Namba Iyo-no-kami will depart tomorrow the 6th, so for travel allowance for the shogun's family portion, nine pieces of silver in the usual wrapping, additionally twenty-three pieces of silver for travel allowances for the three ministers, senior councilors, junior councilors, etc., plus sixty ryo for travel expenses and separately fifteen ryo prepared, totaling seventy-five ryo, etc., Ichi brought and delivered. Offered congratulations, celebratory sake was served, and after completion [they] dispersed. [He] is currently reporting to the Iyo deputy.

7th day, Mizunoe-ne, cloudy. After nightfall, head priest Mochiisa-kyo passed away.

8th day, Mizunoto-ushi, overcast. A resignation notification for Mochiisa-kyo was submitted. ○Today is the 24th meeting of the Gokukai lecture. This time [I] was asked to take on the duties of this lecture, but having submitted a declining message on the 25th of last month, [I] should accept this, according to the shrine oversight officials