The agreement was for 10 koku of rice annually to be given as principal and interest, but this was reduced to 8 koku, then in recent years further reduced to 5 koku, and this year 5 koku was also given. Furthermore, a written pledge was issued today stating that from next year onwards, 3 koku of rice annually would be given to the current Mozaemon for his lifetime. This was arranged through an internal petition to Tsunesen.

8th day, Kanoto-uma. Attended duty for the 25th meeting of the Seasonal Lamp Lecture as usual.

10th day, Mizunoto-saru, clear. Accounting for the same lecture conducted as usual.

16th day, Tsuchinoto-tora, clear. Lord Hosokawa had been contributing 300 koku annually since the time of Lord Teigen-in, but due to the Hosokawa house's cost-cutting measures in previous years, 200 koku was reduced, and thereafter it became 100 koku annually. Now again, due to our lord's succession, 50 koku has been reduced, and from next year (year of the dog) onwards, 50 koku annually will be contributed without fail throughout His Lordship's reign. ○ Due to investigations regarding Chief Retainer Sasaki Dazai-daiakan, Murata Shikibu-daijō, Personal Attendant Nakano Kurōdo and others, their attendance at court was suspended from today, and custody was entrusted to four men from the sixth-rank office: Yamaguchi, Shimohashi, Morisawa, and Okamoto. ○ Since Chiyo-kura had not yet visited since Seo Yahē's wife Taka-jo moved, I brought him along today and sent a bag of matsukaze confections as a gift to Taka-jo, along with celebratory sake and sweets.

29th day, Mizunoto-u, clear. Due to improprieties by Chief Retainer Dazai-daiakan, Shikibu-daijō, Personal Attendant Kurōdo, Lord Sasaki Shōgen, Lord Murata Gyōbu and others, by His Lordship's judgment they were placed under house arrest from today. However, this was due to inadequate handling of memorial items for Higashi Hongan-ji during the period of mourning, as well as improper management of gold and silver.

12th month (long month)

1st day, Kinoe-tatsu, clear. In the evening, the three groups assembled as usual. Examination of small folded papers conducted as in previous years. Other discussions: Due to shrine-wide austerity measures during this limited period, half payment for sake barrels for field entertainments and first visits; at the beginning of gatherings, three rounds of sake, clear soup, plain soup, tofu, two kinds of fish, herring roe, and pickled vegetables; at February accounting sessions, five rounds of sake and soup