He was the third among the shrine priests. Kyōki had him serve as substitute. Imperial Messenger Atago Chūjō and others made their visit for about half an hour. Kyōki reported, and they withdrew at the hour of Inu (8 PM). Everything was completed without incident, most gratifying. ○Someone from Ikai arrived around the hour of Uma (noon) and will stay overnight this month. ○Yasuko's paternal aunt, the widow of Uji Hoshino, and her younger sister, the widow of Horikawa, came to visit. However, this was the first visit by Hoshino's widow. She sent a bag of fine tea.

24th Day, Mizunoto-Ushi: From the 21st until today there has been continuous rain, with particularly heavy rain since last night. It did not stop all day. Kyōkan served as substitute for shrine duty. ○After the midday meal, there was distribution of old ceremonial garments bestowed upon the five groups. At the young officials' residence Kōtei, lots were drawn, and Kyōsen received white silk ceremonial robes with twin-leaf hollyhock crests, about one shaku square.

25th Day, Kinoe-Tora: Clear. With the shrine reconstruction completed, according to precedent, Noh performances should have been held on the 23rd, but due to rain they were postponed and performed today, completing successfully without incident. The program was as follows. The local Noh master Kawakatsu and Magonoshin performed. The number of pieces was seven as per precedent.

Okina《marginal note: Senzai | Sanban■》Hōro, Gedatsu-sō Tatsuta, Kagekiyo, Ataka, Kairi
Tsuchigumo
Kyōgen: Kurama Tengu, Kitsunezuka, Narihira-mochi, Suzuki Hōchō
Wakame, Yumiya. Kyōgen master Miyake Sōzaburō performed.

26th Day, Kinoto-U: Cloudy. There was an offering of hashiragoto. ○The storehouse was recently sand-finished. ○Tomorrow is Kyōki's turn for daily shrine attendance. I asked Teikiyo to serve as substitute.

Fifth Month, Major

1st Day, Tsuchinoto-Hitsuji: Clear. For the horse racing as usual, Shitori Shōyūki and others raced. At the hour of Hitsuji (2 PM) there was a fall. Kanazu Shō Kyōchin also fell. Also during the rounds, Kanazu Kyōchin fell near Ton Palace, but as per precedent there was no re-entry. Seven others also fell. Everything was completed without major incident.

3rd Day, Kanoto-Tori: Clear. For the shrine visit purification, I was invited by riders Kōgai and Hitsuaki.