Grilled dishes (small Wakasa sea bream), soup (kamaboko, ■ three)
Flat dishes (presented sea bream, Chinese yam, matsutake mushrooms), vinegared dish (■, daikon radish), rice
Sake cups - one set

After this was completed, everyone celebrated and the gathering ended. Seisan and Tsuneki returned home together around the hour of the Boar (9-11 PM).

9th day, Kinoto-Ushi, clear weather: Went to Nomura Awaji-no-kami Seisan to report that Tsunehiro's moving yesterday was completed without incident, and for the matter of introducing Tsunehiro's adoption and succession into the Fujiki family, brought and sent 100 hiki in cash for sake and food, one tan of Karajima sarasa fabric, etc.

10th day, Hinoe-Tora, clear weather: This morning went to Toshiaki's residence to offer congratulations that Tsunehiro's move the day before yesterday was completed satisfactorily in all respects, and made arrangements for celebratory sake and cuisine. ○Before the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM), regarding the matter of Senko, went to Otsu to Yamamoto Yasutoshi's residence through the connections of the palace guards, and stayed one night at the same house. However, my cousin's wife gave birth at dawn during the hour of the Ox (1-3 AM) on the 8th of this month to a girl. Both mother and child are quite healthy. Most auspicious, most auspicious.

11th day, Hinoto-U, clear weather: After breakfast, went early to Suzuki Rokuro of the Zensho domain retainers. Since he was on duty, met with his wife Koma Kankai and sent seven salted mackerel for the birth celebration. Discussed the Senko matter in detail. Returned to Otsu before the morning hour. Koma is the elder sister of Ikai Junzaburo. Notably, today brought along one attendant, who was hired in Otsu. ○Today Tsunehiro made his first visit to Nijo Palace. First audience with both Imperial residences, received oral congratulations, etc. However, since the Minister of the Left has been indisposed since the 2nd day of the 7th month, today was the first time he appeared in the formal hall and was granted an audience - this is extremely favorable and most grateful. ○Returned home from Otsu at the late afternoon hour.

12th day, Tsuchinoe-Inu, clear weather: Regarding Tsunehiro's initial court rank appointment document, today after consultation between the Minister of the Left with His Imperial Highness and the Minister of the Right, it was entrusted to Shokiji Bojo Ben, etc. Moreover, adoptive father Toshiaki accompanied Tsunehiro to serve as messenger, etc. After this was completed, the monthly duty court nobles...