They handled the matter. However, Kiken (successor to the late Taki) and Yasunobu (successor to the late Yasunaga) submitted one item each from their associations. Those who assembled were Masukiyo, Tomonao, Shiken, Hitsunori, Ikuken, Tsunenori, Chinki, and others.
As a result of deliberation, it was decided that henceforth there would be no need to submit one item in cases of succession by legitimate sons. However, sons attending as representatives would not go against precedent, etc.

18th day, Mizunoto-Tori, clear weather: It was the palace storehouse ceremony. All matters proceeded as usual, with about 100 koku of rice being delivered.

19th day, Kinoe-Inu, clear weather: Tsunenori had been occasionally falling ill since some days ago, and yesterday afternoon became quite unwell, so Doctor Goto came early in the morning for an examination. In the evening, gave instructions to the house servant Kameshiro. ○Regarding Michie: last May during her pregnancy her condition was extremely poor and she was unwell, so she requested to come here for convalescence, but as this would not be proper, I sent word that it was absolutely not acceptable. However, afterward she still did not recover, and moreover the Inokawa parents and others were extremely strict people causing her distress, to the extent that a document was prepared and submitted suggesting that succession would be difficult. This document was opened by the other party, and without coming to us, they divorced her on grounds that the document contained slander and insufficient regard for the parents and others that could not be overlooked. Later, on the 1st day of the 7th month, Chiko was sent back in a palanquin, and the details were reported to Shinano-no-suke Yasufumi.
Consequently, afterward Michie submitted letters of apology, and through Yasufumi repeatedly apologized. Moreover, she went to Suzuki Rokuro of the imperial kitchen staff and similarly offered apologies, explaining everything in detail. However, as the Inokawa family would not agree at all, there was no recourse and inevitably the marriage was broken. As a result, the male child born this time was called an abandoned child, and today two men and one wet nurse from the Inokawa family came to take him back. Chiko's grief and tears were limitless - there was nothing to be done, it was truly pitiful. Although I had requested through Yasufumi that we send the child from our side, he replied that this would not be appropriate and Tsunechika would not agree, so they came to collect him unexpectedly this morning. Furthermore, regarding the collection of Chiko's belongings, people should be sent from Tehara village