The cultivation rights for the above rice fields were transferred and accepted last Uma year, so I hereby submit this notification. The above.
Hitsuji 11th month, Hizen-no-kami

Besides the above, among those acquired so far, there are San-no-Sanjuro's beta-no-shita, San-no-Genemon's hasama, Hiiragi-no-Kyuemon's maeda, mame fields, etc., but when I went to the shrine today and consulted with Osumi-no-kami Shigen of the rice field department, we examined the previous ledgers by group and could not find them, so I excluded these portions from the notification. The reason is that if notifications are submitted, they would be added to the Okawa project without examination, so I handled it this way. Furthermore, for the Uma year portion of the Okawa project, the total yield was 32 koku 2 to 4 sho, at 25 mon per koku, making 837 mon in coins. I submitted one piece of nanryo silver to the junior official today. However, regarding the 6 sho of displaced rice from Hayashi submitted for the Mi year portion and the riverbed fields at the same location, due to errors in measurement, I notified the rice field administrator Kazuaki to exclude them from this year.

12th month, long month

1st day, Kinoto-U, clear: Okamoto Uhyoenosuke Koho, the administrator of the imperial household, was today promoted to the rank of shobu. However, due to his advanced age and earnest petition, this was specially granted through exceptional imperial consideration. He was 63 years old at the time.

3rd day, Hinoto-Mi, clear: At the Hour of the Cock, the temporary relocation ceremony of both Fujiki shrines took place. There was an order to stop traffic until the Hour of the Dog.

4th day, Tsuchinoe-Uma, clear: The New Year poetry gathering of the imperial household began. Everything proceeded as usual.

10th day, Kinoe-Ne, clear: At the Hour of the Dog, the formal relocation ceremony of Fujiki shrine took place. There was an order to stop traffic until the Hour of the Boar.

16th day, Kanoe-Uma, clear: For the rice field called Maeda owned by Sotaro, son of Shichibei from Hiiragi-no-Tsu Kunimachi, with annual tribute rice of 3 to and cultivation profit of 4 to, I made a three-year contract from this Hitsuji year to the Tori year for 300 monme of silver, issuing a transfer document. I paid the silver and received the seal impression. Furthermore, for the same person's rice field called Kami-no-Kenai, 1 tan 3 se, I lent 300 monme of silver with the field as collateral. I also paid this silver today.