Immediately Sakaiya Shōbei came and explained the various articles of the matter, which I understood, and stayed there.

29th day, Mizunoto-ushi, clear with strong wind. Departed at the hour of the dragon (7-9 AM) and boarded a boat on the Kizu River. Sakaishō provided the boat and food and drink as well. Two village officials from Kitadera village and the Sakaishō father and son saw us off to the riverbank. Arrived at Yodo around the hour of the sheep (1-3 PM), arranged for porters, and returned to the palace at the latter half of the hour of the cock (6-7 PM).

Ten long yams sent from Kodera village were presented as souvenirs to the Great Lord, and one box of five-colored yōkan confection sent from Sakaishō was presented to the Young Lord. After completing the reading duties, I returned home at the early part of the hour of the boar (9 PM).

Second Month (30 days)

1st day, Kinoe-tora, clear. The customary drawing of lots for the six shrine roles. Keisen was selected as administrator (sata-nin) for the first time. The administrators are Keisen, Hōsen, and Akiaki; the deputy administrator is Kiyoo and others; the document clerk is Zensei. I requested Hitsuaki to serve as my substitute for the meeting hall duties. In the early morning, I visited the shrine to give thanks and offered sacred sake as usual. Next, I sent word about the sake offering to relatives, neighbors, and close associates. I went to the shrine early to meet face-to-face as per precedent. At that time, I wore ceremonial dress (kamishimo), and around the hour of the sheep (1-3 PM), the former administrators Kikaku and Kirei came with transfer documents for the box ceremony. The document administrators' representatives Gukō, Hitsuaki, Hanaki and others came in the previous hour, and we offered sacred sake to the custody box and held a direct feast (naorai). There were tofu miso soup, three kinds of side dishes (octopus and herring roe), single dishes, and bowl dishes (grilled turban shell with salt), etc. The expenses for this were split among three people. Soon I sent word about sake time to relatives and others, and about thirty people gradually arrived. We served sea bream miso soup, five varieties, two inkstone covers, bowl dishes (boiled sea bream, turban shell grilled with sansho pepper and soy sauce, raw shellfish with salt), layered dishes (fish from Chikakami with light kudzu sauce, pheasant with green moss added, bamboo grass soup), single dishes, etc. About one to and five shō of sake were needed, finishing at the hour of the boar (9-11 PM). Very auspicious and precious indeed. ○ Today, a retainer of my son Wakasa-no-kami came and made arrangements. Also, Keikan has been transferred to the rank of shōdayū, and the celebration feast was successfully completed at the palace on the 26th day of the first month. Most precious indeed.