[They] distributed 200 mon in service fees to the three people. In the afternoon, [someone] went to the residences of the three construction officials to offer greetings for completing today's inspection.

25th Day, Kinoto-Tori: Clear. Today began the ground preparation for the storehouse. Day laborers and carpenters went from Kyoto, and began demolishing the storehouse. [They] transported a complete set of roof tiles using six pack horses.

28th Day, Tsuchinoe-Ne: Clear. Today the storehouse ground preparation was completed. Also, from the 26th day, [they] daily paid wages to people, horses, cattle, etc. for transporting earth.

29th Day, Tsuchinoto-Ushi: Cloudy. The plasterer magistrate performed his duties as usual. In the afternoon, light rain fell. The transport of earth and lumber for the storehouse continued as yesterday. However, since all the lumber was transported today, [they] stopped the earth transport for now, dividing [the work] in half. Rain fell after nightfall.

Second Month (Long Month)

1st Day, Kanoe-Tora: Clear. The customary drawing of six lots among the shrine community took place. The officials appointed were: Kisaki, Toshiaki, Yasuumi, Secretary Ujiaki, Kifumi, Scribe Manaki, and others. There was notification of sacred sake distribution from Ujiaki and Manaki, but [I] did not attend due to being on duty for the noble house.

2nd Day, Kanoto-U: Clear. The Seo Jibei household had large debts, and since the year before last, creditors have been filing successive lawsuits. Currently, [Jibei] is under investigation and in great difficulty. Therefore, this time through the arrangements of Seo Yahei of the same family, [there was] consultation with me. [Someone] calling himself Chiyo, claiming to be the retired cousin of Jibei, went to the Satsuma domain residence to petition for inheritance of the family headship. On the 28th of last month, as requested in the petition, he was granted a stipend of 100 people from the Clothing Office and Finance Office, and also received approval for rice supervision in Osaka Kokushū as per precedent. Particularly, this was conveyed through a written document from a person called Elder Jibu-dono to Retainer Kikkawa Shume-nen at the Kyoto residence, and was communicated by the caretaker. Regarding this matter, yesterday on the 1st, Yahei came for thanks, and there were good greetings about this affair. Therefore, as a celebration of this matter, [I] visited Jibei and Genbei's residences. However, since Jibei is currently under investigation by the magistrate's office, [he] did not change into formal dress and went in everyday clothes. Also, regarding the matter of this silver successor, since there is actually no person called Chiyozō, in reality [it is] Keisen...