[The land] was purchased for 860 monme, and two transfer documents from last month were delivered, with the silver payment made. Specifically, through the mediation of Minami Kameshirō, the silver was handed over by Kameshirō to witness Sanuki-no-kami Naoichi-ō. However, this year's annual rice tax is to be calculated monthly, with three months' worth from this tenth month through the final month - 2 to 1 shō 5 gō 5 shaku - to be delivered to our side according to the agreement.

Fifth day, Kinoto-u (乙卯), clear. The thirty-second palace procurement meeting was held as usual at Okudaya in Sanbongi. I attended and returned home at the inu hour (around 8 PM). ○ In the evening, I participated in the purification robe lottery meeting as usual.

Seventh day, Hinoe-tatsu (丙辰), cloudy, rain in the afternoon. The palace meeting accounts were settled as usual. I participated with a half-share contribution, but withdrew from the meeting due to the high accumulated silver amount. Accordingly, I borrowed 830 monme of silver and received the remaining 490 mon. ○ There was a notice that a special festival would be ordered for the last day of the coming eleventh month.

Eleventh day, Kanoto-saru (辛申), clear. At the request of Fujiya Kahei, I had [someone] join the temple monk Daijōin's gold one ryō ■ meeting with a quarter share. Today was the first meeting. Tsunenori attended.

Eighteenth day, Tsuchinoe-u (戊卯), clear. The twentieth palace gold investment meeting was held as usual at Yoshidaya. I attended and it concluded at the inu hour.

Twenty-fourth day, Kinoe-tori (甲酉), clear. I had [someone] serve directly as shrine duty officer. ○ For Kujō Chūnagon's imperial grant, there was an invitation to the young imperial residence and a courtyard welcome. Tsunenori was ordered to serve as attendant and went on duty.

Twenty-eighth day, Tsuchinoe-ushi (戊丑), clear. For the purification robe lottery and the renewal festival, Tsunenori served as deputy for the field supervisor.

Twenty-ninth day, Tsuchinoto-tora (己寅), clear. For the renewal festival preparations, same as yesterday, Tsunenori served. ○ After the midday meal, there was a meeting of all senior and junior members of the three groups. Yūki Taifu Ujichikahas unknown whereabouts and was reportedly expelled from the shrine family ranks.

Eleventh Month (large month)

First day, Kanoe-u (庚卯), clear. Kifune Shrine renewal festival as usual. ○ Due to the passing of Imperial Prince Tsunenomiya at the imperial court, there was a notice prohibiting musical instruments from yesterday the twenty-ninth until the day after tomorrow the second.