13th day, 辛酉, Rain - Attended the 9th session of the Kagura Lecture as an officer. All matters were completed as usual, and I returned home around the hour before Inu (around 7 PM).

15th day, 癸亥, Clear - The lottery for Nirvana Day gambling was distributed as in previous years. ○Yesterday on the 14th, I was invited by the shrine community. The matter concerned the irrigation fields of the late Yamato-no-suke Toshitane, where Sanjūrō had failed to pay all his dues as my tenant farmer last winter and still had not paid. This was being handled at the request of Sokuō Matsudayū. Accordingly, I arranged for a grace period for the aforementioned widow until the winter crop could be harvested.

16th day, 甲子, Cloudy - Otokichi of Yamamoto-chō (younger brother of Ishimatsu) threw himself into the small pond at Ariga-ike and drowned. This came to light today around the hour before Saru (around 2 PM). The river water became polluted, but since no official inspection was required, the matter was resolved.

18th day, 丙寅, Clear - The 20th session of the Gold-stake Lecture was held as usual at Yoshidaya in Sanbongi. I served as officer and it concluded around the hour before Inu.

19th day, 丁卯, Clear - Regarding Chiyozō's adoption and succession to the Seo Jibei family, today for the first time I consulted with Iwasa Sanuki-no-suke Ujikei and spread word about it, but there were no particular opinions. I had already privately consulted with Keitō and Keitake beforehand.

20th day, 戊辰, Clear, rain in the evening - Yesterday on the 19th around the hour of Tatsu (around 8 AM), a fire broke out in the district called Higashi-Temma in Osaka. It gradually spread and became a great fire, which was extinguished this morning. ○After the midday meal, the Kagura Lecture accounting was completed as usual at the shrine.

21st day, 己巳, Rain - Regarding the great fire in Osaka, this morning an official circular document arrived from Lord Takatsukasa, the Kampaku. A copy follows:

Ōshio Heihachirō, father of Ōshio Kakunosuke (a yoriki of Atobe Yamashiro-no-kami's group) and now in retirement, along with five or six yoriki and dōshin from the same group and various peasants, formed a rebel band. According to reports, on the 19th around the hour of Mi (around 10 AM), the said Heihachirō set fire to the residence of a fellow yoriki near his own dwelling in Temma, then fired incendiary arrows and guns, setting fires in various places that blazed up. Therefore, orders were given to the town magistrate and inspectors to arrange for his arrest.