6th day, 癸丑, Clear - Regarding young men from Hibarihara East district requesting two tan of rice fields, and the village headman Kozaemon of the same East district's request, regarding the above matter, [we] received the cultivation rights to the said fields, one tan each from townsmen Zenjirō and Unosuke. However, the annual tribute rice for two tan totaling 1 koku 1 to 3 shō 5 gō was paid to the East district, with the remaining往来米 3 to each (total 6 to), equivalent to 450 monme of silver, handed over today, and the transfer deed was executed.

8th day, 乙卯, Clear - One to of rice for festival additional distribution was handed over today by the young official.

10th day, 丁巳, Clear - The Great Retired Shogun has been suffering from illness since the end of last month, having difficulty with urination, and since his condition has not improved, his close attendants consulted and today performed a thousand-prayer ritual at Kitano Tenmangu Shrine. Kyōki and Kyōkei also participated. Although Kyōki has been in seclusion due to scabies for some days, since his symptoms were very mild, he reported to the intermediary and went. Tomorrow there will be a thousand-prayer ritual at Gion Shrine, the day after at Kiyomizu Temple - for all three days there is a rule of complete abstinence from alcohol and religious purification. Regarding this illness, the physicians who have been examining [the Shogun] for years are as follows: Hagino, Fukui, Kobayashi, Sugiyama, Gotō, retainer Maeda, etc.

11th day, 戊午, Clear - For the Gion Shrine thousand-prayer ritual, Kyōki and Kyōkei participated from early morning.

12th day, 己未, Clear - Before the festival, Kyōkei accompanied [officials] to the sacred birthplace shrine as usual. Adding prayers for the Great Retired Shogun's recovery, [we] ascended to the shrine grounds and added planted pines for the ritual circuit. In the morning, two people offered the morning ritual provisions directly.

○ Due to the Great Retired Shogun's illness, [we] requested seven days of prayers from head priest Hoyasu starting today. The prayer is a new petition that his medication take effect quickly, that he recover soon, and for his long life and longevity. We made separate visits for beginning, middle, and end [of the prayer period], with additional long-day services, twenty-one sessions on middle days, hemp austerities, ritual preparations, and requested wrapping paper and ceremonial paper. ○ In the afternoon, Kyōkan visited the shrine.

13th day, 庚申, Clear - The monthly official prepared and offered ritual food for the pure robe lottery in the inner courtyard.