17th Day, Hinoe-Uma: Rain. Dōei reported the death of Lord Watanabe Nakatsukasa, so I sent one box of steamed confections that had arrived as condolence gifts to both Inkai [retainers] as sympathy during the mourning period.

18th Day, Hinoto-Hitsuji: Clear. Today was the initial plastering work for the storehouse. Five [workers] came from plasterer Ihei, and eight assistants, finishing around the Hour of the Monkey. I provided celebratory sake, soup, three kinds of side dishes, and oval-shaped botan-mochi (two gō portions), serving two each. Of course, I offered first-fruits botan-mochi, sacred sake, and dried delicacies within the household. Tonight one day laborer came to keep a vigil fire burning inside the storehouse.

19th Day, Tsuchinoe-Saru: Clear. The heir of the shogunal family, Master of Palace Repairs Irie Izusa-no-kami (16 years old), today received his ceremonial cap (Junior Palace Secretary). As per precedent, his coming-of-age ceremony was held in the palace halls, with Master Barber Yasuda Tōtōmi-no-kami Tone performing the hair-cutting ceremony. At the Kugyō Bureau, Young Lord Tadaka personally performed the capping ceremony. In the evening came the first court rank appointment (Tosa-no-kami, Junior Sixth Rank Lower Grade). Due to the shrine reconstruction, our shrine's swordsmith Kaneshige today received appointment as Ōmi-no-suke. This Kaneshige is a resident of the district above Ichijō on Muromachi in Kyoto. On this occasion he was appointed as shrine swordsmith, becoming an associate of swordsmith Iga-no-kami Kanemichi, and is the one commissioned to forge the sacred sword.

20th Day, Tsuchinoto-Tori: Rain. I visited the Irie household to offer congratulations for the coming-of-age ceremony and first court appointment.

21st Day, Kanoe-Inu: Clear. Today at the Hour of the Snake was the main shrine's ridge-raising ceremony. Around the half of the Hour of the Dragon, drums were beaten at the council hall, whereupon each shrine official donned court dress and assembled at the shrine compound. Leading Kyōkan, Ankyōetsu, Kyōki, Kyōkan, Kyōkei and others, we proceeded to the shrine, made worship at Kajita Shrine as usual, then ascended to the shrine precincts where we waited. At that time morning and evening offerings were presented to both halls, and musicians came forward to perform music as customary. Soon the shrine officials processed forth for service and waited at the naorai hall. For the ritual before the deities, first one sacred wand was erected in the small courtyard of the main hall (with five-colored raw silk attached to pure cotton wadding), bows and arrows were set up east and west, and three sacred wands were erected in three places between the arrows (with five-colored raw silk attached to pure cotton wadding). Also, bronze [ritual implements] were placed in two or three spots between them. Moreover, white curtains were hung at all scaffolding locations from the main hall's ridge to the ritual recitation hall's roof. A white cotton net-like arrangement was stretched from the center of the main ridge to the first pillar west of the sacred mat hall. Also, white wooden ritual boxes were placed under the eastern eaves of the ritual recitation hall, with sake vessels added. After a short time, all the shrine officials took seats on the left and right sides of the covered corridor, while the construction supervisor, wearing court dress over a plain robe, sat on a round cushion on the eastern side of the small courtyard.