According to the Sandai Jitsuroku, there was an earthquake on the night of the 2nd day of the 7th month, autumn, 3rd year of Nin'na (887 CE), kinoto-tori. (omitted) On the 6th day, teichou, a rainbow descended upon the Eastern Palace, its tail reaching the heavens, and the rainbow entered the Kuraryo (Imperial Treasury Office). (omitted) On this night there was an earthquake.

(omitted) On the 30th day, kanotono-ushi, at the hour of saru (3-5 PM), the earth shook greatly, trembling for several hours without ceasing. The Emperor left Ninjuden Hall and moved to the southern courtyard of Shishinden Hall, commanding the Okurasho (Ministry of the Treasury) to erect a seven-jo curtained enclosure to serve as the imperial residence.

The office buildings of various government departments and the residences in the eastern and western parts of the capital frequently collapsed, with many people crushed to death. Some lost consciousness and died suddenly. At the hour of i (9-11 PM), there were three more tremors. The five provinces around the capital and the seven circuits throughout the provinces all experienced great earthquakes on the same day. Many government buildings were damaged, and seawater surged onto land, with countless people drowning. (omitted) On the 4th day of the 8th month, kinoto-mi, there were five earthquakes. On this day, above Tatsuchi Gate there appeared a phenomenon like smoke but not smoke, like a rainbow but not a rainbow, which flew up and reached the heavens. Someone who saw this said, "These are flying ants." (omitted) On the 12th day, mizunoto-ushi, two herons gathered atop Chododoin Byakkoro, Burakuin Seikaro. The Onmyoryo (Bureau of Divination) divined and said, "One should be cautious of fire incidents." On the 13th day, kinoe-tora, there was an earthquake, and herons gathered on the shibi (decorative roof ornaments) of Burakuin's south gate. On the 14th day, kinoto-u, at the hour of ne (11 PM-1 AM), there was an earthquake. On the 15th day, hinoe-tatsu, at the hour of hitsuji (1-3 PM), herons gathered on the eastern shibi of Burakuden Hall. (abbreviated below)

According to the Kotei Kisho, on the 9th day of the 7th month of the 1st year of Bunji (1185), at the hour of hitsuji, there was a great earthquake. The halls, shrines, pagodas, temples, and houses in and around the capital generally collapsed. Trees broke and fell, mountains and rivers all changed, and many people died. Thereafter, for more than forty days without rest, people all suffered anxiety, their minds and spirits as if intoxicated.