【Right】
immediately, and when he tried to sell them by spreading such stories, it eventually became known and he was exiled to Hachijō Island. Also, according to the tales of elderly people, in ancient times tens of thousands died from korori and could not be buried, so the government issued an order for water burial. "Kansō Sadan" is a book recording the actual events of the Shōtoku and Kyōhō periods, and it states that in the summer of Shōtoku 6, there were many patients suffering from fever, and within one month, those who died in the towns of Edo numbered over 80,000. Even the houses that made coffins could not keep up, so they used empty sake barrels, and since there was no place to bury the corpses in the burial grounds of temples, regardless of sect, it was reported that only cremation could accommodate them. Therefore, when they tried to cremate at various cremation sites, coffins accumulated in limitless numbers, and within ten to twenty days they could not set fire to them. If they cremated in order of arrival, it could not be done without many days passing. At this point, the corpses of the poor had no

【Left】
way to be handled, and even the leaders of the town districts could not manage the care properly, so they petitioned the government office. They received respective compassion, and corpses that were difficult for temples to bury were wrapped in straw mats after memorial services, placed on boats, and all sent to drift off the coast of Shinagawa for water burial, it is reported. Considering this, Shōtoku 6 had a change of era name on the 22nd day of the 6th month, becoming Kyōhō 1. The fire disaster of Meireki 3, with 108,000 burn victims, is still talked about and feared today, but the fact that tens of thousands died at once from the epidemic disease of Kyōhō 1 has no one to speak of it later, perhaps because unlike fire disasters, there was nothing recorded about it, so it is passed down through oral tradition. Also, this disease arose in Kyushu during the Shōtoku period, with childhood colds being most numerous, gradually spreading and reaching the Owari region, with adults also occasionally being infected. People called this "hayate" (swift hand) and compared it to a sudden gust of wind. Thus