【Right】
"white hair like sheep, thousands dying daily" - this too refers to the same condition, all of which epidemic occurred in the 16th year of Chongzhen of the Ming dynasty, the year of Guiwei. Afterwards, it spread greatly in the first year of Daoguang of the Qing dynasty.

Wang Qilian's "Compilation of Epidemic Diseases" states: "Hemp-leg epidemic - its symptoms are sudden numbness of the legs, abdominal pain with alternating vomiting and diarrhea. Onset in the morning, death by evening. In the first year of Daoguang, there were very many sufferers in Jinling." "Medical Forest Corrections" states: "In the first year of Daoguang, year of Xinsi, epidemic poison spread, those suffering from vomiting, diarrhea and muscle spasms numbered in several provinces. In the capital it was particularly severe, harming people excessively. For the poor who could not afford burial, the state opened the treasury and provided coffins. In the span of over a month, hundreds of thousands of gold were spent." "Medical Practice Made Easy" states: "In the years Gengchen and Xinsi, in our Fujian, those who suffered from this and died were not few. However, all began in the fifth month, peaked in the sixth and seventh months, and by White Dew season gradually became lighter and easier to cure. Also, in Gengchen year summer there was great drought and severe heat, and people said the disease came from heat oppression. In Xinsi year summer there was great flooding and severe cold, and people said the disease came from cold invasion. Yet the disease forms in both years were identical." Also, it epidemic in the summer of Jiaqing Wuwu year. "Medical Practice Made Easy" states: "Summer of Jiaqing Wuwu year, Wang Xiaoshu of Quan prefecture

【Left】
suffered from dysentery for seven days, then suddenly between the hours of Yin and Wu, his voice became faint and mute, he spoke deliriously for half an hour then stopped, and died at the You hour. In the seventh month, the younger brother of Ye Guangwen Guanfeng of Rong city had the same previous symptoms as the patient, came seeking medical treatment and said himself, 'My brother's dysentery was also not severe, eating and drinking as usual, only in early morning his throat was dry with slight pain, appearing as if seeing ghosts, but stopping immediately after half an hour.' When the time reached the You hour, I told him there was no need for me to make a house call and ordered him to return quickly. Watching, indeed he died between the You and Xu hours."

I believe that regarding this disease, Wu Youke considered it "gourd epidemic," Zhang Yin'an considered it "extraordinary dysentery," Chen Xiuyuan considered it "disease of latent wind qi manifesting according to season," and Wang Qingren considered it "epidemic poison." Though their theories differ slightly, that they all regard it as a type of miscellaneous epidemic should be believed and followed.

Reading Liu Songfeng's "Discussion of Epidemics," there are seventy-two named types of miscellaneous epidemics. All come with extreme speed and kill people most rapidly.

Wu Youke said: "Epidemic qi is also one among miscellaneous qi, but there are some more severe than other qi, therefore