【Right】
Categorized Epidemic-Avoiding Pills: Burning these pills prevents infection by epidemic diseases. In houses that have been empty for long periods, burning them can avoid foul evils. Take equal parts of frankincense, atractylodes, asarum, nardostachys, cnidium, and agarwood incense, form pills with jujube flesh the size of euryale seeds. When epidemics are raging, burn them in various places throughout the house to prevent infection.

One formula adds white sandalwood powder. The Epidemic-Avoiding Pills from "Collection of Proven Formulas": When encountering epidemic qi, burn one pill to avoid contagion. Take one jin of atractylodes powder and one jin of red jujube flesh, pound into pills the size of bullets and burn them.

Anti-epidemic Atractylodes-Agarwood Soul-Returning Incense: Removes defilement and dispels epidemics. Take equal parts atractylodes and jiangzhen incense, powder together and knead into mugwort leaves, roll in cotton paper into tubes and burn. The same method works for seasonal epidemics and household anomalies - jiangzhen incense is effective.

It is also said that various incenses should not be burned in rooms - only jiangzhen incense should be burned. Other incenses are dry and harsh and should not be used, except agarwood incense. The Defilement-Avoiding Pills from "Record of Washing Away Injustices": Can repel foul qi. A small amount of musk, half liang of asarum, one liang of nardostachys, two liang of cnidium. Make the above three ingredients into fine powder, form pills with honey the size of bullets.

【Left】
Transmitted for a long time as a wonderful medicine. Burn one pill daily. These are all methods of burning to dispel evil.

The Tanghu Woodcutter's Book records: "In the Mediterranean of Asia there are hundreds and thousands of islands. The largest is called Goa Island. All the people suffered from epidemic disease. Among them was a famous physician named Yijiede, who did not treat with medicines and stones but ordered great fires to be lit throughout the city, burning for one day and night before stopping, whereupon the diseases were also cured."

Upon reflection, epidemics are invasions by evil qi, and fire qi is fierce and violent, able to cleanse and wash away all evils. When evil is exhausted, disease is cured - this too is supreme principle. The I Ching says "Nothing dries ten thousand things like fire." Epidemics are evil fire, just as dragon-thunder fire is extinguished by proper fire - this principle must be understood. This too is the greatest form of destruction by burning.

There are also those who avoid epidemics by inhaling. Wu Kun's Five Spirits Pills for Epidemic Malaria, and the Study of Nose-Blocking Methods record: "Since epidemic qi is formless and enters through the nose, block it at the nose." The common practice of applying Human and Horse Peace Powder, Medical Eye Drops, etc. to the nose to avoid epidemics follows this principle. There are also those who avoid epidemics through internal administration