about that distance northwest offshore when it dropped anchor and lowered two small boats to row toward the island. All three were overjoyed. As they came near, Manjirō beckoned toward the cave, and the boats followed accordingly. Now, each boat had a crew of six, with five Americans and one black man. The three men could not contain their joy and pointed to show where the sick were lying. The foreigners nodded, lifted up the two sick men and put them in the boat, and the three men also jumped aboard as they headed toward the main ship.

Then they rowed to that large ship and all transferred aboard. This ship was forty-five ken long, covered on the outside with red copper, and extremely sturdy. This ship was an American whaling vessel that sailed the world's oceans daily, and when they spotted whales, they would lower those eight small boats to give chase and harpoon them. When struck, the black men would dive into the sea to secure them with ropes, haul them up to the large ship, discard the meat, strip the skin, and extract the oil. In America, many such ships set out. This large ship would collect oil for three to five years, then take it to a place called Wafu Country to trade.

Now, when the five men had transferred to the large ship, a foreigner brought them sweet potatoes to eat. While they were eating, someone who appeared to be the ship's captain came out looking angry, said something, took away these potatoes, and carried them to the back. While they cowered in fear over this, someone brought them something called "pan" (bread), and after eating this their fear subsided, though of course it was not enough to fill their bellies. Considering this, they recalled how even in Japan those who encountered shipwrecks were cared for in such ways, which gave them further peace of mind. The next day they received roasted dried pork, and with this and bread they quickly regained their strength. In the middle of this ship were three large barrels stacked together, many small barrels outside, and eight small boats shaped like ginkgo nuts stored there, these