There was no fire, only two stone tombs on top of the mountain, both resembling Japanese graves. Thinking these must be the graves of fellow castaways who died here like ourselves, they wept and carefully mourned at these graves, then ran about everywhere seeking food. In the southeast direction, there was a rock cave large enough for five people, and here all five spent their days. When the cold became unbearable, all five would strip naked, press their backs together, gather their clothes over themselves, and simply shiver. Now, when the five first came ashore, it was after rain, so they scooped up rainwater falling from between the rocks to drink, but after a day or two this water was gone, so increasingly thirsty, they chewed grass leaves and sucked their juice, and sometimes even drank their own urine. Near that cave there were also cormorant nests, and since it was the season when they were raising chicks, when parent birds brought small fish and the like to feed their young, they would chase these away and eat such food, and later they caught and ate the chicks too, and caught and ate the parents as well. By around April, the chicks had fledged and the parents no longer came to the ground. At this time all five had no food and were greatly famished, taking seaweed or reed and miscanthus roots, arrowroot, or grass leaves to sustain their bellies. By around May they were increasingly starved and exhausted. At this time Jūsuke fell ill and could not leave the cave to work, lying only in the cave, and Denzō was also quite exhausted and could only tend to Jūsuke, unable to work. Only Goemon, Toraemon, and Manjirō would leave the cave to forage for food to give to the sick, spending their days thus. In early June, they spotted a large ship with sails running far offshore to the southeast. All three saw this and rejoiced greatly, tying clothes to a pole and raising it while calling out, but being so far offshore, they could not reach that large ship. As the ship gradually sailed toward the northwest, the five men raised their voices even louder and shouted, but could not be heard, and the ship was about three ri away...