【Right Page】
There are those who sell from other regions as well, so it is essential to consider carefully when purchasing.

Regarding Taboos and Storage of Silkworm Eggs
When handling silkworm eggs, the first things to avoid are: oil vapors, salt vapors, tobacco and similar substances, iron objects, tea, hemp seeds, and camphor - these are highly toxic. Also, they should not be hung on walls, and wrapping them in mosquito nets, summer clothing, etc. is very bad. It is said that eggs hung above oil lamps will not hatch. Generally, they should not be placed near anything with bad odors, and placing them near fires is bad. All foul odors should be avoided. From autumn, place them in thin paper bags and hang them in cool places until the following spring. Exposure to harsh winds causes the eggs to shake greatly, which is harmful. During winter months, it is good to place them in cold locations. Around the beginning of spring (Risshun), store them early on cold mornings. If left hanging until late spring, they will hatch before the mulberry buds emerge, causing great difficulty in feeding, and during this period they may be affected by unseasonable cold, reducing the number of larvae in the clusters

【Left Page】
and resulting in poor harvests. Houses with facilities like document boxes and storehouses should, on mornings with severe lingering cold, seal the cold air into paulownia seed boxes with fitted lids and store the seeds in the lower sections of paulownia chests among clothing, not on the second floor of storehouses. When removed from boxes 5-6 days before the 88th night after the beginning of spring, with a thermometer placed nearby, they will hatch on warm days around 65 degrees. Some also place them on high mountains to delay hatching, then bring the seeds down when observing mulberry bud tips in spring, distributing them to various households for rearing. Storehouses and document boxes with excessive moisture are also bad. Storehouses with tile roofs that become hot and humid in sunny locations are also bad. Simply devise methods so they hatch when mulberry buds in the fields extend to three or four leaves.

Soaking Seeds in Cold Water
Some people say this is to remove toxic vapors from the seeds by soaking them in cold water. Those with toxic vapors