【Right page　Blank】
【Left page】
Ichigaya Hachiman Shrine　Located outside Ichigaya Gate, the betto (temple administrator) is called Toen-ji Temple. It belongs to Koya-san Kongobu-ji Temple in Nanki and follows the Kogi school of Shingon Buddhism.

Main shrine deity　Emperor Ojin (The divine body is in the form of armor. According to tradition, it is the sacred remains that Tada no Mitsunaka venerated, which was originally at the Tada shrine in Settsu Province but was transferred here by Ota Mochisuke. The honji Buddha is Aizen Myo-o)　To the east is Empress Jingu (mother of Emperor Ojin)　To the west is Hime-okami (elder sister of the emperor, also Homan Bosatsu)　Three deities are enshrined

Inari Shrine (This is the local tutelary deity of the shrine grounds. Located on the left side of the middle level of the stone steps. Commonly called Chanoki Inari. Its origin is not credible, so it is omitted here. The parishioners of this deity do not drink tea during the first three days of the New Year every year. Those suffering from eye diseases set a period of seven days or twenty-one days, abstain from tea and pray, whereupon the divine efficacy is remarkable and all wishes are fulfilled without exception)

The shrine records state: During the Bunmei era, Ota Mochisuke invited the great deity Hachiman from Tsurugaoka in Sagami Province to protect Edo Castle, and created Toen-ji Temple, endowing it with some mountain forests and shrine fields (The mountain name Torei comes from the fact that there was originally an Inari shrine on this land serving as the local tutelary deity. Tsurugaoka was also formerly the site of an Inari shrine. This presumably follows that precedent). He also personally planted pine and chinquapin trees as sacred trees, praying that both the shrine altar and castle would prosper (Locally called Dokan Pine. Its branches and leaves are luxuriant and still exist today).

Later it was destroyed by the fires of war during the Tensho era, but during the Keicho era, the betto priest Genko Shoso-zu was indignant at this ruined foundation, emptied his own alms bowl, surveyed the ruins of about a hundred paces, bound grass for eaves and cut wood for doors to rebuild one hall