【Right Page】
The shrine buildings were constructed, what had ceased was continued, and what had fallen into ruin was restored. However, compared to the magnificent spectacle of old times, not even one-tenth has been achieved. We merely offer sacred cloths and sacred food, place the imperial succession in the security of Mount Tai, guard the perpetual military fortune like the eternal nature of mustard seeds and great stones, and pray for the prosperity and happiness of all people.

When the Great Divine Lord (Tokugawa Ieyasu) entered the Kanto region, he inquired about the origins of this shrine. Later, the Third Shogun (Iemitsu) granted shrine territory and bestowed a vermillion seal. In the summer of Genroku 15 (1702), the wise mother Her Highness Keishoin of the First Court Rank heard of the shrine's history and, lamenting the lack of portable shrines, donated several pieces of gold to have new ones constructed. {At this point, three portable shrines were completely prepared} From this time on, the divine power became remarkably manifest, and the management of the shrine buildings also became splendid, surpassing the magnificent spectacle of old times. {According to Nankotei Sawa, the old site of Ichigaya Hachimangu was inside Ichigaya Gate, at the corner north of where the present guard post stands, in a location with a large zelkova tree at the corner of the Yamamoto family estate. When it was moved to the present location during the Kan'ei era, this zelkova came to be called the sacred tree}

【Left Page】
Inarisan Yakuoji Temple　Also called Tokoin. Located northwest from the same place, in Kawada-kubo. It belongs to the Shingon sect of the new interpretation and is affiliated with Gokokuji Temple in Otsuka. The founding priest is called Chokaku Hoin. The statue of the principal deity Yakushi Nyorai is said to be a sacred image carved by Kobo Daishi from sacred stone obtained from the cave of Shijin at Mount Tendai. At the beginning of the Jokyo era, a certain Mr. Suda enshrined it at this temple. {This temple was formerly called Aizen-in}

Inari Shrine　{Located within the temple grounds. It is traditionally said to have been established by Ota Dokan and was formerly located near the present Ichigaya Gate. Around the Genna era, it was moved about two cho north from this temple, and later moved again to this location to serve as the temple's guardian deity}

Shokakusan Gekkeiji Temple　Located southwest, separated by about three cho from the same place. It is a Zen temple of the Saika school affiliated with Engakuji Temple in Kamakura. As one of the Ten Great Temples of Kanto, it was founded by Shibue Tsugennin Tessai and serves as the memorial temple for the Kitsurewawa family. The plaque reading "Shokakusan" hanging at the main gate was written by Zen Master Fusai Sokwan of Nanzenji Temple. The plaque on the bell tower inscribed "Kao-kaku" was written by Lord Kozan. This temple was established during the Bunroku era and was founded by Priest Setsuzan. The statue of the principal deity Shakyamuni Buddha is an Indian Buddha statue brought by Priest Ganjin