【Right Page】
This is said to be a sacred Buddha from where it came (it is said that Buddhist relics are housed within its belly). This temple was formerly located in Ichigaya and was called Enkeisan Heian-ji, but in the first year of Meireki (1655), after the burial of the eldest daughter of Kitsuregawa Saemon-no-kami Minamoto no Yorizumi, the nun Gekkeiin Ryūshitsu Shūshu Taizen-jōni, the temple name was changed.

Sacred Pearl for Safe Childbirth (enshrined at this temple. It is said that the consort of Shogun Ashikaga Takauji possessed this. Women who worship this sacred pearl are said to have no worries about difficult childbirth and greatly revere it. Initially naming this temple Heian-ji was probably based on the meaning of safe childbirth)

Seikōzan Anyō-ji Temple is located in Ichigaya Tanimachi and is also called Rinsen-in. It belongs to the Jōdo sect and is affiliated with Chion-in in Kyoto. It was founded in the second year of Tenshō (1574), and its founding priest was called Shinrensha Shin'yo Jōnin Teikō Oshō. The standing statue of the principal deity Amida Nyorai is three shaku and three sun tall, carved by the monk Eshin Sōzu, and is said to be made from the same wood as the principal deity of Shin'nyodō in Kyoto (according to tradition, during the Tenchō era, the great master Jikaku obtained sacred wood from Nauka Myōjin in Gōshū Province and split it, whereupon the wood grain naturally formed the shape of a Buddha body. From one piece of that wood, two Amida Buddha statues were carved and enshrined at Hiyoshi Nenbutsu-dō and Shin'nyodō in the capital. Later, the monk Eshin Sōzu received divine power and obtained the remaining wood to create this principal deity).

According to tradition, long ago when the founding priest sought to establish a monastery, he found a place where clear spring water bubbled up from beneath the forest (Ichigaya Fujimi-zaka was that former site, and it is now said to be within the grounds of the Owari lord's mansion).

【Left Page】
Also, there was a small cave nearby, from which a white fox appeared and seemed to pay respectful homage to the priest Shin'yo. Therefore, recognizing it as a sacred place, he obtained the land from its owner, a certain Mr. Shimada, and built a temple there (in the second year of Meireki, 1656, it moved to the present location).

Inari Shrine (located within the temple grounds. On the night of New Year's Day in the first year of Manji (1658), an old man in white robes appeared in the dream of the resident priest Shūyo and gave him a message. After Priest Shūyo awoke from his dream and pondered, he thought it must be the white fox that had appeared to the founding priest long ago, and immediately made a formal request to enshrine Inari Myōjin. Also, around that time, a blacksmith named Uda Kunimune lived in this area and deeply revered the deity, and because he was saved from fire through this god's protection, it is commonly called the Fire-Prevention Inari).

Hachiman Shrine (also located within the temple grounds. This was revered as the guardian deity of the castle by Amako Iyo-no-kami Tsunehisa of Izumo Province, and was moved here for certain reasons. The honji Amida Buddha is a work by Jōchō, created in the first year of Chian (1099) upon receiving an imperial decree. It was later passed down in the house of Lord Kanezane of the Tsukino-wa family and made the guardian deity of Tsunehisa's castle. This temple also enshrines the Kōkō Buddha that belonged to the monk Shunkan Sōzu from Hōshō-ji temple, and a Jizō statue made from the same wood as one at Mibu-dera in the capital).

Shichihōzan Yakuō-ji Temple is located to the southwest in the same town, separated by about four chō. It is a Zen temple of the Ōbaku sect affiliated with Manpuku-ji in Uji, Yamashiro Province. It was formerly an old temple of the Shingon sect, but greatly declined in the medieval period and was merely in the form of a grass hermitage until the Genroku era when Zen Master Ryōun restored it (Priest Ryōun was born in Shinshū Province. He was born to a daughter of Takeda Tenkyū and was properly Tenkyū's grandson. He was tonsured at the Sōtō sect temple Kaion-in in Komoro in the same province and later became Ōbaku. He came to Edo and planned to transform various grass hermitages into new temple institutions, but originally establishing new temples was officially prohibited).