【Right Page】
《Marginal note: Although it was difficult, perhaps due to the virtue achieved, permission was finally granted, so all the places called "eight hermitages" in Edo became temples. Kaizoji Temple in Aoyama, Manshoji Temple in Fukagawa, and others are all said to be among them.》

Hitotsugi Yakushi Nyorai 《Marginal note: Enshrined in the same precincts. In ancient times, it stood in the Hitotsugi area of Akasaka and was the principal image of a temple founded by Bodhisattva Gyoki. Now it is written as "Hitotsugi" (人継).》

Okubo Tenmangu Shrine - Located in Okubo, it serves as the tutelary deity of this area. The festival is held on June 25th. The betto (temple administrator) is called Baishosan Taishoin, which is a direct branch temple of Shogoinnomiya and serves as the Edo office of the Honzan school, holding the rank of head guide (daisendatsu). This shrine is commonly called "Natsume no Tenjin" (Jujube Tenjin) or "Nishimuki no Tenjin" (West-facing Tenjin).

《Marginal note: It is probably called so because the shrine building faces west. The origin of calling it "natsume" (jujube) is unknown.》

According to tradition, it was established through the solicitation of Priest Myoe of Toganoo during the Antei era (1227-1229), and was served by Myokei, Kakuun, and others. Later, Ota Dokan donated rice fields. However, during the Tensho era (1573-1592), it was destroyed by war fires, and at that time, the sacred object moved to rest on the branch of a cherry tree in a valley. 《Marginal note: That tree was called "Zuigen-zakura" (Auspicious Manifestation Cherry). It is said to have withered now.》 At this time, a certain member of the Aoyama family consulted with the local people to establish a shrine. When Prince-Priest Doko of Shogoinnomiya came down to the eastern provinces, he made Great Monk Genshin the betto of this shrine. Thus the shrine buildings were gradually completed, and the four seasonal festivals continue without interruption.

Shichimen Daimyojin Shrine - Also located to the east next door, enshrined at Hosenji Temple of the Nichiren sect, Shunjisan. The festival is

【Left Page】
Okubo Shichimen Shrine

Hosenji Temple Main Hall

Main Shrine