【Right Page】
From September 13th to 19th, sutra recitation and dharma teaching take place. The sacred image is said to have been created by the priest Nichigo. This Shichimen-son (Seven-Faced Deity) was the first Shichimen shrine to be established in Edo. Long ago, a certain member of the Misawa clan established it in Okubo, Suruga Province. During the Manji era, it was transferred to this temple. 《Note: Someone says that the Misawa clan member was Kojiro Masahiro, a person from Awaji Province. He later moved to live in Oka Village, Fuji District, Suruga Province. He was one of the Fuji Seventeen Knights and died on May 18th, Enkyo 2 (1309). His Buddhist name was Santaku-in Hossho-nichiko》. Alternatively, it is said to have been moved here from Mount Minobu in Kai Province during the Enpo era. There are many cherry trees within the temple grounds, creating a spectacular sight during the peak of March blooming. 《Note: From Kanbun 3, regular sutra recitation began before this shrine and continues perpetually》

Chingo-zan Jisho-in - Located on the right side of the road to the west of the same place. 《Note: Locals call this place Manju-dani (Steamed Bun Valley)》 It is called Ennyu-ji Temple. It belongs to the Tendai sect under Toei-zan. It is a temple established for the spiritual benefit of Jisho-in-den Kozan-kyokei-daishi, the mother of Princess Chiyo, consort of Lord Mitsutomo, vice-minister of Owari Province. The principal Buddha is Amida Nyorai, and the founding priest is called Nichishu. This temple was originally of the Nichiren sect and was called Honri-zan Jisho-ji, but during the Genbun era, for certain reasons, it was converted to the Tendai sect. This temple is commonly called "Fushi Temple" (Knot Temple). All the temple buildings were constructed by collecting various types of wood with knots, so people find it curious to see. Therefore

【Left Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　
　　　　　　　　　　　　Ensho
　　　　　　　　　　　　(Circular　　　　　　　　Bell
　　　　　　　　　　　　Illumination)
　　　　　　　　　　　　Temple

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Main
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hall　
　　　　
　　　　　Kagura-sho　　　　　　　　　　　Emon Cherry Tree　　　　　　　　
　　Kabuto Pine

　
　Yoroi
　Myo　　　Main Shrine
　Jin
　Shrine