【Right Page】
In the third year, Fujiwara no Hidesato led his military forces to Nakano in this province to destroy him (Taira no Masakado). At that time, he had an illness in his right arm, and there was no medicine in the army camp, which caused him great distress. That night, having received a divine revelation, he prayed to the principal Buddha image of this temple, and his illness was immediately cured. At that time, he also presented a petition for the subjugation of Masakado. Indeed, he succeeded in killing Masakado, so after his triumphant return, he built temple buildings and named it Enshoji Temple. Later, in the second year of Kennin (1202), Edo Minbu no Taifu Yorisuke carried out renovations, but in the eighth year of Koan (1285), it was caught in the flames of war and the Buddhist halls were burned down. Afterward, in the first year of Einin (1293), the high priest Raiyu restored the thatched hermitage and repaired the old records, but during the Tensho era when Uesugi Kagetora fought battles in this area, it was again destroyed by the fires of war. In the eighteenth year of Kanei (1641), Kasuga no Tsubone petitioned for official permission and had it restored once more.

Uemon Cherry Tree {{Located in front of the temple hall. It is a single-petaled variety with exceptionally fine fragrance, a peerless famous tree. According to local tradition, long ago a person named Takeda Uemon lived here and loved this cherry tree. Since it was a famous cherry tree in Kashiwagi village, it was named after Kashiwagi no Uemon from the Tale of Genji. In the Odawara Hojo family's land registry, it says "Ayabe Soshiro's domain: Kashiwagi Tsunohazu"}}

Yoroi Myojin Shrine - Located to the northeast of Enshoji Temple. It belongs to Enshoji Temple. According to tradition, Fujiwara no Hidesato

【Left Page】
killed Masakado, and after his triumphant return, buried Masakado's armor in this place, built a small shrine on top of it, and called it Yoroi Myojin (Armor Deity). In front of the shrine stands an ancient pine called Kabuto-matsu (Helmet Pine). This too is said to be a marker where the helmet was buried.

Yodobashi Bridge - Spans between Naruko-shuku and Nakano village. There are two bridges, large and small, with a water wheel on this side of the bridge. Long ago, when the Shogun came here for falconry, there was an imperial command that this bridge should be named Yodobashi after Yodo in Yamashiro Province, and thus it got this name. {{Someone says that Yodobashi might be Yotobashi. In the Wamyosho, there is a village called Yoto in Toshima District of Musashi Province. Since this place is between Toshima District and Tama District and was a boundary area in ancient times, it might have been called Yotobashi. However, the truth of this is unknown}}

The old names were also Omokage-no-hashi (Shadow Bridge) and Sugatami-no-hashi (Mirror Bridge).

Junisho Gongen Shrine - Located in Tsunohazu village, south of Yodobashi Bridge. The enshrined deities are the same as Kumano Gongen of Kii Province. It is a shrine served by Shogan Zenji Temple of Hongo village. According to the shrine records, during the Oei era, there was a person called Suzuki Kuro, a descendant of Suzuki Shoji Shigekuni, who lived in Fujishiro in Kii Province but fell into decline and moved to live in this area of Nakano. Since Kumano Gongen was his tutelary deity, he cleared a hilltop near his residence, built a small shrine, and maintained deep faith. However, Kuro once went to northern Shimousa, Katsu...