【Right Page】
A person named Suzuki Kurou, recorded in the shrine records of the former Junisho Gongen as being the true work of Prince Shotoku, left his home country of Kishu and moved to live in this land of Nakano with his wife. Later he obtained good fortune and his house became wealthy and prosperous. However, perhaps due to karmic destiny, his only daughter suddenly died and manifested in the form of a snake. Through the dharma transformation of Zen Master Shokuoku (who resided at Saishoji Temple in Sekimoto, Soshu), she was able to escape from her animal form and ascend to heaven. (The purification pond of Junisho Gongen Shrine is called Snake Pond because that snake lived there, so the local people named it thus. The dharma robes that Zen Master Shokuoku wore at that time are still preserved at this temple) Hereupon the parents earnestly awakened bodhi mind, received dharma joy and precepts, and he renamed himself Shoren. He also demolished his residence to make it into a temple, and used the characters of his daughter's dharma name Shogan as the temple name. (His daughter's dharma name was called Shinso Shogan Zenjo. In the second year of Eiroku, in the Odawara Hojo family's domain service record, the name Shogan Temple in Nakano was noted within the domain of a person called Shimazu Matajiro - this must refer to our temple. If so, it was called Shogan Temple until around the Eiroku period, and later was changed to Jogan Temple) He built various halls and a three-story pagoda, practiced as an upasaka throughout his life, and finally passed away in the year Koshin of Eikyo 12. (The three-story pagoda is now to the right of the Nakano thoroughfare. See the next section below. There is land called Pagoda Site within the current temple grounds, which is its old site, and the Shakyamuni Buddha statue that is the temple's principal image is said to be the principal image from within that pagoda) Later, in the year Heishin of Bunmei 8, the fourth-generation descendant from Zen Master Shokuoku, Priest Senan Sotei, took the head seat at this temple and carried on the dharma transmission.

【Left Page】
The dharma successors who carry on the lamp continue in an unbroken line to this day. The plaque reading "Tahozan" hanging at the main gate and the four characters "Jogan Zen Temple" hanging in the main hall are written by the brush of Priest Setsuho.

Grave of Nakano Choja Shoren (Located within the grove in the same temple grounds. This is the grave of founder Suzuki Kurou. The stone pagoda has now collapsed and is half buried in the earth. In a booklet called "Murasaki no Hitomoto," it says that on the ridgepole tag of Yakushi Temple called Shogan Temple in Nakano, Tama District, Bushu, it was written "Asahi Choja Shoren," etc. Sho and Sho are homophonous. This should be compared with the section on Takada's 108 Mounds in the same volume)

Nakano refers to the west of Yodobashi. (The Josui River flowing under Yodobashi Bridge forms the district boundary between Toshima District and Tama District) This land belongs to Tama District. It is said to be so named because it is in the center of Musashino. (In the domain service record of the Odawara Hojo family from Eiroku 2, lands noted as Asagaya within Nakano under Ota Shinrokuro's holdings, and Nakano Oba Genrokuro's portion are added)

From Hokkoku Kiko: At a place called Nakano in Musashino, at the invitation of one called Taira no Shiketoshi, I parted the boundless morning dew and gazed out, thinking that the limit was only the white clouds hanging on the tips of every blade of grass, then returned to the village of Nakayatori:
"The dew-clearing path returns from sleeves to the vanishing grass blades of Musashino plain" - Gyoei

Nakano Seven Pagodas: Their locations cannot be known today. Someone says that about three locations are known. According to local legend, Nakano Choja Shoren built 108 mounds between Takada and Okubo for offering to Buddha. (This should be compared with the section on Takada's 108 Mounds below) Here the seven pagodas and...