【Right Page】
　　　Understanding the elephant's heart / Even becoming tamed to the hands of servants who are not Chinese　　Same
　　　This too / Writing down that this is the time / First seeing the elephant's Yamato poetry　Same
　《Fumyō Chokuin Collection》
　　　In this country / Does the elephant also grow tame? Truly / Though it appears so, it is not fierce　　Kōei
　　　Feeding the beast / bamboo leaves, waiting for this time / Birds eating fruit also await this reign　　　Same
　《Hōun Collection》　
　　　Supporting each other / If the people's strength can also be added / We see this as a sign of a prosperous age　　Jitsuin
　　　Come now again / What we had not seen, we have seen in Yamato / The elephant or pine tree, though we knew only by name　Same
　　　Even helping / the people, if the elephant's strength / Were to last for years, this age should be prosperous　Same
　《Personal Collection》
　　　This lord / What furry creature knows? With feeling / Its form too, we see deep within today　　　　　Michimi
　　　From its own dwelling / country a thousand ri in that direction / From far away, we think of the elephant's heart　Kōfuku
　　　Famous by name / This furry creature from distant borders / Seeing it not as a painting but real is also wondrous　Tamehisa

Momozono (Peach Garden)　About ten chō northwest of the same place. Around the Kyōhō period, peach trees were planted throughout all the fields in this area, and by imperial command at that time, this land was designated to be called Momozono. Even now during the third month, the red and white colors create a spectacular sight. At this place there is

【Left Page】
　a resting place used by the Shōgun family during hunting excursions. Also, the bridge spanning the small stream flowing in front of the hill is called Ishigami Bridge《This stream is the overflow from the pond of Sanpōji temple at Ishigami》

Momozono Kannon Hall　Local people call it Momoidō. It is housed in a Zen temple called Kōenji in Kōenji village at the same location. The principal image is Shō Kannon, said to be carved by Priest Eshin《This temple belongs to Jōganji in Nakano. Founded during the Kōji period, the founding priest was called Kenshitsu Oshō. Long ago, the Shōgun family frequently stopped at this temple and there was a temporary palace, so the temple's mountain name is also called Gotenyama. Also, since there were many peach trees in the temple precincts at that time, there was an imperial command that it should be called Momozono. Later, in the Kyōhō period, the peach garden was newly relocated to the land of Nakano, many peach trees were planted among the fields, and it was named Momozono. Therefore, local people say this temple was the old site of Momozono》

Asagaya Shinmei Shrine　Located in Asagaya to the west of the same area. It is about eighteen chō to the right from the Nakano road《Asagaya appears in the land register of the Odawara Hōjō family as "Asagaya within Nakano," part of Ōta Shinrokurō's domain, and was apparently a hamlet name that belonged to Nakano in ancient times》The deity enshrined is the same as at Ise. The sacred object is one sacred stone. September 16th of each year is designated as the festival day. The temple administrator follows Shingon Buddhism and is called Akokusan Sesonin《It belongs to Hōsenji in Nakano. That is, the former site of Hōsenji》According to tradition, in the 44th year of Emperor Keikō, when Prince Yamato Takeru subjugated the eastern barbarians and returned in triumph, he rested at this place, so afterwards the local people [commemorated] the Prince's military achievements