【Right Page】
Inokashira Benzaiten Shrine　Located in Mure Village. Inokashira Pond is spiritually powerful, with the shrine enshrined on the central island.
　　The supervising temple is of the Tendai sect and is called Taiseiji Temple. According to tradition, it was founded by Kamakura Udaijin Minamoto no Yoritomo in the 8th year of Kenkyū (1197). 《Marginal note: During the Shōkyō period, when Nitta Yoshisada confronted Kamakura, he prayed for military victory at this shrine and destroyed the Hōjō family》
　　The sacred image of the celestial maiden as the principal deity was created by Dengyō Daishi. 《Marginal note: In the 13th year of Kan'ei (1636), the shrine building was constructed》
Inokashira Pond　This is the source of Kanda Jōsui (aqueduct). Its length curves from northwest to southeast for about 300 steps,
　　and its width is over 100 steps. There are seven places in the pond where clear springs well up, and it
　　never dries up even during droughts. Therefore, it is also called the "Seven Wells Pond." According to tradition, in the 11th year of Keichō (1606),
　　Tokugawa Ieyasu happened to visit here and praised the pond water for being clear, cold, and sweet-tasting,
　　having it drawn for tea water. Also, in the 6th year of Kan'ei (1629),
　　Tokugawa Iemitsu visited here and deeply loved this pond water, ordering that it be
　　drawn to Edo Castle. He personally carved "Inokashira" with his small sword on a kobushi magnolia tree
　　beside the pond. From this time onward, this became the name of the pond. 《Marginal note: That kobushi magnolia tree is preserved at Taiseiji Temple》 During the Jōō
　　period, the government opened the Inokashira waterway and first drew it to Kanda. 《Marginal note: Hence Kanda》

【Left Page】
　　《Marginal note: has the designation of Jōsui. In the summer of Kan'ei 8 (1631), when the pond water dried up, the Great Priest Tenkai performed prayers, and there were miraculous events at that time. Afterward, it welled up as before and never dried up. Even now, every year from March》
　　《Marginal note: 15th to April 15th, water blessing ceremonies are held》 The willow of the sacred toothpick is behind Shōten Hall. 《Marginal note: Called the "Seat Willow"》 The Reclining Dragon
　　wisteria 《Marginal note: Its current location is uncertain》 The Three Willows are called sacred trees. The hill to the northwest is now called
　　Goten-yama because there was once a shogun's palace there. 《Marginal note: Now it has become government forest》
　　《Marginal note: with luxuriant tree growth》
　　This pond has clear springs and the water never decreases even in hot weather. It constantly
　　bubbles up vigorously. The location is most tranquil, with many willows around the pond. When early summer arrives,
　　the new leaves form dense shade, and the light green and beautiful blue seem to cover the azure sky.
Kanai Bridge　Located on the embankments of both banks of the Tama River's jōsui canal, spanning Kanai Village, hence the name.
　　《Marginal note: From the water source at Ogawa Village to the northeast of Shin Bridge, to the intake of Senkawa Jōsui, about one ri. Both banks are entirely cherry trees, with the left and right banks spanning nine villages. There are seven bridges of various sizes》
　　《Marginal note: all named after their localities, like this Kanai Bridge. This water flow branches north from Hamura in the west and flows directly about ten ri to Edo. This is called Tamagawa Jōsui. During the Jōō period, this》
　　《Marginal note: water flow was first drawn to great Edo》 The cherry blossoms of this area were planted during the Kyōhō period 《Marginal note: or some say Genbun 2 (1737)》 when District Magistrate Kawasaki
　　received the shogun's command and brought cherry saplings from places like Mount Yoshino in Yamato Province and Sakuragawa in Hitachi Province