【Right Page】
This was the place where they were planted, and their number was approximately over ten thousand trees. (Some ancient trees that still exist today exceed one armspan in circumference. Until around the Enkyō period, the government had these planted every year. Now the number has greatly decreased to about three hundred trees.) They begin to bloom around the 54th or 55th day from Risshun (beginning of spring), with the 60th day being the peak blooming period. By around the 70th day, the petals fall. Although there may be slight variations in timing depending on the year's temperature, it generally doesn't vary much.

Especially around Koganei Bridge, the scenery is magnificent, and during the height of full bloom, the cherry blossoms on both banks frame the Tamagawa River flow, creating a vista of a thousand ri in a single glance, with truly no visible end before or behind. Playing here is like being among white clouds, making one wonder if they've reached the immortal realm of Hōrai - it is truly a wondrous sight. Therefore, in recent years, literati and poets from the capital do not mind the distance and come here for pleasure excursions and viewing.

Tsukudo Myōjin Shrine: Located in Tsukudo Shirogane-chō. (This area is on the border between Ushigome and Kohinata, with the shrine belonging to Ushigome.) The temple administrator follows the Tendai sect and is called Zenryūzan Jōjuin. The honjibutsu is Shō Kannon, created by Dengyō Daishi. According to tradition, in Tenkyō 3 (940), after Sōma no Masakado was executed, his head was moved to the Kannon Hall at Hirakawa in Edo of this province, and it was enshrined as Tsukudo Myōjin.

【Left Page】
In Bunmei 10 (1478), Ōta Dōkan built the shrine as the guardian deity of Edo Castle. The Eikyōki states: "Following the example of Hikawa Myōjin Shrine located northwest of Kawagoe Castle in Iruma District, Musashi Province, Tsukudo Myōjin was invited to the northwest of Edo Castle on the 5th day of the 6th month of Bunmei 10 (1478)." (Edo Sunago cites the Eikyōki saying this, but this matter does not appear in the Eikyōki, so it should be examined.) Also, in the Chūko Chiranki, under the section about building Edo Castle, it states "Tsukudo Myōjin is of the same essence as Hikawa, therefore it is Susanoo-no-mikoto."

(Upon reflection, Masakado's spirit was probably enshrined together later. Nankōtei Chabanashi says: "Tsukudo was formerly written as Tsugido. In ancient times it was called Edo Myōjin and was the guardian deity of Edo Castle. Since 'e' (江) and 'tsugi' (次) have similar character forms, the error probably came about at some point." Based on this consideration, this shrine might be the Edo Shrine mentioned in the Musashi Province Fudoki. The enshrined deity is also Susanoo-no-mikoto, which matches well with the Fudoki. Furthermore, in Volume 5 under Kanda Myōjin, there is an examination of Edo shrines attached, which should be consulted for comparison.)

This shrine was originally located at Kami-Hirakawa, then moved to Tayasu in Tenshō 7 (1579), and then relocated to the current location in Genna 2 (1616). (Formerly written as Tsukudo, later changed to Tsukido.) In medieval times when it was enshrined at Tayasu, it was called Tayasu Myōjin. The festival is held on September 15th.

Tsukido Hachimangū: This is a local deity shrine adjacent to Tsukudo Myōjin's precinct, with a Tendai sect administrator.