【Right Page】
This is said to be the site of a temporary palace built by the Shogun's family as lodging during falconry expeditions.

Inryōzan Saishōji Temple - Located in Enoki-machi in the same area, this is a Zen temple of the Kyoto Myōshinji school (it is said that in the past, abbots were sent from Myōshinji on a rotating basis). The principal image is Shakyamuni Buddha. The founding priest was Zen Master Shinin Shōden, and the founder was the nun Soshin. This nun was the daughter of Makino Hyōbu Shōyū Masaharu and served as a lady-in-waiting close to the Shogun's family alongside Kasuga no Tsubone. The temple has a Buddha hall, with Hōshin-in serving as the administrator (this temple was founded by the nun Hōshin). The pond in front of the Buddha hall is called Hōō Pond. The Reiki water is located on the grounds of Hōshin-in, and during the Kan'ei period, it was drawn up and offered as tea water to the Shogun. The founder's pagoda is managed by Yōshun-in. All buildings including six monks' quarters, sutra hall, bell tower, kitchen, bathhouse, etc. stand magnificently in rows, beautifully arranged (the plaque on the Sanbutsu Hall reading "Universal Shade and Coolness" is the authentic calligraphy of Prince Kōkei of Zuishii-in, First Rank Quasi-Empress).

Site of the Former Residence of Bungo Koshijū Ōtomo Yoshinobu - The same temple is designated as this historical site according to tradition. In the second year of Bunroku, Ōtomo Yoshinobu participated in the Korean campaigns, but due to neglect in military preparations,

【Left Page】
he was punished by Toyotomi Taikō, moved to this province, and made to live in seclusion in this place. This location is said to be that historical site (According to "Nankō Sawa," Ōtomo Saemon-no-kami Yoshisumi had his domain confiscated due to neglect during the Korean campaigns of the Bunroku years, and later died in Hitachi Province. His heir, Sōgorō Yoshinobu, lived in this place. Yoshinobu was granted the court rank of Junior Fourth Rank and appointed as chamberlain, hence he was called Bungo Koshijū. After the Battle of Sekigahara in the fifth year of Keichō, he was granted land worth 3,500 koku in Tsukuba District of Jōshū Province, but died young. Also, the name Yoshinori recorded in the publication "Edo Kanoko" appears to be an error for Yoshinobu). Later, Ōhashi Ryūkei resided in this place (In a work called "Bōkai Maidan," which records events from the 17th year of Kan'ei, it is written that the Shogun's secretary Ōhashi Ryūkei was granted the Takada Ōtomo residence, and there was a Tenman-gū shrine on that land) (Details are given under Takada Tenman-gū).

Ōtomo Pine - Said to be located on the land of the Takano clan of the gun-bearer unit, which continues east of Tenjin-machi in the same area. This was formerly a pine in the garden of Ōtomo Yoshinobu's villa, but it was later lost through confiscation, so the landowner, lamenting the loss of this historical site, planted a young tree (According to one person, Ōtomo family tradition says this was a pine in front of a tea house built by the retainer Kira Denzaemon when Ōtomo Sōgorō Yoshinobu moved to Mushū Province, and the name Inryōzan Saishōji also derives from this pine).

Ōtomo Inari Shrine - Located in the same place, this is also said to have been established through Yoshinobu's solicitation.

Ichijuzan Sōhakuji Temple - Located on the side street facing Saishōji Temple, this Nichiren sect temple belongs to Chōmyōji in Kyoto. The founding priest was called Nichii Shōnin. The image of the principal Buddha Shakyamuni is by Dengyō Daishi.