【Right Page】
It is traditionally said to have been created. During the Enryaku era (782-806), the Great Teacher Dengyō, upon receiving the imperial edict of Emperor Kanmu, carved this sacred image at Mount Hiei for the protection of the nation, disaster prevention, and longevity. However, in the second year of Genki, year of the Metal Boar (1571), when Lord Oda Nobunaga set fire to Mount Hiei, all Buddhist halls and monks' quarters were reduced to ashes. At that time, there was a guardian who rescued only this principal image, and it remained unharmed. Emperor Go-Mizunoo, who deeply devoted himself to Buddhism, worshipped this image and bestowed upon it an imperial calligraphy adding the title "Shakyamuni Buddha." It is said that Master Nichii received this principal image through divine inspiration and opened this temple to enshrine it.

Mount Unkō Sōsanji Temple - Located in the same area, Benzaiten-machi (the locals call this place "Totomeki"). It is a Zen temple of the Sōtō sect affiliated with Kichijōji Temple in Komagome. The principal image is Shakyamuni Nyorai, with Monju and Fugen as attendant bodhisattvas. The founding abbot was called Kan'ei Rin'etsu Oshō. The plaque "Daiichigi" (First Principle) on the main gate was written by Zen Master Shin'etsu, the plaque "Mount Unkō" on the middle gate was calligraphed by Oka Ryōhitsu, the three characters "Sōsanji" on the Buddha hall plaque were written by Kiyō Dōei, and the plaque on the meditation hall is said to be by Ōbaku Etsuzan. It is traditionally said that the temple's founder was called Ushigome Kunai-no-Shōyū Fujiwara no Katsuyuki (appointed to Junior Fifth Rank Lower in the first year of Kōji. His dharma name was Sanshūin-den Shingai Seiun Anju).

【Left Page】
(There are graves at this temple) He was a descendant of Chinzufu General Musashi-no-kami Hidesato, named Ōko Shigetoshi (built a castle in Ōko, Kōzuke Province, and lived there. He was thus called Ōko Tarō. When it came to Shigeyuki's time, he moved to live in this Ushigome. The local people called him Ushigome-dono. According to someone, in that family lineage, Ōko Tarō Nariyuki's tenth-generation descendant, the same Hikojirō Shigeharu, moved from Ōko in Jōshū to Bushū Ushigome). He was the eldest son of the tenth-generation descendant Shigeyuki (Shigeyuki was called Kunai-no-Shōyū. His dharma name was Unkōin-den Jitsuō Sōsan Daian-ju. He died in the twelfth year of Tenbun. There is also a grave at this temple).

He served under Hōjō Ujiyasu and controlled the lands of Bushū Ushigome and Imai (perhaps Imai in Akasaka), Sakurada, Hibiya (someone says that in their family records it's written as Hibiya), and other areas including Horikiri and Chiba in Shimōsa, residing in Ushigome (In the Eiroku-era register of the Hōjō family's retainers, it states that the Ōko clan controlled lands including Edo, Ushigome, Hibiya, Hongō, and Horikiri in Kasai, but doesn't record the names Imai and Chiba. Someone says that according to the Ushigome clan genealogy, they added place names including Ushigome and other areas like Takada, Ochiai, Sekiguchi, Kohinata, Tomizuka, Koishikawa's Kanasugi, Ichigaya, Tayasu, Sakurada, Asakusa, and the same Kanasugi to their domain records. Upon consideration, "Asakusa" likely refers to Asakusa). In the thirteenth year of Tenbun, year of the Wood Dragon (1544), he established this temple to pray for his father Shigeyuki's spiritual repose, donated temple lands, and adopted his father Shigeyuki's dharma name as the temple's name. In the twenty-fourth year of the same era, year of the Wood Rabbit (1555), he was appointed to Junior Fifth Rank Lower.

At that time, he petitioned Ujiyasu to change from Ōko and adopted Ushigome, the name of his domain, as his clan name (After the fall of the Hōjō clan in the eighteenth year of Tenshō, Katsuyuki's son Katsushige first had an audience with the Great Divine Lord in the nineteenth year of Tenshō, year of the Metal Rabbit, and thereafter served under his banner. Someone says that Katsuyuki's son was called Toshishige, who first had an audience with the third Shogun in the fifteenth year of Keichō and served the honorable house. Which of these two accounts is correct?).

Grave of Ōko Shigeyuki and his son Katsuyuki (Located among the pagodas within the temple grounds, with the dharma names of father and son and their biography carved on a single stone monument. Someone says it was written by Ōtaka Sueaki).