【Right Page】

(Continued) He ordered a Buddhist sculptor to make an image of himself, wrote the title of a sutra on a white cloth, and draped it over the image's hands, entrusting it with the words: "This is Nichiren himself" (and so forth). When this sacred image was moved to that place, the plague swiftly receded. For this reason, the image was enshrined at Tanjōji Temple in Kominato; but then, for the wider propagation of the sect, on the sixteenth day of the second month of Kanna 7 (1630), year of the Metal Horse, it was transferred to this temple. This temple was founded by Katō Higo-no-kami Kiyomasa, and the sacred image of the sect's founder is said to change its garments according to the seasons, just as at Ikegami (Honmonji Temple). (For this reason, the garments are provided year after year by someone of the Abe clan.)

Shinmei-gū Shrine　Located in the large fields of Waseda (Ōtanbo). The enshrined deities are three: Amaterasu, Kasuga, and Hachiman. It is jointly administered by Tōkakuji Temple, the administrative temple of the Akagi Myōjin shrine in the same area. The festival is held on the sixteenth day of the ninth month. The history of when the deity was enshrined is said to be unclear. (It is said to have been moved here in Tenna 2 [1682] from Enoki-machi in the same area. It is said that the present residence of someone of the Hayashi clan of the Ōgobangumi [Great Guard Unit] stands on the former site.)

Former Site of Akagi Myōjin Shrine　Located in the same area, along a small stream at the edge of the paddies. This is the place where the Ōgo clan first enshrined Akagi Myōjin. Therefore, on the day of the festival, the portable shrine (mikoshi) is ceremonially brought to this site.

Honmyōzan Kantsūji Temple　Located above the southern slope below the riding grounds of Takada Ana-Hachiman Shrine. It is of the Nichiren sect—

【Left Page】(Illustration)

Myōga Fields (茗荷畠)

　　Shinmei-gū Shrine

　　　　Myōken　　Inari

　Main Shrine

　　　Kagura Hall

　　　　　　　　Jizō