【Right Page】
and belongs to Tanjoji Temple in Kominato. The founding priest is called Jyakuyoin Nichiken Shonin. The sacred statue of Bishamonten'o enshrined in this temple is a work by Gyoki Bosatsu, and was moved here by the mother of Echigo Shosho Tadateru-kyo from Nichochoji Temple in Takada, Echigo Province.

(According to the Biography of Nichiren Shonin, when the virtues of the Lotus Sutra spread by the patriarch manifested and he was pardoned from Kamakura in Bun'ei 11 and came from Sado Province to Takada in Echigo, there was a Shingon temple in that area. The Bishamonten of this temple manifested as an old man, guided the great master, and led him to that temple for lodging. Since there was evidence that the feet of the principal image were already soiled with mud, the temple monk Kichisho found this strange and immediately took refuge in the master's dharma, changing his name to Nicho. This is Nichochoji Temple in Takada, Echigo Province. Uesugi Kenshin deeply revered this sacred image and it was transmitted in his family, but when Kenshin died in Tensho 6, it was later moved to the castle in Yonezawa, Oshu, and then enshrined in this temple.)

The statue of Marishiten is under a pine tree, said to be a devotional Buddha of Yoriyoshi Ason, invited by Lord Yoritomo. This area is said to be the ruins of the ancient Kamakura Highway.

In front of the guest hall stands a single pine tree called Fumon-no-matsu (Universal Gate Pine). Since this is a monastery for spreading the Lotus Sutra, it was named by adopting the meaning of "universal hearing" (fumon) from the Wonderful Sutra.

The Thousand-Armed Kannon from Three Countries is enshrined in the pure temple called Saihouji, north of the slope at the same location. This temple belongs to Zojoji and was built in Kan'ei 16 (1639), with Priest Kyoyo Teigi as

【Left Page】
the founding priest. According to tradition, this is a sacred Buddha from Central India that was bestowed upon Kobo Daishi by Acharya Keika of Seiryu Temple in Tang China long ago. After the master's return to Japan, it was enshrined in the Great Pagoda of Mount Koya, but a monk called Ryusui who lived at the foot of that mountain received it through divine inspiration and moved it to Asakusa in Musashi Province. Due to certain circumstances, the founding priest Teigi moved it to this temple. Hence it has the designation of "transmitted from three countries."

Tomb of Jiraku Koji (Located in the area of the egg-shaped pagoda within the temple grounds. Born in Bizen Province, he lived to be 114 years old. He always appeared like a person in the prime of life. He could not write characters, but following the teachings of many people, from around age 100 he learned to write the single character for "longevity" and would write this on paper to give to people. He died on the third day of the twelfth month of Horeki 3 (1753).)

Kikakuzan Seikanji Temple, also called Igyoin, neighbors to the north. It belongs to the Jodo sect under Reigan Temple. The statue of the Five Wisdom Tathagatas as the principal image (each eight shaku tall) is the work of the founding priest Mokushiki Hon'yo Shonin and Priest Shufu Seikan. This is a hall for constant nembutsu practice, a pure and dustless Buddhist realm. This temple was formerly a small hermitage, in front of which four pine trees were planted to determine the cardinal directions, and it was called Hoshoan. Now, forty to fifty steps to the south, across the road on the opposite side, there is a Koshin Hall. This is precisely the site of the former Hoshoan.