【Right Page】
Site of the Noh Stage (Located to the left of the main shrine, only the foundation stones remain today. It is said to be the site where Kanze-dayū performed a lifetime noh performance in March of Kan'en 3, year of the Metal Horse)

Originally, the reason why the temple that serves this shrine is called Kōshōzan is also due to the miraculous power of the sacred tree.
The way of the gods and the sovereign is straight, and in peaceful reigns there is no turbidity, like the clear vows of Iwashimizu spring
which are considered most sacred. Especially since the restoration in the Genroku era, the divine
virtue of wakō dōjin has appeared day by day and become manifest.

Takada Inari Myōjin Shrine: Located in the same area, to the right of Hachiman Shrine, separated by a road. It is called the tutelary deity of Totsuka Village, so it is also called Totsuka Inari. The hon-ji buddha, Sacred Kannon, is the work of Great Master Tokuitsu of Nanto. According to tradition, the origins of this shrine are most ancient, but in Bunki 1, year of the Metal Rooster, Uesugi Jibu-no-shōyū Nyūdō Tomoyoshi (also called Nankōtei Tomooki) rebuilt the shrine building following a divine dream and granted the land of Totsuka Village as shrine territory. (The shrine preserves an old ridgepole inscription that reads: "Tenbun 19, February 29: Rebuilt by Ushigome Shuzen Tokikuni, Bettō Hōsen")

(Records show carpenter Yozaemon and Zaemon Gorō. Considering this, the name Ushigome Shuzen Tokikuni has not yet been verified. It is recorded in the family genealogy and records of Ushigome Sōsanji Temple that he was a descendant of the Ōgochi clan of Jōshū, lived in Ushigome in Bushū, and changed the family name to Ushigome in Tenbun 24. Therefore, considering the timeline, the Ōgochi clan had not yet changed to the Ushigome name around Tenbun 19. So the Tokikuni mentioned here might naturally be a different person. This should be corrected at another time)

Later, in Genroku 15, year of the Water Horse, in April, there was a divine revelation, and from the hollow of an enoki tree

【Left Page】
a sacred spring gushed forth. Those suffering from eye diseases who wash with this sacred water indeed experience miraculous
healing. Therefore, local people also call this shrine Mizu Inari (Water Inari). Every year on the first Horse day of February there is
ritual archery. The festival is held on September 9th.

Sacred Spring (Refers to water that drips from the hollow of the enoki tree in front of the shrine. It is said to have miraculous power)

Bishamon Hall: Located on a small hill within the same grounds. The sacred image of the principal deity Bishamon Ten-ō was
carved by Great Master Jikaku and is said to have been the personal devotional buddha of Musashi-no-kami Fujiwara no Hidesato.
According to tradition, Great Master Jikaku went to Karasaki Beach in Gōshū and found a flute.
Inside was a sacred image of Tamonten measuring one sun and eight bu in height. The master rejoiced and made this his personal
devotional buddha. During the Ninju era, he returned to his native Shimotsuke Province, entered Daijiji Temple in Sano, and
carved a Tamonten image measuring two shaku and five sun in height, enshrining the original sacred image within its interior,
and installed it at Daijiji Temple. During the Tenkyō era, after Musashi-no-kami Hidesato's conquest
of Taira no Masakado, it was moved to this location. (In a booklet called "Murasaki no Hitomoto," it states that when Hidesato defeated Masakado, he deeply venerated Bishamon Ten, and Bishamon Ten appeared above his helmet, which he then modeled and carved. This differs from the temple tradition)

The plaque of Tamonten hanging in the worship hall is from Nagasaki