【Right Page】
It is the brushwork of Dōei. Next to it is something called Asahian (Morning Sun Hermitage), and the view is most elegant. The
cuckoos of this place are renowned for singing earlier than anywhere else in the world, hence they gained their fame. The Flag-raising Cherry is
located beside the stone lantern in front of the same hall and is now a young tree. (Some people say that Hidesato raised his flag at this place, or alternatively this place is said to be the old site of the Nitta family's military camp according to tradition, with names like Flag-raising Cherry and Helmet-hanging Plum, which were by the pond in front of the Inari shrine but died and were replanted, as mentioned in Nankōtei Sawa. Flag-raising Cherry is a type of cherry called Hotate-zakura with single six petals, where one petal protrudes separately like a raised sail, resembling a raised flag. This is called Hotate-zakura. It may be a mistaken tradition of the local people)

The Ship-mooring Pine was on the middle slope of the mountain behind the same hall, but it too has now withered. (Long ago, when the Shogun was hunting in this area, he asked about the age of this pine. When a certain temple monk answered that it was about a thousand years old, there was an imperial command that it should be called the Thousand-year Pine)

The matter of the Ship-mooring Pine is detailed in the section on Mejiro Higurashi Seiun Temple in Volume 5.
Imori Pond is also at the foot of the same mountain, and because there are many newts in the water,
it has this name. (Around the Kan'ei era, by imperial command it was called "Imori-ga-ike" [Newt Pond])

Zen'ei-zan Hōsenji Temple: It serves as the bettō temple for both Inari and Bishamonten shrines, belonging to the Tendai sect of Tō-
eizan. The year of its founding has not yet been determined. The image of the principal deity Yakushi Nyorai was
created by Great Master Dengyō. (Someone says it is the same body as the Tako Yakushi of Kyoto) According to tradition, in Bunki 1, year of the Metal Rooster, Uesugi Jibu-no-shōyū
Tomoyoshi (or Tomooki) felt a divine dream and later rebuilt the Inari shrine building, and also founded
this temple, becoming its great patron. (Zen'ei is said to be Tomoyoshi's dharma name. Later, in Tenbun 19, year of the Metal Dog, Ushigome

【Left Page】
A person named Shuzen Tokikuni rebuilt both the shrine and temple, as recorded on a ridgepole inscription.
(The temple has what is called Kusunoki Masashige's helmet, with "Made by Sadanari, resident of Toyohara, Echizen Province" carved inside. Its authenticity is unknown)

The Perpetual Nembutsu Hall is outside the main compound. The image of the principal deity Amida Buddha is said to be the work of Prince Shōtoku. (A bronze statue of Jizō is enshrined in the hall)

Takada Fuji-san (Located behind Inari Shrine, made by stacking rocks to imitate its form. It was completed in An'ei 9, year of the Metal Rat. A person called Tōshirō, a great guide of Mount Fuji living in this area, is said to have planned this. Every year from June 15th to 18th, the mountain is opened to allow pilgrimage. Asama Shrine has been established at the base of the mountain)

Former Site of Prince Sōra's Military Camp: The mountain forest of Hōsenji Temple is designated as this historic site. In Shōhei 7, year of the Water Dragon, of Emperor Go-Murakami,
when the Nitta family accompanied Shinano-no-miya Prince Sōra in the Battle of Musashi
Plains, this was the site of their military camp. (Prince Sōra was the third imperial prince of Emperor Go-Daigo, called Shinano-no-miya)

From Shinsen'yōshū, Miscellaneous section: Having stayed long in the eastern regions, devoted solely to the warrior's
way, even receiving imperial edicts for the position of Seitō Shōgun seemed unexpected, so I composed:

Who would have thought that I, who never touched the catalpa bow, would become one who rises and sleeps in remote lands? - Prince Sōra
(Around the same time, when crossing into Musashi Province and staying at a place called Kotesashi-hara, organizing troops, I urged the warriors to be valiant and composed this in continuation of my thoughts)

For my lord, for the world, what could be precious? If it be a life worth sacrificing - Same [Prince Sōra]