[Right page]
fled to the back, while his wife ran out to the front entrance carrying their youngest son, but was crushed to death instantly under a collapsed house. The master, unaware of this, tried to break through the roof ridge to rescue her since his wife was trapped under the house. However, it was a storehouse-style building with thick layers of earth piled under the tiles, thick boards underneath that, and ceiling boards below, making it difficult to break through easily. With the help of others, they finally managed to cut through the rafters with a saw and rescue those trapped. All the neighborhood children who had been there since evening were saved at this time. A servant was buried under the collapsed storehouse walls with only his head showing and unable to move his body - he too was gradually rescued by removing the earth. A clerk named Bōkichi was also rescued from under the house. (His hand was visible through a gap in the debris, and as people passed over this spot while fleeing, regardless of gender they called out and grabbed his sleeve to pull him, but everyone shook free and fled.) However, his wife and youngest child

[Left page]
had gone somewhere unknown. Wondering if they were under this house and already dead, or if perhaps they might still be alive, he continued calling out at the top of his voice for several hours until the fire approached, but received no answer. As the fierce fire gradually drew near and he could no longer remain, he reluctantly left the place at others' urging. Thinking they might have evacuated to their family temple Daion-ji, he went there to inquire, but learned that this temple had already collapsed and the head priest had also died, crushed underneath. When evacuating the quarter, he heard voices of men and women from under the houses crying "Help us! We'll burn to death! It's hot! Unbearable!" - hearing this made his heart feel as though it would break. Though his heart was unwilling while not knowing his wife and children's safety, and since he alone had no power to save the many people in distress, he had no choice but to ignore their cries and flee. After the fire subsided, he searched out the bodies of his wife and child, and his grief and tears knew no end.