[Right page]
However, this day passed without incident.
The above is the account from Mr. Takeshima.

　　　○The following twelve items are all tales from the pleasure quarters, heard from many people
○Tsuji Den'emon, a man from Ginza, was visiting a brothel and had fallen asleep drunk when the earthquake struck. The second floor tilted and collapsed over a ditch. When he awoke, he found himself still on the tatami mats but with no roof above, seeing the twinkling stars. Fortunately, both he and the courtesan survived unharmed. (Story from Unkakudō)
○Morichi, son of the painter Suzuki Kiitsu, was on friendly terms with the master of the Okamotoya brothel and had gone there on the night of the second for conversation when suddenly the earthquake struck and the house began to collapse. With no time to escape, he tried to climb to the second floor, but the stairs were shaking and he couldn't climb them. Soon the building collapsed and he found himself trapped between the transom and the cei-

[Left page]
ling, but unharmed. In panic and haste, he tried to break through with a candlestick that was at hand, but his sides were pinned and he could do nothing. Some of the men and women in the house were probably crushed to death. Others like himself were trapped under the roof and unable to get out, crying out in agony here and there, but gradually their voices grew weaker, and when the voices stopped after some time, it seemed each had died, making him feel even more forlorn. He thought somehow to escape but could do nothing about it. Meanwhile, fire spread and the area where the shoji screens had fallen became bright, allowing him to see where there were gaps, and he crawled out to escape. When he returned home, his father's house in Shitaya Sakamoto (a townhouse that locals called the Morikawa estate) had also collapsed, and Kiitsu's granddaughter (wife of Yamamoto Sodō) who had been staying there was also crushed to death. (Story from Lord Katsuda Sanzaemon)
○The wife of Hariganeya (a brothel) in Kyōmachi Second District was much older than her husband, and she pondered deeply