[Right page]
Upon reflection, when an aged woman is married to a young husband, it is customary for her to be abandoned in old age, so she advised her husband that she should give her niece some work and yield the position of wife to her. She called her niece who was living elsewhere to become the second wife, while she herself claimed to be the niece's mother and lived together in this house. However, when the earthquake struck, the house collapsed and she was crushed to death. The niece had initially escaped, but when she later returned to search for her, she found the courtesans of the house each trapped between the beams, crying out, "Mistress of the house, please save us!" The woman said, "It is difficult for me alone to save you. But I am not abandoning you to die while I flee. Since we shall die together in this place, do not resent me, but recite the nembutsu and achieve salvation." Saying this, she searched through the collapsed houses here and there, and when she found where her mother was, she had already been crushed to death and breathed her last. The woman was overcome with tears, but soon a fierce fire came burning intensely, so the people around

[Left page]
seeing this situation told her "flee quickly," but she would not listen. Whatever she was thinking, she leaped into the flames, clinging to the corpse and dying together in the fire. This was discovered after the fire was extinguished. People were moved by her sense of duty and pitied her.
　　　Reading the account of the wife of Hariganeya, tears of emotion flow down my lined robe. She must have lived the same kind of day as the Chinese person who hung a sword on the grave, so:
　　　　Her name in posterity shall shine like a jewel, even though her body
　　　　　may crumble together with the roof tiles　Keikkaen
○The brothel owner Sakaiya Shichirōbei belonged to a wealthy family. He had recently transferred his business to an adopted son and was living leisurely at his villa in Imado. He was skilled at narrating Icchū-bushi jōruri and used the artistic name Sanboku. When this house collapsed, a large timber struck his body, separating his head from his torso (some say his head was found in the next room).