[Right page]
　had been separated from her, and since their safety was uncertain, she performed this charitable act for the benefit of past and present lives, it was said. On December 25th, she was summoned by the government office and received a reward of two pieces of silver. Since then, pleasure-seeking customers have been visiting continuously day and night.
○Generally speaking, what is recorded in this compilation was written after making detailed inquiries about the actual circumstances of each case, but these were notes taken down in haste, so it cannot be said that there are no mishearings. However, being too busy to make further inquiries to clarify matters, I have left things as they are. Since I have included the names of the houses and places mentioned above, this should not necessarily be made available for others to read.

[Left page]
　　　○The following eight entries are records by the lacquerer Kōun (copied with slight textual modifications from what was borrowed from the elderly Yasuda Tōtei)
○Hisa, the adopted daughter of Shinbei of Matsunya, the sedge hat teahouse in Asakusa Tamachi, was at a brothel in Yoshiwara Edo-machi 2-chōme after seeing off a customer when she was startled by the earthquake and barely managed to escape. When she reached the vicinity of her house, it was completely engulfed in flames and she could not approach. However, since they were her adoptive parents to whom she owed gratitude, she could not simply abandon them and flee, so she resolved to die together with them and fearlessly entered the fire. When she looked, she found that although her house had tilted, the fire had not yet spread to it, so she helped her father Shinbei escape, and then carried out her mother Katsu. By the time they emerged, the fire had already spread, so Hisa's lower body, hands and feet were severely burned, but she preserved her life and all three were saved.
○A blind man named Matsukazu (a masseur) who lived in Asakusa Jariba had his house collapse in the earthquake and was trapped underneath. On October 27th, when they tried to clear away the collapsed house, a human voice was faintly heard from under the house