[Right page]
○Gorobei of Kazusaya, a shipwright living in Fukagawa Isezaki-chō, took his sons Shōtarō and Zenjirō out first when the earthquake occurred. However, his wife Kaku left behind their real child Tsuya, a young child, and first carried out Masa, a blind girl born to his previous wife, saying she was his stepdaughter, taking her to the doorway. Then he went back into the house to save his real child Tsuya, but was overtaken by flames, and both mother and child died in the fire. The people around were moved by his sense of righteousness and justice (girestu - strong and intense loyalty and righteousness).
○Tsunekichi, a house manager in the same town, was at the neighborhood watch station and rushed home when startled by the earthquake, only to find it had already collapsed with his wife Tayo trapped underneath. While he was trying to break through the roof to save her, fire broke out from the neighboring house and flared up. His wife cried out in increasing agony, "Help me!" Tsunekichi said, "If I try to save you, all our household goods will burn and we'll have to beg from tomorrow on. Give up," and heartlessly left her to try to carry out his possessions.

[Left page]
But he couldn't manage it, his wife died in the fire, and all his household goods turned to ashes.
He had eight kan and five hundred mon in tōhyaku coins and fifteen kan mon in brass coins, but when he tried to save them, even those burned. The next morning he gathered up the burned coins and pots and pans, but these too were stolen by thieves at some point.
From then on, Tsunekichi went mad, saying nonsensical things and wandering around the burned ruins. He had one daughter named Seki, who had stayed with acquaintances that night and was unharmed.

○Takemura Shinnosuke, a retainer of a certain daimyo around Fukagawa, lived in the lower residence. When fire broke out within the estate due to the earthquake, he carried large containers of gunpowder for firearms entrusted by his lord's house to the seaside and saved most of them. Therefore he abandoned his own house and all his household goods were completely burned. The next morning, a senior retainer came from the upper residence to investigate the source of the fire.