[Right page]
were completely consumed by fire. Eleven retainers and twenty-seven other men and women died instantly. Two horses entrusted to their care were lost.

○The Mito residence at Koishikawa suffered major damage. A certain wakadoshiyori (junior councilor), military strategist Toda Chūdayū, chief retainer Fujita Seinoshin, and 153 other retainers, plus 49 female attendants died instantly. The number of injured cannot be known.

○The dental physician Satō Dōan (200 koku stipend, Ogawa-chō Hitotsubashi-dōri) had visited a hatamoto residence in the Koishikawa area that day. Shortly after returning home, the earthquake occurred and a fire broke out from the steward's quarters, spreading to the collapsed house. The master, his wife and nine children, and steward Saikawa all perished in the collapse and fire. Only three attendants were fortunate enough to escape. Because of this, his son Dōyū, who had left home the previous year of the ox due to certain circumstances, returned to inherit the family. Seventeen people of high and low rank died by fire in this house, and funeral services were held for all on the same fourth day.

[Left page]
○Tanuma Ichizaemon (ko-bushín rank, 2,500 koku stipend, Ogawa-chō) and his wife were sleeping when they were startled by the earthquake and tried to get up, but their entire residence collapsed and both husband and wife died instantly. Twenty-five male and female retainers died, and the entire residence burned down.

○Fukuyama (yaku-ko-bushin rank, 150 hyō stipend, same location) was in a room with his concubine Iwa-onna that night, while his wife was in a separate room with their son Jūzō. Perhaps they were sleeping and unaware during the earthquake - each died crushed as they were. Four attendants and maids died instantly, and there was also fire damage. Among them, steward Hata somehow miraculously survived.

○Wada Katsutarō (ōban-gashira rank, 250 koku stipend, Ko-Hinata) was startled by the earthquake and tried to get up, but a beam fell and struck his back, breaking his right arm. Being a man of strong spirit, he managed to push away the beam and other debris and escaped danger, but I heard that his wound still causes unbearable pain.