[Right page]
○Saitō Santayū's son Sanjūrō (son of an ōban-gashira from Ko-Hinata) was patrolling around Ogawa-chō when he found a storehouse belonging to the Inoue family that had survived the fire. While he was standing there, the remaining burnt storehouse collapsed on Sanjūrō's head, killing him instantly. His attendant Sumida Manzō was also struck down but fortunately escaped death and carried his master's corpse home.

○Saitō Shōsaku (yaku-ko-jūnin rank, 200 hyō stipend, Ogawa-chō) had business and was visiting Kumagai Tomijirō east of Ritsukeibashi in front of the hundred-unit tenements of the Mito residence at Koishikawa when he encountered the earthquake and died instantly at that house.
《Marginal note: Seven houses in this vicinity collapsed from shaking, and about half a chō burned down.》

○Makita Saemon (yoriai rank, 7,716 koku stipend, Ko-Hinata) had business and had gone out by palanquin to Hongō. However, alarmed by the earthquake, he returned home to find his entire residence had collapsed with only the front tenements remaining. He ordered his attendants to dig through the inner residential quarters and found his wife trapped under the collapsed house, her abdomen

[Left page]
torn and broken beyond description.

○Hanawa Sōetsu (yoriai physician, 500 koku stipend, Ogawa-chō) had been summoned by a hatamoto in the Ushigome area for an emergency patient and had gone out by palanquin. When he turned back due to the earthquake, his residence had already completely collapsed, and with fires breaking out from all four directions in the vicinity, there was no time to rescue his family. He was only able to dig out the corpse of his son Sōhaku, and everything else was consumed by fire. Two retainers and three women died instantly.

○Mori Den'emon (okoshimono-bugyō, 150 koku stipend from Nezu grants) was ordering a retainer to send a messenger to the Hon'ami family on official business when the earthquake struck and the inner rooms collapsed. The master and retainer Miyazaki Heizō died instantly. The area beside the entrance collapsed, killing five retainers instantly. The others were unharmed.

○Endō Rokuemon (goshoin-ban group, Ogawa-chō) was personally patrolling his residence grounds on the night of the second day