[Right page]
children I will raise well, so you need not worry. I will now go to rely on Mr. Makino at Warishimo-mizu, so have sutras read for you and attain Buddhahood," he said and departed. That night around the lower part of the Hour of the Rat (around 1 AM), someone came seeking Mr. Makino's place. His hair was completely burned away, his head and face down to half his body were blackened with soot, and his burned and festering appearance was like that of a ghost. When Shinsuke asked for details, he said, "The fire gradually spread and burned up to half the beam, so the place where I was pinned became lighter, and I finally escaped from the fire."

△There was a man named Zengoro, a scaffolding craftsman of the second group at Fujimi Bridge in Fukagawa. His house collapsed in this earthquake, but he was able to rescue his wife and children, who fortunately were not injured. However, hearing loud sounds from the neighboring house, he grabbed his fire hook and rushed over to see that Lord Ogasawara Sakyo's lower residence had completely collapsed except for the entrance hall. Hearing continuous crying and screaming from within, he used all his strength to remove large trees, boards, tiles, etc., and rescued nine ladies-in-waiting. He then rescued twelve more women from the debris, when an elderly woman said, "Please quickly

[Left page]
rescue Lady Myogetsu-in" (the lord's mother). Understanding, Zengoro quickly crawled into the collapsed mansion, finally found and rescued the nun, had the ladies-in-waiting tend to her, and respectfully seated her in the entrance hall. He then extinguished fires in the tea room and two other places, and rescued eleven more people. Of these, five died immediately. At this time, an express messenger arrived from the main residence to celebrate their safety, and when it was told how they had been saved by Zengoro, on the 5th day he was summoned to the main residence and appointed as construction supervisor with an immediate reward of 100 ryō in gold and a perpetual stipend for fifteen people.

△Edo's koji fermentation rooms are underground chambers, approximately one and a half ken wide and about ten ken long. The four sides are made like bamboo fencing with straw packed into the earthen floor, and the ceiling has logs laid horizontally with mats spread over them and earth placed on top. The entrance is as previously depicted. However, with an earthquake like this one that shakes and splits even level ground, how could something dug deep underground be safe? Therefore, the shaking