[Right page]
Among the collapsed structures, the most severely damaged ones barely remain open here. In Hongo Shinmachi-ya, nine houses collapsed, among which Mikawaya Hikobei, and similarly Choshichi and others fell into the koji fermentation rooms of their residences. At the same location's Yokone slope, seven houses collapsed; similarly in Haruki-cho 2nd district, four houses; in the 3rd district, one house; in the 5th district, one house; in the 6th district, two houses; at Maruyama Kikusaka, four houses, among which residents of Iseya Jirobei's house fell in. In Motomachi, five houses; at Yushima Tenjin gate, four houses; in Ueki-cho, one house; in Sangumi-cho, three houses; in the 6th district, two houses (back tenements); in Kasuga-cho, one house; in Taruma Yokocho, two houses; within Kanda Myojin shrine grounds, two houses. Regarding these areas, each district was thoroughly investigated and all names are clear, but as this is not a pleasant matter, I deliberately abbreviate the record. [There is also a story about the wife Toyo of Mikawaya Hikobei, a miso dealer in Shinmachi-ya, who had a young boy do a small errand and fell into the koji room and died, but I omit it here.]

△In Nezu Nanaken-cho, there was a ragman named Heikichi. His wife Katsu and daughter Haru, who was seventeen this year, was an adopted daughter. His younger sister Kura was sixteen and his biological child. This Haru had good character and was also beautiful,

[Left page]
and deeply filial, but both husband and wife were prejudiced and did not recognize their own child's foolishness. Somehow overhearing the couple's private consultation, the landlord Jihe summoned both and said, "This girl Haru is deeply filial and moreover a dutiful child. Her sister Kura is a biological child, so there would be no problem selling her. I understand advance money has been received. I shall send word with our response and refusal." Having no choice and being angry, they gave five ryō in gold to the elder sister Haru to take with her. At this time, due to the earthquake, Heikichi's house was the first to collapse, and all three family members were trapped under the collapsed house and died in the fire from neighboring houses. Elder sister Haru was at the landlord's place and was safe. This was divine retribution from all the heavenly beings for constantly hating the stepchild and moreover attempting to sell her as a prostitute. How fearsome! One must be cautious!

△Lord Matsudaira Izumo-no-kami of Ikenohata, due to the earthquake and fire, provided relief from Kaya-cho 2nd district to Nezu Nanaken-cho, giving three to (about 54 liters) of white rice and one ryō of gold per household.