[Right page]
△Asano Yuji of Ushigome Shirogane-cho was a regular patron of Kisegawa at the Daikokuya brothel in Yoshiwara. That night, after visiting Bishamonten at Zenkoku-ji temple where he regularly worshipped, on his way home he met a traveling monk. The monk asked which direction Zenkoku-ji was, so he told him it was in such-and-such a place. This monk then said, "You currently have the aspect of revolution. Everything returns to darkness and is most inauspicious. However, since you honor the gods and Buddha, I shall give you this. Even if you must unavoidably go elsewhere, you should return home before late night. Staying overnight would be very bad." He bowed in gratitude and returned home. That night he again went to Kisegawa's place, had a drinking party, and when it became the hour of the boar (around 10 PM), he suddenly remembered what the monk had said. He took his leave and set out, reaching Umamichi when the earthquake struck and greatly startled him. Looking toward Yoshiwara, he saw fires breaking out in various places within moments, and the sound of collapsing structures was terrible, so he hurriedly turned back, rushed to Daikokuya, and rescued Kisegawa and five others. Had he stayed that night, he would have met an unnatural

[Left page]
death, but mysteriously escaped with his life, which must have been entirely due to the virtue of his religious faith.

△An apprentice at a pawnshop in Komagome Hakusan-shita, on the evening of October 2nd, went upstairs to close the wooden shutters on the second floor. After a while, as he descended the ladder, he muttered, "Tonight there will surely be an earthquake and it will be strong." The head clerk heard this and scolded him for saying something inauspicious. But indeed that night, the disaster damaged the house and storehouse, and the household barely escaped with their lives unharmed. Remembering what the apprentice had said, they told the master, who found it strange and questioned the apprentice. He replied, "My father is from Shinshu province, and he always tells me that on the evening of the day when there was an earthquake during the Zenkoji temple exhibition, white clouds streaked like mist in the west, and yam-shaped clouds appeared in the east. That night was the great earthquake in that province. After a while, similar clouds appeared in the east and west. This must be an aftershock, he said, and from the time he saw those clouds, he moved household goods to the wide field