【Right Page】
This too may be called a biased view arising from cowardice, but still, it would be better not to have storehouses beside sleeping quarters and at entrances. 《Note: Someone said that according to the words of ancient people, no matter how narrow the space, earth storehouses should be built about one ken (approximately 6 feet) away from residences and sleeping quarters. This is because during earthquakes, roof tiles and ornamental roof tiles may fall and break through roofs, which is undesirable. Also, as a precaution during fires, having some space for placing earth and other materials allows for free handling and transport》

○Earlier, in the spring of Kōka teitsumi (1847), during the Shinshū earthquake, tens of thousands of people lost their lives and their family fortunes. More recently, last winter, after the earthquake at Shimoda Port in Izu Province, there was the danger of high tides, and people both lost their lives and were driven to hardship. However, we do not witness these directly but only imagine the circumstances through occasional rumors or newspaper reports, experiencing momentary terror. Truly, in this recent calamity, even nobles and aristocrats could not escape, and shrines and temples alike suffered this disaster without exception—this is beyond what words can express in lamentation.

【Left Page】
《Note: Even those who suffered little direct damage from the earthquake are said to have many who suffered nervously, their hearts burning with anxiety, falling ill and suffering. Kamo no Chōmei recorded the great earthquake of Genryaku 2 in his "Hōjōki," but while we don't know its scale or intensity, how could the death toll compare to today's? We have never seen such things in historical records of past dynasties. Truly, earthquakes are terrifying》

Generally, those who suffered the calamity of "pool fish" built rough temporary shelters, and when they first moved in, they thought it sufficient merely to have roofs, doors, and sliding screens to shelter them from rain and dew. However, as construction gradually progressed over about ten days, they began to spend their wealth, pursue refined tastes, and develop desires for luxurious construction, completely forgetting their initial hardship. While becoming accustomed to luxury is human nature, it is quite deplorable. People of conscience should not fail to observe and understand this.

When one has enough, letting sufficiency lead to insufficiency; when lacking, finding sufficiency in lack—such a person lives in peace.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Higashiyama Yoshimune-kyō