However, though she was thought to be dead, while they felt pity, they said that since this was such a poor household with a disabled person, no one would come to marry into it anyway, so her death this time was an unexpected blessing. They prepared a coffin and made arrangements for the funeral. When they tried to remove the earth, she stirred from beneath the soil, shivered, and brushed off the dirt. Her hair was white and her face was black, and she crouched down, repeatedly striking her belly with her hands and pointing to her mouth to indicate that she was hungry. The people were so astonished that no one could speak, and for a while they all became mute themselves.

○In Rokken-bori town in Fukagawa, there was a man called house-keeper Shinzo who had a wife and five children. When the house collapsed in the earthquake, the children were all pulled out from the dangerous situation, but the wife was strongly pinned down by debris and could not be extracted. When fire even broke out, the wife said, "My life can hardly be saved. If you force yourselves to rescue me, you will lose the children as well. Please escape quickly." This was reasonable, so they tried to flee, but the five children said in unison, "Rather than letting mother die, it would be better to die together. Let us somehow pull her out." He said, "Then there is nothing else but to pray to the gods and Buddha with faith. Let us all pray with sincere hearts." When they asked "What is faith?" he taught them, "Faith is to wish to the gods and Buddha with single-minded devotion." Understanding this, the five children, led by the fourteen-year-old, remembered the Buddhist names of the gods, Buddha, grandfather and grandmother, and while chanting these, they took hold of their mother's hands, sleeves, and sash with their small arms, endured the smoke, and pulled her out. They were able to rescue her very easily.

○A person from a place called Hachiman in Omi Province who had aspired to the Buddhist path since childhood