【Right page】
it is said.

In Horie and Neko-zane, many houses were swept away by kaisho (tsunami), and it is said that the Misaki area was similar.

Within the castle grounds, there was no particular severe damage, but the various gates suffered major damage before earthquake repairs could be completed. Hanzo Gate was severely damaged during repairs, and the connecting tower twisted and fell. Many large pine trees within this gate area were broken. All the construction huts within the castle grounds collapsed and were damaged. The guard stations outside Kaji Bridge and Tokiwa Bridge collapsed.

On the morning of the 26th, about fifty crows fell dead from the trees on Momiji-yama.

The Bansho Shirabesho (Institute for the Investigation of Barbarian Books) in the continuation of Iida-machi collapsed. Lord Takemoto's residence below Kudan slope was severely damaged.

In Ogawa-machi, many samurai residences that had survived the earthquake were blown down this time.

At the guard station in the corner within Hanzo Gate that collapsed, one assistant guard and two servants died instantly.

【Left page】
A willow tree was uprooted near Ichikoku Bridge. The Osakana-yakusho (Fish Office) collapsed and one laborer died instantly. {{The yuka-mise (platform shops) collapsed because of this}}

At Kanda Myojin, the temporary entrance of head priest Shibasaki had many damaged areas, tiles fell from the gaku-do (tablet hall), and trees were broken.

At Yushima Tenmangu, the bronze torii and kagura-do (sacred dance hall) collapsed. Several large trees at Toeizan broke.

In Shimotan Kanasugi village, fire broke out from a collapsed house. Fire also broke out within Nichirin-ji Temple in Asakusa.

In Yoshiwara Kyo-machi 1-chome, someone's house collapsed and caught fire, burning two buildings.

Tonight, fires broke out from collapsed houses in the rain, causing several cases of spreading fires. At Shiba Katamonzen 1-chome, fire broke out from the collapsed house of Genbei, who rented Kichibei's shop and made his living carving printing blocks, spreading to Shinmei-cho, Mishima-cho, and Udagawa-cho {{all on the west side}}. The owner of the fire source barely escaped, but his wife and children {{there were three children, four people in total died}} died trapped under the collapsed house, which is truly lamentable.

There was a fire within the Bishu lord's domain residence in Ichigaya. Besides this, there were small fires in various places.