ranting and raving endlessly, and not only that, but repeatedly pushing him back saying "Go home! Go home!" many times. Unable to do anything about it, they stayed a little distance away watching him stumble, following behind him. Somehow he stumbled into the road at the entrance to his own house, and while watching this, an earthquake began to shake, the surrounding houses creaked and groaned, and that woman also fell and tumbled in the road. It felt like a dream, and when they turned back to look, the master's house in Honcho had also collapsed and was damaged beyond entry, so they took shelter at an acquaintance's place. Now, since the house of the certain person in Oke-machi had not collapsed, wondering what had become of the master, they came to Kame-no-o to inquire, but there was only commotion and not even anyone to answer, so they searched here and there among related parties, but could not learn of his whereabouts. On the 7th day, seeing that the plaster and earth that had fallen and accumulated at the house entrance was piled up like a mountain, they gathered many people to dig with spades and hoes. When they looked and saw something moving strangely at the bottom, suddenly a white arm emerged wriggling out. The people were startled and hesitated for a while, but an elderly person came from behind and urged them, "Don't hesitate! Put down the hoes and part the earth with your hands!" Soon they dug him out and saw it was the master of the house. Unaware that the earthquake had shaken, unaware that he had been buried in earth, he awoke feeling somewhat cold and found himself in the soil. "So then, I must have died and been buried. Since I have thus revived, I must somehow crawl out," he tried in various ways, but it was impossible. His body was exhausted, and though he called out, even his voice grew hoarse. With no other recourse, he thought: "This is not a life that will last long anyway. Then I shall perform what the venerable monks call nyūjō (entering meditation unto death)," and he chanted only the nembutsu