【Continuation of the 20th, from the previous frame】

○21st　Cloudy then clear　Went to Fukui and also to Mr. Watanabe's house in Sasaya Village, returning home at dusk.
　　After noon, took a half-day rest to celebrate the rain.
　　It is reported that the great thunder of the 18th day of the 4th month struck within Mt. Mukōyama in Yamanouchi Village, Nyū District.
　　At Taizō-in Temple in Tateyachō, Fukui, a memorial service marking the 694th anniversary of Lord Sanemori is being held, from the 10th to the 21st of this month.
　　At Shingetsu-ji Temple in Tateyachō of the same area, a 300th anniversary memorial service for Lord Asakura Yoshikage is being held from the 20th to the 22nd.

22nd　Clear　Assisted at the Fukuto household. In the afternoon, assembled a trellis (rack) and weeded along the Dōho road.
　　Planted millet (kibi) at the Fujinoki area of Maehama. Day laborer: Fuchi.

23rd　Clear　Planted millet at Maehama and at Tsuchizaki-ji. Cultivated (middle-weeding) the millet on the front trellis.
　　In the afternoon, copied the Bunkaku official notice.

24th　Cloudy and rainy　Built a trellis for winter melons in the vegetable garden. In the afternoon, went to house-sit, as Mr. Watanabe of Sasaya's uncle and his wife had gone to Fukui. Evening meal: dumplings with soup and bamboo shoots.
　　Yesterday at around the Hour of the Dog in the morning (around noon), there was a fire to the north. On the same night, around the Hour of the Ox (around 2 a.m.), in Sugimoto Village, Yoshie-gō, Nyū District, Shōemon's house and four other homes burned down.

25th　Cloudy with heavy rain; light rain in the evening　House-sitting for the Watanabe family. Midday meal: sweet bean-paste rice cakes.
　　A message was received from the household of Mr. Watanabe's grandmother, regarding garments (two pieces of unmixed fabric) that had been left in care some years ago, saying the value was approximately 2 kan and 1 monme in silver. Of this, 360 monme was to be held in deposit, and the remainder was to be sent to the grandmother's household when the opportunity arose.

26th　Rainy then clear　House-sitting for the Watanabe family; copying work. Midday meal: herring and bamboo shoots.
　　At Mt. Asuwa in Fukui, the casting of a bronze permanent lantern for the Rain Shrine (Amanoyashiro) of Shinmei-gū and Asuwa-gū began. However, it was paused after one day. Today, the base section of the lantern was cast.

○27th　Clear　Half-day rest in the afternoon for Hangesshō (mid-summer seasonal marker). House-sitting for the Watanabe family and copying work. Midday meal: mackerel.

28th　Clear　House-sitting for the Watanabe family; copying work.
　　A copy of the Hyakunin Isshu (One Hundred Poems by One Hundred Poets) belonging to the Watanabe grandmother's household had been borrowed some years ago; today it was formally returned upon request.
　　The wife of Yasaburōemon (Yazaemon) from the same village, named Ku-o, stopped by Mr. Watanabe's house. She had come along with merchants who were visiting the village to purchase goods.

29th　Thunder　House-sitting for the Watanabe family; copying work. Groomed own hair (re-dressed topknot). Evening meal: salted mackerel.
　　Starting today, a seventh-anniversary memorial service for Gonnyo Shōnin of the Eastern Honganji is being held at Honyō-ji Temple (the Echizen branch of the Eastern Honganji) in Fukui, continuing until the 4th.

30th　Clear　House-sitting for the Watanabe family; copying work. Midday meal: fried butterbur, bracken, and bamboo shoots; red beans.
　　Many people gathered as pilgrims, and there were numerous kinds of shows and exhibitions.

---
【Recipe for Amazake (Sweet Fermented Rice Drink)】

Use one shō of white rice kōji (malted rice) and five gō of white rice, cooked into rice. While still warm, mix together with the kōji and place into a tub or jar.
Add boiling hot water. The right amount of water to add is enough so that, after leveling the two ingredients (kōji and rice), the hot water is just barely visible above the surface.
After combining all three ingredients (kōji, rice, and hot water), do not put a lid on until fermentation is complete. Furthermore, the storage location should be an extremely cool (cold) place.