【Continued】
When the author tries to take up his brush to write a book, thinking "this is interesting," he grabs the brush sheath to strike, but it disappears at the base of the garden stepping stones and turns to stone. Muttering that this must be the ghost of Kyūdayū, or the work of foxes and raccoons, but it's not much of a clever device, he hears voices outside the sliding door: "We are the monsters of the Night Parade of One Hundred Demons. Tonight, on New Year's Eve, we flee in confusion, fearful of being driven away by demon-expelling beans and caught by exorcists. As befits an author, you seem absorbed in thoughts of monsters even on New Year's Eve, so we've come to steal something new and examine it. You mentioned Chinese monsters as your concept - what are Chinese monsters like?"

Sharakusai laughs and says: "The Shanhaijing and Erya cannot fully determine their forms, and though I've searched through the Bowuzhi, Chuogenglu, Taiping guangji, and Bencao gangmu, I find no truly new monsters. Don't you have some new way of being monstrous? Though I'm not like Su Zizhan who loved ghost stories, let this be tonight's tale." They reply: "We too have seen the edges of picture books, but there are only crude monsters like the shrine-carrier ghost, the sleepy one, and the one-eyed boy - none suitable as models. We have some new-style monsters and would like to appear, but we fear the hanging scroll in the men's room, so please remove it." This is a hanging scroll of Zhong Kui, and now here comes Danjūrō's spirited cry of "Demons out!"

Sharakusai removes the hanging scroll as requested, doesn't put up sardine and holly either, and seeing the floating world as walls, says to his author's hermitage: "Please enter, though it's humble. I'll make an accurate portrait of you monsters," and holds his brush ready. Then an armored warrior appears, wearing one crest of (Watanabe) on his chest plate and carrying a golden tablet. Sharakusai says: "So you're the transformation of Tsuna! Even as a bamboo painting, an armored warrior is quite a stylish monster." The warrior replies: "Master, I have a little story to tell.

At evening, we who transform for exorcism come around, and as Rashōmon's child calls out 'Buy exorcism demon-boxes!' a hand suddenly shoots out from behind the lattice, grabs him by the collar, and says 'Buy an exorcist woman!' Looking at the face, it's a year-old hag. When asked 'How old are you?' she says 'Even demons are eighteen,' so I said 'Wonderful! Even if you're sent to Mt. Ōe, you're nothing but a laundry hag - what a ridiculous monster!' I tried to push her away and flee, but when I looked at her arm, sure enough, there was a tattoo..." 【To be continued】