【Continued】
"Well now, what's this?" Looking closer, he sees that the Watanabe crest has withered. "How about that?" he says dismissively and vanishes. Sharakusai thinks, "That was a trick four points less impressive than the ghost of Taira no Tomomori, but now what frightening thing will appear next?"

Just then, a sumo wrestler over ten feet tall, playing the role of the young Oniwaka, appears suddenly wearing the octopus mask of Inokuma, and drops his voice saying "Oh mother, mosquitoes!" Sharakusai watches calmly as the wrestler says, "I'm the Utou that even children know from the shrine processions, but being rather old-fashioned, I devised a new approach and transformed into a human." But since he wasn't scary at all from the start, "you cut my arm with your brush sheath. Give me back my arm!" he cries. Sharakusai replies, "If you're an octopus, it should be a leg," to which he responds, "Octopuses have arms too, you know!" and vanishes after this bit of logic.

Now, when monsters appear, it's usually a lonely affair, but suddenly things become lively and with great commotion they begin singing bathhouse ballads:
"Itako lodging, jacket, to the horse clop-clop" "Even murder, fierce mountain storm" "Endlessly, that woman is of the Genji side" "What did you hear, Sakuramaru?" "I understand, I understand, the secret master archer Yoichi" "Hyōe's body is precious" "Even taking one cup, born into a samurai house, Jūrō Hyōe" "Because of money, precious Chūbei-san" "Countless grudges against money" "Onoe especially sobbing" "Like a small child or something" "Takasago-ya!" "Repent, repent, purify the six senses" - it becomes a great uproar. Sharakusai says, "What kind of monster has voice but no form? Come out quickly before you evaporate in the steam!" Then a bright red boy comes writhing out unsteadily: "I'm the dirt-licking boy monster from the children's bathhouse, but I got dizzy meeting a human. Give me a cup of water to drink..." 【To be continued】

【Text in boxes】
Gidayū face
Shinuchi face  
Utai face
Itako face
Nagauta face
Bungo face