【Continued】Just as there was some playful banter, Zenjibō appeared leading a young child by the hand and said, "Don't speak so improperly in a public place where people can hear." The girl laughed and replied, "The monk's favoritism toward young men is quite natural. It's none of your concern." When Oni-ō grabbed her by the collar saying "I don't understand," and she began to cry, Oni-ō's suspicions were not cleared. "Surely this is a case of mistaken identity. First, who are you?" When asked this, the girl raised her face and said:

"I am the daughter of Wada no Yoshimori, called Himuro no Mae. My elder sister Minatsuki-sama saw your appearance and has been lovesick ever since. Because she finds you so dear to look upon, she brought along that page Misogi and had me approach you with such playful words as a way to help fulfill my sister's love. She has sent letters many times, but has never once received a reply. Hearing that Sukenari-sama is quite strong-willed..."

Oni-ō gestured and said, "So you are the daughter of Lord Yoshimori. Since we wear our lord's crest, your mistake is quite understandable. I am Oni-ō, and this is one called Dōzaburō. Our lord Sukenari has pledged deep love to the Courtesan of Ōiso and even had a child like this with her, but his revenge has been postponed repeatedly. I thought this child had become a hindrance to that end, so I secretly stole the child away and entrusted him to Zenjibō-sama. However, [Sukenari] cannot give up his attachment. Indeed, together with Tora Gozen, he has disguised himself and is searching for this child's whereabouts. Therefore, no matter how Minatsuki-sama may feel, this love cannot be fulfilled." Hearing this, Himuro said:

"If things are so serious, Lord Tokimune, why do you not offer counsel?" "Well, Lord Tokimune recently went mountain climbing at Hakone, and there was discord with his retainers. Though he met with Jūrō-sama when they were only five or three years old, he has not even granted an audience since then. Moreover, he is said to frequent the courtesan Shōshō of Keshōzaka..." Zenjibō interrupted these words:

"Ah, that too is an unpleasant story. That is why the Oni-ō brothers wear the crests of Jūrō and Gorō and make pilgrim vows to defeat their enemies." "What admirable resolve! Very well then, I, Himuro, shall take this child. Then when Jūrō Sukenari-sama comes searching for the child, I will counsel him to fulfill my sister's desires and strike down his enemies." Having the child held here, surely someone will come to fetch him soon. "Now let us take our leave." As they departed, "This humble monk will escort you that far," and together with the princess, Zenjibō passed toward the torii.

○Oni-ō looked sharply toward the opposite direction: "That priest is certainly Suketsune in disguise trying to spy on the situation." As they hid in the cedar's shade, Suketsune on horseback spotted them from afar and commanded, "Suspicious pair there - Ōmi, Yawata, bring them out!" At these words, they rushed forward, but before they could finish saying "Ah, we are travelers from distant provinces," [Suketsune said] "The crest of the shuwō may be worn falsely, but certainly that is it," and Yawata approached. "No, Kamakura is the magistrate's territory - it would be shameful without proper attire," he said, claiming to have deceived with meager funds at Ashikaga's morning market, but Ōmi laughed scornfully: "The arrow shot into this sacred tree bears the inscription 'Oni-ō Dōza'" 【Continued】

【Middle right page】
○Kudō Saemon

【Lower right page】
○At this time, Kudō Saemon (Suketsune/Sukekyō) and Yawata no Saburō (Sukekyō's retainer) are all villain roles. All three wear hakama in the original text.

Kudō's wig is depicted in the original text like what we now call a hatchet.