【Continued】"It must be the vengeful spirit of the Soga!" he said, coming out directly. Sukekyō nodded and said, "What moves me to pity when I see you is Kawazu no Sukeyasu, who died so pitifully from a stray arrow. If I knew who the enemy was, I would strike him down for you. We too must surely feel resentment," and he began to weep. Unable to bear this, [Oni-ō cried], "That enemy is none other than Saemon Sukekyō!" and leaped at him. [Sukekyō] glared sharply and said, "If you know me as your enemy, why have you let me escape until now?"

"Foolish Sukekyō! When going up and down to Kamakura, at times in Ōiso, Koiso, and Sagami Plain, we hid and lurked around Fukasawa to take aim, but since you are a great lord, you travel with one or two hundred mounted retainers. Even when traveling with fewer, you still have fifty or twenty horsemen. We are but two brothers. Though we do not fear that great force, if we fail it would be a corpse's disgrace. 'Advance, Dōzō! Retreat, Oni-ō!' - if you pity our hearts that return empty-handed, then name yourself as our enemy and do battle!" Seeing their guard down as they were overcome with tears, Ōmi and Yawata raised their staffs and struck them repeatedly. Just then Zenjibō returned, knocked down both horses and men, and sat heavily upon them, saying, "I am the third son of Uwajima, Zenjibō of Kugami Temple. Being a monk with hair, I am the same as a warrior. Come, Sukekyō, be my opponent!" and pressed his attack. Overwhelmed by this force, [Sukekyō said], "That my retainers treated them roughly was their misconduct. I, Sukekyō, humbly apologize," and fled with all his men.

"We won't let you escape!" cried the brothers as they gave chase, but Zenjibō held them back: "Though it would be easier for me to strike him down than for you, I let him escape now to await the proper moment for the two brothers to kill him. Consider the feelings of returning empty-handed from a treasure mountain without killing the enemy who was within reach." He gnashed his teeth and reluctantly left the scene.

【Next picture section】Here, the Courtesan of Ōiso, wishing to search for her child's whereabouts, dressed herself as a young man, with Jūrō as her companion. They came to the front of the small gate of Yoshimori's lower residence and sat on a bench, waiting. At this moment, Tokimune also appeared in elegant attire, avoiding public notice, and Shōshō, disguised as a young page companion, sat by a nearby well curb. "What a splendid young gentleman! A love-breeze makes me shiver - I seem to have caught a chill," she said, glancing at Tora. [Tora] responded even more demurely: "Hey, servant - no, I mean, I - my throat has become quite dry. Draw me a cup of water." "Certainly," said Jūrō as he approached. Meanwhile, Tokimune drew up water with the well bucket and took Sukenari's ladle, thinking to himself as he drew the water, "So suddenly wanting water - bring it to me." 【Continued】

【Lower right page】
○The words "one or two hundred horsemen" and "entering a treasure mountain" appear in the original text. One should recognize these as expressions used since ancient times.

Zenjibō is a tonsured monk with hair, performing aragoto (rough style). Very unusual.