Here, the widow of the proprietor of a pleasure house in Ōiso had established her retirement quarters and was living in a separate residence. When Tora-gozen's sister Nokaze, along with her younger sisters Nibu, Tsuzuka-mono, Kazaori, Kinzan and other courtesans came in, the widow said upon seeing them: "Now Nokaze, are you supporting Tora?" "No, no, later in the month I only supported her at Atago slope. Why do you say such things?" "This time, Lord Kudō Suketsune has sent people repeatedly to ransom Tora, but that Tora refuses, saying she dislikes going because she feels obligated to those Soga rogues." "No, no, that cannot be so. Minatsuki, daughter of Yoshimori's maternal line, fell deeply in love with Sukenari and tried to seduce him in various ways, but since he would not consent, thinking that Sukenari likes courtesans, she fled the mansion at night to become a courtesan and win his affection through her own efforts. Her name now is Kamegiku, and she has a deep relationship with Sukenari - her ties with Lord Tora have been severed." Hearing this, the widow softened her expression: "If that's so, then I too am relieved. Tora will come soon. Please advise her." Even as she spoke, Tora-gozen arrived, bringing Hikifune and her kamuro attendants.

"Now Kazaori-san, Kinzan-san, I am like a sister to you all. I was sleeping because I was in a bad mood, and if the retired lady has something to say, why don't you all come to me and tell me? Well, who is the most important person in this house?" "The retired lady." "But even if the retired lady dies, this house will stand. However, if I die, this house cannot stand. Child, light my tobacco," and she sat down heavily right there.

"There she goes being selfish again," said Nokaze, calming the angry widow. "Why are you saying such things? I hear you dislike going to Lord Suketsune. I too am troubled by this - please, do go." When thus entreated, Tora smiled and said, "Yes, if you are troubled, there's nothing to be done. I'll go." The widow was greatly pleased: "Then as a sign of this, let me cut off my little finger! Fortunately, Hachiman-sama has come to the inner quarters, so it seems the ransom negotiations have been settled. I shall go speak with him," and she went inside beaming with joy.

Tora watched her go and said, "Sister, if I make this finger-cutting pledge now, I cannot remain true to Sukenari, so please, devise some clever plan for me." "Since you ask this favor of me..." [To be continued]

○The widow proprietor of Ōiso
○Tora speaks selfishly