It is alkaline in nature, similar in quality to the hot springs of Kishu and Izu Shuzenji. However, it is somewhat weaker than the mineral springs of Kishu.

For the following diseases, this mineral spring should be used both internally and externally:
Chronic gastric catarrh and various digestive disorders, chronic intestinal catarrh, liver congestion, gallbladder adhesion, lower abdominal congestion, chronic pharyngeal catarrh, chronic bronchial catarrh, chronic pneumonia, exudates from pleurisy and peritonitis, urinary tract catarrh, kidney or bladder stones, women's leucorrhea, gout, scrofula

The internal dosage varies according to age and disease condition, but up to eight go (approximately 1.4 liters) per day can be taken. However, normally two go seven shaku to five go five shaku (approximately 0.5 to 1 liter) is considered sufficient.

Same district, Otachi: Spring quality unknown. Good for various sores, head ailments, etc.

Same district, Nishisakabe: Located in two places. Spring quality of both unknown. Therapeutic effects same as above.

Ichishi District, Sakakibara: Spring quality contains sulfur. Good for scrofulous poison.

Totomi: Mushiu Hot Spring

Suruga, Abe District, Umeshima Village: Spring quality contains sulfur. Good for scabies, headaches, body pain, etc.

Kai, Yamanashi District, Yumura: Spring quality contains sulfur. Good for scabies.

Same district, Kawaura: Located in Kamakawa Village. Spring quality same as above. Good for various symptoms of blood rushing to the head.

Same district, Enzan: Located in Kamiosomura Village. Spring quality is lukewarm, contains sulfur. Good for gonorrhea and female infertility.

Yatsushiro District, Shimobe Village: Spring quality contains salt. Good for cuts, bruises, etc.

Koma District, Kurodaira: Located in Miyamoto Village. Contains alum. Good for gastric disorders.

Same district, Narada Village: Contains both alum and sulfur. Good for colic.

Izu, Kamo District, Atami: 27 ri from Tokyo, 7 ri from Odawara, 18 ri from Shimoda, 6 ri 21 cho from Numazu Station, 18 cho from Izusan Village, 3 ri 17 cho from Yugawara, 4 ri from Usami Village, 5 ri from Wada Village, 5 ri from Nirayama, 5 ri from Matsubara Village, 5 ri from Mishima Station, 5.5 ri from Kona Village, 8 ri from Shuzenji Village, 10 ri from Kamifunabara, 11 ri from Yoshina Village

Temperature is 220 degrees, but varies greatly depending on the time of eruption. This mineral spring is saline mineral water containing large amounts of alkali chloride and alkaline earth chloride, and small amounts of sulfate compounds. It should be considered the most effective among the Izu mineral springs. The fact that within this saline mineral water there is also a non-saline simple hot spring is something scholars should take note of. This location is in a bay, gradually rising and can be climbed slowly. The various hot springs originate from geysers (springs that erupt hot water at regular intervals), from southeast to northwest