chronic diseases, chronic catarrh of the larynx and trachea, chronic inflammation of the uterus and ovaries, irregular menstruation, neuralgia caused by rheumatism. Internal and external use should be combined.

Same (Geyser/Geothermal) Matsubara Village - 5 ri to Atami. All these hot springs are located in mountain valleys, rice fields, or villages. ○Yu, temperature 122 degrees ○Shinyu, same 120 degrees ○Jubei-no-yu, same 116.6 degrees ○Inoto-no-yu, same 118.4 degrees ○Inohito-shinyu, same 113 degrees ○Kameyama-no-yu, same 98.6 degrees

Same (Geyser) Ue-no-yu - 5 chō to Matsubara Village, located in Wada Village. Temperature 113 degrees, contains traces of hydrogen sulfide.

Same (Geyser) Noda-yu - Same 113 degrees, all others same as above.

Same (Geothermal) Izusan, also called Taki-no-yu - 18 chō to Atami. Contains sulfur and iron elements, with a slightly salty taste. Good for headaches, shoulder and back pain, lower back pain, contusions, mania, acidic fluids, scabies, dizziness, paralysis of limbs, syphilis, etc.

Same (Geyser) Usami - 1 ri and 9 chō to Wada Village

Same (Geothermal) Rendaiji - 35 chō to Shimoda Port, located in three places. ○Fujiwara-yu, spring quality contains sulfur with acidic taste. Good for syphilis, chancre, scabies, contusions, injuries, etc. ○Ue-no-yu, spring quality and therapeutic effects same as above ○Yakushi-yu, spring quality contains alum and sulfur, effective for washing eyes.

Same (Geothermal) Yugano - Contains sulfur, good for apoplexy and headaches.

Same (Geothermal) Kita-yugano - Spring quality same as above, good for eye diseases, etc.

Same (Geothermal) Kawachi - Spring quality same as above, good for colic, scabies, etc. 30 chō to Shimoda Port.

Same (Geothermal) Shimo-kamo - Located in several places near Shimoda Port. ○Sanjo-yu, spring quality contains sulfur, good for scabies and hemorrhoids ○Gensa-yu, spring quality same as above, good for lower back pain, hemorrhoids, paralytic diseases, etc.

Tagata District (Geyser) Hatake - 3 ri 20 chō to Atami, less than 2 ri to Mishima Station, more than 1 ri to Nirayama, temperature 98.6 degrees. This hot spring is on the road from Atami to Kona, at the foot of Atami Pass, located in rice fields. Belongs to simple hot springs and contains no gas or sediment whatsoever.

Same (Geyser) Yoshina Village - 10 ri to Atami, 3 ri to Shuzenji, 1 ri to Yugashima, temperature 105.8 degrees, spring quality contains large amounts of hydrogen sulfide. This mineral spring is one of the perfect bathing places in Izu Province. Its therapeutic effects and properties are similar to Atami's Oyu and Hakone's Ashi-no-yu. However, it is slightly weaker than Ashi-no-yu.

Same (Geyser) Yugashima - 1 ri to Yoshina, 3.5 ri to Shuzenji, 11 ri to Atami. Springs emerge at two locations along the Kano River bank. Bath houses have not yet been established. ○Nishihira-yu, temperature 105.8 degrees, spring quality and taste similar to Kamifunahara-no-yu in the same district. Good for scabies ○Seko-baku-yu, same 111 degrees, spring quality same as Yoshina-no-yu in the same district, good for eye diseases, colic, paralysis and women's blood disorders, etc.

Same (Geyser) Ue-no-yu - Temperature 156 degrees, approximately 8 chō from Yugashima. Bath facilities have not yet been established.

Same (Geyser) Hako-no-yu - Same 127.4 degrees, others same as above.

Same (Geyser) Kidachi-no-yu - Same 113 degrees, others same as above.

Same (Geyser) Kamifunahara-no-