Shiobara Hon-yu: The spring quality and therapeutic effects are similar to Kusatsu in Kozuke Province. See leaf 28. Kami-no-yu has a temperature of 151 degrees, Naka-no-yu 167 degrees, Tera-no-yu 133 degrees, and Mujina-no-yu has an unknown temperature.

Iwaki Province
Shirakawa District
Kasshi: Located in Tsuruo Village. Two source springs, temperature 113 degrees. The spring water contains salt, iron, and sulfuric acid gas; it is clear and odorless. Effective for blood loss and jaundice, weakness, fluid retention, ulcers, lung disease, colic, various childhood ailments, dog bites, and viper bites. However, it is harmful for syphilis. There are three bathhouses with over 2,000 annual bathers.

Yujimata: Located in Yujimata Village, 18 ri northwest of Mito. The spring water contains alum and is good for apoplexy, beriberi, and headaches.

Iwamae District
Sabako: 32 ri north of Mito, about 1 ri from Taira castle town, located in Yumoto Village. 53 source springs and 83 bathing pools. The spring water contains sulfur and alum, good for scabies, syphilis, hemorrhoids, etc. The water contains salt and hydrogen sulfide gas. 70 bathhouses with approximately 5,000 annual bathers.

Nakakura-yu: Located in Takano Village. Temperature 44 degrees. The alkaline spring water is good for colic, hemorrhoids, and intestinal parasites. Over 3,000 annual bathers.

Doden-yu: Temperature 47 degrees. Spring quality and therapeutic effects same as above.

Katta District
Yukatta: Located in Miya Village, now called Tōda. Three source springs. The spring water contains sulfur and salt, good for leprosy, syphilis, apoplexy, consumption, blood disorders, and eye diseases.

Kamasaki: Located in Kuramoto Village. The spring water contains sulfur, alum, and salt. Effective for wounds and beriberi.

Yudo: Located in Obara Village. Spring quality unknown. Good for heat stroke, headaches, and blood disorders.

Shin-yu: Located in Obara Village. Spring quality unknown. Good for abdominal masses.

Iwashiro Province
Aizu District
Higashiyama (also called Tennōji-yu or Yumoto): Located in Yumoto Village. The spring water contains alum and is good for various sores and swellings, apoplexy, beriberi, syphilis, etc. Taki-no-yu is 110 degrees, Kitsune-yu 96 degrees, Saru-yu 104 degrees, Mujina-yu same as above, Kuda-no-yu 128 degrees, Sō-yu 127 degrees, Katsu-yu 123 degrees, Ana-yu 122 degrees, Sazanami-no-yu 128 degrees, Sumi-no-yu 118 degrees. Higashiyama Hot Springs is about 1 ri east of Wakamatsu, located just up the mountain foothills. More than half of the bathhouses are two or three-story buildings, numbering over 15. They all stand along both banks of the clear stream called Yukawa, creating quite scenic beauty. It can be said to be the finest place for summer retreat. The annual number of bathers is said to reach approximately 27,000-28,000. The following presents findings from Dr. Lyman's survey.