Bingo Province, Kōnu District, Yano Village: The spring water contains sulfur. Therapeutic effects are unknown in detail. The spring flow is not abundant.

Aki Province, Numata District, Yagi Village: Spring quality unknown in detail. Effective for epidemic eye disease (conjunctivitis). Saeki District, Wada Village (also known as Kinsui or Hei-no-yu): Spring quality unknown in detail. Effective for headaches, hot flashes, etc.

Suō Province, Yoshiki District, Yuda: Located at the western edge of Yamaguchi town, with seven springs within approximately 20 ken. The spring water emerges from alluvial soil. (1) Temperature 107.6°F (2) 109.4°F (3) Same as above (4) 111.2°F (5) 113°F (6) 114.8°F (7) 123.8°F. All springs contain abundant hydrogen sulfide and are effective for scabies and skin diseases. Each bath tub is about 45 cubic shaku, and the water is changed three times daily at intervals of 5-6 hours. Based on this, the spring flow must be quite limited.

Nagato Province, Ōtsu District, Yumoto: Located in Fukawa village. The spring contains alum and is effective for gout, cold injuries, and wounds. Same district, Yumachi: Located in Tawarayama village. Spring quality and therapeutic effects same as above. Toyoura District, Yuya town: Located in Kawayanagi village. Spring quality and therapeutic effects same as above.

Nankaidō (Southern Sea Circuit)
Kii Province, Hidaka District, Ryūjin: Located in Ryūjin village. Temperature 119.8°F. The spring water is saline and alkaline, very clear, colorless and odorless. Similar to Izu Atami and Ise Komono, but slightly stronger than both. See pages 7 and 5. Therapeutic effects similar to Ise Komono. Same district, Kamba: Located in Kaise village. Contains sulfur, is a cold spring that is heated for use. Effective for minor sores, hemorrhoids, etc. Muro District, Kanayama (also called Yuzaki): Located in Kanayama village. Spring quality and therapeutic effects equal to Ryūjin hot spring. The following seven springs are called the Kanayama Seven Hot Springs. (1) Hamayu: Temperature 106°F, has an alkaline taste with carbonic acid, shows alkaline reaction that increases when boiled, but produces no sediment. (2) Awayu: 93°F, clear, colorless, odorless. Produces bubbles when agitated. (3) Moto-no-yu: 83°F, spring quality same as above. (4) Saki-no-yu: Temperature unclear, spring quality and below are similar. (5) Kō-no-yu: 110°F. (6) Senki-yu: 122°F. (7) Yakata-yu: Temperature same as above. Same district, Hamayu: Located in Yukawa village, contains sulfur, effective for beriberi, paralysis, etc.