See leaf 26. According to its chemical composition, it is merely extremely hot water with no particular therapeutic effects. Takaki County [Obama] Located in Obama village, the spring quality and therapeutic effects are similar to those of Atami hot spring in Izu. See leaf 7. It is likely an extremely hot saline spring. Since this hot spring is located on the coast of Shimabara Bay, it is occasionally inundated by seawater during high tides. As the spring source is quite distant, there are three stone-built bathing pools that channel the spring water. These pools have only small thatched roofs, with two or three guesthouses nearby, offering much more freedom compared to Onsen-dake. While the source temperature is extremely hot, in the bathing pools it ranges from 100 to 109 degrees.

[Onsen-dake] Located in the same village, the spring quality contains sulfur and is good for syphilis, cuts, etc. This area is the remains of an old volcano, with two boiling springs called Dai-jigoku (Great Hell) and Ko-jigoku (Small Hell). This mountain had a major eruption 87 years ago, spewing out vast amounts of volcanic stones. Fragments can still be seen in various places today.

Dai-jigoku is located on the north side of the old volcanic mountain at mid-slope, about 1,800 feet above sea level, approximately 20 feet in width, with remarkably vigorous boiling. The spring water is clear with the odor of sulfur and an unpleasant iron taste. The temperature is 212 degrees, the boiling point, and the spring quality and therapeutic effects are similar to Kusatsu hot spring in Kozuke. See leaf 28. Local people believe this hot spring is a source of sulfur, but chemically, the amount is so minimal that it cannot be identified.

Ko-jigoku is located on the south side of the mountain, about 1,700 feet above sea level, much smaller in size compared to Dai-jigoku. The spring water is clear with a slight sulfur odor and has an astringent taste indicating iron content. Therefore, it is believed to contain a large amount of iron. The spring quality and therapeutic effects are similar to Santogoya hot spring in Shimotsuke. See leaf 35. The therapeutic effects of both hot springs are excellent for chlorosis and skin diseases. [Takaki] is a simple spring.

Higo Tamana County [Tomino-o] Located in Tomino-o village, the spring quality contains sulfuric acid and is good for small sores. [Ritsuganji] Located in Ritsuganji village, spring quality and therapeutic effects same as above. [Koama] Located in Koama village, the spring quality contains sulfur and is good for small sores. Akita County [Funatsu] Located in Funatsu village, spring quality same as above, good for beriberi, hernia, scabies, and small sores. [Handa-yu] Located in Handa village, spring quality unknown. Yamaga County [Yamaga] Located in Yu-machi, contains a small amount of sulfur, spring quality and therapeutic effects similar to Oyu in Izu. See leaf 9. [Hirayama] A cold spring located in Hirayama village, contains a small amount of salt. Spring quality and therapeutic effects similar to the non-saline hot spring of Atami in Izu. See leaf 8. The spring quality contains sulfur and is good for hernia, small sores, burns, and cuts. [Kumairi] Located in Kumairi village, the spring quality contains sulfur and is good for eye diseases, small sores, and cuts.