Springs emerge at the seashore of Jūnichō Village. The spring water has a salty quality and is effective for muscle and bone pain. There is also sand bathing at the same location, where locals lie on warm sand to heal their ailments. ○ Minato-yu, ○ Ōnenrei is half a chō west of Minato-yu, ○ Sansetsu-yu is one chō southeast of Minato-yu.

Yajika-yu: Located in Jūchō Village, contains alum and salt components, effective for fatigue, muscle and bone pain in hands and feet, and scabies.

Unagi-yu: Located one chō northeast of Unagi Pond in Narukawa Village, Yamagawa District. The spring water contains sulfur and is effective for abdominal disorders and scabies. ○ Chigo-mizu has two locations: one belongs to the same village and one belongs to Ōyama Village. Effective for abdominal disorders, foot pain, etc.

Ata District
Izaku: Located in Yunoura Village, Izaku District, contains sulfur, effective for abdominal disorders and scabies.

Hioki District
Ichiki: Located in Yuda Village, Ichiki District, contains sulfur, effective for scabies.

Satsuma District
Yukawachi (also called Iriki): Located in Soeda Village, Iriki District, contains alum and salt components, mild in nature and good for weak people, particularly effective for abdominal disorders. Springs emerge from eight locations.

Ichihino (also called Hiwaki): Located in Ichihino Village, contains alum, effective for abdominal disorders and beriberi.

Takashiro District
Yuda: Located in Yuda Village, has three springs within approximately fifteen square feet of one bathhouse. There is also one spring in the bathhouse of Yamada Shōdayū, about fifty ken away. Temperature is 109.4 degrees, spring water has sulfur odor and turns silver black. The temperatures and flow rates of the three springs are as follows: ○ Gozuyu: same temperature as above, flow rate about 7.5 to per minute. ○ Gozentyu: temperature 105.8 degrees, very small flow. ○ Jitōyu: temperature 104 degrees, flow about 1.2 to. All three springs have sulfur odor and leave white sulfur sediment. Soft brownish tuff rock is exposed nearby. However, the spring water appears to emerge directly from alluvial soil. The spring water contains sulfur and alum, effective for abdominal disorders, muscle and bone contractures.

Isa District
Sareshi (also called Imuda): Located in Imuda Village, spring water is clear and transparent, effective for hot flashes and abdominal disorders.

Miyanojō: Spring water contains alum.

Tsuruda: Located in Shio Village, Tsuruda District, spring quality and therapeutic effects same as above, also effective for scabies.

Izumi District
Izumi: Located in Izumi District, spring quality same as Miyanojō.

Iki
Iki District
Yunoura: Located in Tateishi Village, two ri and one chō from Kasu Village. Spring water contains salt and sulfur, effective for scabies and syphilis.

Hokkaido
Oshima
Kameda District
Kami-yuzawa: Located on limestone at Yuzawa, two ri northeast of Hakodate. Temperature 86 degrees. Spring water is clear and emerges in large quantities from limestone strata.

Yukawa: Located in Yukawa Village, about two ri and twelve chō northeast of Hakodate. Temperature 95 degrees. Spring water contains no gas but has iron carbonate. Small amount of spring water.