【Right Page】
Oleander (Kyōchikutō)
Flowers bloom from before the summer "dog days" in June and continue blooming until July and August. The flower shape resembles double peach blossoms, and on the outside there is a red pedestal like crabapple flowers, with a blue base pedestal below that. The flower color is light crimson with white variegation, and there are white serrations in the center of the petals. In the center of the stamens are three streaks like plucked cotton thread. The leaves are slender like female bamboo, glossy and thick like Daphniphyllum leaves. Leaves grow in three directions, and branches also extend in three directions. The wood's node structure has nodes at each leaf like bamboo, and the flower's node structure resembles Paulownia. The tree height varies in size - large ones reach six to seven feet or more, while small ones of four to five inches still produce flowers.

Golden Cherry (Kin'ōshi) 《Flowers bloom in March-April》
Similar to clustered roses and has thorns. Opens white flowers in April and May. Size is two to three inches, color is pure white with long stamens of the same white color.

【Left Page】
The fragrance is yellowish and abundant, a flower with very strong scent. The flower shape is single like peony. The leaves are trifoliate, slightly long with gloss. The flower pedestal, leaf stems, and wood all have thorns - the pedestal and leaf stem thorns are like caterpillars, while the wood's thorns are dense and used to make hedges. Also called Shidare-ibara (Weeping Rose).

Bellflower (Tsuriganesō)
Resembles Adenophora and flowers hang downward. Flower color is light purple, and leaves resemble Veronica. Leaves are glossy with nodes on the stem. Length about three feet. Has flowers in May and June. True name is Adenophora. Grows between cliff walls.

Phlox (Hanashinobu)
Leaves resemble wild wisteria. The flower's growth pattern resembles Yatsushiro grass and extends upward. Flower shape is like balloon flower, color is light purple, and white varieties also exist. Height is about two to three feet. Flowers appear in mid-May.