【Right Page】
Kumano Chrysanthemum (Kumanogiku)
Bigan
《Marginal note: May flower》
The flower shape is also like chrysanthemum flowers, with the color originally being yellow.
The leaf shape resembles motherwort (yakumosō), being thick and large leaves. The stem has
purple spots. The root base is purple in color. It is also called hangekusa.

Pink (Nadeshiko) 《Marginal note: June flower》
The flowers are single with white color and red variegation, those with deep horizontal cuts are
called Komachi-nadeshiko. Also, those with white ground and deep cuts in medium rings are called white
thread. Flowers that are white single, double, or red variegated are called komakata.

Self-heal (Utsubogusa)
《Marginal note: May flower》
The flower shape is like a quiver. Standing up from the leaves,
the blooming flowers come in three varieties: white, purple, and light color.

Solomon's Seal (Hōchakusō)
《Marginal note: Also called white bellflower grass》
The leaves resemble yatsushirosō but the leaf tips are pointed, and the stem has reddish color.
The flower shape is like a small bag. There are two types: red and white. Seinei
is another name. The flowers are longer and larger than bellflower grass. Flowers bloom in May.

Cymbidium (Keiran) 《Marginal note: Flowers in June-July》
Nine-joint Orchid (Kyūsetsuran)
《Marginal note: Called so because it has nine joints》
The flower shape is like a bee, with elegant turmeric color and glossy shine.
There are three or four flower stems standing, with six or seven flowers each
blooming on one stem. The fragrance is extremely high. In an ancient poem: "In the shape of a mountain bee

【Left Page】
flowers bloom forth with fragrance, drawing people from afar - orchid" The leaves vary and scatter,
having tiger stripes and veined patterns, with white edges. Also, what is called hōsa has flower shapes that
don't change, with long leaf lengths and leaf tips spreading in all directions with glossy shine. Resembling the painted
shape of a phoenix's tail. There is also what is called kanran. Similar to hōran with glossy
leaves that are small. Short in stature, and in winter, enduring the cold,
flowers bloom. The flowers are small and become blackish.

Yatsushiro Grass (Yatsushirosō)
《Marginal note: June-July flowers》
The flower shape is like bellflower with colors of bellflower, red, and purplish, with leaves
blooming between them, flowers blooming in one place. The leaves resemble dancing grass.

Ten Thousand Flower Grass (Mankasō) 《Marginal note: Flowers June-July, white available, over one shaku long》
The flower shape resembles paulownia flowers, being flat with long stamens extending
with six streaks. The color is light purple. The flower stem stands like paulownia flowers, small, blooming
gradually upward from below. The leaves resemble masaki, being round with
white edges around the leaves. The plant growth resembles masaki with leaves facing each other.

Skullcap (Ōgonsō)
《Marginal note: Mid-June flowers》
The flower shape resembles self-heal but longer, with light bellflower color like self-
heal. The leaves emerge facing each other, like ditch buckwheat. Height over one shaku. Grows in mountain valleys.