【Right page】
Many people died. On the twenty-third day of the sixth month of the fourth year of Keiun of Emperor Monmu, the forty-second emperor, in the year of hinoto-no-hitsuji (707 CE); in the fourth month of the sixth year of Tenpyō of Emperor Shōmu, the forty-fifth emperor, in the year of kinoe-inu (734 CE); on the fifth day of the fifth month of the second year of Saikō of Emperor Montoku, the fifty-fifth emperor, in the year of kinoto-no-i (855 CE), there was a great earthquake and the head of the Great Buddha of Tōdaiji Temple fell off. Even after that, great earthquakes occurred, but when Kamo no Chōmei wrote about this time in his "Hōjōki" (An Account of My Hut), it must have been quite a great earthquake indeed. It is truly recorded with vigorous writing. In the following year, hinoe-ne (856 CE), there was also an earthquake in the third month. On the last day of the seventh month of the third year of Ninna of Emperor Kōkō, the fifty-eighth emperor, in the year of hinoto-no-hitsuji (887 CE), there was a great earthquake, seawater surged and boiled, flooding the land, and the number of people who drowned

【Left page】
was countless. Mountains collapsed and filled valleys, and many people in mountain villages were buried alive. In addition, from the imperial palace to the houses of common people, all were damaged and collapsed. On the twenty-seventh day of the fifth month of the fourth year of Jōhei of Emperor Suzaku, the sixty-first emperor, in the year of kinoe-uma (934 CE); on the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the seventh year, hinoto-no-tori (937 CE); on the eighteenth day of the sixth month of the second year of Teigen of Emperor En'yū, the sixty-fourth emperor, in the year of hinoe-ne (977 CE), there was an unprecedented great earthquake that shook violently without even a brief pause for a day and night, houses collapsed causing great damage to the people, the ground split and mud gushed up. On the second day of the fourth month of the second year of Chōkyū of Emperor Go-Suzaku, the sixty-ninth emperor, in the year of kanoto-no-mi (1041 CE), there was a great earthquake that shook down the pagoda of Hōjōji Temple. On the ninth day of the seventh month of the first year of Bunji of Emperor Go-Toba, the eighty-second emperor (1185 CE), the eighty-eighth