【Right page】
Great earthquakes occurred, and many people died in coastal areas and mountainous regions. In the seventh year of Eishō of Emperor Go-Kashiwabara, the 105th emperor, kanoe-uma (1510 CE), on the seventh day of the eighth month; in the same ninth year, mizunoe-saru (1512 CE), on the tenth day of the sixth month. In the twelfth year of Tenshō of Emperor Ōgimachi, the 107th emperor, kinoe-saru (1584 CE), from the twenty-ninth day of the eleventh month, great earthquakes occurred and continued shaking until around the end of the first month of the following year. In the first year of Keichō of Emperor Go-Yōzei, the 108th emperor, hinoe-saru (1596 CE), from the twelfth day of the same seventh month, great earthquakes began, and even after months passed, the aftershocks did not cease. From this time onward, even now elderly people remember these events. In the nineteenth year of Keichō of the 109th emperor, the retired emperor's legitimate reign, kinoe-tora (1614 CE), on the twenty-fifth day of the tenth month, there was a great earthquake, as recorded in various documents, and such events occurred in ancient times as well.

【Left page】
It must have been so. During the reign of the current 112th emperor, in the second year of Kanbun, mizunoe-tora (1662 CE), from the first day of the fifth month, great earthquakes began, shaking daily sometimes five or seven times, sometimes two or three times, and even after days and months passed, the aftershocks have not yet ceased. Elderly people may remember similar occurrences, but for young people this is their first encounter with such events, and it is quite reasonable that especially women and children are frightened and bewildered. In China as well, not to mention ancient times, in the twenty-seventh year of Zhiyuan of Emperor Shizu of the Great Yuan (1290 CE), in the eighth month, a great earthquake occurred, many private houses collapsed and fell, and those crushed to death

【Right page - Red ink annotation at top】
According to the Record of Hatakeyama Masanaga, on the night of the seventh day of the eighth month of Eishō 7, a great earthquake occurred violently, temples and Buddhist halls throughout the provinces collapsed, and even the stone torii of Tennōji fell down. That earthquake did not stop for over seventy days, and moreover, between the twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth days of the eighth month, great waves came violently to Ōmi Province, and the land suddenly became sea. What is now called the Imagire-no-watashi (Imagire Ferry) is this place.