【Right page】
were seven thousand people. During Emperor Chengzong's reign, in the eighth month of the seventh year of Dade, and similarly in the eighth month of the tenth year, great earthquakes occurred, and among the court ladies of the rear palace and ministers and below, over five thousand people died. During Emperor Shunzong's time, there was an earthquake in the eighth month of the second year of Yuantong. In the era of the Great Ming, during Emperor Xiaozong Jing's fourteenth year of Hongzhi, on New Year's Day of the first month, a great earthquake occurred and many people died. While such precedents are not unknown in foreign countries or our own land, when one happens to encounter such events, it is also reasonable that high and low alike are startled and make a commotion as if there were no precedents in the past. According to Buddhist teachings, it is explained that there are four types of earthquakes. This too must be one theory. Below this world is the wind wheel, and within it water is contained. Above the water wheel has already

【Left page】
solidified and become the golden wheel foundation, and above that is the earth wheel, which serves as the dwelling place for human beings. When the wind wheel moves even slightly, it resonates in the water wheel and transmits from the golden wheel foundation to the earth wheel, causing the great earth to move. According to the teachings of the Way of Changes, when yin energy covers above and yang energy lies dormant below, trying to rise but being suppressed by yin energy, it shakes and moves, resulting in earthquakes. The fact that some places shake while others do not is said to depend on the lines of water veins. If compared to human illness, this should be called the symptom of "obstruction and blockage." All of this arises from the workings of yang energy from places of respite. When above and producing sound, it is called thunder; when without sound, it is called lightning. When below and moving, it is called earthquake.