The total of the provinces amounted to 1.2 million koku.

In Murai Nagaaki's "Shōken Kiryaku" (Chronicles of Wise and Virtuous Deeds), it is recorded as follows:

1. In Osaka, a marriage alliance was arranged with Lord Chunagon (Hidetada), and it was decided that the lord's daughter would marry Lord Inuchiyo (Toshitsune). Sakakibara Shikibu-no-shō served as messenger, and by His Lordship's intention, the two districts of Nomi and Enuma were granted to Lord Inuchiyo. Immediately, Lord Inu (Toshitsune) took possession of Komatsu, and Lord Hizen (Toshinaga) in great joy presented a black horse with trappings to Lord Chunagon (Hidetada).

1. Secondly, when Lord Hizen was departing for campaign, a messenger came to Lord Magoshirō requesting that he promptly depart from Noto. However, various disputes arose between the brothers, and Lord Magoshirō did not join the campaign. Therefore, Lord Magoshirō's position was terminated.

1. Upon consideration, the fact that the two districts of Kaga were granted to heir Lord Inuchiyo at this time is not recorded in the various records of the former domain. Presumably, since the "Shōken Kiryaku" is an autograph manuscript by Murai Nagaaki, a retainer of Daishōji domain, held by the Maeda family, and copies of it have not circulated in the world, the actual circumstances of granting the two districts are not recorded in the various chronicles.

Copies of the certificates for the grants of the two districts of Nomi and Enuma as well as Noto are not found in any records. Now, at this time, Hijikata Kanbei Takehisa worked diligently under orders from Tokugawa Naifu, and in recognition of his efforts, he was granted land of 10,000 koku around Nunoshi in Niikawa District of Etchu Province by Lord Toshinaga. In Keichō 10 (1605), he was granted 61 villages in the land of Noto's four districts, which people called Hijikata territory.

1. The memorandum from Lord Toshinaga's era states: "In the 8th month of Keichō 5 (1600), Lord Naifu departed for campaign..."