【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Thirteen

○Warm sashimi《Side note: sea bream, daikon, julienned chestnuts | wood mushrooms, chrysanthemum shoots》　○Hunter's soup《Side note: monkfish | ground Japanese pepper》
○《Side note: duck stir-fried and grilled | wasabi》　○Carp cylinder-cut soup, yuzu
○《Side note: swan soup | turnip, ground Japanese pepper》　○Fermented soybean soup《Side note: various mushrooms | mustard》
○Pufferfish imitation《Side note: shigera fish pressed sushi tofu | rock moss, ground Japanese pepper》　○Grated daikon soup《Side note: grilled small crucian carp | yuzu》
○Okara soup《Side note: small bird, minced | green onion garnish}}　○Green onion soup《Side note: oysters | grated yuzu》
○Grated burdock soup《Side note: small bird | minced》　○Clear cod soup《Side note: skewered fish | kelp》
○Korean-style simmered sea bream, yuzu garnish　○Thick stew《Side note: duck, white konjac | julienned matsutake mushrooms and egg, light kudzu}}
○Simmered goose skin《Side note: shimeji mushrooms, grilled chestnuts | dried gourd strips》　○Rich soup
《Side note: red ray, carrot, arrowhead | wood mushrooms, grilled chestnuts}}

○Rich soup《Side note: abalone, mountain mushrooms | rock moss, ginkgo nuts》　○Grilled crucian carp, kelp bed
○Simmered goose innards, ground Japanese pepper　○Dried sweetfish, senba style
According to tradition, for regular cuisine with two soups and five to seven side dishes, even in winter
cold sashimi is used. During formal banquets limited to one soup with two or three side dishes,
cold dishes seem inappropriate during cold seasons, so warm sashimi is prepared.
The method is to prepare sashimi as usual, add sake to the vinegar and bring to a boil,
serve in shallow dishes, place in a steamer, and briefly steam before serving. This is especially
interesting for shippoku cuisine. ○For stir-fried and grilled dishes using crane, goose, duck, swan, or spot-billed duck, prepare as usual,
then add aged sake to soy sauce, first heat the pan, add only oil and skin
to render the oil, remove the meat, then cook the main meat portions in the rendered fat.
The technique is to turn over both sides and quickly stir-fry. Avoid overcooking. Covered
vessels are best. If using ceramic vessels, warm them before serving. Serving about two pieces each is also good.
Garnishes are ground Japanese pepper or wasabi. ○Hunter's soup means grinding red miso to the right consistency
and mixing in monkfish liver. The flavor is exceptional and makes an interesting soup. ○Swan is

【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Fourteen