【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　　Fifteen

Add [red miso], and simmer briefly with dashi stock before serving. Recently, it has become common to use only one type of mushroom, but traditionally it was prepared with wild goose alone, as has been passed down.

○Jellyfish preparation method: Wash seven or eight times with water, then wash with green tea, then wash about twice with salt, and rinse off the salt before use. In any case, wash until the smell is removed. Good for vinegar-soy sauce dressing, sake-vinegar salad, or as accompaniment to sashimi. It becomes bad when boiled. For storage, simply keep submerged in fresh water so it doesn't float, and it will remain unchanged for many years.

○The above menu items from New Year to September may vary, but one should not be overly bound by this. Sea bream, sea bass, carp, crucian carp, Japanese whiting, halfbeak, shrimp, and abalone are fish available in all four seasons, so they are always fish to be enjoyed. Particularly grilled sea bream and simmered abalone are good in both summer and winter. However, to avoid recording the same items in two places, I have divided and recorded them as such.

　　　　　Clear Soup Section　Divided by Four Seasons　Including Vegetarian

　　　Generally, clear soup is essential when sake has been flowing. However, for tea ceremony kaiseki, unlike regular cooking, since there are few dishes, one should understand the concept of rich flavors. Also, if the food is rich in flavor, light clear soup is good. In any case, it is essential to follow the progression of jo-ha-kyū (introduction-development-climax) so that flavors don't overlap whether sake goes down well or not. This should not be taken lightly.

　　　　　　Spring
○Sea bream　Fish roe　　　　○Duck　Horsetail shoots　Parsley　Yuzu
○Wild goose　Yuba　Delicacy　○Salted crane　Parsley
○Swan　Pine greens　　　　　○Rolled sushi　Pine mushroom
○Salted cod　Green kelp　　　○Grilled whitebait　Nori seaweed
○Flounder rough-simmered　Egg　○Kuruma shrimp　Finely chopped　Scallop

【Column】　　　Recipe Collection　Sixteen