【Column】　　　Menu Collection　　32

○Enoki mushrooms　Flower yuzu

　　　　　Simmered Dishes Section
○Sweet simmered bamboo shoots【bamboo shoots, pinched wheat gluten｜Chinese yam, pickled plum, green sansho pepper】　○Sweet simmered bamboo shoots【bamboo shoots, walnut paste｜azuki beans, pickled plum, green sansho pepper】
○Sweet simmered bamboo shoots【bamboo shoots, sake lees｜pickled plum, green sansho pepper】　○Chilled simmered dish【bamboo shoots, sake lees｜wheat gluten, Chinese yam】
○【Pickled thousand slices, green beans｜arrowhead, sansho leaves】　○Chilled gelatin　Chinese yam　bamboo shoots
○Kyoto konjac【stir-fried with seasoned sake｜pepper powder】　○Mock wild goose【bean sprouts｜julienned burdock】
○Kyoto kelp【top quality｜arrowhead】julienned river mushrooms　○Whole simmered eggplant　ground poppy seeds
○Julienned bamboo shoots　winter melon　sake lees　○Half-cut potato【kuzu starch sauce｜wasabi】
○Large-cut winter melon【kuzu starch sauce｜wasabi】　○【Sword beans, rock mushrooms｜julienned konjac】

According to tradition, kanten-gaeshi (agar return) uses one block with seven cups of water, boiled well, strained and put in a container, then cooled and solidified with water. For pressed cucumber, white cucumber is rubbed with salt, pressed with cloth, weighted down to remove moisture. Walnut paste is made by mixing equal parts walnut and kuzu starch, kneading together, solidifying and cutting into rounds. Rice sushi uses firm-cooked premium white rice, seasoned with vinegar, shaped by hand, topped with Asakusa nori seaweed, wrapped in paper four or five times, shaped as desired and cut. However, it's good to sprinkle with roasted salt. Bamboo shoot sushi involves boiling bamboo shoots and cooling them, mixing rice with vinegar and salt, arranging bamboo shoots, pickling in a tub with reverse pressing to remove moisture, ready in a day and a half. The method for yuzu miso is described later. For whole simmered eggplant, use one sho of plain water for thirteen small eggplants, or ten medium ones, simmering until the water reduces. Simmered gelatin uses kanten-gaeshi with soy sauce added to taste, simmered thoroughly, then cooled and served individually. Generally in summer, it's essential to pay attention to all vessels and everything to make them appear cool and refreshing.

　　　　　July