In the past, smallpox vaccination introduced from the West (Holland) is inoculated on the left and right arms of children, causing smallpox to develop only in those areas, with no spots appearing on the entire body and no particular fever arising. The process follows the typical course of smallpox - initial appearance, swelling, suppuration, and scab formation - ultimately eliminating the root of smallpox for life. This is an infallibly effective and miraculous treatment.

This method has already been tested on several hundred people in Nagasaki, Hizen Saga, Omura, and Choshu Hagi. In Kyoto, a vaccination clinic was opened at Shinmachi Sanjo Agaru, where over one hundred people were vaccinated to confirm its reliability.

This method was originally invented in England around the Kansei era (1789-1801) by a person called Jenner. Over the past sixty years until today, it has been administered to millions of people, and it is said that not a single person has contracted smallpox thereafter. In China, at a place called Macau, [text unclear] thousands of people were treated, and according to Westerners, a complete manual was written.

Indeed, since ancient times, countless hundreds of millions have died from smallpox. Even those who escaped death often lived their lives disfigured, which is truly lamentable. Therefore, to save all people widely, Doctors Hino and others have obtained smallpox vaccine from Kyoto and are promoting vaccination therapy at the location below. Those who wish may come from early morning until 10 AM [text partially unclear].

Osaka Doshomachi Goryosuji, west entrance
Vaccination Clinic
Doshomachi 4-chome
Contact: Yamatoya Kihei
Respectfully

Kaei 2, 11th month (1849)

As stated above, this was promoted in Osaka and tested on several hundred people, proving its absolute reliability. Therefore, I have come down to repay the nation's benevolence and widely provide this treatment to all people.

Kaei 3, 1st month (1850) - Ogata Koan of Ashimori Domain