【Right page】
○In October, snakes hibernate in holes, rainbows hide and are not seen. Children fly kites.
○In November, narcissus and winter chrysanthemums bloom, wolfberries turn red, and earthworms make sounds. There is nothing else particular to do.
○In December, on days that fall on gēngzǐ or gēngwǔ, they wrap glutinous rice flour in palm leaves in three or four layers and steam it in a steamer, calling it "demon rice cake" and giving it as gifts. According to local explanation, long ago when demons appeared in this country, they made this item to offer in worship. This is said to be the surviving custom from that time. It likely has the meaning of exorcism and warding off epidemics. On the 24th they send off the kitchen god, and in the first month of the following year they welcome the kitchen god for the first time.

　　　○Coming of Age
The people of this country, before coming of age, arrange their topknots like coiled snakes and insert long hairpins upside down from bottom to top, with the tips reaching their foreheads. When they have already grown up and receive the cap (it is customary to receive the cap at age twenty), they shave the hair on top of their heads to make the topknot smaller and fasten it with short hairpins. In Tang China during the Ming period there was no hair shaving, but this practice began from the time they received investiture from the Qing. I surmise that instead of becoming completely bald like monks, they escaped with this partial shaving.

　　　○Hair Shaving

【Left page】
Medical officials are called gokangen, and tea ceremony monks are called sōsō, also called ochayu. They wear single caps and dress in black garments like jittoku.

　　　○Explanation of Utensils and Furnishings
The manner of dining, down to the trays and bowls, all follows Japanese custom. The palace attendants are satonoko. They wear matching clothing in pairs, and their movements follow the Ogasawara school. This is said to be extremely well-mannered.

　　　○Women's Market
In this country at a place called Tsujiyama along the coast, there is a market twice daily, morning and evening. The merchants are all women without exception. The goods they sell are fish and shellfish, sweet potatoes, tofu, wooden vessels, plates and bowls, ceramics, wooden combs, sandals, straw sandals and other rough goods. Whatever their merchandise, they carry it on their heads, going up slopes and down peaks without tilting. For buying and selling they use Japanese coins. In ancient times, Hongwu and Yongle coins from Tang China circulated in this place, but now these are extremely rare, and only Kan'ei coins are numerous.

　　　○Fondness for Sneezing
Ryukyu people, considering it medicine for longevity, are fond of sneezing. Guests