【Right page】
resentment, know this!" and stabbed him through, the blade passing through to the hilt and even his fist. 
As Akō cried "Ah!" and tried to stand up, they struck off his head with the returning blade. The retainers, who had been
drunk and collapsed, saw this scene and were horrified, falling into
great confusion. The two boys gave no respite, cutting in all directions,
killing them all and achieving their earnest wish - thus concludes one story.

○There is also a kyōgen called "Shōma" (Bell Demon). This resembles
the noh play Dōjōji. In a place called Koshakken village in Nakagusuku, there lived a farmer
of the Tō family name. He had an only son named Matsuju, exactly fifteen years old,
truly a beautiful and elegant young man. In the capital of this country, Shuri, he had a teacher
and regularly commuted there to receive instruction. One day, when he was on the mountain path
of Urasoe, evening came and he lost his way. As he wandered here and there,
it gradually became dark and he could no longer tell
directions. He broke off a small bamboo to use as a staff and groped about,
when he faintly saw the light of a fire. Matsuju was spontaneously delighted
and followed the firelight to find his way, finally reaching that house where he
requested lodging for the night. The master of this house was a hunter who had one
daughter. Though raised in the mountains, she had natural beauty that was mysteriously
refined and elegant. She was only sixteen years old. That night her father had gone hunting

【Left page】
and she was alone keeping house, when there was a visitor at the gate saying,
"I am one who has lost his way on an unknown mountain path. Please show mercy and give me
lodging." His voice was also beautiful. Though the daughter felt pity,
since her father was away and she was alone, she hesitated to decide, but since he was still
a young person and had no companions with him, she thought her
father would not blame her too much, so she opened the gate and led him into the hut, caring for him
in various ways. Her heart fluttered at Matsuju's beautiful appearance,
and she tried to seduce him with various approaches, but Matsuju, being naturally wise and sensible,
did not respond at all and sat without sleeping. The daughter, pressed by her
feelings, suddenly embraced him, but Matsuju was startled and shook off his clothes to
stand up. The daughter, now filled with resentment, said "I will not let such a heartless person live. I'll take you
to the underworld with me," and took up a blade to attack him. Matsuju felt as if his soul was flying to the
ninth heaven, in a dreamlike state, and fled as if on wings, but she
pursued him wherever he went. She was as swift as a flying bird. Matsuju barely escaped
and rushed into a temple called Manjuji in the depths of this mountain. When he told his story,
the head priest, a monk named Futoku, who had excellent virtue and wisdom,
immediately led Matsuju to the bell tower, hid him inside the great bell,
and had three disciples keep watch around the area.