【Right page】
　　○Brief Account of Gratitude Envoys
According to the brush of Korokawa Sen, in the 14th year of Keichō, tsuchinoto-tori (1609), the lord of Satsushū, Shimazu Iehisa, received imperial command and led troops to punish the crime of insolence. He gave three thousand soldiers to his veteran retainers Kabayama Gonzaemon Hisataka and Hirata Tarōzaemon Masumune, and together with his own forces totaling 3,500 men, they set sail in the third month, crossing the great ocean and directly reaching the port of Unten in Ryukyu, attacking and advancing in one stroke.
The people of the country exhausted their defensive tactics, but could not withstand the sharp assault, being especially startled and frightened by firearms. Finally their army was defeated and King Shō Nei surrendered at the military camp. Thereupon the three mountains and various islands of Ryukyu were pacified, and in the sixth month they returned triumphantly bringing King Shō Nei with them. At this time, Ryukyu was granted and given a seal to be held by Iehisa in perpetuity. In the following 15th year, kanoe-inu (1610), in the eighth month, Iehisa brought Shō Nei to Sunpu and Edo to present tribute and request forgiveness for the crime of neglecting tribute. This was the beginning of Ryukyu's court visits after the eastern relocation, and thereafter the dispatch of envoys to celebrate festivities and express gratitude continued uninterrupted, and tribute was restored to its former state. In the 7th year of Kan'ei, kanoe-uma (1630), in the eleventh month, King Shō Hō sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Sashiki and the gratitude chief envoy Prince Kin to present tribute. At this time there was an imperial visit to the capital, so they paid respects at Nijō in Kyoto and did not come to Edo.

【Left page】
In the 21st year of Kan'ei, kinoe-saru (1644), in the sixth month, Shō Ken sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Kin and the gratitude chief envoy Prince Kunigami to present tribute.
In the 2nd year of Keian, tsuchinoto-ushi (1649), in the ninth month, King Shō Shitsu sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Gushikawa to present tribute. They also paid respects at Nikkōzan. In the 2nd year of Jōō, mizunoto-mi (1653), in the ninth month, King Shō Shitsu sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Kunigami to present tribute. In the 11th year of Kanbun, kanoto-i (1671), in the seventh month, King Shō Tei sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Kin to present tribute. They also paid respects at Nikkōzan.
In the 2nd year of Tenna, mizunoe-inu (1682), in the eleventh month, King Shō Tei sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Nago to present tribute. In the 7th year of Hōei, kanoe-tora (1710), in the eleventh month, King Shō Eki sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Misato and the gratitude chief envoy Prince Tomigusuku to present tribute. In the 4th year of Shōtoku, kinoe-uma (1714), in the twelfth month, King Shō Kei sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Yonashiro and the gratitude chief envoy Prince Kin to present tribute. In the 3rd year of Kyōhō, tsuchinoe-inu (1718), in the eleventh month, King Shō Kei sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Goeku to present tribute.
In the 1st year of Kan'en, tsuchinoe-tatsu (1748), in the eleventh month, King Shō Kei sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Gushikawa to present tribute. In the 2nd year of Hōreki, mizunoe-saru (1752), in the twelfth month, King Shō Boku sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Nakijin to present tribute. In the 1st year of Meiwa, kinoe-saru (1764), in the eleventh month, King Shō Boku sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Yomitanzan to present tribute. In the 2nd year of Kansei, kanoe-inu (1790), in the twelfth month, King Shō Boku sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Giwan to present tribute. In the same 8th year, hinoe-tatsu (1796)