【Right page】
In the twelfth month, King Shō Sei sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Ōgiimi and vice-envoy Yasumura Ueekata to present tribute. In the 3rd year of Bunka, hinoe-tora (1806), in the eleventh month, King Shō Kō sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Yomitanzan and vice-envoy Oroku Ueekata to present tribute. In the 3rd year of Tenpō, mizunoe-tatsu (1832), in the eleventh month, King Shō Iku sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Tomigusuku and the former King Shō Kō's envoy Takeshi Ueekata to present tribute. In the 13th year of Tenpō, mizunoe-tora (1842), in the eleventh month, King Shō Iku sent the congratulatory chief envoy Prince Urasoe to present tribute.
Now in this 3rd year of Kaei, kanoe-inu (1850), in the eleventh month, King Shō Tai sent the gratitude chief envoy Prince Tamakawa to present tribute. From Keichō to this year, court visits have reached nineteen times.

　　　　　Official Ranks and Illustrated Description of Court Caps and Robes
Ranks range from first grade to ninth grade, and naturally there are distinctions between principal (shō) and subordinate (ju) ranks. The king's sons and brothers are called ōji (wanzu) [First Grade Principal]. Territorial lords are called aji (anzu) [First Grade Subordinate. ○In ancient times, aji resided in their domains and governed those lands, but because each wielded power independently, the 17th generation king Shō Shin reformed the system, making them reside in the castle town of Shuri, and dispatched officials called satsujikikatsa to govern the affairs of their territories, having the annual tribute paid to the aji at year's end]. The great ministers who oversee state affairs are called the Three Judicial Officers Ueekata (Tenshōshi, Chishōshi, and Jinshōshi) [First Grade Principal]. Ministers below them are called Ueekata [Second Grade Subordinate]. Those called Pechin are military officials [ranging from third to seventh grades]. Those called Satonoshi are young attendants in personal service [eighth grade]. Those called Chikudun are ninth grade.

【Left page, upper section】
◦Royal Cap (ō-bō)
Made of black gauze
Worn by the king

◦Short Hairpin
　Length: 3-4 inches
　Used by those who have
　undergone coming-of-age ceremony

◦Long Hairpin
　Length: over one shaku
　Used by women and young men
　before coming-of-age who have
　large topknots
Noble and common ranks are distinguished by gold and silver
　Women use those made of tortoiseshell

【Left page, lower section】
◦Official and Civilian Cap (kwan-min-bō)
　The design is the same for all ranks from first to ninth grade
　Made with stiffened paper as the frame
　　　　　[Diagram of cap shown]

◦Conical Hat (kasa)
　Made of diamond-patterned straw, also made of reed
　The exterior painted black, the interior painted vermillion

◦Side Cap (hen-bō)
　Made of black silk
　Has six corners
　Used by medical officials, musicians, tea ceremony practitioners, and others with shaved heads