【Right Page】
Mannensei (Rohdea japonica, Sacred Lily) from "Bencao Xinbian (New Compilation of Materia Medica)"
It thrives in shady, moist ground. Its leaves grow facing each other alternately from left to right. Also, occasionally new and old leaves alternate, with some facing each other front to back, left to right, every other year. In spring, buds gradually sprout from the center, and as young leaves develop within the buds, the buds immediately open to produce young leaves. Flower buds develop inside the buds and are sandwiched between new leaves and buds. Those with single-leaf buds are of constant nature, while those with two-leaf buds produce flower buds following the initial buds. In summer, they open yellowish-white six-petaled flowers. The petals are thick and do not fall off. When they bear fruit, they immediately contain new buds within. The fruits turn red in winter and are worth admiring. At this time, many old leaves wither and decay.

【Left Page】
Why do flower arrangers consider this a secret teaching? Sacred lilies are commonly planted near water basins, and there is no one who has not seen them. Even if one tries to keep it secret, it should not be secreted. The "Secret Transmission Flower Mirror" states: "In building houses, moving residences, weddings, preparing burial sites, births of children, and all joyful occasions, there is nothing that does not use it. This is taken as an auspicious invocation. Even for wedding ceremonies, if one cannot obtain living specimens, one must cut and fashion silk to resemble their form as a substitute." It should serve as an auspicious arrangement for celebratory banquets.

The "Bencao Xinbian" states: The seeds of sacred lily are even better than the leaves. Where three leaves are commonly used, only one seed need be consumed. Its efficacy is the same as the leaves, also blackening whiskers and hair, killing consumption insects, and resolving bad breath. When people grow this plant in their homes, it can ward off evil spirits.