【Right Page】
Orobanche (hamautsubo) 《Bencao Gangmu: namely Cistanche》　《Addendum》Omoi-gusa 《Chinese name unknown》
In summer, grows near lakes and seas as well as in sunny mountain valleys. Three to four stems grow from one clump, with a height of five to
seven sun. At each node, it produces reddish-purple bracts, has no leaves, and the stem is purple. At the stem tip, it opens pale
yellow flowers forming spikes. Its appearance resembles Chuzhou xiakucao (Prunella vulgaris).
The root has pale yellow bulbs, which parasitize the roots of Artemisia capillaris (kawara-yomogi). Small bulbs develop on the roots of Artemisia capillaris,
and the plant grows from these bulbs. According to Ono Ranzan's theory, it grows on the roots of mehari-no-
ki 《Chinese name unknown, a type of alder (Alnus)》, but it should not be limited to these, and likely
parasitizes other plants as well. However, depending on the soil conditions, it may not parasitize, and does not
necessarily always parasitize. Some that grow on Mount Nikko in Yashu Province are called kimura-dake.

【Left Page】
It has scales on the stem, and yellow-red flowers cluster densely at the stem tip forming spikes,
with bulbs at the root. It is incorrect to consider this as Cistanche deserticola. Some that grow
on Mount Tōnomine in Yamashiro Province are somewhat thin and small, with many scales on the roots. There is also
a plant called omoi-gusa. These are all varieties of the same species. Omoi-gusa
never grows in places without Japanese pampas grass (susuki). In autumn, in mountains and fields where susuki is abundant,
it grows by receiving the qi of susuki. Those growing from old stocks sprout small seedlings alongside,
or some sprout small buds from the roots. The roots are slightly yellow and extremely brittle.
It produces reddish-purple bracts and grows four to five stems. About five to six sun in height, without leaves,
yellow with fine purple vertical stripes, and the base has a slight purple tinge. The stem head tilts to one