【Right Page】
　　　　Lycoris (Shitagamari) "Bencao Gangmu"
Grows in mountains and fields. Its roots overlap like the roots of narcissus (harudama). In winter it produces leaves that resemble garlic leaves but are broader, thick and firm, and deep green in color. By the following summer they wither and decay. In autumn it extends one stem about one shaku (foot) in length, opening six-petaled flowers at the stem tip, with five or six clusters blooming together. The petals curve backward. They are red in color with red stamens. Commonly called manjusaka flower. Or tetsushokusen (fox razor) "Shisuan Jijie," kyujinso (summer narcissus) "Shuyi Ji" are varieties of the same species. All of these have flowers and leaves that appear at different times. There is also one called "sekizan" (Chinese name unknown). In spring it produces leaves from the perennial root, which recede in early summer, then in autumn it produces flower stems and opens several white flowers. The form is like that of Chinese chive flowers with six petals. After flowering it bears fruit. By late autumn the fruit

【Left Page】
ripens, at which time it also produces two or three leaves, ending in winter. When weak, it produces one or two leaves. It produces leaves again in one year, being a different variety. It is also called "yamanira" (mountain leek).

The "Bencao Gangmu Jijie" states: Shizhen says, "In early spring it produces leaves like garlic seedlings and Iphigenia, with sword-like veins on the back of the leaves, spreading scattered on the ground. In the seventh month the shoots wither, then from level ground it extends one stem like an arrow shaft, about one chi long, opening four or five flowers at the stem tip. Six-parted and red in color, like the shape of tiger lily flowers but with long petals, yellow stamens with long whiskers. The root shape is like garlic, with purple-red skin and white flesh. One variety has leaves like large Chinese chives, extending stems and opening flowers in the fourth and fifth months, like small day-lily flowers of yellow-white color, called tetsushokusen. Both plants extend stems and open flowers, then produce leaves afterward; leaves and flowers do not appear together. Same as with golden lantern."