While Toraemon was saying they should do more fishing, winds from the northwest suddenly became fierce, and snow and hail began falling mixed together. Gradually the winds intensified, making it impossible to approach shore. Our oars were taken by the high waves, and the remaining oars and paddles were also damaged. We worked with all our might to endure, but the rough waves grew increasingly strong, leaving us with no choice but to be blown along by the wind, drifting in what seemed to be a southeasterly direction. Until around four o'clock the next morning (the 8th), we could still see the land of our home province. The blizzard would stop and start again, and by past nine o'clock in the afternoon of that day, we lost sight of our homeland and drifted at the mercy of the northwest winds. Around ten o'clock at night on the 9th, rain began to fall and the wind changed to northerly. The same wind continued on the 10th, and although the rain cleared on the morning of the 11th, westerly winds were fierce. The same winds continued blowing on the 12th, and we could see no islands or mountains at all. On the morning of the 13th, around four o'clock, we spotted a small island about two ri away to the southeast. We all took heart and wanted to approach it, but we had no proper boat equipment. Moreover, during our drift, we had consumed all our rice and the fish we had caught, and we were exhausted from not eating. Nevertheless, we desperately tried to get closer, using small pieces of wood as makeshift oars. Around seven o'clock that evening, we finally managed to row to the rocky shore of that island, each carrying our few personal belongings and some buckets as we landed. It was an extremely rocky coast, and our boat was immediately wrecked. There was a rock cave about two ken square on the island's shore. When we surveyed the island, it appeared to be about one ri in extent, with no place where water springs forth—an uninhabited island. Only familiar white miscanthus grass grew thickly, and along the island's shore we saw many of what we called tōkurō in our homeland—birds about the size of swans with feathers...