On the 29th of the same month, we arrived at Yamakawa in Satsuma Province. The next morning, on the last day of the month, we departed from that place and arrived at Kagoshima in the evening of the same day, where we landed and stayed briefly. After traveling overland for about two days, we boarded a ship at Kyōdomari Port to be sent to Nagasaki, arriving at Nagasaki Port on the last day of the 9th month of this year.

Regarding Manjirō, concerning his purchases of various items in different places using the silver money he had earned and saved during his stay in foreign countries - while this was entirely due to having no financial difficulties - he was questioned about his purchase of pocket guns, gunpowder, pistons, and pocket watches. Regarding the purchase and possession of pocket guns and such, this is not limited to America but is a custom in foreign countries. Particularly, those who go to California and other places purchase and carry these for their personal protection. This is for personal defense when faced with bandits and other unexpected disasters that threaten one's life, even to the point of ending one's life together [with the threat]. According to the customs of those countries, some people possess three or four guns. Ammunition and lead bullets are similarly accompanying items, so these were purchased in Hawaii. As for the pocket watch, when the desire to return to Japan arose, I recalled that in my birthplace of Tosa Province in Japan, no one possessed such items, and since it was a rare article, I wanted to bring it back to show others. Moreover, it was a convenient item to have aboard ship. In places like New Bedford, even children possess them, so I purchased it from a merchant ship crew member while I was aboard the whaling vessel.

Having stated the above, regarding whether he had studied Christianity or other foreign religions during his stay abroad, there was no such thing. If there had been any such matter, he would honestly report it, as was stated again