【Right Page】
《as such, one would want to specialize in researching true archery. Also with swords, one should not carelessly prefer long, large ones. If one uses something not suited to one's strength, one's power will surely tire and suffer unexpected defeat. Also, the practice with long bamboo swords that has become popular in the world recently is also impractical for real use, so this too is probably heretical to swordsmanship.》

On the Principles of Treating Gunshot Wounds
In the previous volume, from discussing burns, poisonous smoke, etc., to removing bullets, I did not speak in detail about the discussion of treating gunshot wounds because at this point, it becomes a matter for specialist surgeons and is not something that warriors can do well. However, when dividing forces and heading to other directions, there may be times when physicians cannot accompany them, so I will again describe the general outline here as knowledge for warriors. There are three different grades in the treatment of gunshot wounds. First, removing the bullet and washing the wound, treating it like

【Left Page】
the treatment method for sword wounds. Second is the surgical opening technique, which involves cutting open the wound opening to facilitate cleaning the interior flesh. Third is the amputation technique, where whether the wound is on hand or foot, one cuts it off with a sharp blade, making the person disabled but merely preserving life - a technique performed out of necessity. Following sword wound treatment methods after removing the bullet was already mostly discussed in the previous volume. Here I will discuss the outline of the latter treatment methods together, but when it comes to amputation techniques, these are performed out of fear that corruption of blood and flesh will cause death. However, since both those who administer treatment and those who receive it must have courageous and decisive judgment, these are difficult techniques to perform, so I will not discuss them further.