【Right Page　Upper Section】
Dichroa febrifuga and Dichroa leaves　One variety (Japanese names: kusagi, taunoki)
(Japanese names: kokusagi, nogusa, yamaute leaves are Dichroa leaves)　Haizhou Dichroa
(senzui: Kishu dialect, heminocha: Etsu Province dialect)

Dichroa refers to the root, and Dichroa leaves to the shoots - one plant with two names. This plant is a shrub, not an herbaceous plant. Some grow to 6-7 shaku in height. It is abundant in deep mountains of various provinces and is used as hedging around homes. The branches and trunk are bluish-white, the leaves resemble magnolia but are somewhat smaller with a glossy surface and strong odor. Around the second and third months it produces spikes and opens small green flowers about 3-4 bu in size with 4 petals. There are also pale yellow varieties. Su Song's description of "leaves resembling tea but narrower" refers to the tea-leaf-like Dichroa, which is the genuine article.

【Same　Lower Section】
This is a shrub common around homes. The leaves resemble paulownia but are smaller, and due to their odor, it has the name "stinking paulownia." The insects of this tree are said to effectively treat childhood nutritional disorders, and are called kusaki insects.

【Left Page　Upper Section】
For Dichroa, imported varieties are considered best, but in recent times there are many counterfeits and adulterants. Some dye the roots of Haizhou Dichroa yellow and sell them. While not without emetic effect, for medicinal use one must use the roots of this kouzaki variety.

【Same　Lower Section】
Pharmacies carry imported Dichroa, which is the same plant - namely chicken-bone Dichroa. The thin-formed variety is called chicken-bone Dichroa. What is sold in the world as malaria treatment appears to be made by forming the shoots and roots into separate pills, using the shoots in the evening and the roots at dawn on the day of fever onset, inducing vomiting for treatment.

There is a variety called earth Dichroa, which in contrast to climbing hydrangea is called tree hydrangea. The flower shape resembles butterfly flowers. This is what is used for Buddha-bathing ceremonies. It is not a type of Dichroa.