Kyara-buki (Seasoned Butterbur)
　Cut large water butterbur into pieces about five sun (15cm) long, split vertically into four pieces, immediately season with mirin wine and soy sauce on the salty side, add plenty of powdered red pepper, boil down well until the liquid is completely reduced, put in a jar and seal the lid with paste.

White Melon
Addendum: Winter Melon
　Both winter melon and white melon are varieties that are difficult to preserve. To preserve these, tie them with rope and hang them above where a large fire is built in the stove, and they will keep.

Sixteen Cowpeas
　During summer when the sixteen cowpeas are at their best, boil as many as desired well and dry them for two to three days in the hot sun. When used as an accompaniment or pickled dish in winter, they have an unusual and good flavor.

Dried Eggplant
　Peel large eggplants in a spiral cut and dry them in the summer sun for winter use. Same as dried turnips and dried radish. Also cut Chinese eggplant and dry it. It's especially good when used for vegetarian broth.

Matsutake Mushrooms
Hatsutake Mushrooms
　These are commonly preserved in salt, but ordinary preparations have poor flavor. There is one tradition: if you powder pine resin and mix it with the salt for pickling, the aroma won't fade. This is a secret technique.

Yellow Chrysanthemums
　Take autumn September chrysanthemums that are freshly bloomed, vigorous, and half-open, pour agar into a box and let it set, plant them in this, seal the lid with paste, and they will keep until spring.

Chrysanthemum Pickle
　Wash large fresh pickled plums well, put them in a jar with chrysanthemum flowers, add good sake to cover, wrap white sugar in a silk bag and put it inside, pickle and seal with paste.

　　Note: For the above chrysanthemum pickle, the proportions of plums, sake, and sugar are passed down orally. It's difficult to record the amount of sake based on the size of the plums. Also, the degree of pickling is crucial and cannot be known without hands-on experience.