【Right page】
　《Marginal note: It is said these were moved and stored at this temple. In ancient times there was an imperial seal》Maitreya Buddha Clay Statue《Marginal note: A seated statue three sun in length, made by Kōbō Daishi》
　Aizen Myōō Bronze Statue《Marginal note: Emperor Kameyama's personal devotional Buddha, said to be made by Kibimaru》Shōu-gyō Sutra and Yugaron (Yogācāra Treatise)
　《Marginal note: Both are authentic works by Minister Kan (Sugawara no Michizane). The Yugaron is 2.5 sun long with 25 characters per line. This treatise was originally 100 volumes in one complete set, but was condensed into 10 volumes. The remainder - 3 volumes at Gokurakuji in Kamakura, 2 volumes at Egara Tenjin in the same area》
　《Marginal note: 1 volume at Kongō Sanmaiin in Kōya, Kii Province, 1 volume at Chikubushima in Ōmi Province - a total of 8 volumes are said to still exist, but the whereabouts of the other 2 volumes are unknown according to the Kamakura-shi. Besides these, there are many ancient Buddhist statues》
　《Marginal note: too numerous to enumerate》
　Great Boundary Outer Form Diagram《Marginal note: From Genkō 3rd year, this is a diagram of the temple's sacred boundaries. The scene shows the grandest buildings and tall halls, clearly showing the ancient prosperity quite different from today. An excerpt from its inscription says》
　　Genkō 3rd year, year of the Water Boar, 2nd month, 24th day
　　　　　Katsuma Master, Elder Nin of Gokurakuji, Great Virtue
　　　　　Dharma Response: Elder Shunkai, Vinaya Master of Tahōji
　　　　　Chanting Form: Tan'ei
　There are hanging scroll paintings of the temple's founding patrons: Echigo-no-kami Sanetoki, and Akitoki, Sadatoki, Sadamasa, etc.
　Yang Guifei Jeweled Curtain, one set《Marginal note: Originally at Atsuta in Owari Province, but moved to this temple by imperial decree of Emperor Kameyama. Made of thin glass rods woven with colored thread》
　The Plum Blossom Inexhaustible Treasury states: "Since the West Lake plum between Kanazawa Shōmyō Vinaya Temple bloomed, it has become a source of regret. The jeweled curtain supported by cats, with no one to mediate the catalog of Buddhist texts, cannot achieve clear sight, etc."
　A note says: "When Chinese cats see Shōmyō Temple's crystal curtain, Sun Yi taught greatly against the district books"
【Left page】
　Generally these were stored by previous generations.
　It also says: "The temple's secret treasures are not easily shown to people"
　Travel Record: The curtain is 3 shaku 4 sun long and about 4 shaku wide, with crystal strands even finer than ordinary curtains, making the form barely visible. Thinking of how the Jade Consort (Yang Guifei) must have hung this on her Nine-Flower Canopy in ancient times, the sentiment of a thousand years was newly impressed upon our hearts, and everyone moistened their sleeves with tears.
　　A jeweled curtain preserving memories of distant worlds - unexpected dewdrops on sleeves　　　Dōoku Jun'gō
　Hōjō Mutsu-no-kami Official Notice
　　　Regarding the temple grounds and fence areas of Kanazawa Amida Hall Shōmyōji Temple
　　Right: At this location, military forces and people of all ranks must not commit obstruction or violence. If there are those who violate this, in order to impose punishment, their names shall be reported. This is executed according to the command.
　　　Kōan 2nd year, 5th month, 24th day　　　　Mutsu-no-kami [monogram]
　Eikyō 11th year Shōmyōji Temple Lands Settlement Document
　　Report