【Right page】
According to the "Kamakura Ōsōshi" (Chronicle of Kamakura), the school at Kanazawa in Musashi Province was a historic site where learning flourished during the prosperous era of the nine generations of the Hōjō clan. Now, the library has been rebuilt and various books have been stored there. Since Kōzuke Province was a branch domain of the Uesugi, and Ashikaga was a land bearing the same name as both Kyoto and Kamakura and thus different from others, the Ashikaga school was established and various documents were sought from foreign countries and stored there. This Ashikaga school was originally established at a site built by Ono no Takamura when he served as governor of Kōzuke Province in the sixth year of Jōwa in ancient times. In the ninth year of the same era, when Takamura became governor of Mutsu and went down to his post, he built a school at this location. What remained at that historic site was moved from the mandokoro to the present location and rebuilt in the first year of Ōnin (1467) under the administration of Nagao Kagehisa. The modern founder was a Zen monk named Kaigen. Recently, Awa-no-kami (Uesugi Norizane) donated academic lands, saying it was a place connected to the shōgun's family name, and increasingly stored books and showed compassion for students. During this time, when all provinces were in great turmoil and the way of learning had ceased, this place became Japan's

【Left page】
sole school. Because of this, people from all provinces praised Uesugi Awa-no-kami Norizane even more. Students gathered completely from the western and northern provinces as well.

"Viewing the Stored Books of Kanazawa" - composed by Gidō
[Chinese poem in seven-character regulated verse format]

From "Bokei-shū": In the second month, the Sekisai ceremony was to be performed at the Kanazawa library, as reported from Miyoshi Hyūga-no-kami Katsumoto, so the topic "Plum Blossoms at the Neighboring House" was sent along with the sacred offerings.

"Though it be spring, night after night in the bamboo grove, even the distant becomes familiar - the wind beneath the plum blossoms" - Mojisuke

From "Hinoe-tatsu Kikō" - Razan-shi
[Chinese poem expressing nostalgia for the historic site]

(Goshogayatsu) Refers to the fields beyond the cutting through the hills behind Amida-in temple. According to local folk, it is the site of Emperor Kameyama's temporary palace. 《The cutting is said to have been the path for imperial visits.》 In "Kamakura-shi"...