【Right page】
Although this emperor (Emperor Kameyama) made excursions to scenic spots and beautiful places, there is no record in the old chronicles of his visit to this particular location.

Kenkō Hōshi's Hermitage Site - The exact location is now unknown
From Kenkō's Personal Collection: Staying at a house in a place called Kanazawa in Musashi Province where he once lived long ago, now terribly dilapidated, on a moonlit night:
"In my old hometown's garden of sparse grass, upon the dew, my bed becomes grass leaves where the moon lodges" - Kenkō

Yakuō-ji Temple - Called Sanryō-zan. Located on the left side from the front road of Shōmyō-ji. It belongs to the Kogi Shingon sect and is affiliated with Ryūge-ji. The principal image is Dainichi Nyorai of the Taizōkai mandala, a seated statue about three shaku tall. This temple houses a memorial tablet for Lord Noriyori, the Kaba Onji. According to "Kamakura-shi," it was inscribed with "Taineiji Dōgo" on the front and "Tenbun 9, Year of the Metal Rat, Sixth Month, Thirteenth Day" on the back, but this tablet no longer exists.

Yakushi Hall 《Located to the front right of the main hall, connected by a corridor. The principal image of Yakushi Buddha and the wooden statues of the twelve divine generals as attendants are all works of the great master Gyōki, deeply enshrined in the inner sanctuary and not shown to people indiscriminately. This temple was formerly called Yakushi-ji. This is the Muromachi-period Taineiji. After Lord Noriyori's death, taking his posthumous Buddhist name, Yakushi-ji was renamed Taineiji. Therefore, at that time,

【Left page】
the resident monks lamented the abandonment of the Yakushi-ji name and established this temple, naming it Yakuō-ji. This should be read together with the following section on Muromachi Taineiji.》

Tennen-ji - Called Hōshi-zan. Located more than nine chō away from Yakuō-ji at the same location, on the left side of the road from Seto Kaidō to Nojima. It belongs to the Jōdo sect and is affiliated with Kōmyō-ji in Kamakura. The principal wooden Buddha image of Amida Nyorai is a seated statue about 1.5 shaku tall; the creator is unknown. The founding abbot was called Nen'yo Zenpō Oshō 《who died on the 26th day of the second month of Eiroku 2》. Among the temple treasures are four or five Buddhist paintings by Kōbō Daishi and Eshin Sōzu.

Ryūge-ji - Called Chisoku-zan Miroku-in. Located five to six chō south of Tennen-ji, on the left side from the road between Susaki Village and Machiya Village off the Seto Kaidō. It is a Danrin (seminary) of the Kogi Shingon sect and belongs to Ninna-ji of the Imperial Palace (Omuro). The principal image of Dainichi Nyorai is a seated statue over two shaku tall, with a wooden statue of Miroku Buddha placed to the right. The creators of both are unknown. The Fudō-son enshrined on the left is a work of the great master Gyōki 《a standing statue about two shaku tall》, said to have been donated by Ōta Dōkan Nyūdō. The founding priest was Hōin