【Right page】
resided there and spread the precepts. In the second year of Kōchō, Dharma Seal Nōzen of Tōji Temple performed initiation ceremonies at this temple. Through the succession of Monk Governor In'yū, he also administered Kōtoku Temple 《This temple was also established by Lord Yoritomo and was a sacred site of Shingon Buddhism. In'yū of Kōya-san Muryōkō-in, at the beginning of his eastern journey, resided at this temple, and his personally written books filled the library》 However, due to repeated military conflicts, the territories of both temples were seized by others and greatly fell into ruin. In Meiō 8 (1499), Master Yūben 《died on the 1st day of the 8th month of Taiei 4, Kinoe-Saru year, at age 82》 deeply grieved this situation and prayed for the divine assistance of the principal deity. Sugawara no Ason Nakatsukasa no Jō Sukekate joined forces to plan the reconstruction of the monastery. At that time, the principal deity Maitreya Bodhisattva appeared in the master's dream and declared: "In the northeast direction from here lies a sacred site connected to the final age. Move there and raise the dharma lamp of the three mysteries." After awakening from the dream, when he investigated that place, there were miraculous dragon lights 《This was at the boundary of Susaki village. In the past, there were several large pine trees in front of the hall, called the Dragon Light Pines; now they have withered》 Finally, the master followed the divine revelation of the principal deity, came to this place, established a sacred boundary of two chō square, combined the monk quarters of the two temples Jōgan-ji and Kōtoku-ji that he administered into one temple, received an imperial edict from Emperor Go-Tsuchimikado to name it Chisoku-san Ryūge-ji, with master and disciple mutually

【Left page】
transmitting the principal deity and sacred teachings, entrusting them to Dharma Seal Zen'yū 《This master was the youngest son of the Ōmori clan, lords of Odawara Castle in Sagami Province, called Ryūō-maru. Admiring Master Ben's virtuous conduct, he entered Jōgan-ji and became a monk. His reputation was known throughout the world. Therefore, Hōjō Sakyō no Tayū donated seven kan-mon of Eiraku coins and Shiba village's Gongen-dō mountain》 In Kyōroku 5 (1532), he invited High Priest Ryōe of Tōji Temple's Hōbodai-in to receive dharma transmission initiation. In Tenbun 12 (1543), with Furoya Nakatsukasa no Shōyū Taira no Shigenaga as patron, he recast the great bell. Later, Ōta Dōkan donated a sacred image of Fudō Myōō and prayed for extended military fortune 《This image of Fudō Myōō is enshrined to the left of the principal deity》, placing a memorial tablet to seek posthumous merit in the next world. In Tenshō 19 (1591), after the opening of the country, the temple was restored and granted a vermillion seal, since which time prayers for peace throughout the realm have never ceased.

This temple is the head temple of the Shingon Orthodox Scholarly Tradition and excels in Kanazawa. Within the temple grounds, ancient trees tower high, displaying the ornament of enlightened trees, and green bamboo shows emerald colors, revealing the form of unchanging true reality. Seawater overflows on both sides, floating the shadows of morning crows and evening rabbits, and houses line up front and back, creating the view of mountain markets and fishing villages. Twenty