【Right page】
　　　The woman also did not drink the poisoned sake herself, and taking pity on Oguri, she whispered this to him. Oguri pretended to drink while actually not drinking any sake at all. The retainers, unaware of this, all became drunk and collapsed. Oguri pretended to casually step outside and went to where there was a grove. Looking there, he found a bay horse tied up in the grove. This horse had been stolen by bandits who had gone out to the highway to steal horses from daimyo processions, but it was such a wild horse that would bite and trample both people and other horses that the bandits could not handle it and had tied it up in the grove. Seeing this, Oguri secretly returned, took some treasure, mounted the horse, spurred it on, and escaped. Oguri was a peerless horseman and in a short time galloped to the temple at Fujisawa, where he sought help from the high priest. The priest took pity on him and sent him to Mikawa Province with two samurai as escorts. The retainers and some courtesans who had drunk the poisoned sake and collapsed were thrown into the river water and drowned, their treasure was searched for and taken, and they also searched for Oguri but could not find him. The bandits scattered that very night.

【Left page】
　　　Teru-hime, who had been serving sake, pretended to be drunk and lay down, but since she had not actually drunk any sake, when she was thrown into the water and carried downstream, she crawled up from the riverbank and was saved. Later, around the Eikyo era, Oguri came from Mikawa, sought out that courtesan, gave her various treasures, hunted down the bandits and had them all executed. After that, he lived in Mikawa for generations.
　　　《Small text: According to the Kamakura Daizoshi, Teruten-hime refers to Teru-hime. Although Oguri's name is known to the world as Kaneuji, the same book only mentions Kojiro and does not know of the name Kaneuji. In the Kamakura-shi》
　　　《Small text: it says: Considering Oguri's genealogy, there is Magogoro Taira no Mitsushige and his son Sukeshige - perhaps this refers to this Kojiro. Although what appears in the Daizoshi differs from popular tradition, it should be considered the most reliable evidence》
　　　《Small text: What is told in the world today probably originated from this incident and added explanatory theories》

Seto Myojin Shrine: Located about one cho west of Seto Bridge, on the right side of the road.
　Enshrined deity: Oyamazumi-no-mikoto, one seat. The Chiba family serves as chief priest. According to shrine tradition, this shrine was established when Right General Yoritomo invited the deity from Mishima in Izu Province on the 8th day of the 4th month of Jisho 4 (1180). The Kamakura Annual Events records a special festival for Seto Mishima Daimyojin on the 8th day of the 4th month. Some say that in ancient times this deity flew to this place