[Right page]
Its form is extremely peculiar. Below the same bridge there is something called the "Fortune Stone" (one of the four stones called Kanazawa Shiseki, and according to local proverb, if one picks up something in front of this stone, one will surely become blessed with good fortune).

In the Kamakura Kikō (Travels to Kamakura), it states: "In front of the shrine, an island juts out where Benzaiten is enshrined, and there are first and second bridges to the island. Around the island, ancient trees sway in the sea breeze, and waves wash the branches."

"Even waves and wind seem mindless, viewing the great ocean as if before the divine presence" (Takuan)

Entsuji Temple - Called Nichirin-zan. About two and a half chō west from the same location, on the right side of the road. Formerly of the Hossō sect and affiliated with Hōryū-ji Temple in Nanto, it has now been converted to the Tendai sect and belongs to Tōeizan in Edo. The principal image enshrines Ganzan Daishi. The founding priest was called Hōe Hōin, and Kuze Yamato-no-kami Minamoto no Hiroyuki granted temple lands.

Tōshō Daigongen Shrine (enshrined on top of the mountain; said to be established by county official Yanagiuchi)

Shōtenzan Kinryū-in - More than four chō southwest from the same location, on the left side of the same road along the coast. Commonly called Tobiishi-yama. A Zen temple

[Left page]
affiliated with Kenchō-ji in Kamakura. The principal image is a seated statue of Shō Kannon, 2 shaku 3 sun tall, created by Gyōki Daishi (although Kamakura-shi states the principal image is Kokūzō Bosatsu, this is incorrect). Hōgai Genkei Oshō is considered the founding priest (the priest was a dharma successor of Ken'yaku-ō and died on September 16, Eitoku 3).

Tobiishi (Flying Stone) (Located on the mountainside of the temple's rear garden, a massive rock about one jō high and nine shaku wide. It is said that long ago, Mishima Myōjin of Izu Province flew from Tōshū and alighted on this stone. However, due to recent earthquakes, it has fallen and now lies on flat ground)

Kyūrantei Ruins (Located on the same mountain. One climbs along winding paths. It is unclear who built this pavilion. The view from this place is also quite varied. According to the temple monks, it was named with the intention of adding Nōkendō to the eight scenic views of this area)

Teigyū-an - Located across the road in front of Kinryū-in. A Zen temple affiliated with Engaku-ji in Kamakura. The principal image houses a Tang Buddhist statue of Eleven-faced Kannon, about seven sun tall. The founder of this hermitage was Denshū-an Nanzan Oshō of Engaku-ji (his posthumous name was Shiun; he was a dharma successor of Shōitsu Kokushi, died on October 7, Kenmu 3, and was the founder of Sōshu-ji). The revival priest was called Shūho Kendō Zagen (a person from the Jōō period). About one chō south of this hermitage, on top of a mountain, there are two ancient tombs. One is the grave of a person called Ebina Nagato-no-kami, who committed suicide at Teigyū-an