[Right Upper Section]
pure." [Marginalia: There is another interpretation]
The Xuanzan states: "This has no realm-measure. Why can't it be the same as the nose faculty in knowing the three thousand? Since it cannot know, how do the merits become 1200? The tongue faculty should also be able to taste the flavors of the three-thousand-fold world. But using the verse text to explain the tongue's complete function, sound pervades the great thousand, therefore it doesn't speak of tasting flavors. The tongue can exist separated from substance, but taste immediately disappears when separated from substance. Therefore it doesn't speak of obtaining the tastes of the three-thousand-fold world. The sutra also states that the Buddha has nose and tongue supernatural powers surpassing eye and ear."

The Kyōsui-shō states: "The commentary says 'the tongue faculty should also obtain, etc.' The commentary has three meanings. First, it can also be permitted to taste the flavors of the three realms. Through this tongue faculty, properly taking Dharma teaching as merit, not taking taste-tasting as function. The prose and verses inclusively explain the capacity for Dharma teaching. Fearing the text would become verbose, the merits of tasting flavors are abbreviated and not explained. Saying 'fragrances separate from substance, etc.' is the second meaning. Form and fragrance exist separated from substance. Taste disappears when separated from substance. Since it is taste separated from substance, it doesn't speak of tasting three-thousand-fold world flavors. Saying 'the sutra also explains, etc.' is the third meaning. The Buddha has it, but others don't."

Question: In Mahāyāna understanding, can nose, tongue, and body faculties establish supernatural powers?
                    See the Sheshaku, Five Faculties Chapter, Sui-shō, etc.

Question: Regarding six pure faculty merits, can the tongue faculty know good and bad taste particles? If it doesn't take them, the sutra states "whether ugly, beautiful, or not beautiful, all transform into supreme taste, like heavenly ambrosia

[Right Lower Section]
with nothing unbeautiful." Therefore it is known that those with pure tongue faculties only know good tastes. If following this, since nose and body faculties already take good and bad, why is this not the same?

I say: When personally consuming, all transform into supreme taste. When wanting to distinguish and know each individual taste, one can know good and bad as they really are. Tasting flavors to know medicine and poison, giving to others to cause taking or not taking. How could sutra-holders lack such virtue?

The Kōso commentary states: "Some say in the Buddha's throat there is an ambrosia spring that harmonizes with all food, all becoming ambrosia. Sutra-holders partially possess this, so the superior all become tasty. This probably doesn't exhaust it. Hungry ghosts' throats should have impure springs. Now, just as when hungry ghosts bring good food to the tongue it transforms into impurity, sutra-holders are the reverse of this, as can be known. One shouldn't argue that if the tongue faculty's various tastes all become sweet, then the ear hearing various sounds must make sounds good. The virtue-functions of faculties are not necessarily the same. This is also not so. The two particles of fragrance and touch also have benefits and all must be transformed. Now the merit-types of faculties have differences in superior functions, so they cannot be equally challenged. Otherwise, the Tathāgata should also transform into wonderful fragrances, due to frequently contacting characteristics. Since that has no fault, what error is there in this?"

Question: The sutra explains the characteristics of tongue faculty purity as "Brahmā King, Māra King, Īśvara, Maheśvara." How does the Great Master explain this? Proceeding to say: This clarifies sage protection. Regarding this, the sutra explains external protection and sage protection as different. The verse on Brahmā King, Māra King, etc. clarifies external protection. The verse on Buddhas and disciples

[Left Upper Section]
etc. explains sage protection. Why judge both verses together as sage protection? Does Master Kō explain it this way based on this?

The Sui-shō's reconciliation states: "Brahmā Kings, etc. also don't obstruct sages' transformational creations. Those who transform into Māra Kings are mostly inconceivable liberation bodhisattvas' creations. They are also called sages."

Question: What mountains do the sutra's "Meru Mountain, Mahāmeru Mountain" explain? Answer: There are no pointing explanations. Does it explain Mount Sumeru? Regarding this, Mount Sumeru's measurement is 80,000 yojanas. Both Great and Small schools agree on this. Why speak of having large and small differences?
                    Excerpt this in the Jewel Stupa chapter
                    [Marginalia: One text makes the above discussion equal and ends the 19th fascicle of the commentary here]

                                        One collation of manuscript completed
    Paper ordered by Enzenji-bō Gon-Daisōzu 
    Spring Shrine new construction, Kaisei-shō 28 fascicles, number 22
    Eiroku 3rd year [Kanoe-saru] 1st month 10th day     Scribe: Sei-in
    [Red ink note]
    Kansei 7th [Kinototo-u] year 2nd month 16th day, one collation of manuscript completed

[Left Lower Section]
                                        Tamate Kunieda

    [One text colophon states]
    Ōan 1st year [Tsuchinoe-saru] 7th month 26th day, completed writing
    Eitoku 3rd year [Mizunoto-i] 3rd month 5th day, stored from our temple Fukujō-in, not to
    be taken out to other places