[Illustration]
The former site of the hermitage of haikai poet Suikoku is located in a bamboo grove within the precincts of Chōmeiji Temple. Now, a stone monument with a poem by Bashō has been erected at that site.

If I were to go
　even to the place where I'd fall
　　　while snow viewing

　　　　　Bashō

[In the illustration]
East bank of Sumida River
Terasaki

[Main text]
Ōji (called Ōji Gongen) consists of two shrines. According to tradition, in the autumn of the second year of Jōgan (860 CE) during the reign of Emperor Seiwa, when the Great Master Jikaku was propagating Buddhism in the eastern provinces, Susanoo-no-Mikoto appeared transformed as an aged man with a court cap, left his traces at this place, and declared he would eternally protect the nation. Therefore, the Great Master enshrined him in a sanctuary and left his senior disciple Ryōhon Ajari to guard it (the image of Dainichi Nyorai, the honji buddha of this shrine, is said to be carved by Master Ryōhon). Also, during the reign of the 57th Emperor Yōzei, the seventh prince of Emperor Seiwa was transferred to this province and passed away at this place on September 15th of the first year of Tenkyō (938 CE). Consequently, the founding priest Ryōhon Ajari buried him here and enshrined him together with Ushi Gozen in the aidono (later, there was a divine revelation saying that he was the second son of Susanoo-no-Mikoto, who had temporarily been reborn as a prince of Emperor Seiwa).

Someone says that the reason this shrine is called Ushi Gozen is that this area was formerly a cape of Ushijima (Ox Island), and what should have been called "the cape of Ushijima" was abbreviated to "Ushi-misaki," which later generations mistakenly wrote as "mae" instead of "saki," and this was then transmitted as "gozen."

Upon examination, Settsu's Wada-misaki, Chikuzen's Kane-no-misaki, and others such as Sagami's Misaki and Ōedo's Tsuki-no-misaki are all places facing the sea. The fact that the area around this shrine is now called Susaki Village also suggests it was formerly a sandbar by the sea, and at that time the characters were written as "Susaki" (sandbar cape). It seems likely that this area once faced the blue sea and became dry land over the years, as detailed in the section on Terajima Rengeji Temple below. When considered together with that section, the theory of "Ushi-no-misaki" (Ox Cape) appears to have basis. If so, the kana "mi" of "misaki" would have become "go," the character for "saki" would have been changed to "mae," and the reading "saki" would have been converted from kun to on reading as "sen." However, there are many examples of using "gozen" (honorable presence) in divine titles and also for people, and since it would take too long to list them all, I omit them here.