It belongs to Tōeizan (Kan'ei-ji Temple). The principal Buddhist image is the Five Wisdom Buddhas. Among them, the statue of Amida Buddha is said to be the work of Prince Shōtoku. During the Jōgen era, the monk Chūen Ajari founded this temple. In the eighteenth year of Tenshō, there was an imperial command, and it came to be called Bairyūzan (Plum-Willow Mountain). In ancient times it was called Umenowaka-dera, but in the twelfth year of Keichō, when the Regent Konoe Nobutada came down to Musashi Province and stopped at this temple during his excursion along the Sumida River, he asked whether the temple name should be changed. When the temple monks agreed, he bestowed the name Bokuboji (Tree-Mother Temple). At that time, he took up his brush and wrote "Bokuboji," and this authentic calligraphy is still preserved as the temple's greatest treasure. The Shiseki Gakkō records that there is also a plaque with "Bokuboji" written by Taikyoan Kōetsu. After the Keian era, the government granted the temple a certain amount of temple stipend and bestowed a vermillion seal. Also, at the beginning of the Kanbun era, the Shogun went hunting in this area and had the temple rebuilt, constructing a new hall and other buildings.

Now, "bokubō" (tree-mother) is probably the character for plum divided into parts. However, plum follows "mai" (every), not "mother." What follows "mother" is a popular character in Japan read as "toga." In the Seisai Shiwa, the verse "Fortunately obtained the faith of Plum Mountain, tasted Japanese tea" praised the tea of Toganoo in Yamashiro Province. Since "toga" is a character that does not exist in China, he probably thought it was an error for plum and thus wrote "Plum Mountain." Also, in the Minga-shū, it states that the monk Sessson of Higashiyama, whose posthumous name was Yūbai, went to Toganoo and said that this mountain's name used the characters of his posthumous name. This too should be considered quite authoritative. The Erya states that plum is "nan" (camphor), and the Records of the Grand Historian mentions that Jiangnan produces "nan" and "zi" (catalpa), which also refers to plum. Since "sen" and "mother" are quite similar in form, "sen" was probably mistakenly written as "mother." However, there is also basis for using "tree-mother" to mean plum, which I cite below.

A book called Zōzoku Infu quotes the Yijian Zhi, stating that Shan Tao of the Northern Dynasty, styled Zhiyuan, responded to a summons. Emperor Shenzong of Song asked, "Did you come by mountain road or by post road?" Tao replied, "I came by mountain road." The emperor said, "How are the tree-father and tree-mother?" Tao replied, "The tree-father is proudly aged, the tree-mother is just embracing spring." The annotation states, "Tree-father is pine, tree-mother is plum."

The postscript to the Bokuboji Engi quotes Kokai Shinbun regarding calling plum "tree-mother." The text in Kokai Shinbun has the same meaning as the above Yijian Zhi. Also, Aoki's work Sōro Zatsudan records this matter. A poem in the Kokin-shū states:

When snow falls, flowers bloom on every tree / Which should I pick, distinguishing the plum? - Ki no Tomonori

From the Senzai-shū:
On a spring night, in the drifting fragrance of swirling wind / I thought every tree was plum - Emperor Sutoku

From the Shoku Kokin-shū:
Seeing the snow of the year as flowers on every tree / The warbler comes, thinking spring is late - Masaie

Stringing together such verses are also masterful poems that split apart the character for plum.

The Umenowakamaru Mound is located within the precincts of Bokuboji Temple. There is a small shrine on top of the mound that enshrines the spirit of Umenowakamaru as Sannō Gongen. According to the temple's founding legend, Umenowakamaru is a manifestation of Sannō Gongen. Later, willows were planted, and this came to be called the "marker willow." The old willow died, and now young trees have been planted in addition. Every year on March 15th, which is the death anniversary, there is a great nembutsu ceremony. On this day, people of all social classes from the capital gather to worship.

The Kaikoku Zakki records: Thus arriving at the banks of the Sumida River, everyone composed poetry and held recitations:

The appearance of ancient mounds, how touching / It seems just like today
The shadow of the ancient mound, the flowing water of Sumida River / Even hearing of it makes my sleeves wet with tears - Priest Dōkō

Around the middle period, when Regent Ichijō Yasumichi came down to the Kantō region, he took leisure at this place.