It was converted into a Buddhist temple and called Saikoin Temple. Yoshifuka initially served the Hojo family of Odawara, but later was graciously summoned by our lord (the Tokugawa family) and granted a stipend of 300 koku, being appointed as an official in charge of criminal judgment. His natural disposition was benevolent and his talents great; he originally favored national learning and was skilled in waka poetry. During the Enpo era, he retired to Ushida village and took the name Shoken. There is a waka poem:

"I do not think my life lacking - at my humble thatched gate there is the moon and there are flowers" - Shoken

Shoken is listed as a poetry scholar in publications such as Edo Kanoko and Edo Zukan, and is also noted among renga masters. This person wrote over seventy volumes of commentary on The Tale of Genji, titled Kigen-sho. He died in the third month of spring in the second year of Genroku (1689) at the age of seventy-five. His funeral was held at Zenkei Temple in Asakusa. In the fourth year (Kanoe-uma), his son Morofuka, reflecting on his kind father's achievements, recorded his deeds and erected a stone monument within the temple grounds to reveal his virtue to future generations.

Wakamiya Hachiman Shrine is located in Wakamiya village, with Zenpuku Temple of the Shingon sect serving as its betto (administrator). According to shrine tradition, long ago in the fifth year of Bunji (1189), the seventh month, when Right General Yoritomo set out to subjugate Yasuhira of Oshu, on the eighteenth day he summoned the ajari of Senkōbō from Izu Province and secretly informed him of his vow to subjugate Yasuhira. On the nineteenth day he departed with forces of only about one thousand cavalry. Along the way, he recruited military forces from nearby and distant provinces. When passing through this area, he secretly visited this shrine and prayed for the prosperity of the Minamoto family and long-lasting military fortune. He also personally stuck an enoki (hackberry) whip upside down into the ground and vowed, "If this campaign is successful, may it sprout roots and flourish." (That enoki is said to have withered and no longer exists.) Eventually he pacified Oshu and returned in triumph, after which he established a branch of Tsurugaoka Wakamiya Hachiman Shrine here. Since this land belonged to Kasai Saburo Kiyoshige, he ordered Kiyoshige to manage the shrine grounds and donated sacred rice fields. After many years had passed, miasma invaded the eaves, long rains washed the doors, spring grass grew year after year, autumn ivy flourished month by month, the sacred fence collapsed and the shrine steps rotted into ruin. After the Tensho era, by imperial command, Ina Bizen-no-kami restored it, and once again the vermillion sacred fence shone with light, but that too has become the past, and now it has become a lonely shrine with ancient pines and old cedars standing tall.

There is a one-volume copy of the Lotus Sutra, only about two inches tall when rolled up with a circumference of barely eight or nine bu across one's finger. It is written in fine script with gold ink on dark blue paper. The calligraphy is extremely antique. According to the temple monks, it is said to have been donated by Lord Yoritomo, with Mongaku as the calligrapher, though the truth of this is uncertain.

Choetsuzan Saiko Temple is located in Shibue village. In ancient times it was a Jodo sect temple founded by Kasai Saburo Kiyoshige (Junior Fifth Rank Lower, Governor of Iki, son of Toshima Gon-no-kami Kiyomitsu).