[Header Right]
However, the spouts of flat ground vessels are wrapped. In ancient times, all were single-spout sake vessels. Thereafter, they served with double-spout vessels. For warrior families, all are wrapped. Not wrapping in the imperial court and among court nobles is also a recent matter. This is the beginning of butterfly sake. In the Magadha country of India, there was a married couple. These people were filial to their parents. Especially daily they offered food offerings and prayed to Heaven. One time, a small bird resembling a warbler flew from the shade of a bamboo grove. It took the offerings and stored them in bamboo joints. Rain and dew harmonized and became sake, but people did not know this. One time when the couple was resting in the shade of the bamboo grove, many butterflies flew and filled the bamboo grove completely. These people

[Header Left]
Being suspicious, they entered the bamboo grove and looked closely - it was sake. Because they drank this sake, they did not die until over 800 years of age. It was the medicine of eternal youth and immortality. This is the beginning of sake. Even now, it is said there are trees that produce sake in India and China. Because of this, they strike in butterfly shape and wrap the spout. Not only sake vessels, but fish serving cloths and incense stands are all in butterfly shape.

▲Wrapping sake vessels for bride-taking ceremonies
During the formal three献 banquet intervals, it should be female butterfly style. From the first献 onward, it should be male butterfly style. Use white paper. If there is a costume change that night, only the sake vessel spouts should be changed to red plum paper. If the costume change is on the third day, double layers, and other incense stands should also be changed to red plum paper.

▲Wrapping sake vessels for groom-taking ceremonies

[Lower Right]
Hōrai Island Stand

[Lower Left]
Current School Reformed Seasonal Cuisine Complete Guide
　○Formal Handover Ceremony Diagram
Place triple-stacked earthenware cups on the opposite side of the three-tiered stand.
Attach nine strips of noshi, five victory chestnuts in small corners at the right fingertips. At the left fingertips, attach two pieces of kelp in small corners. Also arrange in sets of nine-seven-five: nine noshi strips, seven chestnuts, five kelp pieces.

▲Place triple-stacked rice cakes on the left of the three-tiered stand, attach nine pieces of noshi in five horizontal and four vertical arrangements in small corners on the right side, five victory chestnuts in the right small corner, kelp in the left small corner