[Header Right]
The number should be five hundred and eighty. However, the rice cakes should be seven sun and five sun in circumference, piled like a double layer with the seven-sun ones piled smaller, one gō five sun in height, large one gō or more to two gō. Two pieces of bear-pulling, one pair of cranes. One pair of flat vessels, the spouts should not be wrapped. It should be as shown in the picture.

Similarly, for birth food: two large radishes, two kanashira fish. With bellies matched, two sea bream with bellies matched, and two small stones placed directly on the meal tray beside this:
　君が代は千代にや千代をさざれ石
　岩となりてこけのむすまで
This is based on the spirit of this poem. This is a celebration for the deity of birth. For the formal meal and others, carp-pounding rice cakes are good. However, for the formal meal, three献 should be served. First献: carp-pounding rice cakes, second献: crane soup, third献:

[Header Left]
Small crucian carp, regular celebration. However, three meal trays are appropriate.

▲Regarding Coming-of-Age Ceremonies
Place double two-gō as described above, place two carp as described above, one pair of birds as described above, one flat vessel with sake vessel spout wrapped as usual. All other decorative items should be the same. Above twelve types, twelve gō. Turtle legs should be incense-struck white, and the lower layer should be crimson. Insert the ceremonial comb, the accompanying item should be wrapped with matching pulls, and bound very tightly with mizuhiki cord on top. However, the tying method is one on the west side, two on the reverse side. There are oral traditions for the fastening method.

When the second and third献 banquet is served, the person inserting the ceremonial comb presents the ceremonial sword and horse. At the first献, to the person inserting the ceremonial comb, the ceremonial sword, waist items, and horse

[Lower Right]
▲The third course side dish should be sea bream inner flesh prepared as flat slices. There should be rings under the earthenware. It should be piled high as shown. Make flat slices, peel the skin thinly, and salt. Remove moisture well when piling. Even a little moisture makes the inside of the earthenware unsightly. Arrange the edges in cut style around, and put scraps in the center to make it beautiful. Sometimes lobster is used.

[Lower Left]
○Zōni Diagram
For zōni, place grilled tofu and radish at the bottom, cut rice cakes into squares and stack two, skewered abalone, tied brackenfern, kelp, pounded chestnuts, skewered rice flour cakes - seven varieties in total. Cook with miso sauce.

▲Small角 on the opposite side
On the right, two pieces of lightly pickled radish, on the right side place two tatsukuri with belly to belly matched. In front, place white chopsticks on eared earthenware.