[Header Right]
Quietly, five-colored waves arose. This is called the five-colored namasu (vinegared salad) that accords with the Way of Heaven. Thus, one arranges it in five colors. The blue should be in vinegar marinade. Make the thin slices very fine, crush the fish and dissolve in vinegar to dye it. Also make the thin flesh very fine and arrange at the bottom. Place the thin slices on top of that. For black, char the intestines finely and place on the right. The center is the base of the tail. Since King Wu held it down, this is the foremost delicacy. Therefore, the culinary preparation begins from the base of the tail. The reason for first raising the fins is also because King Wu held it down. This is called either the scepter fins or the first fins. The white color uses the whole body. All are delicacies.

[Header Left]
▲Regarding Managatsuo (Pomfret)
When Izanagi-no-Mikoto searched the sea with his sacred spear, there was one island in the sea. This is Awaji Island. When he climbed onto this island and searched the sea again, one fish came up on the tip of his spear. At that time, a voice from the sky said: "That fish is called managatsuo. Its previous life was a small bird called a swallow. It has waited so long for this day to meet the divine presence," and it passed toward the northwest. The deity heard this and sent what is called a great swallow into the sea. This matter would be difficult for people to know, but later the deity of Sumiyoshi revealed it in detail and played with small swallows. Thus, when arranging sashimi, first place two fins

[Lower Right]
Cedar board (decorative chrysanthemum, nandina leaves)
　　Sashimi (carp with roe, thread-cut, flat-cut)　　Soup (grated yam, sea cucumber, small turban shells, green seaweed)
Nankin bucket
　Straight (seasoned sake)
One large crucian carp　White-grilled (with sauce)　　Large plate (eight sun)
One seared bird (duck with mandarin rings, water dropwort)　　Flat plate (eight sun)
　　　Intermediate sake
One clear soup (oysters, ground sansho pepper)　　(With legs) seven sun

[Lower Left]
　　　Side dishes

One shelled crab meat (with shells, Korean style) bowl　seven sun
One abalone dengaku (sansho miso)　small square eight sun
One clear soup (light miso)　　　　　　grilled small crucian carp
One karasumi (dried mullet roe)　　　　　　small square eight sun
One grilled pheasant (salted mountain measure)　　　　　　medium shaving eight sun
One clear soup (river snails, young myoga buds)　　(light soy sauce)
One small board kamaboko　　　　　small shaving eight sun