[Header Right]
Before shaping it like a swallow's tail, place the fish base on the left with koto bridges, making musical strings and achieving enlightenment. On the right, the bird's body - this represents the previous life given to all sentient beings. All of this represents the fruit of Buddha. Therefore, in the construction of Shinto shrines, there is something called katsuogi (roof ornaments). These are the fins of this fish. This was the promise made at that time. Also, the reason for writing the character for northwest (inui) in the characters for managatsuo is

[Header Left]
for this reason. This should not normally be written - it is something particularly secret. True managatsuo, grass managatsuo, and shrine managatsuo - these three categories are human creations. However, this is not from the Nihon Shoki. These are things from Tang China. Although these are matters within Japan, this discourse exists in three countries. It was carefully recorded and transmitted from China.

▲Regarding the preparation of pre-cut carp
First: fish base, Second: pulled flesh
Third: beaten flesh, Fourth: thick flesh
From the fifth onward, any will do

Regarding the birds for the first offering
In ancient times, crane sushi was served with turtle feet. Since the pheasant from Katano was beaten, birds have been served this way. This pheasant has four legs. The beak and iron feathers are

[Lower Right]
One mustard namasu (clams) large white straight seven sun
One clear soup (sardines, Suisenji nori) light soy sauce
One rolled dried squid　　　　small square eight sun
　Tea sweets (quail mochi, simmered dishes, ginkgo nuts)　small rimmed bowl eight sun
　Water chestnuts　blue-ground bowl　seven sun
　Tea (first ancient, stand tenmoku) (with gold-silver shavings)
　All sweets (Yamato persimmons large bowl lacquered nine sun, large pears medium bowl lacquered eight sun)
　　Later course

[Lower Left]
　(Small straight) pepper powder (spoon) udon
　(Straight) spicy daikon radish　　　soup
　Clear soup (egg-bearing crucian carp, arame seaweed, whole sansho peppercorns)

　　　　Main meal
(Flat plate) Simmered dishes　(steamed eggs, skewered items, seasoned bracken, large pickled plums, branch mountain measure)
(Tea bowl plate with mixed sake) Mixed salad　(seared abalone, sliced burdock, carrots, wood ear mushrooms, chestnuts with ginger, burdock)　(Nara pickles sprinkled, udo sprouts, six-row barley, cherry seaweed, dried cod, wasabi)