【Header Right】
Called miscellaneous birds, these are inferior quality, but can be used at the same level as miscellaneous ducks or teal ducks. The fat content is equivalent to teal duck. Also called "hin."
▲River-eating duck
This bird's grade is equivalent to teal duck. However, since it is rare, it is seldom used in cooking.
▲Drought-moon-feather duck
Migratory bird in transit. For soup serves three to four people, as roasted bird serves three people. Fat content is equivalent to white-feathered duck. The fat is not very good. This bird is among the white-feathered ducks.
　Sea duck varieties
▲White-feathered frost-speckled duck
When used for cooking, this migratory

【Header Left】
bird is equivalent to "hin." The same applies when used as substitute bird. Being a sea duck, it is inferior to "hin." In any case, it is difficult to use for celebratory cuisine. The fat is also poor since it comes from the open sea. Called true white-feathered duck.
【In diagram】
Mandarin duck

【Main text continues】
▲Bell duck
When used for cooking, this is equivalent to white-feathered duck. However, the flavor is slightly better than white-feathered duck. However

【Lower Right】
　Child sashimi (sea cucumber finely cut, same as sea bream, chestnut white strands, same ginger, bonito shavings, sake added and stored)　　Soup (hot water, young shoots, river-peeled, rock mushroom)
　Simmered dish (dawn roll, flat fish)　　　　Rice
　　　　　Two
(Cedar lid ring) Grilled shellfish (fresh shellfish, with wasabi miso)
　　　　　　　　　Soup (wild goose, smooth susuki, water dropwort, white potato, uto)
　Appetizer (salted fish, scallop)
　　　　　Three

【Lower Left】
　Finger sashimi (with calico pattern, frost-speckled sea bream, sea noodles, duck sweet skin, wasabi)　　Soup (whitebait, lettuce)
　　Appetizer with sake
One grilled bird (true shake, hitara)　One sugar-simmered salt trout
One sake-simmered crucian carp (cut and folded)　One grilled water dropwort (skylark, stretched broth)
One clear soup　Mustard
　　　Island sea bream (bamboo shoots)　　Pressed dish (narcissus, old woman seaweed)
　　　Side dishes (rolled squid, steamed shellfish, bamboo leaf seaweed)