【Header Right】
Plum《pickles　salt-dried, seasoned sake　simmered plum dishes　various》
Perilla　soup　vinegar pickle
Yuzu citrus《yuzu miso garnish　soup garnish, yuzu mochi added to sake, leaves too》
Bean sprouts　soup　side dish
Wisteria flower　soup　simmered dishes　dressed dishes
Lotus《simmered dishes　vinegared dishes, soup　dressed dishes》
Safflower《simmered dishes vinegared dishes, but when about 3 inches》
Green wheat　placed on top of soup　《about 3 inches, when》
○Chilled dishes section
Daikon radish　melon　eggplant
Lotus　《black》　water chestnut　apple
Peach　plum　apricot
Chestnut　pear　mandarin orange
Besides these, various seasonal items are good

【Header Left】
　『Vinegar Pickle Section』
Japanese ginger　ginger　plum
Bayberry　bamboo shoots　aralia
Saposhnikovia　tomorrow's leaf　salt
Scallop　carrot　Japanese pepper
Indigo plant
Besides these various items, for 1 sho of vinegar, add
3 go of salt, which is good
　『Endless Pickle Section』
Chinese citrus peel　jellyfish　pickled plum
Bamboo shoots　same sweet skin　sake lees
Kelp　cod roe sac　ginkgo nut
Cockscomb　ginger　Japanese ginger
Burdock　bayberry　carrot
Dried citrus peel　seaweed　《green laver, tied》
From the above, add appropriate combinations
which is good; besides these, add according to preparation

【Lower Right】
『▲Preparation of Dashi Broth』
One　In a 2-sho pot, add one cup of water. When it boils, add finely
　shaved bonito《150 monme》. Decoct and extract. Remove the foam and boil down to 7/10.
　Add about one pot's worth of soy sauce and two tea bowls of sake. When it boils,
　immediately remove from fire and use for cooking.
▲Vegetarian dashi　In the same 3-sho pot, add one cup of water, finest kelp《2 pieces》
　cut into about 5-inch pieces, dried gourd strips《50 monme》. Boil down to 7/10,
　add about one pot's worth of soy sauce and two tea bowls of refined sake. When it boils,
　immediately remove from fire and use for cooking.
『▲　Preparation of Vinegared Salad and Bird Cooking Methods』
Stir-frying carp is bad; boil in hot water, season with water, and slice the flesh finely.
　Warm seasoned sake and mix well. Add plenty of chestnuts, ginger, and wasabi,
　add vinegar and mix with presentation style.