【Header Right】
Egg sake　Break eggs
　Add cold sake little by little and mix well
　Adding salt little by little, mix well
　with a little salt added. Warm it
　and serve. For one egg,
　add three cups of sake to a flask, which is good
Yam sake　Take any mountain yam
　that is white and grate it finely.
　Also with cold sake,
　mix and extend very well. Add a little
　salt. Stir until it reaches
　a good warm temperature, which is good
Pigeon sake　Pound pigeon well,
　dissolve with sake. Put a little miso
　in a pot. Simmer until fox-colored,
　then add both pigeon and sake, which is good
　Either Japanese pepper powder or black pepper powder

【Header Left】
　Adding a little wasabi etc. is good
　Can also be stir-fried with soy sauce
Wing joint sake　From the joints in pheasant wings
　to the tips, pound finely.
　Add a little salt and stir-fry.
　Add any of the above spicy flavors,
　warm the sake to a good temperature and serve
　When eating the meat, add a little
　soy sauce, which is good
Gripping sake　Remove pheasant
　intestines. Add a little miso. Pound and
　mix well together. Then insert one skewer
　each into one foot.
　Put that pounded mixture
　into the fingers. When grilled,
　it grips well. When the inside also
　appears to be well dried and grilled.
　From the edge of the fingers

【Lower Right】
　Add a little bonito and put in pot, simmer with the bird until just covered
▲For wild geese and ducks, prepare as usual. Mix the above sake and soy sauce in equal parts.
　Put the bird in the pot with just enough of the above broth to cover. If the bird has little fat,
　reduce it a bit more and cook with charcoal fire to make seasoned sake
▲For simmered birds, simmer wild geese and ducks well in thin sauce, then pour soy sauce
　over the top and add bonito
Bird pepper　Grind miso very well. Extend with water and mix with one-third sake.
　Pound the bird finely and add. Mix well together. Bird and miso in equal parts, or
　make the miso slightly more. Put in pot and simmer over charcoal fire.
　Adding Japanese pepper is good. Add anything else and stir with chopsticks while boiling
『▲Preparation of Fish Sashimi』
Carp water preparation　Make carp without roe very thin. In freshly drawn
　water, add a little salt and wash two or three times. Wash the carp flesh until it swells.
　Squeeze out the water so the flesh contracts. Adding vinegar to seasoned sake
　is also good. Mustard miso is also good.

【Lower Left】
Sea cucumber fine slicing: slice into two or three pieces, making them quite fine. Mix with seasoned sake.
　Discard that seasoned sake. Pour another separate seasoned sake over it. Mix once more
　and it becomes smooth. Use wasabi and bonito flakes as garnish.
　If washed quickly with lukewarm water, it removes the sliminess and is good.
Small sea bream: prepare as commonly done. However, grill the middle section of the sea bream
　over distant fire so it doesn't burn. When the top becomes a fragrant color,
　pick off the flesh attached to bones with bamboo chopsticks. Chop finely.
　Grind well in a mortar and add this for even better flavor.
Sweetfish　For 1-3 inch sweetfish, remove the head and fillet into three pieces. Don't discard the middle section,
　add a little salt. Wash with that. Use water pepper vinegar miso or mustard vinegar miso,
　which is good. When filleting into three pieces, don't cut off the tail section
　and remove the middle section, which is good.