【Header Right】
For crucian carp pickled in sake lees: salt for one night,
then pickle in lees, placing heavy weights strongly
on top, and it will be ready to use within
five to six days.
『How to Remove Salt from Miso Soup』
When fish broth has fish that is too salty or
the miso is too salty, if you dilute with water
the miso becomes thin, so
cook black rice like hard rice,
put it in a cloth bag about the size of a vegetable bag,
filling it seven-tenths full. Put this into the above miso soup
and bring to a boil once. The saltiness
is immediately removed and it becomes excellent soup.
This is a closely guarded secret. When the above food is not available,
regular rice is also fine.
『Classified Foods for Daily Use and Their Medicinal Properties』

【Header Left】
『Record of Various Birds' Medicinal Properties』
▲Crane: salty in taste, neutral in nature
　　Supplements exhaustion qi and increases vitality
　　Removes wind and is good for parasites, makes lungs
　　healthy, removes apoplexy
　　White cranes should be eaten
　　Medicine for a hundred ailments
▲Wild goose: sweet and neutral
　　Good for paralysis of hands and feet from apoplexy
　　For paralyzed limbs, eat small amounts
　　regularly
　　Circulates qi and is good for
　　hearing loss. Do not eat in June or July.
　　It destroys people's souls.
　　Summer vegetables and roasted seeds are forbidden foods
▲Duck

【Lower Right】
　Pound carefully up to the edges so they don't tear, lay kelp in a pot and
　place the abalone on top, using the shell as a lid and simmer with miso soup
One: Use equal parts water and sake, adding thin fukusa miso in large amounts,
　enough liquid to cover the top of the abalone shell. After simmering about halfway, the above
　miso soup reduces to about the consistency of kneaded miso. At that time, remove and sprinkle with salt,
　or use kudzu starch for thickening, both are good as is.
『▲Preparation Methods for Various Delicacies and Egg Dishes』
Crush eggs and add either water soy sauce or dashi soy sauce as usual
　Adding sake is bad. It burns strongly to the pot. When it's mostly done well,
　make holes here and there in the eggs in the pot, dilute iri-zake
　with water and pour in, simmering briefly, which is good.
For cut eggs, crush the eggs and beat well. For five eggs, add kudzu powder
　about the amount of one thick tea serving, and cook like fu-no-yaki. Keep the fire very low
　and add eggs little by little, cooking very thin. Then cut finely and use with iri-zake
　or as seasoning, in simmered dishes, vinegared dishes, or appetizers.

【Lower Left】
▲For rolled eggs, add kamaboko to the fu-no-yaki eggs, then
　line arame seaweed on top, roll tightly and tie the top,
　add a little salt and boil, then cut to serve
▲For rolled squid, wash the squid and sprinkle a little
　kudzu powder, roll it up, tie with straw and boil, then press while cooling and slice
▲Tamatsusa is the seeds of crow melon. Also called
　kinbunshi. Roast in tamari soy sauce until done. Additionally, apricot kernels,
　peach kernels, black bean hulls, ginger, etc. can also be added,
　which is good. Bottle gourd seeds are also prepared this way
▲Cut sanshō: Remove the white part inside sanshō and grind well, then add dried bonito
　miso. The proportion should be pleasantly spicy.
　Cut ground flatfish finely into one-bu squares,
　dry well, add more color and include dried citrus peel, adding tamari
▲Eye rolls: Wrap mountain potato in arame seaweed, boil and cut
　in various ways. Also sprinkle a little kudzu powder on this