increases. Also stops night sweats
▲Snipe: warm in nature
　　Supplements qi deficiency, non-toxic
　　Harmless for various diseases
▲Skylark: sweet-sour substance
　　　　Non-toxic
　　Supplements qi deficiency and benefits qi
　　Good for people with paralyzed
　　limbs. Harmless for sores, etc.
▲Sparrow: greatly warm substance
　　　　Non-toxic
　　Raises yang and increases essence
　　Good for warming lower back and knees
　　When childless people eat it, essence fills
　　the abdomen. Great medicine during winter's three months
　　Supplements both yin and yang. In summer,
　　eating pregnant sparrow will immediately
　　end one's life. Food combination with plums
　　　　　　　　is greatly toxic
【Header Left】
▲Reed sparrow: neutral substance
　　Mostly harmless for various diseases
　　Disperses melancholy qi and brings out voice
　　Increases vital energy and also calms hemorrhoids
　　Miraculous when given to 5-6 year old children
　　with speech difficulties and heavy tongue
『Fish Toxicity Records』
▲Flounder: neutral substance
　　Increases vital energy and supplements
　　qi deficiency. Eating too much raises qi upward
▲Needlefish
　　Supplements five organs and increases vital energy
　　Strengthens kidneys, moistens
　　skin, lightens the body
▲Salted salmon: sweet-warm substance
　　Supplements qi and increases strength

【Lower Right】
　serve. Also for clear soup, add only dashi with a little shadowing
　dropped in. At this time add garnish as prepared
Harara soup: add harara, thin ice, flounder with grated daikon, etc.
　Prepare with medium miso. When adding dashi and oysters, miso seasoning is oral tradition
Shachi soup: discard head and innards of true sardines and wash, for accompaniment use large
　daikon or myoga, prepare with dashi only
Suiri soup: strain miso and add with taro stems,
　when well cooked, cut and add fermented crucian carp heads
Bird skin sauté: whether wild goose or duck, add skin and dashi, simmer
　bones with a little nama-dare sauce, add meat and balance salt seasoning.
　Accompaniments are seasonal ingredients. Generally mushrooms go in bird soup. Garnish with wasabi and yuzu
Aokaji: pound pheasant intestines, add a little miso, put in pot
　and sauté until fox-colored, rinse pot, then add dashi and as it comes
　to boil add bird, balance salt seasoning and serve
　Sautéing degree is crucial. This is for frosty, snowy New Year season
【Lower Left】
Pheasant yamakage: add nama-dare to dashi, cut pheasant in any
　style and simmer. Accompaniments are yam, nori, seasonal available items - fine without adding
Nanban cuisine: pluck chicken feathers, cut off head, feet and tail, wash,
　put in pot with large-cut daikon, add water above covering level,
　cook until daikon becomes thoroughly tender. Then remove bird and shred finely,
　add shading to original broth, balance with daikon and serve
　when adding bird, sake and salt good. Garlic garnish, shiitake and leek accompaniments good
Bohan soup: parboiled items, kamaboko, chestnuts, grated ginger,
　eggs (grilled wheat gluten), vegetables (dressed), fried kelp, myoga, bonito flakes, nori
　All minced items should be fine. During vegetarian periods, various innovations
Shumisen soup: refers to vegetables and tofu cut
　extremely fine. Add dashi to miso soup
Uemon Goro soup: refers to cutting vegetables long or short, adding shiitake
　and rice bran miso
Yanagi-ni-mari soup: refers to adding taro to picked greens