【Header Right】
　　People with blood deficiency should consume this
　　Good for strengthening muscles and bones
　　Medicine for apoplexy and kidneys, toxin of sores
　　When cold women consume it, menstruation
　　stops and they become like men
▲Crab: cold in nature
　　Cools chest shortness of breath, breaks blood
　　stagnation. Pregnant women should
　　deeply avoid this. Causes miscarriage and
　　abortion. Eating after childbirth
　　causes dizziness. Food combination of crab and
　　butterbur, consuming with citrus
　　causes wind. Eating with ripe persimmons
　　causes vomiting blood
　　Plum, goosefoot, cowpea cause blood vomiting
　　For poisoning, drink rhubarb or perilla,
　　duck, or melon juice. Immediately effective
【Header Left】
▲Carp: sweet in taste
　　　Cold in nature
　　Strengthens weakness of spleen and stomach
　　Stops jaundice and throat
　　dryness. Good for pregnant women's edema.
　　Charring this carp cures asthma, also
　　for gonorrhea when urination is
　　blocked, good to drink with hot water
　　as medicine. Deeply avoid after fever.
　　Since the head contains toxins, should not
　　eat even when ill. Also wild boar is
　　forbidden. Food combination
▲Flathead: sweet and neutral
　　Opens stomach, benefits five organs,
　　fattens people, makes body healthy,
　　harmless with medicine

【Lower Right】
Karake soup: split eggplant in half and hollow out center slightly, grind green
　Japanese pepper and mustard, also add ground walnuts, wrap in perilla leaves,
　tie well with kelp string and add, add dashi to miso soup,
　cook well and when serving, balance with dissolved kudzu
Kwanze soup: refers to thinly cut tofu prepared
　with medium miso. This can also be served with thick sauce
Carp kwanze soup: gut carp and cut small, thickly
　slice tofu and add, good with medium miso. Serve with mustard and Japanese pepper sauce
Tanuki soup: for field runners, skin them; for house tanuki, grilling and skinning is good
　Prepare with miso soup. Accompaniments are daikon, burdock and various others. For
　garnish use garlic. Dashi uses sake and salt
Deer soup: add dashi to thin miso, various accompaniments, garlic and pepper for garnish
【Lower Left】
Hideri namasu refers to: filleting horse mackerel into three pieces, slicing the flesh
　thin, striking both skins together, grilling from skin side and mincing
　to add, shaving taro stems like bamboo shavings and adding, seasoning with
　vinegar and salt for mixing. The skin is also white-grilled
Tarosuke namasu: make lightly salted sea bream and abalone quite thin,
　mix with equal parts of irizake and vinegar. However, abalone should be added
　later. Trout and salmon are also good. Mince and add bonito flakes, daikon, wood ear mushrooms
Kazejchi-ae: whether quail or small birds, marinate well in soy sauce,
　grill well then cut finely, mix with mustard vinegar. Also called aokaji-ae
Mikawa-ae: Split cucumber with skin, sprinkle a little salt and knead,
　quickly rinse and squeeze, add bonito flakes, extend mustard miso with irizake
　and vinegar to mix. When hardened, remove skin
Ao-ae: Put iriko in hot water well, cook well with dashi soy sauce,
　grind green beans, season with salt and serve mixed
Oki namasu: prepare horse mackerel, sardines etc. whole and add water pepper