【Header Right】
'○Shellfish Toxicity Records'
▲Razor clam: sweet and warm in nature
　　After childbirth, supplements qi and blood depletion
　　Supplements spleen and stomach, good for breathlessness
　　and suffering in the chest. Should not be eaten
　　after typhoid fever
▲Ark shell: warm in nature
　　Promotes appetite, good for chest and abdomen when cold
　　and painful. Warms the interior,
　　makes stomach healthy and aids digestion.
　　Warms coldness in the lower back, medicine
　　for impotence
▲Abalone: salty in taste,
　　　　neutral in nature
　　First-class medicine for eye ailments.
　　Regular consumption increases vitality, lightens
　　the body, good for coughs
▲Turban shell: warm in nature
　　　　non-toxic

【Header Left】
　　Opens stomach function, promotes appetite,
　　medicine for eyes. Expels old blood after childbirth
▲Corbicula clam: cold in nature
　　Promotes urination, opens stomach
　　Cools heat, clarifies vision
　　and eliminates alcohol toxicity. Good for dampness
　　and qi stagnation. For jaundice,
　　take the broth as medicinal water
▲Hard clam: sweet and cold in nature
　　Supplements kidneys, strengthens yin,
　　medicine for eyes. Opens stomach, removes childhood
　　malnutrition fever. Good for blood stagnation.
　　Eliminates alcohol toxicity, for thirst
　　diseases and heat parasites
▲Whelk: cold in nature
　　Medicine for long-lasting eye pain
　　that won't stop. For chest parasites with vegetables

【Lower Right】
　Cut and take, slice thinly about one bu thick from the tail side, cut that to
lengths of about five to six sun, stand vertically and make fine cuts in square shapes
　●Similarly, quick preparation means doing as above, cutting crosswise to about five sun length,
　standing that vertically and cutting into widths of about one bu as above,
　then slicing from the cross-section to the above thickness●Similarly, cross-cut preparation means filleting,
　removing thin flesh, standing the knife thinly from the tail side to make
　cross-cuts. However, when called "with skin," it means making it with skin attached
　●Similarly, flat preparation means doing as above with skin attached, laying the knife
　flat from the tail side to make it rounded and smooth●For vinegar-miso salad
　etc., fine preparation means filleting, removing thin flesh, and if it's a large fish, slicing to about
　three bu thickness, then using the knife diagonally thin to make pieces about two
　sun long●For fish like bonito, the preparation method is:
　For bonito, fillet into three pieces, remove the top flesh slightly, pull out the center portion,
　remove skin, cut into rectangular pieces about one sun four and a half bu long
　to use for both salad and sashimi

【Lower Left】
　For sashimi, folding is good. For salad etc., using the thrown preparation
　is also good●Similarly, thrown preparation means doing as above, holding the knife
　diagonally to make it thin and smooth●Back-bone cut means taking only the belly well,
　washing the meat thoroughly and as is, making cross-cuts from the tail side with
　the knife slightly laid flat. This is used for horse mackerel, sweetfish etc. salads
　●Thrown preparation for sillago, halfbeak etc. means filleting into three pieces, removing thin flesh,
　laying the knife flat from the tail side to a width of about five to six bu, making it large and flat.
　However, removing skin is also good. When removing halfbeak skin, the red meat on the back
　should be scraped off●Single back-bone cut means filleting each side and making the side
　with bone attached like the above back-bone cut●Score-cutting means
　filleting into three pieces, cutting as desired and scoring the flesh side in four directions
　about four to five bu apart. This is used for cedar grilling etc.
●For grilled items, large cutting method means keeping skin attached, scraping off thin flesh
　and cutting in one straight line●Though called monkfish hanging cut, it refers to hanging wash.
　Therefore it's part of the washing method. Hang it and pour water from the mouth