【Header Right】
　　Prepare and eat ○For whelk, grind with
　　shell together and eat plenty,
　　extremely good for dizziness
▲Oyster: salty in taste,
　　　　neutral in nature
　　Cools heat from spleen disorders and typhoid
　　fever. Good for diabetes and seminal
　　emission. Supplements deficiency,
　　stops bloody stools and dysentery. For carbuncles,
　　chest pain, swellings,
　　stops sweating. Slows progression of boils,
　　eliminates intermittent fever
▲Pond snail: extremely cold in nature
　　Good when inside of eyes are red and painful
　　Good for qi stagnation swelling and pain. Promotes
　　urination and defecation, cools heat
　　in the abdomen. Made into charcoal powder
　　and applied to sores, heals well

【Header Left】
'Animal Toxicity Records'
▲Venison: warm in nature
　　　　　　　　Stops pain in muscles and bones of men and women,
　　removes dampness, supplements qi of five organs,
　　good for menstrual disorders, prolonged bleeding, blood
　　clots, diabetes. Medicine for qi stagnation when emaciated
　　with dry skin.
　　Should be used for children's smallpox. Lightens the heart,
　　escapes death, medicine for all diseases
▲Raccoon dog: warm in nature
　　Should be deeply avoided after surgery
　　Good for toxicity of carbuncles and swellings. Skull bone
　　made into charcoal is wondrous medicine for horns
▲Rabbit: pungent in taste, neutral in nature
　　Supplements interior, increases qi, stops
　　thirst diseases. Mustard, horsetail,
　　duck, walnuts, mandarin oranges,
　　otters are all forbidden foods. Rabbit's

【Lower Right】
　insert and remove fins, peel skin, separate bone joints, fillet
　the flesh into three pieces. The cutting method is the skill of the knife●Cloth refers to
　cloth-like material found inside the belly. Wash this and cut to
　use●Friend refers to round sacs. Wash these and
　use after steaming●For goby, flathead, white stonefish, peel skin
　and use. Remove back and belly fins, peel from the head side
　●For all fish roe, boil thoroughly before use

'○　　Salt Fish and Dried Fish Usage Guide and Knife Techniques'
▲Sweetfish with head means using as is with uncut belly, removing only
　moss●Cut-eye means cutting the head diagonally, thoroughly removing
　belly contents, trimming the tail tip slightly●Blue skewer means
　making cut-eye and piercing with blue small skewers. This is used for appetizers etc.
　●For lees cooking etc., wash well and of course remove head before use
▲Dried flounder, also called steamed flounder△Cut-eye means cutting
　with bone attached△Shredding means grilling then shredding only the flesh to use

【Lower Left】
　△Small skewer means cutting small and piercing with blue small skewers. The size depends on the
　occasion. However, used together with moss▲Dried whitebait: soak as is in hot water
　until it becomes like fresh, wash well and use.
　This too is bad if soaked too much, mostly same as fresh▲Dried
　sweetfish: wash sand off roughly as is and use. Round means
　using whole as is△Cut-eye means removing the head▲Turnip-shaped
　bone: soak in hot water to soften△cut into strips△julienne etc.
▲Salted salmon: grill slightly over straw fire as is, wash well
　with warm water, cut into many rounds, soak in plain hot water to soften and remove soot
　before use▲Same for skin: wash well with sand and brush,
　grill slightly, peel skin, soak in plain hot water to soften and use. Cutting method
　and size depend on occasion▲Dried mullet roe: use as is with skin thinly removed
　Cutting method depends on occasion▲Yellowtail: rinse sand quickly and use as is
　Even if salty, removing salt makes it bad. Cutting method and size depend on occasion
　▲Salted cod: wash moss and intestines well, remove salt, salt-cure and