【Header Right】
As medicine, good for diarrhea and tapeworms. Regulates the spleen
and stomach, removes lung heat
It is forbidden to eat together with crab
▲Loquat: sweet and cold in nature, non-toxic
Benefits the five organs and moistens the
lungs. Lowers qi, stops coughing and thirst,
stops vomiting and is good. Eating too
much causes phlegm-heat. Wheat
types are forbidden
▲Peach: sweet-sour and hot in nature
Eating peaches and bathing causes gonorrhea
to occur. Eating too much causes heat qi to attack
▲Plum: bitter-sour and neutral-warm in nature
Eating too much causes deficiency heat. Supplements the center
and increases qi
It dislikes sparrows and honey
▲Kunenbo citrus: sweet and cold in nature

【Header Left】
Good for vitality. Supplements spleen and stomach, eliminates alcohol
effects. Calms breathlessness in the chest,
obstructed by phlegm
▲Ume plum: sour and neutral in nature, non-toxic
Stops thirst but damages teeth. Breaks muscles
and bones, causes deficiency fatigue to appear
▲Dried ume plum: astringent-sour and warm in nature
Should be eaten for diarrhea with chest and abdominal pain.
Stops epidemics
and cuts phlegm. Good to hold in mouth
for sore throat. Stops mouth dryness,
promotes appetite. Should not eat too much
▲Pear: sweet-sour and cold in nature
Being cold in nature, deeply avoid with sword wounds and postpartum.
Removes rising qi, stops chest breath-
lessness, stops eye pain, sobers alcohol
intoxication, treats chest and abdominal pain

【Lower Right】
▲Skewered abalone: boil as is until the flesh becomes tender and use
△Cross-section means grill slightly as is, cut thin cross-wise,
soften in hot water and use▲Jellyfish: wash as is, chop and
soak in sake before use▲Various salted birds: peel skin, remove salt leaving just
a bit remaining, soak in sake briefly before use. However,
crane and swan are good even with skin on

'○ Comprehensive Shellfish Cooking Knife Guide'
▲Pen shell: cross-section round peeling means removing the white flesh well and making thin
cross-sections△Comb shape means splitting lengthwise in two and making that into cross-
sections△Strip means making into strip shape
△Fiber means peeling lengthwise and making thin lengthwise▲Abalone
△Strip means removing skin and cutting strip-shaped, about one bu
thick in the middle△Peeling means removing only the edges and
peeling thin from the stripes△Fiber means peeling as above into pieces about one bu square and four sides,
making them thin△Bag means like peeling, making from the stripes

【Lower Left】
as thin and large as possible△Large raft means【diagram】
cutting and folding with proper cut marks as shown
This is used for water shells etc.△Large flat means removing skin and ears, together with stripes,
angling the knife slightly. This is used for vinegared shells, large simmered dishes,
dengaku etc.△Cut tip means making four to five vertical stripes,
cutting halfway into the abalone stripes and making
large flat△Cut crossing means【diagram】making as shown△One
character means cutting in one direction continuously△Dice means cutting like dice
in backgammon. This is used for cedar grilling etc.
▲Ark shell: peeling means splitting in two, removing intestines well, washing, and from the inner
side angling the knife slightly to peel thin and flat
△Large peeling means doing as above, peeling large and thin to about the width
of the ark shell△Fiber means peeling and making thin. Round cutting means cutting
continuously in one direction while round▲Turban shell: peeling means removing the surrounding
dark flesh and peeling flat and thin△Cross-section means making cross-sections