Inside [the gate], Lords Matsudaira Kai-no-kami and Itō Shuri-dayū burned. Lord Nanbu Mino-no-kami burned. Satsuma domain minor retainers burned, and the southern area burned a little. ▲Inside Yamashita gate and outside Hibiya gate suffered slight damage.

"Marunouchi Area" The guard station inside Wadakura gate and Lord Matsudaira Higo-no-kami's middle residence in the same area burned. The rest station in the same area burned. Lord Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami to the south also burned. ▲From Sukiya-bashi to inside Gofuku-bashi, many daimyo residences before and behind Daimyo-kōji suffered slight damage. ▲Across from Tatsu-no-kuchi, Lord Morikawa Dewa-no-kami and Lord Sakai Utano-kami's middle and upper residences burned. ▲Tokiwa-bashi and Kiji-bashi gates suffered slight damage. ▲Lords Tayasu and Shimizu were safe. Lords Endō Tajima-no-kami and Honda Nakatsukasa-dayū burned.

"Ogawa-chō Area" Outside Hitotsubashi gate at the 5,000-tsubo field, both Lords Matsudaira Buzen-no-kami and Hongō Tango-no-kami burned. Additionally, five or six small residences burned. From inside Koishikawa gate through Suruga-dai and Ogawa-chō district to Sujikai gate, there was slight damage. ▲In outer Kanda, Shamisen-bori Nanamagari, Izumi-bashi, Atarashi-bashi, Asakusa gate, and Yanagi-bashi suffered slight damage. From Okura-mae north of the same area to Omaya-gashi was safe. ▲From Suda-chō inside Sujikai gate to Imagawa-bashi and Nihon-bashi, there was much damage to houses and storehouses, but no fires.

"Nihon-bashi Area" From Nihon-bashi to Naka-bashi, houses and storehouses suffered major damage. ▲Naka-bashi, from Minami Tenma-chō 2nd district, cross-street Minami Kaji-chō through Kanō Shin-dō, Gorobē-chō, Tatami-chō, Kita Kon'ya-chō, Shirauo residence, and to the east Suzuki-chō, Inaba-chō, Tokiwa-chō, Ōta residence, Yanagi-chō, Gusoku-chō, Sumi-chō, to Hon-zaimoku-chō 8th district riverside burned. Some storehouses remained in this area.

"Kyō-bashi Area" From Kyō-bashi to Shinbashi, both residences and townhouses suffered major damage. ▲Tsukiji, Odawara-chō, Minami Iida-chō, Moto-Yanagihara-chō - in this area there was major damage with very many collapsed houses. ▲Nishi Hongan-ji main hall was safe, but several buildings in the temple compound suffered major damage. Residences in this area suffered major damage with many collapsed storehouses. ▲Teppō-su, Jikken-chō, and Lord Matsudaira Awaji-no-kami burned. Akashi-chō had very many collapsed houses. Also, Matsu-chō and Lord Hosokawa Noto-no-kami were safe. Many others suffered major damage. ▲Tsukuda-jima suffered major damage. ▲From Hon-Hatchōbori north along the main street, Hatchōbori-gumi residences, also Kayaba-chō and Yakushi-dō were safe. In townhouses in all four directions, there was much major damage, collapsed houses, and other damage in various places.

"Reigan-jima Area" Reigan-jima ten blocks, Yokkaichi-chō, Shirogane-chō, Ōkawa-bata-chō, Minami Shinbori burned to the riverside. Lord Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami's middle residence remained. The remaining Minato-chō and Nagasaki-chō suffered major damage. ▲North of the same area, Kita Shinbori, Lords Kuze, Izu, and Doi suffered minor damage. Lord Tayasu was safe. Others suffered major damage. ▲Gyōtoku-gashi, Ko-ami-chō, Dōkan