[Right Page]
Sambayashi Zenshirō (marginal note: deputy of Rokujō) fought his first battle at Kuzuhara.

○At this time, various people held castles in different places. At Hinoya Castle was Kurose Tsunemichi (marginal note: Sambayashi's father-in-law) (marginal note: Hinoya is southeast of Daishōji). At Hasatani were Fujimaru and Miyakita Shuri (marginal note: son of Rokujō's deputy Tajiri Tajima, on the ikki side). At Matsuyama was Tokuyama Gohei (marginal note: Shibata forces). At Daishōji was Yanada Dewa. At Kami-Ōsugi in Awazu was Ōsugi Hikozaemon. At Kurotani was a priest named Daikō from Dōkyō temple.

○In the Battle of Hinoya, Hinoya's vanguard was Kurose Tsunemichi's retainers, and the second commander was Takayasu. The ikki forces under Sambayashi numbered about 130 foot soldiers, with Hori Gohei as vanguard. When Takayasu's retainer named Taki Genji was shot and killed by arquebus, this head was retrieved by Sambayashi's side. When Takayasu tried to retrieve it by climbing up the mountainside with a spear, though his spear was broken by arquebus fire, Genji's head was not captured by the enemy and was saved. Here, Saizō, younger brother of Hori Saisuke (a retainer of Rokujō), performed excellent service at Kano.

○When the four districts of Kaga united as one force and advanced to Takigahara, there was a night attack.

○Hori Saisuke [text damaged] therefore when Hori Gohei remained without retreating, Saisuke's younger brother Saizō was hit by an arrow.

[Left Page]
Gohei pulled out that arrow and urged retreat by dragging him back. At that time Hori Gohei took one distinguished head. That day there was only this one head. This head was either from the Sakuno affair or the Suganami affair.

○Battle of Ishizaka. At this time Tsunemichi sided with Osaka forces. Since Tsunemichi became an ally, the Kaga forces mobilized to attack Daishōji. However, because the enemy had large numbers, the Kaga forces withdrew that night.

○Tsunemichi, Sambayashi, and Gorōemon of Ōu - these three men held Hinoya. Under orders from Lord Nobunaga, Hideyoshi's forces approached Hinoya and besieged it for eighteen days. Through Hideyoshi's stratagem, about a thousand men with large cannons pulled up [damaged text] and fired with those arquebuses, collapsing about two ken of the castle walls. After that, over five days they cut down large trees and erected siege towers, but when they fired the large cannon, it burst and fell into the valley along with the siege towers. After that, Kinoshita Gorōbei (marginal note: Hideyoshi's cousin), who was related to Sambayashi, had an arrow message about peace negotiations shot from Hideyoshi's side. Though Gorōbei agreed, Sambayashi refused to consent, saying he had received great favor from Osaka. However, from [damaged] onward, those in the castle became unsettled.