Having had a change of heart, he let Kenshin's forces into the castle. The provincial samurai of Nōshū gathered together with their lord in the palace and barricaded themselves, when Yusa Mimasaku-no-kami sent a messenger saying, "This is an order from Kenshin: if only Chō Kurōzaemon commits seppuku, the remaining provincial samurai and Chō's entire family will be pardoned." Hearing this, Chō Kurōzaemon abandoned his residence to join his father and commit seppuku together. On the way to his father Tsushima-no-kami's place, Onui's retainer named Kominami Naichika killed Kurōzaemon. Afterwards, Yusa Mimasaku-no-kami sent a messenger to his father-in-law saying, "There should be no objection to this matter. Please enter my residence," and summoned him, entertaining him with delicacies and having him bathe. Then he said, "Please enter the residence of my younger brother Itami and rest," and sent him out. On the way, he had Tsushima-no-kami, his son Sugiyama, Shinpachi, Shinkurō, and all the rest of the Chō family killed. Among them, Tsushima-no-kami's fourth son was a monk called Kōunji, but having been sent as a hostage to Lord Nobunaga in previous years, he escaped this calamity. Later he took the name Chō Kurōzaemon, and as a monk was called João.

○From Kenshin, as castle governors of Nanao: Ajisaka Bitchū, a resident of Echigo, along with Hibikida Higo, a resident of Etchū, and Nagasō (also written as Sawa) Chikuzen were appointed. These three were placed as castle governors of Nanao, and the provincial samurai were given one-tenth of their former knowledge and made into supporters of these three men, stationed at former temple grounds. After six or seven years, the provincial samurai plotted rebellion together, took position on a mountain called Masugata, and burned down the town at the foot of the castle. Unable to endure this, Nagasō Chikuzen and Hibikida Higo both attempted to ally with the provincial samurai and sent an advance messenger to Masugata. The provincial samurai quite reasonably agreed to ally and sent back a reply. When the messenger Tsuno Bungo-no-kami was returning along the way, the provincial samurai sent retainers who killed Bungo. Because of this, Chikuzen-no-kami could not go to Masugata and tried to take refuge at Ishidō, going as far as Ni-no-miya. But when Ishidō sent out forces and would not let him approach, he returned to Nanao, whereupon his horse died of exhaustion. Chikuzen became a foot soldier and tried to join Ajisaka Bitchū, heading for the main citadel, when a peasant uprising occurred and a farmer called Kojima no Uma killed him with a burnt wooden stake. Higo-no-kami boarded a ship from Fuchū to cross to Echigo, but at that moment a north wind blew fiercely, making it impossible, so he brought his ship to Shibue bay. That bay had rough rocks with seaweed entangled, making it