[Right page]
　　…such would naturally be the prevailing tendency.

　　　　　On the Matter of Newly Opened Fields

　　When the magistrate (*daikan*) known as Chikaraishi Haginoshin caused the pine grove called Motonenebayashi in Murayama District of Ushū [Dewa Province] to be newly opened for cultivation, in the first year neither the paddy fields nor the dry fields produced any grain. In the second year, the peasants applied all their effort and energy, yet the results were meager. Nevertheless, as they continued to pour all their energy into the work year after year, the land has now become the finest grade of paddy field (*jōden*) and dry field (*jōhata*), and has come to represent an enduring national benefit for all generations to come. Now, some four or five *ri* from Matsumae, there is a village called Fukushima. Within the lands of this village, brushwood and bush clover grow in abundance, and there are areas where the soil is genuine loam that could well become superior paddy fields. At the lord's command, peasants from the Tsugaru region were

[Left page]
　　gathered together and set to work opening and cultivating the new land. In the first year, the grain did not ripen. In the second year, approximately twenty bales of rice were produced. In the third year, however, the seasonal conditions were unfavorable, making it a year of poor harvest, and the lord ordered a suspension of the farming of those fields. This was related to me in detail by a certain person from Fukushima village. After that, it is said that the domain lord and the peasants alike came to believe that rice and grain simply could not be grown anywhere throughout the entire domain of Matsumae. I then measured the altitude of the celestial pole (*hokkyoku shutchi*, i.e., latitude) at this location and found it to be forty-two degrees. It occurred to me that this might be somewhat similar in climate to Beijing in China (*Chūka*). Given that this is therefore land upon which all manner of grains and plants ought to be able to grow, I conceived the idea that there must be good plans and strategies to be devised—and also found myself thinking of matters beyond my reach. And so, regarding the Ezo…