【Right Folio】
"——futsu (lake)," on "Etorou" (Iturup) Island "Shyana" (Shana) — beyond these there are numerous lakes and marshes too many to record. As for proper lakes within the Matsumae islands, there are "Atsukeshitō" (Lake Akkeshi), "Onnētō" (Onne-tō Marsh), and "Fūrentō" (Lake Fūren) — all of which have seawater flowing in and out, with tidal ebb and flow. On each of these islands there are geese, ducks, and the like, and salmon and trout are also plentiful. As for Northern Ezo, there are said to be many high mountains and many lakes and marshy areas as well, but as I have not yet gone there myself, I cannot say with certainty.

　　　　　On the Vessels and Utensils Used at Banquets

At banquets, there are a great many formalities, and the etiquette observed is quite strict. At the outset of the festivities, nothing is done carelessly or negligently, and though as the drinking progresses and intoxication sets in things tend to loosen up,

【Left Folio】
this too, they say, is a form of etiquette for creating harmony. After each person has sung and danced, the harmony sometimes overflows into boisterous revelry. Now, the Ainu regard having a great many fine utensils as a mark of elegance and refinement, and among Japanese goods they particularly delight in *hokai* (ceremonial food carriers), *mimi-darai* (handled washbasins), *yuoke* (hot water buckets), *hishaku* (ladles), *sakazuki-dai* (sake cup stands), and similar items — above all those decorated with gold *makie* lacquerwork. These are all implements used as drinking vessels at their banquets. At this time, a man from Matsumae, an interpreter (*tsūji*) by the name of Tomekawa Chōemon, was administering a fishing and hunting ground called "Shirataka" within the Matsumae islands, and was residing at this "Shiranuka" (Shiranuka). On one occasion, the local *otona* (Ainu headman) came and remarked that in recent years no unusual or rare utensils had been received. The interpreter Chōemon, moved by this, wished to give the man something, and so sent word to Matsumae
</translation_ja>