【Right Folio】
From among the brown bears that had been raised in captivity at the homes of village elders (*otona*) in each village, one that had grown into a full-sized adult bear would be selected. The elder would then turn to the bear and expound upon the principles of karmic cause and effect (*inga-innen*), speaking as follows: "What great fortune is yours! Listen well, my bear. You are to be prepared as a sacrificial offering to the tutelary deity (*ujigami*) of these people (the Ainu). Surely in your next life you shall be reborn as a human being. Therefore, rejoice in this, and present yourself purely and willingly as a sacrifice." After thus addressing the bear, it would be bound and strangled and led into a building, where it was tethered at the front, back, left, and right, and a great number of people would gather around, fastening it with manacles (*kase*), fetters (*ashikase*), and restraints of various kinds, surrounding it firmly. A *nusa* (ritual paper or wooden wand offering) was placed at its neck, and spears, swords, halberds, and other various long weapons were arranged in adornment. After this, the elder of the village, along with his kinsmen and the leading figures of the neighboring villages, assembled, and according to the seniority and rank of each household, they took their seats in

【Left Folio】
a prescribed order of precedence, both fore and aft, high and low. Each duly took their assigned seat. A ceremony of ritual arrow-shooting (*sharei*) was then performed, with each participant taking their turn in sequence to release an arrow—resembling the *hikime* (blunt-headed arrow) ceremony of formal archery rites. After this ceremony concluded, a great number of people set upon the bear together and killed it by beating it with clubs. Once the bear had been killed, various offerings were laid out before it, and ritual foods of many kinds were presented—much like the Buddhist *segaki* ceremony of offerings and memorial rites for hungry spirits. When this ritual was complete, the offerings were then shared and distributed as a feast to the people of the nearby villages and hamlets. After this, the meat that had been set aside and decorated was boiled and roasted, and a great banquet was held with unrefined sake (*doburoku*), with feasting and revelry that continued throughout the day and throughout the night. This constitutes the ritual of the Grand Festival. The native people (*dojin*) call this *"Iyomante."* This is to say, it is what is meant by a Grand Ceremonial Festival (*daisairei*). The prestigious and wealthy households of leading elders...