[Right folio]

　…when seen through Japanese eyes, there are many things that appear strange and different. First, since the lord of Matsumae has issued orders that the Ezo people should not become assimilated into Japanese customs and manners, they are permanently prevented from doing so. Should an Ezo native even casually use the Japanese language, the interpreter (tsūji) would rebuke them, and treating this as an offense from which there is no escape—namely, the crime of acting against the lord's orders—would compel them to pay a fine as punishment for their transgression. If they were to wear a straw raincoat (mino) or a sedge hat (kasa), the same as described above would apply. If they were to wear straw sandals (waraji) or leg guards (kyahan), it would likewise be as described above. In all things, it is the rule of the lord of Matsumae that the Ezo people should not be allowed to assimilate into Japanese customs. Accordingly, they go about barefoot and bare-legged, traversing rocky crags, tree roots, and bamboo-grass fields without complaint, and when rain falls they are soaked from the crown of their heads, and even upon returning home

[Left folio]

　they do not bathe. It is truly a condition resembling that of wild beasts. All of this is brought about by the edicts and commands (of the Matsumae domain). Since these people are fundamentally of the same kind as Japanese people, their diseases too ought to be the same. For this reason, when smallpox or epidemic diseases spread, there is no difference in the way the sickness is transmitted and passed on. Thus, overcome by fear, they abandon their homes and flee to deep mountains and secluded valleys to take up residence there, and only after the epidemic disease has fully subsided do they return and live again in their home villages. Between parent and child, or husband and wife, care and nursing may be rendered, but all others are abandoned and left to die as the rest flee. This is all because there is no medicine available to them. It is something that is altogether too difficult to bear. One wonders how there can exist people who must suffer under such a wretched governance of the land.