[Right folio]

(Continued from previous page) There are places called "Serehonusukoi" (unknown) and "Sekaafuka" (unknown). At this place, there was a demoted official named "Ausu" (Benyowsky?) who had been ordered to reside there and carry out administrative duties. A government vessel loaded with taxed goods for transport to the capital of the Red People (Russians) crossed the sea and anchored at the harbor of "Sekaafuka." Thereupon, this "Ausu" devised a scheme and committed acts of violence, unlawfully seizing the government vessel. He immediately set sail from this harbor, and anchored at "Shimoshiri Island" (Urup Island?) in Eastern Ezo, waiting for favorable winds. During his stay, of the two shipmasters aboard, he abandoned one called "Isokoiufu" (unknown) on this island, deeming him incompetent. Having obtained favorable winds, he set sail, crossed the Pacific (eastern seas of Japan), anchored off the southeast of Shikoku,

[Left folio]

lowered a small boat, and upon landing, found themselves in Awa Province (present-day Tokushima Prefecture). This was reported to the provincial governor, and officials came to inspect the vessel. Finding it to be a foreign ship, they took pity on the crew and provided them with rice provisions, firewood, and fresh water. Setting sail again from this place, they crossed the southern seas, traversed the southern seas of India, and also crossed the western seas, arriving at a country called "Haranoi" (Poland?) within Europe, and it is said they returned to their home country of "Toichi" (Deutschland/Germany?). There is an account that in the year Meiwa Hachi Bō (the eighth year of Meiwa, 1771), a foreign vessel crossed the seas off Ōshū, drifted past the cape of Kazusa Province (present-day Chiba Prefecture), and was cast ashore in Awa Province. This account is believed to be the voyage of "Ausu." Now, the large crew of this vessel, truly owing to the benevolence of the lord of Awa Province, were able to preserve their lives and return to their home country, and because of this great

(Continued on next page)