[Right folio]

(Continued from previous page) Having crossed the western seas and returned to his homeland with all of his servants in tow, he was hailed as a hero, and for this too he was duly rewarded — so "Ishiyo" recounted in detail. According to the laws of that country, when one has rendered great service to the state, minor offenses are pardoned and forgiven.

Now, in the Japanese province of Awa, the affair had been spread about as if involving a drifting (shipwrecked) vessel, yet in truth it was no case of drift: it is understood that "Baserórafu" (Khaselov) had put ashore there by stratagem and design.

It is also said that "Ausu" was a man of the caliber to serve as a military commander-in-chief. In recent years, when there was a war between "Horishiya" (Poland) and "Oroshiya" (Russia), the military commander of "Horishiya" was none other than this "Ausu." However, the forces of "Horishiya" were defeated in battle, and the commander "Ausu" was taken prisoner,

[Left folio]

and was banished in exile to "Serehoretstui-Sekaafuka" (likely in the vicinity of Kamchatka), far across the seas to the north of the islands of Ezo, which are dependencies of Japan. From this time on, it is said that two countries — "Horishiya" (Poland) and "Kihonnomama'efu" (Crimea?) — submitted to and came under the dominion of "Oroshiya" (Russia).

The reigning Emperor is "Baariyohewōroishiyu" (likely Paul I of Russia), who was thirty-two years of age in the year Tenmei Hinoe-Uma (1786). His father-Emperor was "Ātateariseishiyu" (possibly Peter III), and his mother-Emperor was "Ikaterina Arikisouna" (Catherine), and it is said that this parent and child were both heroic and wise figures.

According to the laws and customs of that country, one reign is by a male emperor and the next by a female emperor, alternating in succession to the throne with each generation.

Up to the present day, it is said that seven-tenths of all the nations of the world have come under the dominion of "Oroshiya" (Russia), while three-tenths have yet to submit — and its momentum is like that of splitting bamboo. From the time I heard this account, I felt deep unease and suspicion—

(Continued on next page)