[Right page]
At Takada Kozaemon's residence, when both officials arrived in Fukui and came to Echizen, the following arrangements were made for their reception: Metsuke Tsuchiya Juroemon (Takamitsu) went to Nakakawachi, District Magistrate Minagawa Sanzaemon (Katsuen) and Road Magistrate Nakamura Jinzaemon (Narinori) went to the provincial border, Shoin-ban Head Mizutani Oribe (Katsunori), Yoriki Hahabekabe Hachizaemon (Yoriyasu), and Magistrate Senmoto Tozaemon (Norinari), along with Metsuke Kozuki Buzaemon, served until the midday meal at Imajo. For the overnight stay at Fuchu, Chunin Akita Hachiroubei, Yoriki Nakagawa Denbei and Watanabe Tarozaemon, as well as other O-goban samurai, Ashigaru-metsuke, Ashigaru, and priests were dispatched. To Shirakijo River went Water Master Head Daito Jihei (Shigemasa) and District Magistrate Matsuo Genzaemon. For the rest at Mizuochi, Metsuke Katayama Yagoemon (Takezen) and District Magistrate Hikosaka Matahei (Shigeyuki) went out. From that location, advance riders and Saki-monogashira Tsuchiya Koyata (Sadatake) and Hagino Shiroemon (Nagatada), and to Kida-machi end, Ashigaru Head Kaifuku Chuzaemon

[Left page]  
Kawai Hikosaku (Toshiaki), Town Magistrate Omiya Hikoemon (Sadato), to outside the Oma-de Gate went the Karo along with Matsudaira Shobei (Masaaki), O-goban Head Suganuma Yoichiro (Tsugiyoshi), Yoriki Tagaya Toneri (Hirofuku), Magistrate Amemori Shinshichi (Masafusa?), Soba-monogashira Nakamura Tarozaemon (Masatsune). Near the travel lodgings, Monogashira went from the Yoriki, and during the stay, Tsukaiban and O-goban samurai were stationed at the travel lodgings from the Saki-monogashira.

1. On the 7th day of the 5th month, regarding the same matter, concerning the report from the Metsuke to the Roju, Tsukaiban Ogawa Jihei (Atsunori) and Vice-envoy O-goban Hori Hachiroemon (Hisanaka) carried a letter and departed from Fukui today.

1. On the same day, from both Metsuke to Karo Honda Shuri (Tsunehisa), the following written notice was delivered:
　1. Since we two arrived here, has there been any change in the domain? If there are also people traveling through, please inform us on what day they passed.