Ten'en 4th year - became Jōgen 1st year (976 CE)
○Nihon Kiryaku - Emperor En'yū
Jōgen 1st year, 6th month, 18th day (mizunoto-ushi), during the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM): The earth shook violently, its sound
like thunder. Many government offices in the imperial palace were destroyed and collapsed, and buildings in the western capital were
extremely numerous in their destruction. Among these, the Hasshō (Eight Ministries), Hōraku-in, Tō-ji, Sai-ji, Gokuraku-
ji, Kiyomizu-dera, Enshū-ji and others collapsed. The severity of this earthquake was unprecedented. Today
《Note in red: "A curtained enclosure was erected in the southern courtyard to serve as the imperial residence"》
the imperial palanquin was moved to the southern courtyard, and a curtained enclosure was erected to serve as the imperial residence. The same was done in front of the Chūgū-chō (Empress's Office)
《Note in red: "The Chūgū-chō did the same"》
where curtains were erected. Today at Kiyomizu-dera, during the earthquake, the number of monks and laypeople
who were crushed to death was five thousand. On the 19th day (kinoe-tora), there were fourteen earthquakes. The rear
offices of the Left Guards, the corridors of Horikawa-in, the western wing of Kan-in, and three buildings of the Ministry of Popular Affairs collapsed.
On the 20th day (kinoto-u), there were eleven earthquakes.
　Respectfully noting: After this, on the 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 26th, 29th,
　30th days, and on the 11th and 12th days of the 7th month, earthquakes occurred with
　various frequencies, but these are not recorded here to avoid excessive detail.
《Note in red: "Era change"》
7th month, 13th day (tsuchinoe-tora): By imperial edict, Ten'en 4th year was changed to Jōgen 1st
year due to disasters and earthquakes. There was an amnesty decree.
　Respectfully noting: After this, on the 14th, 18th, 20th, 21st, and 23rd
　days, earthquakes occurred with various frequencies.
9th month, 23rd day (hinoe-inu): The earth shook violently, its sound like thunder.
《Note in red: "Sacred treasures should be presented and prayers offered"》
10th month, 11th day (kinoe-tatsu): Sacred treasures were presented to the shrines. In accordance with the imperial time, prayers were