Chōryaku (Chōkyū 1st year) 4th year, kanoe-tatsu, 9th month, 8th day, at the hour of the Tiger, there was a great earthquake.
○Shunki: Chōryaku 4th year《Chōkyū 1st year》, 10th month, 29th day, kanoto-i. Tonight around the hour of the Ox,
the earth shook greatly and continued for a long time without stopping. Houses swayed and lamp flames were extinguished.
Since I became an adult, there has never been such a tremor. My mind lost its composure and I
did not know what to do. After about an hour it finally stopped, but it was extremely frightening. Startled, I wanted to
go to the palace, but a wind illness flared up, so I could not enter the palace.
On the 1st day of the 11th month, I went to the palace early in the morning because of last night's earthquake.
His Majesty appeared and said, "Last night's tremor was unprecedented. This Northern Palace shook violently,
【Red inscription】"Astronomical prediction"
seeming about to overturn, extremely frightening. Therefore I left my sleeping quarters and nearly went outside. This was
because my mind was in confusion. The other day the astronomer made a prediction saying 'Will there be earthquakes in winter?'
That prediction came true《omitted》
Moreover, not long after this earthquake, there was a fire in the northern building of the Eastern First Prince's Palace.
The flames reached several feet high, but the palace attendants immediately extinguished it. Also, the night before, the
western building of the same palace caught fire but was immediately extinguished. Having such incidents on consecutive nights is extraordinary
《omitted》
【Red inscription】"Imperial prayers"
Also, there was a summons from the inner palace, so I went to the palace. He said, "The earthquake matter is extremely frightening.
Should there be imperial prayers?《omitted》
This matter should be shown to the regent," so I immediately went to the palace《omitted》
At Takakura Palace, the imperial message I conveyed was reported as: "The earthquake matter seems extremely frightening.
Will the astronomer be made to submit a report tomorrow? Regarding that written report, there should be imperial