○ Hirado-ki, Kangen 3rd year, May 25th: Today at the hour of the Snake there was an earthquake.
27th, Kanoe-saru: At the first point of the hour of the Horse there was another earthquake.
28th, Kanoto-tori: Today around the hour of the Snake there was another earthquake.
June 8th, Kanoto-hitsuji: This morning there was another earthquake, continuing incessantly without cease. Frightening, frightening.
July 26th, Tsuchinoe-uma: Tonight at the hour of the Ox there was a great earthquake. I was startled awake from sleep, and the shaking was beyond normal. Greatly alarmed, I ran out and stood in the garden. After this, many of those who had been in their sleeping quarters suffered damage, and repairs were made yesterday. The thatched gate tilted westward, and nail ends and such came apart and separated. The carriage quarters tilted eastward, but the main hall was fairly well off, and after shaking for a long time it gradually ceased. After this, I returned to my sleeping quarters. Since receiving life, I had never anticipated such an event. This year there have been heavenly portents and strange phenomena, earthquakes occurring one after another, and now things have reached such a state - truly something to be most feared and dreaded.
27th, Tsuchinoto-hitsuji: The Middle Palace Master sent a message. He sent notes on a draft memorial about the earthquake matter by Court Noble Inori and Court Noble Ieji 《marginal note: father and son》. Afterwards, noted to the left:
【Red inscription】"Memorial draft"
Respectfully submitted
Today, the 26th, Tsuchinoe-uma, at the hour of the Ox in the night, there was a great earthquake 《marginal note: the moon was in its lodge | Five Planets Direct Day》

Respectfully consulting the Astronomical Records, it states: In the Spring and Autumn [Annals], when the earth shakes during the day, it means retainers plot against their superiors. Jing Fang's Omen Divination states: When the earth moves in autumn with sound, military conflict will arise. It also states: When the earth moves, there are rebellious retainers in the court. The Records of Heaven and Earth's Auspicious Signs states: In the first year of the Later Yuan era of Emperor Wu of Han, in the seventh month there was an earthquake, and in the fourth month of the following year the emperor died. The Inner Classic states: The seventh month...