If the earth moves, there will be military conflict within a hundred days, and rulers and people will be in chaotic disorder. The Book of Strange Omens states: If the earth moves in the first month, there will be floods, windstorms, and military affairs. The Chronicles state: When retainers monopolize government, earthquakes occur.

The Records of Heaven and Earth's Disasters states: If there is an earthquake, within one year the nation will have great mourning. It also states: Close retainers will leave the palace and there will be alarm. It also states: There will be mourning in the women's quarters. The Heaven Mirror Classic states: When the earth moves, the Son of Heaven should be cautious about this. The Constellation Classic states: When Saturn is the ruling planet of the day and the earth moves, the world will be unstable and people of high rank will die.

Regarding the aforementioned earthquake, we respectfully report this divination. Respectfully submitted.
Kangen 3rd year, July 28th
Junior Fourth Rank Upper Grade Acting Astronomer-Doctor Abe no Ason Ieji
Senior Fourth Rank Upper Grade Acting Grand Palace Chef Abe no Ason Inori

It was noted on that day whether this memorial should be submitted tomorrow.

Various places in Kyoto were also damaged. It was noted and sent that besides ten thousand people being alarmed and in uproar, there was nothing else to report.

28th, Kanoe-saru: It was later heard that around the hour of the Rat last night there was another earthquake. Since people were sleeping, perhaps many were unaware of it.

29th, Kanoto-tori: Regarding the earthquake matter, in the presence of His Lordship, Court Noble Arikiyoshi spoke, saying: "The earthquake of Jishō 3rd year was caused by dragon deities stirring. This time too, dragon deities have stirred again. During that time in Jishō, the late Court Noble Yasuchika rushed to court and memorialized Emperor Go-Shirakawa, whereupon the young attendants among his close retainers laughed at this. Before Court Noble Yasuchika's words of petition had dried, great events occurred. This time too is already due to that same stirring. Again and again, this is something to be feared and dreaded." Frightening, frightening.