【Right page】
Lower Nagano-cho, upper and lower Nishi-machi, upper and lower Nishi-no-mon, Amida-in-cho, Tate-machi, Gomon-mae, Nagaya, Sakura-koji, Ara-machi, Shin-machi, Ise-machi, Yokoyama-koji, Iwaishi-cho, East and West Yoko-cho, Iwaishi-koji, Shin-koji, Shoro-koji, upper and lower Higashi-cho, Shimohori-koji, Hiro-koji, Hanaya-koji, upper and lower Ushiro-cho, Gondo-cho along with Ura-chaya-cho, Kawarazaki, Yoko-daimon, and Katahashi burned down over two days and two nights. Those who escaped this disaster lay in the fields, exposed to rain and dew. The Nyorai (the principal image of Zenkoji) was moved to a field called Horikiri in the northeast direction. Eight monks died from being crushed in the temple grounds, and over two thousand people died from being crushed in the city. On the same day, Inariyama post station in Sarashina County completely collapsed and burned down. In Matsushiro's Sakana-cho, Ki-cho, and Naka-cho, commercial buildings collapsed here and there. In Hachiman village of Sarashina County, from Morishita to Sagi-no-mori, the town rows and private houses collapsed and were destroyed. Within the Hachiman Shrine grounds, the memorial

【Left page】
pagoda collapsed, but the auxiliary shrines were safe. Furthermore, in both distant and nearby villages, many temple pagodas were destroyed, and although there were fewer shrines, the people of each village were in great confusion and came out into the streets. They built thatched huts in the fields and rice paddies to serve as dwellings, using thin wood for beams, spreading mats, covering the top with thatch, and making walls. However, they were still not at ease, and fearing the collapse of houses and storehouses, they forgot about living in homes, remaining in confusion for several days. Because of this, they offered lanterns to the Two Imperial Deities of Ise, the Two Great Deities of Suwa, and Hachiman Daijin, praying for disaster prevention. They also sent representatives of the parishioners to both Ise and Suwa shrines to pray for the elimination of disasters and the safety of the entire region. Lord Sanada constructed temporary buildings at Sakura-no-baba to serve as offices for various officials and provided relief to the poor people within his domain. On the twentieth