【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　10
　This ceremony was originally performed on the 20th day, but since Tokugawa Ietsuna, the fourth Tokugawa shogun, died on January 20th in the third year of Jōō (1654), from that year onward it was moved up to the 11th day to avoid this unlucky date, and this practice continues to this day. These kagami-mochi (mirror rice cakes) were offered not only at altars, but also at armor stands in samurai households and at dressing tables for women. On this day, these would be taken down, and because cutting them with a knife was considered inauspicious, they were broken apart by hand and eaten. In this region, they are mainly eaten as sweet red bean soup (shiruko). In merchant houses, because they are offered in storehouses, this is called "kura-biraki" (storehouse opening).
　A. Called "osona-wari" (offering breaking) - when children are celebrated in the New Year, yaritai celebratory rice cakes are given by relatives and acquaintances, and as a return gesture, sweet red bean soup is made and relatives and acquaintances are invited to celebrate. (Ueda)
　B. This day is called "oshiruko." (Tsuda)
　C. This day is called "osona-wari." (Shimojō, Ushikawa)
　D. Relatives gather and the whole household eats sweet red bean soup together. (Takashi)
　　　　　　　　　25　Hamayumi (Yaritai)
　Hamayumi are decorative toy bows, two bows with arrows attached, which in this region are called "yaritai." They are given by relatives to families with male children celebrating their first New Year, displayed indoors during the New Year to pray for the boy's long-lasting military fortune. In this region, for girls, hagoita (paddles), feathers, and balls are given as gifts.
　A. On the 11th day, those who gave yaritai gifts are invited for a sweet red bean soup feast. (Takashi)
　　　　　　　　　26　Mochi Rice Porridge or Red Bean Porridge　(15th day)　With: Porridge Wood (Porridge Stick)
【Left page】
　This came from China, and its beginning in our country, like the seven-herb porridge, is said to have been during the Kanpyō era of Emperor Uda. Because this is porridge celebrated on the 15th day, it is also called "mochi-gayu" (full moon porridge), and this day is called "mochi" or "full moon day." Because rice cakes are added and eaten, it came to be believed to be rice cake porridge. It is also called red bean porridge because red beans are added. Eating this red bean porridge is said to ward off evil spirits throughout the year. The stick made by shaving the wood used to cook this porridge is said to grant a male child if used to strike the bottom of a childless wife, and ancient tales show that court ladies in the palace also performed this ritual. This wood is called "kayu-no-ki" (porridge wood) or "kayu-zue" (porridge stick).
　A. On the morning of the 16th, red bean porridge is offered to gods and Buddha. (Yoshida-gata)
　B. Porridge with red beans and rice cakes is made. (Ōsaki)
　C. In the past, millet porridge was made, but now rice cakes are put in rice porridge. This is said to be made soft so that the rice paddies will be soft during rice planting in May. (Noyori)
　D. On the 16th, millet porridge is made (now red bean porridge is more common) and offered to gods and Buddha along with rice cakes. The Omeido erected on the 14th are gathered, porridge is offered, and prayers are made for this year's abundant harvest. If the erected Omeigi falls naturally, it is said that sick people will appear during rice planting in May. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　27　Omeigi
　A. Called Omeigi - the kadomatsu (New Year pine decorations) are split into firewood, the number of months is written with charcoal, and they are erected where the kadomatsu stood. (Shimoji)
　B. On the evening of the 15th, twelve bamboo poles (thirteen in leap years) are split in half, two human figures are made, covered with straw mats, and porridge is offered.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tsuda)
　C. Called Oningi - wood pieces equal to the number of months in a year are assembled, a hat is placed on top, and a festival is held. (Yoshida-gata)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　11