【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　12
　D. One piece of firewood is split in two, and twelve lines (thirteen in leap years) are drawn with ink on the surface, and these are erected at the gate. Also, old straw sandals (or sandals) are hung at the gate. (Takashi)
　E. Lines equal to the number of months are drawn on split wood and erected at the gate entrance and in front of the altar. They are gathered into two bundles, one covered with a sedge hat and the other with a straw mat. (Ōsaki)
　F. Called Nin-gi - lines equal to the number of that year's months are drawn with ink on split wood, and two are erected at each gate entrance. Also, something called kanoshi (------) - split wood is bundled and covered with a hat. This is said to imitate the appearance of rice planters so that May rice planting will proceed safely. On the morning of the 18th, porridge is poured over them and they are stored to be used as firewood during May rice planting. (Noyori)
　G. Two or three shaku-long poles are bundled and erected in a corner of the property or at the gate entrance, covered with a hat, and red bean porridge is offered. Additionally, one pole is split in two and marked with twelve months for regular years or thirteen months for leap years and worshipped. (Tame)
　H. From the night of the 14th, the number of months of that year is marked on split wood and erected at wells, stoves, etc. Separately, split wood is bundled - one bundle is covered with a straw bridge, the other bundle is covered with a hat, representing male and female, and erected in front. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　28　Sagichō or Dondo
　The origin of this is not clear, but in Tsurezuregusa it says "The broken ball-sticks are taken from Shingon-in to Shinsenen and burned," and in Ben-naishi Nikki, on January 16th in the third year of Kenchō, it states "Though everyone came when the sagichō was burned..." So this was already being practiced in the Kamakura period. In this region, it was formerly practiced at the Shinmei shrines of Nakahachi-chō and Minato-chō, but even now a ceremonial form of the event still exists at the Shinmei shrine of Minato-chō. On this day, a large sagichō is erected in front of the torii gate before the shrine, and New Year shimenawa decorations, old amulets from the previous year, and kishōage - papers with auspicious phrases written on them - are brought from each household and burned.
【Left page】
It is said that warming oneself with this fire prevents catching cold all year long, and eating rice cakes grilled over this fire prevents evil diseases. Even now, people take some of this fire home to grill rice cakes and make sweet red bean soup. Children would surround this fire chanting "Tondo ya ho ho, Tondo ya ho ho."
　　Shimenawa decorations and amulets are burned in places where there is no worry of fire. Rice cakes are pounded at the house of the farmers' representative (village representative), and small portions are given to those who come from each household to participate in the burning. These rice cakes are eaten with the ashes from burning the shimenawa decorations and amulets. (Takashi)
　　　　　　　　　29　Oyutate　(15th day)　Former
　A. Mikosa (shrine maidens) come and boil water at the tutelary shrine, sprinkle it with bamboo leaves to pray for purification from bad luck, and also divine the year's fortune and misfortune. (Fukuoka)
　B. Called mikodachi - shrine maidens come and perform oyutate. Water is boiled at the tutelary shrine and sprinkled on worshippers with bamboo. This is said to ward off evil spirits. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　30　Toshikoshi Festival　(15th day)　Former
　A. Feasts are prepared and offered before altars, Buddhist altars, and to earth deities. (Ōsaki)
　B. Namasu (vinegared vegetables) is prepared and offered to the gods. This is also done on January 6th. (Fukuoka)
　　　　　　　　　31　Yabuiri　(16th day)
　Together with the 16th day of Obon, this is one of only two rest days per year for servants.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　13