【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　24
　A. This day is called "Buddha's Day" and dango dumplings and Otekake are made as offerings. (Tsuda)
　B. Dumplings called Otekake or Ohanakuso are made from rice flour, colored, and offered. (Ōsaki)
　C. Temples make dango called Otekake and give them to worshippers. (Ueda)
　D. Temples make Otekake and give them to children. (Noyori, Ushikawa)
　　　　　　　　　56　Kinen-sai (Prayer Festival for Harvest)
　This is also called "Toshigoi no Matsuri" (harvest prayer festival) and is an important ritual to pray for abundant grain harvests. At the imperial court, the Emperor personally conducts the ceremony on February 4th, while each shrine selects an auspicious day for offerings of sacred items and food to be presented. This ceremony is said to have begun in February of the fourth year of Emperor Tenmu's reign, was roughly established by Emperor Monmu's Taihō Code, and perfected by Emperor Daigo's Engi-shiki, but was completely abandoned after the Ōnin War and was finally revived in Meiji 2.
　A. In Yokosuka, on this day men and women of unlucky years gather to perform plays and other activities to ward off misfortune. (Tsugawa)
　　　　　　　　　57　Taishi-kō (Prince Lecture)　(22nd day)　Old custom
　This day is the memorial day of Prince Shōtoku's death.
　A. Carpenters and plasterers worship Prince Shōtoku and hold vigil. (Fukuoka)
　B. Carpenters and plasterers display images of Prince Shōtoku and worship. (Takashi, Ōsaki)
　　　　　　　　　58　Hatsu-tenjin (First Tenjin)　(25th day)　Old custom
　Since this day is the true death anniversary of Sugawara no Michizane, households with sons would display pictures of Tenjin-sama and worship. Since this is the first gathering of the year, it is called Hatsu-tenjin.
【Left page】
　　March
　　　　　　　　　59　Hina Matsuri (Doll Festival)　(3rd day)　Old custom
　The ancient hina-asobi (doll play) becoming the March 3rd Hina Matsuri is said to date from the time of Emperor Go-Tsuchimikado. It became most popular during the Tokugawa period, becoming an important holiday as one of the five seasonal festivals.
　This festival was originally for girls, but in this region, to celebrate the birth of boys as well, Tenjin figures are displayed on the doll platforms. The decoration method involves first making a doll platform, placing a pair of emperor and empress dolls on top, arranging retainer, court lady, five-musician, and servant dolls on the lower tiers, and placing furnishings belonging to the dolls in front. This is called Dairi-bina (imperial court dolls), with all implements made small to resemble those of the imperial court, including complete dining sets, chests, folding screens, musical instruments, tea ceremony utensils, shell buckets, Chinese chests, document boxes, palanquins and other tableware - a complete set of items necessary for daily life. Food offered to these is made entirely small, and guests are invited to feast using these tiny implements for play.
　Items that must be offered at this time are mugwort rice cakes and peach wine, which are traditionally given to relatives and acquaintances. In this region, for a girl's first festival, called Hatsu-bina, relatives and friends give hina dolls, and in return colored rice cakes of red, white, and blue are distributed. Tenjin images are also displayed for boys. Previously, Edo pictures (nishiki-e) were beautifully hung around the doll platforms.
　　　　　　　　　60　Chikyū-setsu (Empress's Birthday)　(6th day)
　This is Her Majesty the Empress's birthday. Though not an official holiday, girls' schools close for the day.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　25