【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　32
　　　　　　　　　77　Smallpox Festival
　The Smallpox Festival is held to worship the smallpox deity in order to avoid contracting smallpox.
　A. For one week from the day of smallpox vaccination inspection, a small shelf is made from female bamboo, offered to red ritual paper streamers, red paper is laid out, and daily sake is placed in bamboo tubes and offered together with red rice, then later placed at the back gate. (Muro)
　B. After vaccination, a shelf is made from bamboo, red rice is offered, and it is enshrined with sacred rope made from red paper. (Yoshidagata)
　C. Originally performed when afflicted with smallpox, but now performed after completing the first vaccination. First, a bamboo mat of about 1.5 shaku square is woven, red paper is hung on all four sides, red rice and sacred sake are offered in the center, and it is hung at the tutelary shrine or house gate. (Fukuoka)
　D. Originally held to avoid contracting smallpox, but now held so that it passes lightly. A shelf of about 1 shaku by 6 sun is woven from bamboo, the four corners are tied with two sacred ropes, and red paper is attached to one side of the shelf. Sacred sake is offered on the shelf and enshrined at the gate. (Takashi)
　E. A sacred shelf is made and sacred sake and red rice are offered. (Osaki)
　F. Originally held so that those who had smallpox would not have disfigured faces after recovery. First, a shelf is made from five pieces of female bamboo split in two, rope is attached to the four corners and hung, decorated with red paper, red rice is offered and worshipped for several days, then placed in the tutelary shrine grounds. It is said that the coarser the bamboo of the shelf, the better. The red rice was also given to neighbors. Even now, many perform this ritual after a child's first vaccination. In the old days, to ensure that smallpox would pass lightly, when placing the shelf, one would sit on a rice straw mat and place one on the head while applying sake lees to the face. Even now, some hang rice straw mats above and below the shelf when placing it. (Noyori)
　G. Rice straw mats are attached and tied to bamboo, then placed on shrine trees. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　78　Road Work (Spring Season)
【Left page】
 Since farming families become busy around this time, repairs are made to rice field paths and village roads.
　A. Around this time, road maintenance is divided by district. Some districts have youth group members do the work, and some districts hold day-waiting ceremonies after the work. (Tsuda)
　B. The entire district turns out to repair roads within the district and holds role day-waiting ceremonies. (Fukuoka)
　C. One person from each household comes out to repair village roads and farm paths, and after finishing, they hold day-waiting ceremonies. (Noyori)
　D. One person from each household comes out for road maintenance, and in the evening they collect three gō of white rice each and hold day-waiting ceremonies. (Ushikawa)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　33