【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　44
　　　　　　　　103　Gion Festival　(13th, 14th, 15th days)
　This is the regular festival of Yoshida Shrine, a prefectural shrine located in Sekiya-cho, originally held in the sixth month. This fireworks festival is nationally famous, and during the old shogunate era, traffic on Honmachi was stopped during the festival, and fireworks were set off on the street under the lord's observation. Now on the 13th, large cannons, hand-held tubes, and scattered fireworks are set off in the shrine grounds, on the 14th, launched fireworks, set-piece fireworks, goldfish and other fireworks are displayed on boats on the Toyokawa River. On the 15th is the portable shrine procession with elegant parades including bamboo dancing, ten horsemen, Yoritomo and his wet nurse, and steamed bun eaters. It is said that picking up and eating the small steamed buns thrown from the bags carried by the bun eaters prevents summer illness. For this Gion Festival, not only parishioners but people in general were required to eat wheat products like udon and kintsuba.
　　　　　　　　104　Bon　(Ullambana)　(13th-16th days)
　This tradition passed from India to China, and is said to have been brought to our country in the third year of Empress Saimei's reign. Since then it became a regular Buddhist service at the imperial court, held annually on the 14th day of the seventh month, but it also spread to the common people and became such a major event that it divided the year in half with New Year.
　First, a spirit altar is set up in one corner of the Buddhist room, with a mat of wild rice spread on top, and ancestral memorial tablets arranged facing forward. Bamboo is erected in front with hungry ghost banners hung, and oak and crape myrtle flowers are offered. Also, cattle made from eggplant are displayed, and on the evening of the 13th, welcoming fires are lit at the gate to invite the spirits. On both the 14th and 15th, these spirits are entertained, and on the 16th, farewell fires are lit to send them off. The menu according to the Pure Land sect is:
　13th night: Offering dumplings called "otsuki"
　14th morning: Rice and itoko-ni (bean soup)
【Left Page】
　　　　Noon: Botamochi and eggplant with Japanese pepper
　　　　Evening: Rice and simmered pumpkin, taro, and burdock
　15th morning: Rice and ogashi-ae (mix of taro stems and eggplant)
　　　　Noon: Noodles (udon, somen, etc.)
　　　　Evening: Rice and simmered pumpkin, taro, etc.
　16th morning: "Otachi" - rice and miso soup with greens
　The spirit send-off is now mostly done at midnight on the 15th. The otachi rice is finished at midnight, and all offerings including lotus leaves and earthenware are put in mats and taken to nearby rivers to be floated away. At this time, six dumplings called "sending dumplings" are added. In houses with newly deceased, lanterns and paper lanterns given by relatives are lit at night. On the 15th, relatives are invited for pine burning ceremonies for a hundred people. During these four days, monks make rounds of parishioner homes for shelf sutra reading, and hungry ghost ceremonies are held at temples. During this time, people visit graves, beautify them, change flower holders, set up oak and crape myrtle, and family members go to pine burning ceremonies every night during Bon.
　A. On the evening of the 12th there is a hungry ghost ceremony at Yakushi Hall with many street vendors. On the 14th there is a hungry ghost ceremony at Tounin Temple, where families with newly deceased make triangular bags from white cloth, fill them with rice, attach fans and sandals, and offer them at the temple. On the 15th there is a hungry ghost ceremony at Takayama Temple, and on the 16th there is a hungry ghost ceremony at Juo Hall in Takayama Temple grounds, where families with newly deceased receive pilgrims even from the neighboring village of Ueda. (Noyori)
　B. A hungry ghost ceremony site is set up on the Umeda River embankment, with memorial services conducted by resident priests from nearby temples. (Takashi)
　C. On the 24th, altars are built on the seashore, lanterns are hung, sutra reading is held, then burned afterward. (Osaki)
　D. On the 24th, river hungry ghost ceremonies are also held on the Toyokawa riverbank. (Shimoji)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　45