【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　46
　　　　　　　　105　Night Nembutsu (Four Times)　(13th day)　Old Calendar
　The practice of village young men going around chanting nembutsu with gongs and drums to honor newly deceased during Bon is called night nembutsu.
　A. Called night nembutsu, village young men would parade through the village with gongs and drums, carrying cut-glass lanterns covered with five-colored paper. When they came to houses with newly deceased, they would chant child wasan if the deceased was a child, or parent wasan if a parent. (Fukuoka)
　B. Called night nembutsu, they would go around the village chanting "Ta-mure, ta-mure, shizumete ta-mure." (Osaki)
　C. From the 13th to 15th day, while chanting night nembutsu, three people struck large bells and two people struck gongs, going to houses with newly deceased and chanting nembutsu while walking in circles. This was called shihen odori (four-times dance). (Noyori)
　D. Until around the middle of the Meiji period, village young men would walk around houses with newly deceased while chanting nembutsu. (Tame)
　E. For nembutsu, originally young men would go to houses with newly deceased with gongs and drums, chanting nembutsu as condolence visits, and receive millet from each house with ladles. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　106　Mid-Yuan Festival　(15th day)　Old Calendar
　There are three yuan festivals: Upper Yuan on January 15th, Mid-Yuan on July 15th, and Lower Yuan on October 15th. Since ancient times in China, people would stay up all night enjoying festivities on these nights. When this came to Japan, it coincided with Bon, and lotus rice was cooked to entertain guests. Currently, from the beginning of July until the 15th, relatives exchange gifts to maintain relationships. Now it is practiced in three ways: new calendar, old calendar, and month-delayed.
　　　　　　　　107　Ten Kings Pilgrimage　(16th day)　Old Calendar
【Left Page】
　The Ten Kings Hall at Dairen Temple in Higashida-cho was originally located on Juou-zaka (Ten Kings Slope) going up from Higashishin-machi to Kawara-machi. On the 16th day of Bon, it was crowded with people visiting Enma (King of Hell). It is still held at Dairen Temple. On this day, hungry ghost sermons are given to Enma and the ten kings of the underworld.
　　　　　　　　108　Yabuiri (Servants' Holiday)　(16th day)
　Originally there was only the January 16th yabuiri, but it came to be observed in July as well. On this day, migrant workers and servants return home to rest.
　A. Since this is the day when spirits were sent off early in the morning, even women and elderly people stretch their limbs and rest. It is commonly called "the day when even demons' necks relax." (Ushikawa, Shimojo)
　　　　　　　　109　Flower Festival　(17th, 18th days)
　The regular festival of Hakusan Hime Shrine in Shinsen-machi is called the Flower Festival. Since ancient times, along with the Oni Festival and Gion Festival, it has been famous as one of Yoshida's three great festivals, and as a flower festival it is a lively celebration with kagura and procession parades.
　　　　　　　　110　Ura-Bon (Reverse Bon)　(23rd, 24th days)
　In this region, the later festival is called Ura-Bon. This is probably a misunderstanding of Ullambana as "reverse bon."
　A. On the 23rd, spirit rituals are performed but it is treated as a day of leisure. (Noyori)
　B. At cemeteries, samadhi hungry ghost sutras are read to honor unrelated spirits. Receiving the rice offered before the hungry ghost ceremony prevents summer illness.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　47