【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　50
　No specific date is set, but when August arrives and young rice ears are in their growing season, farming families perform insect sending. This is to send harmful insects away from the rice fields to elsewhere.
　A. First make a doll from wheat straw, place it on a board, have two people carry it, complete Buddhist sutra chanting by monks, then together with other villagers holding torches in their hands, strike gongs while chanting "Send away the sending gods" as they walk along the ridges. (Takashi)
　B. Receive torch fire from Akiba-sama, villagers form lines on the ridges to send away the unka (planthoppers), reach the village outskirts and burn them to death. (Fukuoka)
　C. This was performed when unka occurred, and was practiced until around Meiji 23-24 (1890-91). First they gathered old bamboo and bundled it, tied pine torches to the tips and lit them, formed a procession with flute, drum, and gong accompaniment as they paraded through the ridges. They took pride in having the longest bamboo poles. (Noyori)
【Left Page】
　　September
　　　　　　　　118　The 210th Day　(1st or 2nd day)
　The 210th day from Risshun (beginning of spring), around this time storms often come, so farming families, just when the rice ears are beginning to emerge (called "ippō-bashiri"), go to shrine visits early in the morning to pray for protection from calamities. The 220th day is also considered a similarly inauspicious day.
　　　　　　　　119　Okazura Festival (Chrysanthemum Festival)　(9th day)　Old Calendar
　This also began in China, and while it's unclear when it came to Japan, the earliest record in literature appears to be in the Nihon-ki, stating it was performed on September 9th in the first year of Tenchō under Emperor Junna. This event had its rises and declines through different eras, but it was considered most important during the Edo period. In this region, it was called both the Okazura Festival and "nochi no hina" (later dolls), where doll figures were made from a small grass called okazura and displayed in measuring boxes with meals offered to them, but this is hardly practiced anymore.
　　　　　　　　120　Moon Viewing　(13th day)　Old Calendar
　This is the later moon viewing. While the 15th night of August is called "imo meigetsu" (taro moon), this night is also called "kuri meigetsu" (chestnut moon). If one performed moon viewing on the 15th night, they had to also do this later moon viewing, and not doing so was called "kata-tsukimi" (one-sided moon viewing) and was considered taboo. The moon viewing generally practiced by common people today is this night's moon viewing, where every household boils taro, chestnuts with skins, edamame, etc., and offers them together with pampas grass to worship the moon.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　51