【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　52
　A. Offer edamame pods and boiled taro to the moon. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　121　The 17th Night　(17th day)　Old Calendar
　　The moon of the 17th day is called "O-jūshichi-ya-sama" and moon viewing is performed with rice cakes offered. They worshipped Toshi-toku Daimyōjin and prayed for household safety and abundant five grains. When moon viewing cannot be done on this night, it is performed on the 23rd day, called "Nijūsan-nichi-sama." (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　122　Autumn Equinox　(Seven days before and after the autumn equinox)
　Same as the spring equinox.
　　　　　　　　123　Autumn Imperial Spirit Festival　(23rd or 24th day)
　Corresponds to the middle day of the autumn equinox. (See the section on Spring Imperial Spirit Festival)
　　　　　　　　124　Haneda Festival　(24th and 25th days)
　This is the regular festival of Hachiman Shrine, the village shrine of Hanada-chō. Currently it is one of Toyohashi's major festivals along with the Oni Festival and Gion Festival. Previously it was called "Gaku-matsuri" (tablet festival) where tablets were displayed under the eaves, but now it has become a fireworks festival.
【Left Page】
　　October
　　　　　　　　125　God Sending　(1st day)　Old Calendar
　In this month, all the gods depart for Izumo Grand Shrine, so on this day, common households steam red rice, take twelve handfuls corresponding to the number of months, wrap them in new straw bundles, and place them on the household shrine. This is called "o-tsutsumi-mochi" (wrapped rice cakes) or "miyage-mochi" (souvenir rice cakes).
　A. Some households offer rice cakes instead of red rice. (Fukuoka)
　B. For the gods' souvenirs, they offer rice cakes and "tsutsumi-mochi" (rice cakes in straw bundles). (Isobe)
　C. Rice cakes are wrapped in straw bundles according to the number of years and offered to the gods. Also, "kowameshi" (strong rice) or "Sahataki" is put in straw bundles and offered to the gods, and shrine visits are performed. On this night, each family member performs "miya-gomori" (staying overnight at the shrine). (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　126　O-jūya (Ten Nights)　(Ten days from the 5th)　Old Calendar
　Jūya refers to the Ten-Night Nembutsu Dharma Assembly, which is said to have begun during the reign of Emperor Go-Hanazono. Since this is performed at Jōdo sect temples, in this region it takes place at Goshiji Temple, where for ten days starting from the 5th of this month, dharma assemblies chanting special nembutsu are practiced, and during this period it is bustling with visits from sect followers.
　　　　　　　　127　Kotohira Pilgrimage　(10th day)　Old Calendar
　As lively as the March Kotohira pilgrimage.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　53