【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　56
　A. When there are two boar days, on the first boar day; when there are three, on the middle boar day, botamochi are made and offered to the gods for memorial service of insects and small creatures. (Ueda)
　B. Botamochi are eaten over three days: boar, rat, and ox days. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　134　Maki-age (Wheat Sowing Completion)　(Mid-month)
　Celebrating when wheat sowing is completed, ten days before the winter solstice.
　A. Botamochi are made. (Tsuda)
　B. Botamochi are offered to farming tools. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　135　Bai-iwai (Threshing Stick Celebration)
　When bean threshing is finished, beans are roasted and offered as a feast to the threshing sticks used for beating. (Fukuoka, Muro)
　　　　　　　　136　Kake-ho (Hanging Rice Ears)
　A. The first rice ears cut during harvest are tied to bamboo in numbers equal to the months of the year, and stuck in the rice field as an offering to the Grand Shrine. (Yoshida-kata)
　B. During the first harvest, as a gesture of offering first fruits to the Grand Shrine, two stems of miscanthus grass are erected at field ridges with their tops connected to form the shape of the moon, and rice ears numbering the months of that year are hung to celebrate abundant harvest. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　137　Dōyaku (Road Work) (Autumn)
　Same as in spring.
【Left Page】
　　November
　　　　　　　　138　Kami-mukae (Welcoming the Gods)　(1st day)　Old Calendar
　The day to welcome gods returning from Izumo, celebrated by offering rice cakes and other foods.
　A. Rice cakes are made in numbers equal to the months of that year and offered at household shrines to welcome the gods, and grilled rice cakes are also offered. (Fukuoka)
　B. Sacred sake and rice are offered at household shrines to welcome them. (Isobe)
　C. Round grilled rice cakes are made in numbers equal to the months and offered at household shrines for welcoming. (Takashi)
　D. Grilled rice cakes are made for celebration. (Osaki)
　E. Grilled rice cakes made from wheat flour are offered to welcome the gods. (Ushikawa, Shimojō)
　F. Grilled rice cakes are offered to the gods. (Ueda, Muro)
　　　　　　　　139　Meiji Festival　(3rd day)
　This auspicious day was established to eternally honor the great virtue of Emperor Meiji. November 3rd, which was Tenchōsetsu (Emperor's Birthday) during his lifetime, was designated as Meiji Festival following unanimous petitions from both houses of the 52nd Diet, and was promulgated by imperial edict on March 3rd, Showa 2.
　On this day, grand festivals are held at Meiji Shrine in Yoyogi, Tokyo.
　　　　　　　　140　Kōjin Festival　(15th day)　Old Calendar
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　57