【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　60
　The first Day of the Rooster in this month is called Ichi-no-tori, the next Ni-no-tori, and if there are three, San-no-tori. In this region, this market has been held at Saikōji temple in Tema-machi since around the end of the Meiji period. This is the so-called "Otori-sama." It is said that the authentic version is the one held at Ōtori Shrine in Tokyo. On this day, worshippers buy bamboo rakes and statues of Ebisu and Daikoku as good luck charms. To celebrate good fortune and for display, merchants seem to deliberately buy especially large ones. This is probably because the pronunciation of "tori" (rooster) is similar to "toru" (to take), which gained such faith among merchants.
　　　　　　　　147　Hōon-kō (Gratitude Service)　(22nd-28th days)
　Also called "O-kō," at Hongwanji branch temples and other Shin sect temples, grand dharma assemblies are held from the 22nd to the 28th, which is the death anniversary of the sect founder Shinran, to show gratitude for his virtue. Many worshippers attend.
　　　　　　　　148　Tsuboka　(30th day)　Old Calendar
　A. Botamochi (sweet rice balls) are offered to farm tools such as hoes and sickles. (Tsuda)
　B. Botamochi are made and offered to the gods. (Fukuoka)
　C. Broken rice is collected and ground into flour to make rice cakes to eat. When tsuboka is finished, they say "Shiri ga katatsui ta." (Takashi)
　D. Performed at the end of the month. Botamochi are made. (Osaki)
　E. Botamochi are made from scraps of new rice and offered to the gods. Originally, unhulled rice grains were put inside the botamochi and offered to the gods. Now good new rice is used. (Noyori)
【Left Page】
　F. Spilled rice is collected and ground into flour to make rice cakes. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　149　Kari-age (Harvest Completion)
　When the rice harvest is completed, sickles are arranged in winnowing baskets that evening and meals are offered. (Ushikawa, Shimojō)
　　　　　　　　150　Aki-shimai (Autumn's End)　(Old Calendar)
　A. Botamochi are made and offered to gods, Buddha, and farm tools. (Yoshida-gata)
　B. When autumn harvest ends, botamochi are made and offered to gods and Buddha. (Fukuoka)
　C. When autumn harvesting ends, new brides are sent as guests to their family homes to reward their labor. (Takashi)
　D. When harvesting is completed, mats are folded and autumn ends. On this day botamochi are made, put in measuring boxes, and offered to rice threshing tools, mortars, winnowing baskets, mats, etc., and also to gods and Buddha. Botamochi are also distributed to neighbors and relatives to announce the end of autumn. (Ushikawa, Shimojō)
　E. Botamochi are made and eaten. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　151　Welcoming O-inu-sama (Dog Deity)
　In years with many crop failures and thefts, proxy pilgrims were sent to Mount Haruno in Tōtōmi to welcome O-inu-sama, and a small shrine about one cubic foot was made from cypress leaves and enshrined in the tutelary deity's precinct. This was also used as a charm against economic hardship and protection from evil diseases. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　61