【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　62
　　December
　　　　　　　　152　Koto-hajime and Koto-osame (Beginning and End of Year Activities)
　Same as February.
　A. For the eighth-day rice cakes, ohagi are made, and on this day dolls are made and carried around with gongs and drums chanting "Okuri-gami Okuriyō," then later floated in the sea. (Osaki)
　B. Rice cakes are pounded and offered to gods and Buddha. (Noyori)
　C. Rice cakes are pounded and eaten. From this day, people prepare their hearts with New Year in mind. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　153　Winter Solstice　(22nd or 23rd day)
　This is when the sun reaches the winter solstice point, and since ancient times it has been said that spring energy returns from this day, called "ichiyō-raifuku" (the return of yang energy), and celebrated as a seasonal festival. Pumpkins are eaten.
　　　　　　　　154　Emperor Taishō Festival　(25th day)
　The day of the former emperor's death. At the imperial court, an imperial ritual is performed at the Imperial Spirit Hall, and imperial messengers are dispatched to the Tama Mausoleum to offer sacred objects.
　　　　　　　　155　Christmas　(25th day)
【Left Page】
　This is the birth day of Jesus Christ. When this day approaches, shops and cafes decorate their stores beautifully and advertise vigorously in newspapers, so now it is becoming not just a celebration for Christians, but a joyful event for people in general.
　　　　　　　　156　Goyō-osame (Year-end Government Office Closure)　(28th day)
　Government offices close from this day until the third day of the New Year pine decoration period.
　　　　　　　　157　Susu-harai (Soot Sweeping)
　This practice became customary even in the imperial court from around the Bunmei era of Emperor Go-Tsuchimikado. During the Tokugawa period, it was initially performed on December 20th, but during Ietsuna's time, since this date coincided with the death anniversary of the previous shogun Iemitsu, it was changed to the 13th of this month to avoid that day. Since then, civilians also adopted this date, but now it is not generally observed, and cleaning is done on New Year's Eve night to sweep away the year's soot.
　　　　　　　　158　Toshi-no-ichi (Year-end Market)
　This refers to the year-end grand sales held by commercial houses from mid-month to the end of the month. Kadomatsu (pine decorations), shimenawa (sacred ropes), and other New Year decorations are sold.
　　　　　　　　159　Mochi-tsuki (Rice Cake Pounding)
　Formerly performed on the 28th day, but now the timing is not fixed. In urban areas, more families each year have their rice cakes pounded at rice cake shops.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　63