【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　Editorial Notes
1. We have attempted to explain the origins of annual events and make known their ancient forms, and to compile the annual events currently practiced centered around Toyohashi City.
2. We requested investigation of local events from one investigator per elementary school, using each school as a unit. Therefore, depending on the thoroughness of reports, there may be some bias in the investigation, but this was unavoidable. Hence, specific examples marked as (Ueta) (Noyori) etc. are based on reports from those school districts, and similar events must certainly exist in other school districts as well.
3. The descriptions primarily focus on currently practiced annual events, first explaining their origins and generally practiced forms, then recording reports from each elementary school district.
4. When "old" appears below a date, it refers to events practiced only according to the lunar calendar or primarily according to the lunar calendar.
5. Events with indefinite dates are generally recorded at the end of their respective months.
6. There are likely many items that should have been included but were omitted, and many recording errors. We await correction by knowledgeable persons. (Editor)

【Left page】
　　　　　Annual Events of Toyohashi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Edited by Toyohashi City Board of Education
　　January
　　　　　　　　　　1　Shihohai (Four Directions Worship) (1st Day)
The origin of this ceremony is said to date from the reign of Emperor Sujin, or perhaps from the reign of Emperor Suinin, or from the reign of Empress Koken, but it seems most certain that it was performed on New Year's Day of the first year of Kanpyo during Emperor Uda's reign, and by Emperor Daigo's reign it had already become an established imperial ceremony. However, it was once discontinued during the Ashikaga period and was revived in the seventh year of Bunmei during Emperor Go-Tsuchimikado's reign.

This is an imperial ceremony performed at the imperial court. His Majesty, having undergone purification since the previous evening, takes his place on the throne within the imperial screen set up at the ceremonial site in the southern garden of the Shinkaden at the hour of the Tiger (4 AM), personally offers sacred branches, first performing distant worship of the Inner and Outer Shrines of Ise, then worshipping the heavenly and earthly deities, Atsuta Shrine, Hikawa Shrine and other shrines below them, as well as the mausoleums of Emperor Jimmu and the previous emperor, praying for the nation to ward off annual disasters and for the long continuance of the imperial throne and the happiness of the people, then together with Her Majesty the Empress, worshipping at the Kashikodokoro, Koreiden, and Shinden.

On this day, congratulatory ceremonies are held at government offices, public institutions, and schools.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1