【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2
　　　　　　　　　　2　Observing the World　(1st day)　Old calendar
　　"Observing the world" refers to going outdoors early in the morning to look at the clouds in all four directions to judge the year's crop conditions. The year is assigned to directions, with Ne (north) as January and Ushi as February, and if standing clouds form bands (horizontal clouds) in those directions, there will be wind; if there are rain clouds, there will be much rain in that month. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　　　3　New Year Courtesy Calls　(1st day - 3rd to 15th days)
　According to the Nihon Shoki, this New Year celebration event began in ancient times during Emperor Kotoku's Taika era, starting with the New Year felicitation ceremonies at the imperial court. It became an important event during the Tokugawa period, and the custom of visiting relatives, friends, and acquaintances is said to be a remnant of this era. However, nowadays many people omit these courtesy visits and simply send New Year cards or attend New Year parties.
　A. Branch family heads gather together to make New Year courtesy calls to the main family. (Osaki)
　B. Until around the Meiji Restoration, young men from villages would wear haori and go around with their hamlet groups to other hamlets' houses, calling out "congratulations" as they made their rounds. Until around the middle of the Meiji period, (family heads or their representatives) would always make courtesy calls in formal dress to relatives, five-household groups, or temples. Particularly when visiting relatives or the bride's family home, they would first pay respects to the Buddha and then give greetings. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　　4　New Year's Day Shrine Visit　(1st day)
　On New Year's Day, people visit their tutelary deities and shrines they revere. In this region, many people visit Toyokawa Inari, Toga Shrine, Ishimaki Shrine,
【Left page】
and other shrines.
　A. Visit the tutelary deity and temple. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　　5　Gate Pine Decorations　(1st day - 3rd to 7th days)
　The origin of gate pine decorations appears to be quite ancient, and according to literature, they were already practiced among the general populace during Emperor Horikawa's reign. It is said that adding bamboo began around the Oei period. These gate pines are now mostly removed on the morning of the 4th day, before the seven days of the New Year period are over, but previously they were left up until around the 15th day. There is also a custom of breaking off and inserting the finest branches wherever the gate pines were removed. Jodo Shinshu temples do not erect gate pines from the beginning. Additionally, straw containers called wara tsuboko, woven like containers from New Year straw, were tied to the gate pines, and offerings were placed in them daily. These are also called Tsuboki.
　A. Long ago, after a great fire broke out from gate pines, the practice of erecting them was abandoned, but from 1906 they began erecting them again. (Shimoji)
　B. In the past, things called Tsuboki made of straw were erected together with pine trees on both sides of the gate. (Fukuoka)
　C. There are also places that do not erect gate pines. (Isobe)
　　　　　　　　　　6　Lucky Direction Shrine Visit　(1st day)
On New Year's Day, it is said that visiting shrines or temples located in that year's auspicious direction brings good fortune in all matters, and for devout believers this is quite
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　3