【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　4
important to them. The origin is not clear, but this comes from what onmyōji (yin-yang practitioners) call the Toshitokujin (Year Virtue Deity).
　　　　　　　　　　7　Young Water　(1st day)
　The first water drawn on New Year's Day; drinking this is said to ward off evil spirits for that year.
　A. On New Year's Day the family head would rise early morning and draw three buckets of well water, offer it to the gods along with sacred rice, and pray. (Fukuoka, Osaki)
　B. Facing the auspicious direction, the family head draws young water on New Year's morning. (Isobe)
　C. On New Year's morning the family head would put twelve handfuls of rice and salt in a measuring box, scatter it around the well to purify it, then draw water in a tea bowl and sprinkle water with bamboo leaves from the formal reception room through each room, but now many houses don't sprinkle water. Some houses would also take young water in a tea bowl and offer it outside, calling it "an offering to the sun deity." Nichiren sect believers had women draw first, meaning that women would use water throughout the year. (Noyori)
　D. Early morning the family head draws young water and the entire household gathers to worship the sunrise. (Ueda)
　　　　　　　　　　8　New Year Soup　(1st day - 3rd day)
　It is unclear when the custom of celebrating with New Year soup began, but like the gate pine decorations, it is said to date from ancient times. This is not celebrated only by the family, but should always be served to New Year guests, which is called "celebrating with New Year soup." The preparation varies by region - Tokyo style often uses clear broth, Kansai style often uses white miso, but in this region they make a stew with cut rice cakes together with vegetables, taro, fried tofu and various other ingredients, topped with bonito flakes.
【Left page】
　　　　　　　　　　9　Toso (Spiced Sake)　(1st day)
　This celebration came from China, and in our country it began to be used from Emperor Saga's Kōnin era. Toso is obtained from herbal medicine shops, put in red gauze scale-shaped bags, soaked in sweet cooking wine overnight (now bottled toso wine is sold), and drinking it at New Year is said to ward off evil spirits for the year, served to family or New Year guests. The toso cup follows the custom of starting with the youngest and proceeding to the eldest. Layered boxes of food are added as accompaniments to the toso.
　　　　　　　　　10　New Year Gifts
　New Year gifts refer to items exchanged among relatives, friends, and acquaintances as New Year congratulations. Long ago in farming villages, people would wrap two or three sen to about ten sen in paper and bring them when making courtesy calls. Even now, temples bring items called "Otaru" or "New Year gifts" such as natto (fermented soybeans) and writing paper to parishioners.
　　　　　　　　　11　First Dream　(2nd day)
　The custom of sleeping with a treasure ship picture under one's pillow on the night of January 2nd to have auspicious dreams was already practiced from the Ashikaga period. This also seems to have originally been used on the night of Setsubun.
　On the treasure ship they write the palindromic poem "Nagaki yo no tō no nefuri no mina mezame nami nori fune no oto no yoki kana" (All awaken from the long night's distant sleep to the good sound of the wave-riding ship). Recently, Shōryūji temple in Akumi has been distributing printed treasure ship pictures.
　A. Draw a picture of a treasure ship and put it under the pillow. (Muro)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　5