【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　6
　　　　　　　　　12　First Cargo　(2nd day)
　Until around the Taisho period, merchant houses would ceremoniously send out their goods, but now this is not as flourishing as before.
　　　　　　　　　13　Beginning of Work　(2nd day)
　General farming families call this day "beginning of work" and work until around noon. Town merchants hold sales, and other occupations also do a little work as "beginning of work."
　　　　　　　　　14　First Calligraphy　(2nd day)
　First calligraphy is also called trial writing. They renew their brushes, inkstones, ink, and paper, use freshly drawn water to perform the first calligraphy, and display it on the wall.
　A. Written on New Year's Eve and pasted on walls with offering rice cakes, displayed until the 7th day. (Osaki)
　B. On New Year's Day, households with children attending temple schools would wash brushes and inkstones, write appropriate characters on four-sheet continuous paper, decorate one sheet in the temple's transom and one in their own tokonoma alcove, offering mirror rice cakes until the 3rd day. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　15　Genshisai (Imperial New Year Festival)
　This was first established by Emperor Meiji and has been conducted since the third year of Meiji. On this day, successive imperial rituals are performed at the three shrines in the imperial palace - Kashikodokoro, Koreiden, and Shinden - celebrating the origin of the imperial throne.
【Left page】
　　　　　　　　　16　Beginning of Government Affairs　(4th day)
　This was first conducted on January 4th of the second year of Meiji, a ceremony where His Majesty listens to all government affairs at the beginning of the year and makes imperial decisions. In this ceremony, the Imperial Household Minister reports that the ritual ceremonies of Ise Grand Shrine and other various ceremonies have been completed without incident, after which the Prime Minister and other ministers report on government affairs. On this day, general government offices hold their "beginning of official duties."
　　　　　　　　　17　Mountain God Festival　(4th day)
　A. Farming families attach sacred paper streamers to female bamboo, stand them facing the auspicious direction, and worship by offering sacred rice piled in a one-sho measuring box. Households dealing with timber such as sawyers prepare namasu (vinegared vegetables) and cook taro and kelp to offer to Kanayama-sama (metal/mountain deity). (Tsuda)
　B. They attach sacred streamers to green bamboo in part of their property and worship by offering sacred rice and sake. This is rare now. (Yoshida area)
　C. On the 7th or 8th day, they hang long strips of white paper on mountain trees near their property and offer sacred rice and rice cakes. It is said that if you partake of these offerings, you will not be injured in the mountains that year. Also, they would not gather mountain firewood until this festival was performed. (Fukuoka)
　D. They attach sacred streamers to green bamboo in the mountains and worship by offering rice cakes and sacred rice. (Isobe)
　E. Households owning forests decorate pine branches in the center of their forest with shimenawa rope formed into rings on this day, offering sacred rice and sake in worship. (Takashi)
　F. On this day, they perform himachi (sun-waiting ritual) and give sweets to children. (Osaki)
　G. They hang shimenawa from male bamboo and worship at places where Koshin-sama is enshrined. (Muro)
　H. At various neighborhood locations in the village, they attach white paper to leafy bamboo and offer what they call "arare" (cut rice cakes) to enshrine the mountain god. The locations for enshrinement are Kambe slope, Sagita, Suwa, Shinmei mountain, Ushi mountain, Kurimushi, etc., and nowadays they mostly worship at Hachiman shrine precincts. (Noyori)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　7