【Right page】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　8
When going to the mountains at will after the 4th day, they worship the gods at the mountain entrance. (Ueda) [No continuation from previous page]
　　　　　　　　　18　New Year Banquet　(5th day)
　On this day, His Majesty the Emperor, seated alongside Her Majesty the Empress, appears in Toyoakari Hall and grants a feast to the imperial family, court officials and government ministers, as well as foreign envoys. In ancient times, this was called the New Year's Day ceremony and was held on New Year's Day, but it was established on this day during the reign of Emperor Meiji.
　　　　　　　　　19　Fire Department New Year Ceremony　(6th day)
　The date varies by location, but in urban areas this has been conducted on this day since ancient times. When alarm bells ring simultaneously in the early morning, fire brigades from each district assemble and proceed to the 18th Infantry Regiment training ground, where the ceremony is held. First there is inspection and review by the police chief, and after various drills and marching are completed, water discharge tests with lantern dropping and mock fires are conducted. Nowadays, youth fire brigades also participate.
　　　　　　　　　20　Seven Herbs　(7th day)
　Seven-herb porridge is also called young greens porridge, and according to Kuji Kongen (Origins of Court Ceremonies), this originated during the Kanpyo era of Emperor Uda, became most popular during the Tokugawa period, but after the abolition of the five seasonal festivals following the Meiji Restoration, it is no longer widely practiced by the general public. It is said that celebrating these seven herbs effectively removes evil spirits throughout the year. The seven herbs are: seri (water dropwort), nazuna (shepherd's purse), gogyo (cudweed), hakobe (chickweed), hotokenoza (henbit), suzuna (turnip), and suzushiro (radish). The previous evening, these young greens were placed on a cutting board and chopped while singing "Seven herbs, nazuna, before the birds of Tang cross to Japan's edge, ho-
【Left page】
to-ho-to-ho-to" with kitchen utensils, then eaten in white porridge on the morning of the 7th day. Now, however, people make do with porridge containing just one or two types like nazuna.
　A. On the morning of the 7th, they make rice cake porridge with seven herbs added. (Ueda)
　B. Now they eat porridge with rice cakes added. (Isobe)
　　　　　　　　　21　Sacred Rice Planting Festival　(7th day)　Old calendar
　At Ashigami Shrine in Kozakai-cho, a sacred rice planting festival mimicking rice planting is held on this day. The sequence is: field breaking, seed sowing, bird chasing in seedbeds, weeding seedbeds, horse plowing, field leveling, transplanting seedlings, bringing lunch, weeding fields, chasing birds from rice, harvesting, and rice stacks. After the festival, oval-shaped rice cakes called "cow tongues" displayed before the altar are torn apart and thrown in the worship hall. The assembled people scramble to pick them up, believing they will not get summer illnesses. (Shimoji)
　　　　　　　　　22　Great Prajnaparamita　(7th day)　Old calendar
　At Entsu-ji temple in Takashi, Rinzai sect monks gather for the chanting of 600 volumes of the Prajnaparamita Sutra. Afterwards, they pray for the emperor's long life and the peace and happiness of the villagers. On this day, representatives from each district attend. (Takashi)
　　　　　　　　　23　Army New Year Review　(8th day)
　Conducted by locally stationed troops at the 18th Infantry Regiment training ground.
　　　　　　　　　24　Opening the Mirror (Rice Cakes)　(11th day)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　9