【Right Page, Upper】
(For apricot kernels) peel the skin from the flesh and chop and roast it.
〇 Greatly avoid letting wind touch the wound.
〇 Pound leeks and extract the juice, drinking one cup each
every seven days, drinking seven cups in seven times seven (49) days.
When you do this, poison will not enter the body.
〇 Also, drinking Shōma-Kakkon-tō (Cimicifuga and Pueraria Decoction) is even better.
〇 Dietary prohibitions after being bitten by a dog:
Sesame, hemp seeds, adzuki beans, oily foods, taro,
sōmen noodles, scallions, leeks, Japanese bunching onions, myōga ginger,
wild rocambole, raw fish, river fish, and anything else with a foul
smell.
The above must absolutely not be eaten for one hundred days.
Alcohol - this is extremely poisonous. Avoid for one year.
Dog meat - this must never be eaten for a lifetime. Greatly prohibited.
〇 Also, good medicine for dog bites is

【Left Page, Upper】
Kyōya Sōkichi-sama of Dōjima Funadaiku-chō, Osaka,
who sells medicine. This medicine
appears to be extremely excellent. When an acquaintance of mine was bitten by a dog years ago
and was in trouble, he used this medicine and was immediately
cured, so I record it here.
[Line]
For rat bites: Apply cat saliva or excrement.
〇 Also, dried praying mantis mixed with rice paste is good.
〇 Also, rubbing raw crucian carp flesh is good.
〇 Also, rubbing plum pits with vinegar is good.
△ When rat urine gets in the eyes, put cat saliva in.
[Line]
For cat bites: Apply mint juice.
〇 Burning dog hair and applying it is also good. 〇 Applying dog excrement is also good.

【Right Page, Lower】
If there is (erysipelas), place your mouth firmly on the middle point between the elbow bend
and shoulder of either arm, at what children call the "muscle bump," and suck strongly. This is the method of treatment.
For mild cases, blood comes out; for severe cases, black blood comes out. Blood comes out in two or three mouthfuls.
Stop when the blood stops flowing. While I don't know about other diseases, for erysipelas,
if you perform this treatment, no matter how severe the erysipelas,
it will be miraculously cured. In terms of the Fourteen Meridians, the Lung Meridian of Hand Taiyin,
this corresponds to slightly inside the point called Xiabai, between Yunmen and Chize.
Ah, indeed, the wonder of this technique should be known through practice. However, for erysipelas, if you perform this treatment immediately,
cure is certain. Nevertheless, if treatment is considerably delayed,
sucking may not be effective. In that case, make a small incision at that spot with a hirabari (surgical blade)
or razor and try sucking.
[Line]
For the five types of malnutrition: Plantain roots, leaves, and seeds
burned to charcoal, mixed with miso, and applied to grilled eel.
[Line]
For tongue coating: Burn kelp to charcoal and mix with rouge powder

【Left Page, Lower】
and apply.
[Line]
For smallpox: Adzuki beans, black beans, peas with
a little licorice added, boiled in water and drunk daily with peace of mind.
When drinking this broth and eating the beans, smallpox becomes wonderfully mild.
Should be drunk when smallpox is epidemic. It becomes extremely mild.
[Line]
For night crying: Burn rush pith moxa and
take the ashes, apply to breast milk and give to drink.
[Line]
For tooth decay: Equal parts of kelp, kelp salt, and cuttlefish
shell, all three items burned to charcoal and
applied. 〇 Also rinsing and holding shōchū in the mouth is good.
〇 Also, putting a little water dropwort juice in the ear is good.
[Line]
For ear discharge: Soak the tip of a paper twist in daikon radish juice
and insert. 〇 Also, dissolving bear bile and inserting is good.
〇 Also, cicada molts...