【Right Page, Upper】
○ Drink charred crow with water
○ Powder hackberry fruit and use
[Line]
For bee stings: Apply knotweed juice.
○ Applying salt is also good.
[Line]
When various insects enter the ear: Pour sesame oil.
○ Also putting in knotweed juice is good.
[Line]
For centipede stings: Immediately
kill that centipede and apply it - wonderful. ○ Dissolve chicken droppings
in water and apply.
[Line]
For snake bites: If in the mountains,
quickly dig the ground, put the bitten hand or foot into
it, cover with soil from above and press firmly, then pour
hot urine over it to let the poison
gas leak from the wound, remove the soil, and urinate on the wound.

【Left Page, Upper】
Then thickly apply feces and bind with
cloth or cotton, return to lodging, wash off
the feces with cold sake, powder realgar and dried ginger in equal parts, mix with purslane
juice, leave only the wound opening, spread around the edges, and
bind the top with cloth. For internal medicine,
take purple amaranth (red amaranth) juice and drink one or two cups. Cimicifuga
and kudzu decoction is even better. ○ Also powder fritillaria
and drink with sake until intoxicated; after a while the sake
will come out as water from the wound. After the water stops, apply fritillaria
powder. ○ Also cut five or six bu of earthworm at the white segment on its neck,
crush it and apply to the sting. 
○ Also apply tobacco leaves. ○ Also add a little salt to black bean leaves
and apply. ○ Dissolve pepper powder in vinegar
and apply. ○ Use the above remedies as appropriate.
○ People bitten by snakes must not cross rivers or wash
their hands and feet with water.

【Right Page, Lower】
For hiccups: Decoct persimmon calyxes and use.
○ Wrap red pepper powder in wheat flour,
make pills and swallow.
[Line]
Treatment for heat stroke and cholera:
When children in summer suddenly stare fixedly,
lose consciousness, or suffer abdominal pain and writhe
in agony, or cry loudly with belly
hard as stone - this is
mostly heat stroke or cholera. By the time people say "Quick, call the doctor,
medicine, acupuncture," the child quickly stops breathing
and dies. Many children die this way - how
lamentable. However, the technique to cure this is
to always keep wheat straw stored
beforehand, and when you see this illness, immediately

【Left Page, Lower】
don't call for doctors or medicine, but chop wheat straw
into pieces about one inch long, add water and
decoct in a pot. Soak a hand towel-like
cloth in this decocted water and warm the patient's belly around the navel
area continuously, constantly
changing and warming, warming and replacing.
When warming, even patients who have lost consciousness
will revive and recover - it's miraculous.
Escaping this medical crisis through this technique is far more
effective than medical drugs.
I too have saved three children with
difficult cases using this method, which I record
here. There have been many other cases where this technique succeeded.
Because this is such a simple technique,
do not lightly dismiss it. When these symptoms appear,
quickly use this miraculous remedy without
hesitation. Also for heat stroke and cholera...