【Right page】
Having defiled the practice, they naturally lost the knowledge of how to raise the proper varieties, and since gold silkworms were completely extinct, until the middle period people became accustomed to stuffing tree bark and grass ears inside hemp cloth袷 garments, calling them "cloth jackets." Therefore, in ancient times, En no Gyōja obtained a variety called "mountain cocoons" from the mountains and gave them to people. Among these mountain cocoons, some were white and some were yellow. Even today, the white ones are called "mulberry cocoons" and the yellow ones are called "mountain priest cocoons" for this reason. These are varieties native to Japan. Although the Chinese varieties became extinct, the purple sage mountain cocoons that appeared again are all due to divine compassion, and the silk work after hearts reformed from once being exhausted and regretful is said to surpass even that of ancient times. Even in the present day, naturally growing white varieties in mountain forests are called "fresh wood cocoons," and those that become yellow

【Left page】
varieties are called "fresh earth cocoons." Among these, the formation of silk threads and cocoon development differs from the beginning, and what naturally existed in mountain valleys is also now commonly called "mountain cocoons of the fresh earth variety" by people today. These have their respective merits and demerits for incorporating various patterns in weaving. Therefore, when En no Upāsaka sought out what had been lost and searched for what had declined, offering them again to the emperor, they were called "tribute silk cocoons," but this was misread and misspoken, and through the vulgar words of lowly people, they became commonly called "beggar cocoons" or "small-eating cocoons." Such clumsy expressions should be strictly avoided even in casual speech. Generally speaking, gold silkworm cocoons are mostly difficult to raise in the homes of lowly peasants that have the foul smell of horse stable manure. However, if beautifully