【右丁】
べきである。焙炉の敷紙を手でなでて見ると、三回ほど撫でて、その手は早くも熱くて耐え難いほどの加減である。ただしこのところでいろいろな熟練者があるであろう。

一、天気の良い頃に一日ばかり日の強い時に干した繭を、そのまま直ぐに引いた糸は特に色艶が良く、はっきりとして見事である。右のように日並びが悪くて火にかけた繭は艶もなく、生繭よりは劣るのである。

一、種の取り方について　右のように箱の内で繭の内より蝶が出てくるのを、そのまま外へ摘んで紙の内へ取り置くこと、およそ六十つがいほど同じ紙の上に並べ置く時、そのまま雌蝶と

【左丁】
雄蝶が端より絶え間なく交尾するのを三時間ばかりして取り付いているのを引き離し、雄蝶の分は残らず取り除く。雌蝶は、やがてそのまま紙の内に卵を産み付けながら歩き回るのである。それを六時間ほど置いて払い捨てる。その跡の紙に芥子粒のような成物がびっしりとあり、これまた来年の繭の種である。これを種紙という。初めて虫が交尾すべき時に置き並べるには帛紙というべきである。生草紙と書くのは悪い。この心は白を潔しと読み、巾を慎むと読むのである。両字を一字にした帛紙の潔よい心もありとて、これが言い伝えである古い文にも

【右丁】
should be done. When you touch the furnace's base paper with your hand, after rubbing about three times, your hand quickly becomes so hot it's unbearable - this is the proper temperature. However, there should be various experts at this point.

First, cocoons dried for about one day during good weather when the sun is strong, when silk is drawn directly from them as they are, produce thread with particularly good color and luster, clear and splendid. As mentioned above, cocoons that were put over fire due to bad weather lack luster and are inferior to fresh cocoons.

First, regarding the method of obtaining seeds: As described above, when butterflies emerge from cocoons in the box, pick them out and place them in paper. When about sixty pairs are arranged on the same paper, the female butterflies and

【左丁】
male butterflies continuously mate from end to end. After about three hours of this mating behavior, separate them and remove all the male butterflies without exception. The female butterflies will then immediately walk around laying eggs on the paper. Leave them for about six hours, then sweep them away. On the paper afterward, there will be densely packed objects like poppy seeds - these are also next year's cocoon seeds. This is called seed paper. When first arranging insects for mating, it should be called hakushi paper (silk paper). Writing it as "nama-kusagami" (raw grass paper) is wrong. The meaning is that white (haku) reads as pure, and cloth (kin) reads as modest. There is also the pure spirit of hakushi paper that combines both characters into one, and this is mentioned in old traditional texts as well.