No matter how kindly the bear had treated him, Shinemon could not sleep a wink that night. When dawn finally broke, the bear ordered a wolf to escort him as far as a place where the road was recognizable. Shinemon, having heard the expression "a wolf as escort" and knowing well what it meant, walked carefully, paying close attention to his footing, chatting along the way. The wolf said: "Despite what our faces may suggest, there is nothing we fear so much as human beings. It is because we fear humans that we try to intimidate them or put on a bold front. If you leave us alone first, why should we do you any harm?" To this Shinemon replied: "Indeed, given your nature, I suppose that must be so. All the hospitality everyone has shown since last evening has been quite extraordinary" — offering this rather hollow pleasantry. Since the wolf knew a shortcut, the twenty leagues of the previous day took less than half a day, and they emerged onto the main highway.

"There is probably not a single person in all Japan who would put up a bear that had lost its way, even for one night. I am one of that sort myself — and it is a shameful thing."

【Wolf】"Please take a rest on one of these rocks nearby."

---

Shinemon goes to pay his respects to the animal world that had taken care of him. Remarkably enough, he also visits Enoshima and arrives at Shichirigahama, where, upon seeing a great clam, he falls into deep thought: the warbler that sings among flowers, the frog (kappa) that lives in the water — even they compose poetry in Japan. Invoking Sumiyoshi Myōjin and Bai Juyi, and recalling that even the sparrows of Kangakuin could make a parrot chatter, could it be that a sparrow, too, having twisted together square characters (Chinese writing), and in its light entered the sea and become a clam? Be that as it may, if even those who measure things by the square (i.e., petty, calculating types) are sparrows, then there should be no shortage of things for people to eat. This great clam, being originally a scholar, was enjoying blowing what is known as a "mirage" — a Chinese-style architectural illusion — when Shinemon, finding it amusing, lightly climbed aboard, and gradually began sinking into it. Shinemon thought: if the virtue of the rain cape and hat extends thus far, then seeing the Dragon Palace is the whim of the moment — and so, clamping his eyes and mouth firmly shut, he entrusted himself to the clam and went. And yet, that he should inwardly delight at the thought that the god Daikoku had lent him such a remarkable article — that too is rather amusing.

【Shinemon】"I would like to show this mirage to the greedy ones — in a rented house built by the clam-blower."