Realizing he had enjoyed himself far more than expected, and that the Great Daikoku and his household would surely be worrying, Shinemon set off in haste on horseback. When they came to [Gonda Slope], a fellow horse-driver was taking a break there, so he tied his horse up there as well, while the horse-driver settled in for a smoke. Just then, the horse that had been resting ahead greeted the horse that Shinemon had been riding: "My, you're early!" Startled, Shinemon woke from his doze, and found himself listening to a conversation between the horses.

"Well, yesterday was utterly exhausting. From the lodging to the riverbank I had to deal with a quarrel — that kind of rough business — and then on the way back I was forced along by the arm all the way to the stand, then worked the night shift, then carried a passenger all the way to Chiba and back to the lodging, and on top of that, some old nag rode me all the way home — I was completely worn out, let me tell you."

Shinemon's horse replied: "That sounds rough all right. As for me, I was left standing in front of the sake shop on the corner, and the children amused themselves banging on me like a drum and whatnot. I was half-drunk myself, but the regulations are strict, so I couldn't even frisk about — just plodding along, barely managing a sort of bow, and I only earned half a chō for the whole trip back. The master's reaction when I returned with two coins — 'What's the meaning of this!' — well, fair enough, I suppose. You can't go without earning at least one coin or you'll be in serious trouble. If you manage one, you can count yourself lucky. But then my backbone starts aching something terrible. Doing the hard work up top, I don't mind the effort itself — it's when I go out to collect the fare that it really hurts. I try my best to make sure the passenger doesn't fall off, but without anyone noticing my care, when I feel comfortable I tend to nod off, lurch forward, and then I get called 'that blind, lame fool of a horse.' There's really nothing more thankless than this. In my next life, I want to be born as a lord's horse — eat good food, watch monkey dancing performances, and enjoy myself."

As they spoke, Shinemon listened with keen ears, but to everyone else the conversation sounded like nothing more than "Neigh, neigh." This too must have been the virtue of his straw raincoat and hat.

[Speech bubble from horse:]
"Your master seems to be falling asleep — give him a 'Neigh!' and wake him up."

[Speech bubble from tea house:]
"Master, I'll give you a good deal!"