【Continuation of the Table of Contents】
6. Around Yushima to Tsumakoi-zaka
7. Around Hongo to Hakusan
8. Around Shitaya/Naga-yokocho
9. Around Onari-dō
10. Around Asakusa Mitsuke (inside)
11. Around Hitotsubashi
12. Around outside Akasaka Gate
13. Around outside Ushigome Gate
14. Around Koishikawa
15. Around Ogawamachi
16. Around Ryōgoku to Yokoyamachō
17. Various locations in the Marunouchi area
18. Around Nihonbashi to Kyōbashi
19. From beyond Azumabashi toward Koume
20. From beyond Eitaibashi toward Suzaki
　　　　　(End of Table of Contents)

【Section 1】Senju suffered severe damage; from there, Kozukahara suffered damage and then caught fire, burning completely to the ground. The Tanaka estate was totally destroyed. Additionally, Sanyamachi, Asakusamachi, and all three blocks of Shin-Torioechō suffered major damage. The area from Sanya Bridge toward Shōtenchō and the hillside also suffered major damage. Fires broke out in Hanakawado and Nakada, burning approximately two and a half blocks.

From the Coin Mint Office (Zenza) in Hashiba-chō to the wooden gates and beyond, fires burned through. In Imado-chō, five or six houses beyond Imado Bridge burned, and the fire was stopped at a restaurant said to be in the sixth or seventh block. The area below Kinryūzan (Sensō-ji) and Omachō also suffered major damage. Matsuchiyama Shōten's main hall was undamaged.

【Section 2】Fires broke out in Shin-Yoshiwara's Gōdo-chō 1st and 2nd blocks and around Ageyachō. Fires also apparently broke out around the middle of Itomachi 1st and 2nd blocks. Everything from Misechō and Monokakichō through to Nakanochō was completely destroyed and burned down. Not a single storehouse (dozō) survived. The number of deaths and injuries was beyond counting. From there, about fifty houses outside the Great Gate and those alongside the public notice boards survived, but all houses on the opposite side were burned down. The Nihon Tsutsumi embankment suffered great (earthquake damage — continued on next page)