His Majesty descended from the high tower and immediately summoned Minister Sugawara for consultation.

♪While martial arts are certainly important, looking down from this high tower, I see people indulging in grand pleasures that seem to overturn heaven and earth, and since they favor learning, the expenses must be mounting. Well then, we should probably put their minds at ease.

【Dialogue of the Emperor (His Majesty)】
What is this "economics"? Are you talking about vegetables for night meals?

【Dialogue of Minister Sugawara】
Your Majesty's thoughts are quite reasonable. I too have considered this a matter of learning from the beginning. The Confucian scholar who serves as my teacher has been waiting for a ship to arrive, and now that one person has finally arrived, I shall immediately relay your instructions. There are many Confucian scholars present as well. Zhu Xi school scholars are naturally like heavenly deities, Sorai school followers are like the imperial teachings, those who specialize in Confucian scholarship are like the similar mountains of lowly poets, and those who have mastered the way of economics are not few.

【Continuation of main text】
Here there was a man named Oe no Masafusa, accomplished in both literary and military arts, who served as mentor to Hachiman Taro Yoshiie. In his old age, he withdrew from the world and lived in hiding in Awa Province, but Minister Sugawara summoned him, made him a Doctor of Literature, and issued a decree that he should teach and guide the people in the righteous way.

【Dialogue of Oe no Masafusa】
♪If you try to be too rigid from the start, there will be nothing to latch onto. Even the Four Books benefit from a hammer-like interpretation. I would like to put away such books. Since I have mastered the principles of governing the nation and state through kana-written books about bow-string birds, it would be good to have people read and listen to this among the court nobles.

A simple mountain hermit, moving lightly among many, even Funei's discriminating taste is like the wit of a grateful mountain, in peaceful retirement.