During the reign of Engi, as peace continued, the emperor lamented that all people, high and low, had grown excessively fond of luxury, adorning their clothing and acquiring useless things. He cast off his eight-tan silk robe with flowing patterns, his amber-colored Tango silk hakama like kelp, and even his willow tea-colored silk belt with stone patterns on a cold night, and changed into plain tea-striped Kyoto fabric clothing.

〽The Empress offers the Emperor a change of court dress

〽After Minister Sugawara became thunder and kicked Minister Tokihira and Kiyohara Mareyo to death, the court was left with very few officials. The Emperor summoned Kanshūsai, the sole heir of the Kanshō-Jōwa era, made him an assistant minister of government, and entrusted him with all state affairs.

〽When Lord Sugawara took charge of all government affairs, all the court nobles who had served until then were connected by marriage to Tokihira and Kiyohara Mareyo, creating conflicts of interest that made them unusable. Until suitable people could be found elsewhere, the only good candidates were ancient heroes. Since prolonged peace makes people inclined toward literature and ignorant of military arts, to first teach the ministers martial ways and strengthen the military: for military strategy and swordsmanship, Minamoto no Kurou Yoshitsune; for archery, Chinzei Hachirō Tametomo; for horsemanship, Oguri Hangan Kaneuji were summoned. An imperial decree was issued that they should instruct and train everyone from high court nobles down to commoners.

〽Even though we know the chronology is wrong, since this is a picture book, let's just ignore it

【Empress's dialogue】
Your new undergarments suit you very well. Black would not become you.

【Emperor's dialogue】
Indeed, I think so too.

【Main text continues】
Kurou Yoshitsune, Chinzei Hachirō, and Oguri Hangan respond to the summons and come to court.

【Oguri Hangan's dialogue】
It is a most grateful honor for us unworthy ones to be chosen. However, we are people from much later times than you. I believe there may be some mistake in calling us "ancient people."