(Continued from the previous page) ...and there were times when even the King came in for reproach; Min Yeong-jun suffered a great loss of face. Partly as a plea in justification before Qing China, and partly as an excuse to the King, he ultimately resigned from his office as Sŏnhye Tangsang and went into seclusion at his home in Samch'ŏngdong-mun. Nevertheless, he continued to meddle in affairs of state from behind the scenes.

Before long, on the 28th of June, Minister Ōtori formally inquired of the Korean Foreign Office (Oeyamun) as to whether Korea was indeed a sovereign and independent nation, requesting that a definitive reply be given by the following day, the 29th. The Korean court was greatly alarmed and convened an extraordinary council. The debate split into two factions. One side argued: it was Japan that recognized our nation as independent and introduced it as such to the countries of the world, so there is no need to be asked again now—we have always been an independent nation, and there is no objection to replying that we are. The other side countered: no, no, that is not so—our country's relationship with Qing China, whether judged by the historical record of ancient times or by the realities of the present day, can by no means be called that of an independent nation; we should reply truthfully and straightforwardly to that effect. Then a third, compromise position emerged: whichever reply is given, if it is stated clearly and definitively right now, neither country's government will permit it; in such a case, unforeseen calamities may arise, and so the wisest course is to give a reply that commits to neither side. As for how to phrase it, it was suggested that it would be prudent to say: "It is as your country has acknowledged in the treaty currently in force." In this state of indecision, one way and then another, the court eventually decided to send a telegram to Qing China asking what reply should be given—but the telegraph line via the Ŭiju route had been cut and was out of service, so there was no prospect of a reply coming, and they found themselves unable to give a definitive answer to our minister. They therefore dispatched An Kyŏng-su as an envoy to request more time; yet even so the matter remained undecided, and a second envoy was sent to again seek an extension. Then, shortly before three o'clock in the afternoon—whether prompted by instructions from Qing China or merely out of desperation, it is impossible to say—the reply came that Korea was indeed, without doubt, a sovereign and independent nation.

Having obtained this clear and definitive reply that Korea was, without doubt, a sovereign and independent nation, it stood to reason that Japan was now entitled to demand that all aspects of the substance of that independence which remained incomplete be reformed or newly established...