be able to read it. Please have a skilled person retranslate it." Hokuhō agreed and converted it to vernacular script. If there are learned gentlemen of great learning, they may refer to the original text and read it as is.

Once the book was completed, those who read it increased day by day, so he ordered it to be printed and carved into woodblocks for permanent preservation, saving the labor of copying by hand to meet the requests of scholars who sought it. Ah, Hokuhō's efforts in this endeavor can truly be called diligent! His extensive knowledge in classical studies and the detail of his textual research - one can glimpse but a fraction of this here.

I privately believe that Ryukyu's tribute missions to our Imperial nation have ancient origins. Moreover, since the Keicho-Genna era, politics have shone brightly, moral transformation has spread widely both within and beyond our borders, Korean diplomatic missions and Ryukyu tribute missions have followed ancient customs, cultivating and clarifying ritual protocols for over two hundred years now. How magnificent this is!

This year, Mizunoe-Tatsu (9th year of Bunka, 1812), in mid-winter, the King of Chuzan sent Prince Tomigusuku as an envoy to present tribute goods and express gratitude for the grace of investiture. Here Hokuhō produced this work, perhaps to clearly demonstrate the grand ceremonies of our Imperial nation. His thoughtful intention and proper scholarship can also be seen in this.

I have been fortunate to encounter this era of peace and have personally witnessed Ryukyu envoys four times now. Seeing these people and contemplating this book, I increasingly believe it will benefit future generations. Looking back to examine the past, during the Keicho period there was a monk named Taichū. He was from Iwaki Iwatate in our Ōshū region. His wandering footsteps like duckweed spread throughout heaven and earth, and he eventually harbored ambitions for overseas travel. Having already reached Kyushu, he wished to go to Tang-shan (China) with merchant vessels, but having connections, he first went to Ryukyu, and then to Luzon and other southern barbarian lands