【Right Page】
...Kamata & Shimogamo Talkie Productions...

"Song of Memories"
Starring Mizuhara Yuriko and Yamauchi Hikaru
Japan's first all-mountain talkie. Director Shimazu Yasujiro's third work of the year. Location shooting across the Japan Alps.

"The Shining Throne"
Starring Oka Joji and Tanaka Kinuyo
A grand sports talkie mobilizing Kamata's all-sports young stars in a unique college story celebrating youth.

"Happy Times"
Starring Kawasaki Hiroko and Egawa Ureo
A newlywed humor all-talkie announced as a sister production to previous works "The Bride's Sleep Talk" and "Before Marriage"

"Song of Japanese Women"
Starring Kurishima Sumiko and Takeuchi Ryoichi
An all-talkie secretly in production since Kamata's announcement. A great warning piece for Japanese women in times of national emergency.

"The Drunken Buddha"
Starring Hayashi Chojiro and Chihaya Akiko
A passionate ambitious work by director Kinugasa Teinosuke based on the masterful script by the genius Yamagami Itaro. An epoch-making period drama talkie.

"Koumori no Yasu-san" (Bat Yasu)
Starring Bando Kotaro and Iizuka Toshiko
Based on Kimura Kinka's original work. Directed by Akiyama Kosaku. A talkie featuring the acclaimed combination of Kotaro and Iizuka.

"Koimei no Ginpei"
Starring Hayashi Chojiro and Inoue Hisae
Hasegawa Shin's masterpiece. A specialty "ninkyō" (chivalry) film. The fourth work by acclaimed talkie director Kinugasa Teinosuke.

"Toribeyama Shinju" (Double Suicide at Toribeyama)
Starring Bando Kotaro and Iizuka Toshiko
A story of continuous beautiful emotion like a brocade print. Kotaro's acclaimed erotic scenes. Shimogamo's specialty emotional drama.

Coming soon with grand premieres - Please look forward to it!

●Taisho-kan Weekly Report●Keijo Sakurai-machi●Published by Taisho-kan●Publisher: Fukuzaki Hamanosuke●Publisher: Nakanaga Tomonosuke●Editor: Sakai Koichi●Printing House: Nishio Printing●

【Left Page】
This Week's Program

Rayart Film
Special appearance by Ueyama Kusabito
"Tyrant of the Isolated Sea"
...

Kamata Special Production Modern Drama
Starring Mizukubo Sumiko
"The Figure of a Certain Mother"
...

Serialized in Osaka Asahi Newspaper
Hayashi Chojiro in dual role
Medium-length "The Tattooed Magistrate"
(The Chapter of Hyaku-san's Peril)

Shochiku Cinema Korea Premiere Theater   Taisho-kan Weekly Report