【Upper Section】
This can be said to be the case. However, what should be noted as special damage is that ships lost convenient access due to changes in the river mouth's position.

●Koshirahama
Suzuki Tomi was nineteen years old at the time and one of the injured. When listening to her account of the situation, she says she doesn't even remember well whether she heard the thunderous roar. Thinking something had happened, she rushed out to the garden, and before she knew it, she was already on the vast waves. In an instant, she swallowed seawater and her body was tossed about by the waves, but she remembers nothing and after a while regained consciousness. Looking around, she found herself far away at the bottom of a cliff. It was terribly cold, she felt nauseous, and didn't feel alive, but eventually a rescue boat came and gave her various care including making her vomit up the seawater. Now she has preserved one life among ten thousand deaths, but all eight family members died without exception, so there is no point in living, she told her story.

●Tōni Village
Tōni Village is a settlement around Tōni Bay, south of Kamaishi Bay, located in the northernmost part of Rikuzen Province. If you cross one mountain from the large district of Hongō, you reach Minami-Hei District of Rikuchū Province. Because the bay mouth is very wide and opens directly east, the damage ranks first in the three prefectures along with Ryōri Village. Particularly tragic was Hongō, and since Hongō is a seaside settlement, before anyone could think that a tsunami had occurred, all 159 households were swallowed by the raging waves, with almost everyone drowning. The only reason statistics show any survivors is that some fishermen were safely offshore engaged in fishing that night, and a small number of men and women were visiting neighboring villages for seasonal greetings. The dead numbered 329 men and 395 women, while survivors numbered 65 men and 14 women. Of the 159 households, 92 lost entire families. When even the spirits who died with resentment against the merciless tsunami and ancestors going back hundreds of years have no descendants to honor them, what greater tragedy could there be in the world? Next to Hongō in terms of tragedy were Arakawa and Katagishi, where water rose more than twenty chō above sea level. In Arakawa, of the total 27 households,

【Lower Section】
only 2 remained while 25 were swept away, with deaths reaching 45 men and 64 women, and survivors numbering 25 men and 20 women (including 13 men and 3 women who were away). Katagishi had 26 swept-away houses, 50 male and 58 female deaths, with 28 men and 27 women surviving (including 2 men and 1 woman who were away). These settlements had their stone walls and trees completely carried away, so if one were to pass through without knowing about the tsunami, one would simply see it as an unclean beach and pass by without knowing villages once existed there. However, when one imagines houses lined up like teeth of a comb on this vast stretch of beach, the scene of that time appears before one's eyes, causing goosebumps even in the blazing heat of June. Next to Arakawa and Katagishi in terms of tragedy was Koshirahama, with 115 swept-away houses. Since this area was located in the center of all Tōni and had a relatively large number of households, the village office, school, post office, etc. were established here, but all were swept away, so not a single sheet of records remained. The village head, clerk, and teachers all died, leaving only one assistant and one severely injured tax collector. Therefore, officials are currently dispatched from the district office to perform village office duties. There were 115 swept-away houses, with 217 male and 263 female deaths, and 100 male and 64 female survivors (including 12 men and 8 women who were away). Kerobe had 36 swept-away houses, 89 male and 15 female deaths, with 46 male and 17 female survivors (including 9 men and 5 women who were away). The area with the least damage in Tōni Village was Ōishi, which had only one swept-away house and 5 male and 5 female deaths. Households that were completely extinguished numbered 50 across various districts besides the 92 in Hongō. More than half of the survivors were children. Perhaps so many children were saved because their small bodies were less likely to be struck by broken timber and debris? Cases where only bent-over elderly people remained, or only small children unable to be independent remained while all others died, were considerably more numerous than cases of complete household extinction. There were 47 severely injured people, and two medical officers from the Fukushima branch of the Red Cross came to provide treatment.

Yamazaki Zenzō, a man of thirty-five or thirty-six who serves as tax collector of Tōni, but