(Continued from the previous page) — knocked down by the seawater; each time he tried to rise he was knocked down again, each time he tried to plant his feet he was swept away again, until his body was utterly exhausted and he was on the very verge of sinking. At that very instant, he was fortunate enough to catch hold of a piece of driftwood that came floating by — that much he remembered — but of what happened after, he recalled nothing at all. After some time, he was dimly roused by the sound of human voices, and coming to his senses, he found that the tide had already receded and people were rushing about to aid the victims of the disaster. He raised his voice and called for help, and was immediately taken to an evacuation shelter. There he found, to his astonishment, that his youngest daughter Kame, whom he had believed dead, was already present. Kamekich could scarcely believe his eyes and rejoiced as though in a dream. When he asked her how she had survived, Kame told him that as she was being tossed about in the violent waves, three door-planks came floating by, and she climbed upon them. As she drifted along, she somehow fell fast asleep, and was eventually awakened by a stranger who called out to her. His eldest son Kinzō (age thirteen) had also been caught up by the waves many times and struggled greatly, but had managed to cling to a rooftop that drifted by; he was eventually washed ashore at a place called Ōtakoshi, and thus escaped with his life — so Kamekich himself related.

○Despite losing his own home to the tsunami, Murai Tatsugurō of Ōmachi, Kamaishi town, was content that his family had survived unharmed, and donated thirty koku of rice remaining in his storehouse to the victims of the disaster. This may truly be called a most admirable and charitable spirit.

○Devotion to Work Saves Lives　　Yamazaki En (age sixty-two) of Kamaishi town and her eldest son Tokimatsu (age twenty-eight) were devoted sericulturists who had raised a large number of silkworms this year. At the time in question it was the season of the third rearing, and since they were using their living quarters as a silkworm room, all the tatami mats had been rolled up and stacked in one corner, and the worms were being raised on the bare floorboards. At the time the tsunami struck, the mother and son were so absorbed in giving mulberry leaves to the worms that they were unaware of the commotion around them. Then suddenly there came a violent shock, and they were thrown down beside the stack of piled tatami mats. The house immediately collapsed, and they resigned themselves to drowning then and there — but fortunately, they found themselves enclosed within a pocket formed between the timber framework of the fallen house and the tatami mats, and were thus neither swept away by the seawater nor harmed, escaping with their lives. Furthermore, Tokimatsu's cousin Tamesō (age seventeen) and seventeen others, though the fishery night school might well have been closed for the children's festival holiday, had nonetheless gone to study at the fishery night school situated on higher ground some distance away from the same area, and were thus likewise spared from the great disaster.

【Lower Right Section】

○An Old Woman on a Mountaintop　　An elderly woman of Kamaishi was swept away by the tsunami, clinging now to a rooftop, now to pieces of lumber, drifting this way and that. Then she spotted something like a large stone water basin floating toward her, and crawled inside it. However, it kept threatening to overturn, so she looked about and saw yet another piece of timber floating near. This piece had a large hole in it, and seizing the opportunity, she thrust both hands into the hole, gripped tight, and drifted on, leaving herself to fate. After a while, she felt something touch her feet. Wondering what it could be and feeling around, she found it was definitely solid ground. With a feeling as though she had been brought back to life, she clambered up and remained there until dawn broke. But to her great surprise, she discovered she was at the very summit of a mountain.

○The proprietor of an inn in Kamaishi, a man named Niinuma Katōji, lost any chance of escape and was swept away along with his building. In the remains of a house that had capsized at the site of the haiden (worship hall) of Ozaki Shrine, he was found, pitifully, dead — still holding two young grandchildren in his arms.

○Engineers and Laborers Barely Escape with Their Lives　　A party consisting of two engineers and several laborers from the Navigational Aids Management Office had been dispatched to Kamaishi some time before to carry out repairs on a navigation marker. They were staying at an inn in Kamaishi town when, most unfortunately, they were struck by this tsunami. The party called out to one another and all fled up to the roof of the building, but by then they were already being pulled by mountain-high waves and were beginning to drift out to sea together with the house. Fortunately, however, they all managed to survive, and notice was sent to the relevant authorities that they were for the moment returning to Tokyo. It goes without saying that in such an emergency, the machinery and equipment for the repairs must have been lost.

○The Good Fortune of a Blind Man　　Takahashi Seismatsu and his wife were both blind and had one child of two or three years of age. The moment they heard that the tsunami was coming, being blind people who had no fear of the dark of night, they crawled up with their child to the high ground of the town hall, and the whole family escaped danger. They are currently receiving care at the Red Cross hospital. Here one sees that even those who are blind may have advantages over those who can see.

○Next door to the Niinuma inn lived an old woman who happened to be visiting the Niinuma inn at the time the tsunami came. The instant she heard the cry of "The tsunami is upon us!", before she even had a moment to look about her—

【Upper Left】 Illustration of temporary shelters after the disaster at Kamaishi
【Lower Left】 Illustration of a temporary relief station