【Right Page, Upper Section】

(Baba) was fortunate enough to survive by being blown through the roof of a house, but the other fireworks handlers, laborers, and children were reduced to sea foam, their bodies never to be found.

At that moment, the cries of "Tsunami! Tsunami!" alerted the many spectators watching from far away. Thanks to these cries, a great many lives were saved. Indeed, it is said that Kurata Yasunosuke, a civic-minded resident of the town, fled in a panic upon hearing these cries and thus survived.

○ Hearing the sound of a great cannon at sea　On the day of the great tsunami, a fisherman from Ōtsuchi Town who was engaged in fishing far out at sea heard what sounded like a massive cannon shot from out in the ocean at around six o'clock in the evening. He strained his eyes and looked in all directions, but could see no large warship amid the vast blue waves. Wondering at the strange sound, he returned to port, where he found that this great tsunami had indeed occurred. The fisherman survived with his life, and trembled to think that the cannon-like sound must have been the moment of a great disturbance on the ocean floor, and that therein lay the cause of the great tsunami.

○ Only One Grandchild Survived　Koshida Rinbei of Ōtsuchi had a household of ten people, but nine of them all perished horribly. Miraculously, one grandchild (eight years old) was swept to Hōrai Island and was rescued by a rescue boat. Since the child still cries for milk, one wonders who will nurture it — and at this thought, tears of blood fall quietly.

○ Only One Person Survived　Maekawa Zenuemon of Kirikiri, who was in the midst of a drinking party at a friend's home, was suddenly swept away and was rescued by a rescue boat at Sango Island. All of his other companions died.

○ A Fisherman's Account　A person who was engaged in fishing that night reported: "Just before I usually catch fish, there was a sound like a gunshot. I looked around thinking it was a ship, but there was no ship. When I returned home, a tsunami had suddenly occurred."

○ A Soldier Falls into a Field　A soldier on leave who was staying at a certain inn in Ōtsuchi Town had gone out boating with three companions on the day of the tsunami. They were floating on the sea when the tsunami suddenly capsized their boat. The soldier's body was separated from the boat and, carried by the waves toward land, was flung over the town and landed in the vegetable garden

【Right Page, Lower Section】

of the very inn where he had been staying. What a remarkable thing indeed.

○ One Infant Survives　A certain resident of Ōtsuchi Town, whose household consisted of eleven people including servants, quickly carried the infant (born the previous December) on his back and fled to high ground on the day of the disaster. However, since none of the other family members came, he set the infant down and went back to rescue them, but to no avail — all the family members drowned, and only the infant survived.

○ A Pregnant Woman's Good Fortune　There was a pregnant woman named Miura Naka. She too was among those swept away that day, but as a woman who had grown up by the sea, she not only knew how to swim but also had a bold and courageous temperament. She swam to a plank and, drifting with the waves, washed up on Hōrai Island. She clung to a sake barrel and tried to climb ashore, sinking again and again into the depths and surfacing, then grasping the plank once more, until she finally managed to climb up to the island and preserve her life. She was truly a fortunate woman. At the time, a naval engineer named Nakamura heard her cries for help amid the swirling waves, but as she was a woman there was nothing he could do, and he has been lamenting ever since that he had to watch her nearly drown.

○ The People of Ōtsuchi Eat Green Wheat　Both rice and salt were in short supply, the surviving residents were on the verge of starvation, and it came to the point where some people were eating unripe green wheat.

○ The Tragic Deaths of Two Servicemen　First Sergeant Sase Tomikichi, who served under Second Lieutenant Saigō of the Third Company, Third Regiment of the Imperial Guard Division, had been awarded the Order of the Rising Sun, 8th Class (White Paulownia Leaves with Ribbon) for distinguished service in the Sino-Japanese War, and had recently entered the reserve forces and returned home. Naval engineer Nakamura Yōtarō of the warship Akagi had likewise been awarded the 8th Class decoration and was also a reservist. Both men had been the guests of honor at a victory celebration held that day, but alas, they had no way to fend off the enemy that was the tsunami, and they perished, their spirits left to harbor eternal grievance. One can only imagine the grief and resentment of their bereaved families — how pitiable they are.

○ Trade Utterly Destroyed　Most of the residents of Yokkaichi and Yōkaichi districts within Ōtsuchi Town made their living through a combination of commerce and farming. Although their homes and lives were spared in this calamity, their fields were devastated and they had nowhere to sell their goods. In particular, Ryōishi and Kiri—

【Left Page, Illustrations】
【Upper Caption】
An illustration of a giant boulder washed up into the forest at the cape of Tōni

【Lower Caption】
An illustration of the Raijin Cedar of Ōryō district, Yoshihama Village, uprooted by the tsunami