This records the great earthquake that suddenly struck on the night of October 2nd, Ansei 2 (1855) at the fourth hour of night (around 10 PM), causing tremendous damage to houses across a 20-ri radius around Edo.

In the northern areas, Senju-juku in the府内 (Funai - inner Edo) was severely shaken and collapsed. At Kozukahara, all the rows of houses collapsed without exception, fires broke out from the middle section, and every single house was burned down. In Shin-Yoshiwara, five entire districts collapsed at once, and then fires started from Edo-machi 1-chome, spreading to various locations. Another fire started from Kado-machi, burning up to Daimon-guchi, with half of the 50-ken western side remaining. Beyond that, extending to the Satte area, Hanakawado, Yama-no-yado, and Shoten-cho burned. All three districts of the theater quarter burned completely, and most of Umamichi collapsed and burned. Asakusa Kannon temple was unharmed, but Kaminari-mon gate collapsed, and the entire temple grounds collapsed. Namiki-dori completely collapsed, fires started from Suwa-cho and burned all the way to Komagata. Tahara-cho and Sangen-cho areas suffered minor damage.

Okura-mae-dori and Kaya-cho 2-chome shook violently. At Asakusa Mitsuke, the stone walls were thrown out. Around Bakuro-cho, Yokoyama-cho, Daimon-dori, Odenma-cho, Shio-cho, and Kodenma-cho, most of the front and back streets collapsed. Across the river at Honjo, fires started from Ishihara and burned through Tachikawa-dori, Aioi-cho, Hayashi-cho, to the Midori-cho area. Fires also broke out extending to Koume-dori and Hikifune areas. In Fukagawa, everything burned in a line from the torii of Hachiman shrine to Aikawa-cho and Hamaguri-cho.

In the Shitaya area, various places collapsed from Sakamoto to Kuruma-zaka, burning from Sanmai-bashi, Hirokoji, to Ito and Matsuzaka. From there, the back streets of Ike-no-hata Naka-cho collapsed, but the front streets mostly remained. On Onarimichi, the Ishikawa residence burned. From Nezu 2-chome, Kaya-cho-dori 1-chome to 2-chome burned. At the top of Muen-zaka, Lord Matsudaira Bingo-no-kami's mansion burned. Around Sendagi and Dangozaka, three houses collapsed. On Yanaka Zenkoji hill, a few buildings remained. Both districts of Nezu completely collapsed, with only two or three houses remaining in the middle. Maruyama, Hakusan, and the Keisei-ga-kubo area collapsed extensively.

Fires started from Hongo and burned to Yushima Kiridoshi, where the Kaga clan's fire brigade established a firebreak. Yushima Tenjin shrine was slightly damaged, but from the gate area to Sangumi-cho, everything collapsed completely, and the storehouses on both sides all shook. On Ie-dori, Daruma-yokocho, Shin-cho, Ie-Okawabata, Ke-yoko, and Nezaka, lime storage rooms cracked and the ground split about one shaku (30cm). At Tsuma-koi-zaka, the storehouse of Inari main shrine collapsed slightly, but the shrine itself was unharmed. Not a single house in the district collapsed.

From there down the hill, the front row houses of the Tatebe and Naito residences collapsed. Most of Toeizan temple grounds collapsed, but the main hall was unharmed. Along Shohei-bashi-dori, like Kanda, Odaidokoro-cho, Hatago-cho, and Kanazawa-cho all collapsed completely. Sujikai Mimitsuke was slightly damaged. Both Inner and Outer Kanda shook completely.

On the main street, from Kanda Suda-cho, Shinseki-cho, Nabe-cho, Kaji-cho, to Imagawa-bashi, about 136 back and front districts collapsed completely. Beyond that, from Jukken-dana, Nihonbashi front street, from Nishi-kawagishi to Gofuku-cho vicinity, along the eastern middle street from Yokkaichi, Uogashi to Kuresho-cho area, there was extensive collapse in places. On the main street, fires started from Minami-kaji-machi and burned through Minami-denma-cho 2-chome, Minami-daiku-cho, Tatami-cho, Gorobei-cho, to the east including Gusoku-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Inaba-cho, Shira-uoya, and Nishi-konya-cho. 

Beyond Kyobashi, areas up to Shimbashi collapsed. From there, at Shiba-guchi, Shii-cho and Udagawa-cho burned completely. From Shinmei-mae to Mishima-cho area, everything collapsed. From Kanasugi to Shiba-bashi, there was scattered collapse. All eighteen districts of Takanawa saw the ground crack about one shaku. Damage extended to Shinagawa, and on Shiba front street, the Ohama Palace was slightly damaged. Tsukuda-jima suffered similarly. From there, from Shiba Akabane-dori to Azabu Hiroo area, there was scattered collapse and fires.

In the Yamanote area, Yotsuya Koji-cho, samurai residences, temples, and shrines collapsed extensively. Within the castle grounds, from Tora-no-gomon to Kasumigaseki, many daimyo residences large and small were damaged, though the Aki and Kuroda domains suffered no particular damage. At Yashiro-gashi, the fire brigade buildings of the Uemura and Matsudaira Sagami-no-kami completely burned. In Wada-kura-uchi, the Matsudaira Shimosa-no-kami and Matsudaira Higo-no-kami areas shook violently.

From there, within Kanda-bashi gate, the Sakai Saemon and Morikawa Dewa-no-kami residences collapsed extensively. In Ogawa-cho, the residences of Hongo Tango-no-kami, Matsudaira Kii-no-kami, Sakakibara Shikibu-taiyu, Itakura, and Toda all burned completely. From Ushigome to Koishikawa, the area in front of Denzuin temple gate collapsed completely. From Bancho to Iidamachi and Ochanomizu area shook violently. The main hall of Tsukiji Monzeki was unharmed, but more than half the grounds collapsed. From Odawara-cho to across Asari-gashi, the residences of hatamoto and gokenin all shook completely.

Overall, there were 37 fire outbreak locations throughout the town districts. The number of damaged houses, temples, and shrines is too numerous to count individually. On the Tokaido, Kawasaki-juku suffered minor damage, Kanagawa-juku shook severely with most buildings collapsed, Hodogaya-juku suffered minor damage, and Totsuka-juku shook in various places. Fujisawa, Hiratsuka, Oiso, and the Odawara area suffered no particular damage, though various places shook and were damaged.

On the Nakasendo, from Itabashi to Warabi-juku, Urawa, Ageo, and Omiya shook severely, and beyond that to Kumagaya-juku, various places shook. On the Nikko Kaido, Soka-juku and Koshigaya suffered no particular damage but were damaged in places. Shimizu, Omori area, and a 4-ri radius around the府内, totaling over 5,700 locations, shook in various places. On the Mito Kaido, Ichikawa, Matsudo, Ushiku-juku area, and at the Shimosa entrance, Gyotoku and Funabashi areas shook particularly severely. The Oshu Kaido shook up to the Utsunomiya area. The Ome Kaido shook and trembled from Hanno, Saki, Chichibu, to the Omiya area.

Such a calamity was unprecedented in history, surpassing even the Great Fire of Meireki in the enormous number of deaths, the exact count of which is immeasurable. Corpses were loaded onto carts and boats and sent to temples - truly a sight too terrible to behold. Even such a great disaster, by the next day the fires were extinguished, and though earthquakes continued intermittently, there was nothing particularly serious.

Over 5,370 town districts collapsed, over 2,560 samurai residences were damaged, 39,630 temples and shrines, and 580,897,786 storehouses. For those who lost their houses and residences in this way, appropriate aid and relief rice were distributed to each, returning the four classes of people to peace, and their gratitude for such benevolent virtue is truly a blessed thing.

[Text within the map's square frames:]
Daimyo-koji: Seven-tenths burned

Up to yesterday's recorded figures: 193,850 disaster victims
Deaths from temples: 250,488 people

(Place names marked on the map: Kanda area, Azabu Hiroo, Daionji, Nihonbashi - this area slightly damaged, Akabane, Minami-denma-cho 2, Minami-daiku-cho, Tatami-cho, Gorobei-cho, Hashiba, Gusoku-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Inaba-cho, Shinagawa, Nishi-konya-cho, Shira-uoya-shiki, Arai-cho, Yoshiwara, Imado, Udagawa-cho, Tsukuda-jima, Shinchi, Eitai-bashi, San'ya, Tahara-cho, Sangen-cho, Kannon, Ohashi, Shibai-cho, Fukagawa Hachiman, Suwa-cho, Ta-cho, Aikawa-cho, Komagata, Hamaguri-cho, Namiki, Umamichi, Tokiwa-cho, Rokken-bori, Hanakawado, Kozukahara, Ofuna Kuramae, Yama-no-yado, Susaki, Ishihara, Azuma-bashi, Banba, Tachikawa, Midori-cho, Koume, Hikifune)