【Upper Section】
At the time of Kaei 6 (1853), year of the Water Ox, on the 2nd day of the 2nd month, around 8 AM, an earthquake began from the summit of Mount Hakone on the border of Izu and Sagami provinces, gradually intensifying.
Roads became impassable, trees, houses, storehouses, halls and shrines were shaken down, and rice fields and farmland collapsed from the tremors. Along that route in the mountains, not only Hakone-juku post station, but also Sengokuhara, Choshi-guchi, Shojin-ga-ike, Kashiwagi, Yumoto, Kasamatsu, Zoga-hana, Soshi-do, and the Hayakawa area were shaken and collapsed. From there, in Odawara castle town, starting with Ashigaru-machi, Yamakaku-cho, Sujikai Bridge, Ote-gomon Gate street, Rankan Bridge, Uiro shop, Toraya shop - this entire area was completely destroyed with fires breaking out in two locations. From there, Yoko-cho and Aomono-cho were entirely shaken down with fires in four locations in this area. Fires broke out in one location each at Odori and Man-cho, and one location in Daiku-cho. One castle watchtower and two turrets were shaken down, with fires totaling eight locations. Additionally, water conduits were shaken and crushed, water flowed abundantly, and people of all ages were startled and scattered in all directions - the scene was too terrible to behold. On the following 3rd day around 10 AM, things finally began to calm down. Though this was a natural disaster, the fact that both people and animals remained unharmed was entirely due to the divine blessing of the Kashima deity, as well as the protection of the local Doryo Daigongen, and all the people felt relieved.

【Lower Section】
The time was Kaei 7 (1854), year of the Tiger, on the 14th day of the 6th month, around the evening hours of 8-10 PM, when a great earthquake occurred in the four provinces of Owari, Ise, Omi, and Mino. Along the Tokaido route, at Narumi-juku and Miya-juku post stations, and on the Nagoya highway at Iwatsuka, Baba, Kamori, Saya-juku, and Tsushima Itsutsu Tenno - which was especially crowded due to the festival on the 30th - temples, shrines and other town houses needless to say all collapsed. Also, to the north around Inuyama and Komaki, to the south around Noma, Utsumi, and Morosaki, west of the Saya River, and in Ise Province around Nagashima, Kuwana, Yokkaichi, and Oiwake - all areas collapsed without exception. Moreover, fires broke out causing many deaths and injuries. Likewise, around Ishiyakushi, Shono, Kameyama, Seki, and Sakano-shita post stations were all destroyed. In Omi Province around Tsuchiyama, Minakuchi, and Ishibe post stations. To the northwest in Mino Province, around Ogaki, Nangu, Takasu, Kashiwabara, Samegai, Takamiya, Echigawa, and Musa - all these areas and the northwestern mountains needless to say collapsed from the tremendous tremors. The earthquake finally calmed down around 6:30 AM on the 15th. From then on, there were small earthquakes daily. Because this was an unprecedented great earthquake in ancient and modern times, I have recorded this account to inform people and provide them with peace of mind.