【Upper Document】
Reflecting thoughtfully on historical records from ancient times, I have never heard of such large hail falling. This occurred on the 18th day of the 6th month of Kaei 5 (1852), year of the rat. Maebashi in Kozuke Province had a magistrate's office of the Kawagoe domain, and every year during the Gion Festival, crowds of worshippers would gather. However, on that day around 2 PM (8th hour), the entire sky suddenly became overcast, wind and rain intensified, and amid severe thunder, tremendously large hail began to fall. The size was like that of a five-go measuring box, toppling standing trees, destroying houses, and shattering roof tiles - the scene was beyond description. Since it was a festival day, tens of thousands of people of all ages tried to escape, abandoning parents, losing children, and many were injured. Although the magistrate's office tried to provide relief, human power was insufficient against nature's force. The hail continued to fall violently, lightning struck various places, and fires caused by lightning at Mukaimachi and Kyorinji temples spread to fifteen buildings in total, including the house of town headman Shichirōemon. The large hail and thunder grew even more intense, affecting a total of 75 villages across Maebashi domain, Takasaki domain, and Oda magistrate's territory. Particularly severely hit were Kamiizumi, Katakai village, Nonaka village, Nagaiso village, Kami-Ōshima, Shimo-Ōshima, Komagata post station, Gokan village, Ryōke village, Nukadajima village, Shuku-Kawachi, Ryūmon village, Kawachi village, Zenkōji village, Terasaki village, Yokote village, Shinbori village, Medaka village, and Kosaragi village. In these villages, trees were toppled and houses, storehouses, and fields suffered tremendous damage. Even more severe were three villages - Gokan village, Ryōke, and Kosaragi village - where countless birds died from being struck by the large hail. However, even amid this great disaster, some villages escaped unharmed. The areas from Maebashi eastward through Nakanaka-dōri, Yoneno, and Mizorogi suffered only minor damage. Around 6 PM, the hail-bearing wind subsided and the thunder stopped, bringing relief to all people.

【Lower Document】
In Maebashi domain, Takasaki domain, and other magistrate territories - approximately 75 villages total - particularly 14 or 15 villages suffered severe damage to people, horses, and all manner of birds. Lightning struck in various places. The size of the hailstones collected from Ryōke village was approximately like a five-go measuring container, weighing about 490 monme. Those collected from Gokan village weighed 380 monme. From Kosaragi village, they weighed 380 monme. When officially measured, the depth of accumulated hail was 1 shaku 5 sun (about 45cm) in sunny areas and 2 shaku 5 sun (about 75cm) in shaded areas.