It was the fourth year of Kaei, year of the metal boar (1851), April 3rd, around the hour of nine in the daytime when a fire broke out from the vicinity of Yotsuya Shiomachi side street. The north wind was fierce at the time, and it burned down completely the various mansions in Omuroya Hikocho, Joun-ji side street, Shiomachi 2-chome and 3-chome on the south side. At Ōkido, Lord Tayasu's lower mansion and Lord Yagyu's lower mansion, part of Lord Naito's mansion grounds burned. From there, the teahouses and inns on both sides of Naito-Shinjuku's lower and middle towns burned, as did the side streets.
Daiso-ji temple's Enma hall survived.
The old woman statue at Shoju-in survived.
The upper town of the same area burned. The fire in this area stopped at a textile shop called Santoku.
On one front, Oshicho, Oshiharamachi side street, Lord Suzuki [■] Takahisa's mansion, and other mansions burned. Lord Kishi Toyojiro's [mansion] survived amid the fire. Shogaku-ji, Gansho-ji, and Bishamonten burned. Honen-ji survived. Oiwa Inari shrine in Oni side street burned.
Sachidono-cho, Umadono side street, Lord Ota Toyojiro's [mansion], Choan-ji temple, its gate-front street, Lord Abe's lower mansion, and Sasa temple burned.
[The fire] stopped at the mansions of Lords Itakura, Miyazaki, and Okabe in Shinanodono-cho. On the opposite side, the Oban-gumi mansion and Oban-cho burned.
Besides these, many samurai mansions and direct retainer group mansions burned. [The fire] stopped at the group mansion in Aoyama Misuji-cho.
At Rokudo-tsuji in the same area, one house burned from flying sparks. On another front, Demmacho 3-chome, Funasaka side street, Kuruma Kawauchi-mon side street, the same 2-chome, and Araki side street burned. Shin-Horie-cho in the same area survived. Iga-cho burned partially. On the opposite side, Tenno side street burned. Entsu-ji temple burned. Tenno shrine survived. Hozo-ji side street, Shozan-ji temple, Hozo-ji temple, and Minami Iga-cho burned. From here the wind changed to westerly, and Kojimachi 13-chome, its side street, Fukuju-in temple, Iga-cho, and Otansu-cho burned. Demmacho 1-chome, and the new road side and Tate-cho burned completely. On the opposite side, the replacement land of Tentoku-ji gate-front street burned partially. [The fire] finally subsided at night at the fifth hour at Kojimachi 11-cho (commonly called Take-cho) by the moat, and people felt relieved. Fire prevention is indeed essential.