As generals for the pursuit, Saemon-no-suke Taira no Naomata, Uhyōe-no-suke Nakahara no Narimichi and others responded to the imperial selection, departing with more than 23,000 mounted warriors. Tadatsune himself fortified himself in Chiba Castle, while his younger brother Mutsu-gon-no-suke Tadayori served as general, leading a force of more than 20,000 mounted warriors and taking position south of the Sumida River. On the 15th of the same month, the imperial forces - Narimichi's younger brother Ise-no-suke Naritoshi and Naomata's son Atami Shirō Kiyonori - joined forces in a frontal assault and fought fiercely, causing Tadayori's vanguard to flee in defeat. However, driven by Tadatsune's remaining forces of more than 15,000 mounted warriors, and with Naomata's rear guard being pushed back by Narimichi's retreating forces, they reluctantly withdrew and established a position at Sumida River Plain to rally the defeated soldiers.

The Azuma Kagami states: "On the 2nd day of the 10th month of the 4th year of Jishō (1180), year of the Metal Rat, day of Metal Snake, the Warrior Guard (Yoritomo) boarded boats with Tsunetane, Hirotune and others, and with elite troops exceeding 30,000 mounted warriors at the Futoi and Sumida rivers, proceeded to Musashi Province. Toshima-gonnokami Kiyomitsu, Kasai Saburō Kiyoshige and others were the first to present themselves, and Adachi Uma-no-jō Tōmoto, having received orders from before, also came to greet him."

According to the Hōjō Kudaiki, under the section stating that on the 19th day of the 7th month of the 5th year of Bunji (1189), Lord Yoritomo departed for the pursuit of Ōshū's Yasuhira, Chiba-no-suke Tsunetane and Hatta Uemon-no-jō Tomoie served as generals of the Tōkaidō route, leading forces from both Hitachi and Shimōsa provinces through Uta and Namekata, crossing at the port of Sumida River from Iwasaki (abbreviated below).

Suda River Plain - Same as Sumida River Plain
From the Fuboku-shū poetry collection:
"Traveling far across Suda River Plain in the morning, is it the misty crossing I see?"

Sumida River Embankment - Beginning from Fukahori Bridge and extending to Kumagaya, a distance of approximately 16 ri. This is called the Kumagaya Embankment. It is said to have been constructed by the Odawara Hōjō clan in the 2nd year of Tenshō (1574).

By government order, from the vicinity of Mimeguri Inari to the area of Mokuboji Temple, three types of trees - peach, cherry, and willow - were planted on both sides of the embankment. From the end of the second month to the end of the third month, with branches of red, purple, green, and white intermingling like unfurled brocade, it was elegantly beautiful and worthy of admiration. Also, when violets and mustard flowers were in full bloom, it was like spreading flower mats on the ground - a magnificent spectacle.

Sumida Post Station - It is unclear which location this refers to today. It was likely a way station on the ancient Ōshū Highway. In the Azuma Kagami, under the section about Lord Yoritomo crossing the Futoi and Sumida rivers on the 2nd day of the 10th month of the 4th year of Jishō, it states: "Today, the daughter of the late Hatta warrior Munetsuna, who was the Warrior Guard's wet nurse <<wife of Oyama Shimotsuke-daijō Masamitsu>>