【Continuation of Umenowaka-maru's Mound】
After much hardship, he arrived at the Sumida River on the 15th day of the 3rd month of the first year of Teigen (1375), year of the Fire Rat. Having fallen ill during the journey, he finally passed away at this place on this day. At his deathbed, he composed a waka poem: "If someone comes seeking and asks, answer them, capital bird: I have vanished like dew on the Sumida riverbank."

At this time, there was a venerable holy man named Shimōsa-bō Chūen Ajari at Mount Haguro in Dewa Province. He happened to meet them there and, consulting with the local people, built a mound for the child's remains and planted a single willow tree as a marker. The following year on the 15th day of the 3rd month, when the villagers gathered to chant the Buddha's name and mourn the child's death, on that day Umenowaka-maru's mother (called Hanago-zen in the same origin story, said to be the daughter of a wealthy man from Nogami in Mino Province. Also called Hanako, she later shaved her head and took the name Myōki-ni. This should be read together with the section on Asaji-ga-hara in Volume 6) came wandering to this Sumida River in a mad state, searching for her child's whereabouts. Finding it strange that people were gathered under the green willows chanting nembutsu, she asked a boatman the reason and learned it was her child's grave, whereupon she was overcome with tears of grief. That night, as she chanted nembutsu together with the villagers, the figure of Umenowaka-maru appeared faintly like a phantom from behind the mound, and just as she thought they might exchange words, the spring night passed quickly and he vanished with the morning mist. After dawn, the mother met with Ajari Chūen and told him what had happened, then built a grass hut at this place, had the ajari reside there, and made it a temple for perpetual nembutsu practice to mourn her child's death. (The above excerpts the essentials from the Bokuboji Temple origin story)

There is a manuscript called "Aki no Yo Naga Monogatari" (Tale of Long Autumn Nights) whose content closely resembles the aforementioned Bokuboji Temple origin story. According to its summary, during the reign of Emperor Go-Horikawa, among the monks of the Eastern Pagoda on the Northern Ridge (Mount Hiei), there was a learned master named Keikai, the Minister-Dharma Teacher of Kangaku-in (later known as Saint Zensai of Nishiyama). Though he had entered the Buddhist priesthood, he was troubled only by fame and profit, neglecting his duties of liberation, which he found shameful. To pray for the fulfillment of this matter, he secluded himself at Ishiyama. On the seventh night, he saw a beautiful youth in a dream, and afterward his heart became restless. On his way to visit Ishiyama again, when spring rain began to fall and he took shelter at the gate of Shōgoin temple, he discovered a beautiful youth picking flowers, exactly like the one in his dream. This was a child who served at this temple, the son of Minister Hanazono of Sanjō Kyōgoku, called Umewaka. Keikai fell in love and eventually used a servant boy there to arrange a meeting, forming a bond for about one night. Afterward, his feelings of love grew ever stronger and he became depressed. Hearing of this, Umewaka tried to visit the dharma teacher and wandered out of the temple with the servant boy, but lost their way not knowing where to go. The boy, in his distress, said "Oh tengu, even if you are monsters, please take us up to Mount Hiei," and they rested in the shade of a pine tree at Karasaki. An aged mountain ascetic came and carried the child and boy away in a palanquin to a place called Shakaga-dake in Ōmine. The temple head grieved greatly and searched everywhere for them. When the dharma teacher's affair became known, they first attacked the mansion of the minister father at Sanjō Kyōgoku and burned everything down. Though the monks of Miidera would not disperse even after this, they knew they could not assault the mountain gate. Instead, using this opportunity, they fortified their temple and built a Samaya ordination platform, expecting that the mountain gate monks would surely attack. When the mountain gate forces came with over 207,000 men in a chaotic assault and burned everything down, Umewaka later returned to the capital with the help of dragon gods, but Hanazono had become a burned wasteland with no one left to ask about. When he went to Miidera to inquire about the temple head, he found it too had been completely burned and changed beyond recognition. Thinking this disaster was because of him, he felt wretched and made his way to Ishiyama, sending a letter to the dharma teacher through the servant boy. In the meantime, he threw himself from Seta Bridge and died. When both the dharma teacher and the servant boy heard that the child had thrown himself into the water, they were shocked and hurried there to search. They found the body at a place called Kuko-no-se. The dharma teacher looked up to heaven and wept in grief. But since he could not remain like this forever, that night he had the body cremated at Toribeno, hung the death poem around his neck, and entered the mountains and forests. Later he built a hermitage at Iwakura in Nishiyama and practiced there. The servant boy also shaved his head and secluded himself at Mount Kōya.