Miraculous Medicine Methods for Rapidly Curing Epidemic Diseases

[One] To treat epidemic diseases, grate five monme of the white roots of banana plant and squeeze out the juice. Add this fresh juice to one gō of cold water and drink it - the cure will be swift. When fever is strong, cool it before drinking. If the fever has entered deep into the body and is difficult to disperse, continue drinking for four to five days and the fever will disperse without endangering life. Recently, a certain Mr. Nakai, a resident of Hino in Ōmi Province, recorded this same prescription and distributed it in print, achieving great merit in rescuing people from epidemic disasters.

It is explained in a certain sutra that if Monday among the seven days of the week falls on the fifth day of the fifth month, that year will have many worries about epidemics. Now, in this year of the Boar (Bunka 12), the fifth day of the fifth month falls on Monday. Therefore, we fear that such worries may arise. These days we occasionally hear of epidemic diseases spreading. Generally speaking, among difficult-to-treat diseases, none surpass typhoid fever, warm-cold diseases, and epidemics. This miraculous prescription has been passed down in our family since ancient times, and when tried on many people, not one failed to be cured. It is truly a precious prescription that should be revered and used. Now, carrying on the aspirations of our predecessors, we increasingly spread this medicine method, hoping and praying that it will equally benefit the world.

For heat symptoms, cold water should be used. If it is a yin symptom or for people who do not like water, hot water should be added. However, in places where banana plants are not available, drinking plenty of Japanese ginger juice is good. Drinking burdock root juice is also effective.

Supplement:
For dysentery that is difficult to cure, decoct banana plant roots and take the medicine - the cure will be swift.

Summer of Bunka 12, Year of the Boar　　　　Heian, Sanshōdō Print Distribution