【Upper Document】
【Title】
Great Earthquake and Great Tsunami - Chushingura Act IX Selected Passages

【Upper Left Section】

【Upper part】Neither elegant nor witty
【Lower part】People drinking sake on the side of the main street
【Same below】
Acting exactly as if painted in a picture
People with ships sailing back and forth at Daikoku Bridge

The sake that was so enjoyably consumed
Customers rushing out of teahouses due to the earthquake

Taking off their work sashes and rushing out
The swaying before lunch

Offering "Please take this"
Prepared stimulants/medicine

When the messenger comes, please let us know
Letters sent to distant places

Whether you or I
Carpenters' assistants

Oh my, much obliged
People injured by falling tiles on the street

My role for two people
Suddenly becoming a bachelor household due to the great earthquake

Whatever the promise [unclear text]
People who died in the tsunami

【Lower Left Section】
"Is that true? Is it real?"
People listening to rumors about Daikoku Bridge

Treasures irreplaceable to home and body
People giving money to each and letting them escape

Just when feeling at a loss
People who came to pick up relatives from the countryside

This doesn't make sense, what's this about?
Just when thinking the tsunami stopped, it's swaying again

Indulging in pleasure and losing one's senses to heavy drinking
A son who uses sympathy visits as an excuse to go to the pleasure quarters

A mirror of Japan's greatest fool
A person sitting proudly, bragging to outsiders

How satisfying this must be
The lumber dealer

Because they dislike such things
People who sent elderly and children to the countryside

Drawing detailed pictures
Letters sealed and sent to distant places with sailing ships

Change is the way of the world
The earthquake has settled, spring preparations

【Lower Document】
Contract for Earthquake Service Worker "Yuri-suke"
1. This worker called Yuri-suke is from Kashima County, Yurugi Village, where he lived reliably. With guarantors, he was sent out to work as a servant for household earthquakes. The term of earthquake service extends eight years from last year in Shinano Province, and as nearby provinces, Echigo and three provinces were certainly startled.
For clothing: in summer one piece of Garaji-mafuru-he cloth, in winter one piece of fine tsunami cloth shall be provided.

1. Not to mention the five Home Provinces and five countries of the Kinai region, he shall shake from Shikoku to Kyushu. If this person sneaks into Lady Osan's bedroom at night and causes a secret earthquake, or destroys important storehouses and causes walls to collapse, he shall be immediately scolded by a plasterer and the matter quickly resolved.

1. Regarding religious sect: due to the Izu Province disturbance waves, temples in Shimoda Side Street all collapsed, Side Street storehouses all three collapsed, Renji Temple's Buddha statues were lost in the tsunami. This is not about the distress of fifty-eight monks. If anyone is sent out for earthquakes elsewhere, and if there are any returns, we earthquake workers shall go out with keystone and press down firmly, and shall not trouble Suruga Province's treasury.

震動元年 (Shindo First Year)     Guarantor: Even though the house collapsed, the shop
なまず十一月 (Catfish 11th Month)              Burning-out-ya Kaji-bei
                                    Osakai Yuri Street
                                    Escape Alley
                          Master:   Tsuraki-ya Daijiro's Shop
                                   Funakuya Kowa-emon

Osaka Town Mansion, Great Tsunami Landing Place
Bridges-ya Ochi-emon