【Right Page】
Sanada, Kuki, Kanamori, Wakebe, Toyama
Endo, Hitotsui, Ichihashi, Kuwayama, Sengoku
Mizoguchi

【Left Page】
Sanada　　　　　　　　　　　　Hankanpu Volume 9, Part 1
Izunokami Shigeno Nobuyuki is said to be a descendant of Unno Kotaro Yukitsune, a resident of Shinano Province. 《Note: According to their genealogy, there was Prince Teishu, a son of Emperor Seiwa, who came down to live in the Unno Shiratori-no-sho estate in Shinano Province》
《Note: After his death, he was venerated as Shiratori Myojin and also called Emperor Shigeno. The prince's son took Shigeno as his surname and was called Unno Kotaro Yukitsune. He is said to be this prince's son. Koin Shoun》
《Note: Upon examining genealogical records, no Prince Teishu among Emperor Seiwa's sons can be found. Moreover, examining the Shinsen Shojiroku, Sandai Jitsuroku, Koin Shoun-zu, and Kujo Bunin, the Shigeno Sukune lineage descends from Amenomichi》
《Note: no-mikoto, the fifth-generation descendant of Kamitama-no-mikoto. During Emperor Kanmu's Enryaku era, Iesawa, the son of Shigeno Azumabito and governor of Owari, was granted the Shigeno Sukune surname. His son was granted the Shigeno Ason surname together with his father Iesawa in the first month of the 14th year of Daido under Emperor Saga》
《Note: Teishu served five emperors - Heizei, Saga, Junna, Ninmyo, and Montoku - rising to Senior Fourth Rank Lower Grade Palace Minister concurrently serving as Sagami Governor, and died on the 10th day of the 12th month of Ninju 2 at age 68. Alternatively, it is said he served until Emperor Seiwa's reign and died on the 22nd day of the 10th month of Jogan 2 at age 50》
《Note: Teishu had two daughters: one was the mother of Prince Honyo, son of Emperor Ninmyo; the other was the mother of Prince Koreyasu, son of Emperor Montoku. This Prince Koreyasu was the elder brother of Emperor Seiwa》
《Note: Thus, as Teishu was the maternal grandfather of princes of two generations, his family's prosperity was unparalleled in the world. He himself also had a reputation for literary excellence at the time, and in Tencho 8, by imperial command, he compiled the Hifu Ryaku》
《Note: in one thousand volumes. Perhaps the Unno ancestor derives from Teishu? The mention of Prince Teishu might be a mistaken transmission referring to Prince Honyo. ○In the Heike Monogatari, Genpei Seisui-ki, and other works》