【Right page】
In place of rewards for his military achievements, he appealed for forgiveness for not taking his father's head, but permission was not granted. So Terumasa again consulted with Fukushima Saemon-no-dayū Masanori, and the two petitioned together once more. Thereupon, the death sentence of Ōsumi-no-kami Yoshitaka was commuted, and moreover, many additional lands were added to Moritaka's domains {{marginal note: 20,000 koku were added, making a total of 55,000 koku including his original holdings}}. Moritaka's joy was boundless, and he soon sent a messenger to Shingū to secretly convey this news, whereupon Yoshitaka cut off his own head and died, which was truly pitiful {{marginal note: aged 59 years ○ as is told in the world}}.

{{marginal note: The reason Yoshitaka committed suicide was as follows: Initially, when Nagato-no-kami Moritaka followed the campaign in Ōu, he left a family retainer named Toyooka Gorōemon to guard Toba Castle. When Yoshitaka allied with Ishida and attempted to seize the castle, Toyooka found it difficult to resist and surrendered it to Yoshitaka. His colleagues whispered among themselves that although soldiers guard castles for such purposes, regardless of being the master's father, Toyooka's conduct was excessively accommodating and disappointing. Perhaps feeling ashamed of this, he secretly searched for Yoshitaka's whereabouts}}

【Left page】
{{marginal note: and learned he was hiding in the depths of Kumano. He went to Shingū Castle, approached Awa-no-kami Ujizen, and said, "Nagato-no-kami has petitioned the naidaijin, and in place of this campaign's rewards, Yoshitaka's crimes are to be pardoned. I have come as a messenger to quickly escort him back." Yoshitaka, perhaps having exhausted his luck, was easily deceived and set out for his home province with Toyooka as his companion. Along the way, Toyooka told Yoshitaka, "Now that the naidaijin's anger regarding your lordship's situation runs deep, arrangements have been made to destroy our house, so you should consider the future prosperity of your descendants." Yoshitaka replied, "Then take my head and present it to Lord Tokugawa," and committed seppuku. Toyooka took the head and on his way back, at a teahouse in Hoshizaki, Ise, he encountered an official document pardoning Yoshitaka's crimes. Contrary to his expectations, Toyooka was greatly shocked but maintained his composure. He went to Moritaka and said, "When I went to Kumano and spoke about serving as Ōsumi-no-kami's escort, he said that even between father and son, once having become enemies, it would be impossible to meet face to face again while living, and why should this be troubling?" I remonstrated with him in various ways, but he decided to return. However, as he approached his home province, his heart still found no peace, and after secretly committing seppuku, he summoned me and ordered me to take his head." He told this story convincingly and presented his father's head. Nagato-no-kami was greatly astonished and, at a loss, reported this matter to Lord Tokugawa and presented his father's head. Lord Tokugawa also said "This is a pitiful affair" and returned the head. Years later, all of Toyooka's deeds were}}

{{revealed}}