【Right Page】
followed [Tokugawa-dono] toward the northern provinces. When they heard that warfare had erupted in the Kamigata region, Kashige hurried back to his home province and conducted military operations toward Mino Province. The nyudo accompanied Tokugawa-dono as he advanced along the Tokaido. After the Battle of Sekigahara ended, the father and son's merits were rewarded and they were granted additional new lands《margin note: In Mino Province -Kami-Arichi, Seki, and Kawachi Province's Kaneda, etc., granted lands worth 10,000 koku. Not to mention Hida Province, altogether 38,000 koku}}. The nyudo, having reached the age of eighty-three, died on the twelfth day of the eighth month of Keicho 12. He divided his territorial lands and granted them to his two sons. Izumo-no-kami Kashige was initially raised by (Naga)chika and served Lord Oda. Later he belonged to Hideyoshi, and father and son alike participated in battles here and there. During the Battle of Sekigahara, he captured Gujo Castle in Mino Province. After his father the nyudo died,

【Left Page】
he was granted Hida Province. When the Osaka campaigns arose, his son Nagato-no-kami Shigeyori rushed forth and attacked the castle. When war broke out again, he first defended Kishiwada Castle in Izumi Province. When Osaka Castle was already broken and those fleeing came forth, he cut off the heads of 208 men and captured eight alive to present them. In this year, Genna 1, on the third day of the intercalary sixth month, Kashige died at the age of fifty-three. His third son Nagato-no-kami Shigeyori succeeded his father and was appointed Izumo-no-kami. Initially, Shigeyori had served close to Tokugawa-dono from his childhood, was ennobled in Keicho 18 and made Nagato-no-kami. When the Osaka campaign arose, he followed the imperial camp, and when camps were established at Nagoya in Kii Province, he was granted new lands in Mino Province《margin note: 3,000 koku increase at Seki and Yoshida}}. When war arose again, he also followed the Ogosho's camp, and his father died