【Right page】
was granted the post of jitō (land steward) and commanded approximately 5,000 soldiers. After generations of territorial disputes with Kitabatake, the provincial governor, during the time of Saemon-no-jō Sukenori, he reconciled with Provincial Governor Minamoto Chūnagon Gusokyo. He adopted the latter's second son to continue his family line - this is the current Nagano Jirō Gusuke. Since he is not a descendant of the Kudō lineage, relations within the clan are not harmonious. If you would graciously arrange for the Nagano house not to be extinguished, I, Masatoshi, will by all means devise a way to bring all those clan members and retainers over to your side." Oda was greatly pleased and immediately had his younger brother Nobukane take the name Nagano Kōzuke-no-suke, attached many soldiers to him, and stationed him at Kōzuke Castle in this province. Meanwhile, Nagano Jirō Gusuke could no longer remain at Nagano

【Left page】
Castle and fled to Tagi District, relying on his father the provincial governor. When the people of Unchin'in, Kusafu, Ietokoro, Hosono, Otobu, and Nakao surrendered and came over, Wakebe, Kawakita and all the others were placed under Nobukane's command. Later, after Lord Oda passed away and Hideyoshi came to rule the realm, at the beginning of the Bunroku era, Kōzuke-no-suke Nobukane 《marginal note: Around this time Nobukane returned to his original surname, calling himself Oda, and became a Fourth Rank Chamberlain through the Kanpaku's recommendation》 was accused of some minor offense, had his domain confiscated, and was transferred to Ōmi Province 《marginal note: granted 25,000 koku, became a monk called Rōken》. At that time, by separate order of the Kanpaku, Sakyō-no-suke Masatoshi was granted Kōzuke Castle 《marginal note: 10,000 koku》. In the autumn of Keichō 5, Masatoshi followed Lord Tokugawa toward the northern provinces. When it was heard that war had also broken out in the Kamigata region, Masatoshi, as a supporter of the eastern forces, joined with Tomita Shinano-no-kami Tomonobu and headed to his home province.