【Right page】
《marginal note: are descendants of Endō Sakon-no-shōgen Mochitō, ancestor of the Kanmu Heishi, and his son Endō Musha Moritō. Moritō became a monk at age nineteen and became Mongaku-bō. However, upon examination, Mongaku-bō was a youngest son of Endō Sakon-no-shōgen Morimitus of the Watanabe faction in Settsu Province who, when he turned thirteen, was given his coming-of-age ceremony by a clansman named Endō Saburō Takiguchi Tōmitsu, taking the character "Mori" from his father Morimitus and "Tō" from his eboshi-oya (ceremonial parent) Tōmitsu to be named Moritō. His father's name was neither Mochitō nor was his secular name Moritō. It is also incomprehensible that Mongaku-bō had children. I believe this is a mistaken transmission of what was actually a descendant of an Endō from Mongaku-bō's clan. Also, the Endō appear to be of Fujiwara lineage, so it is incomprehensible that they should be of Kanmu Heishi lineage. However, the claim that the Endō of Mino Province are of Heishi lineage may be due to their succeeding the Azuma house, but without hearing that family's account, no judgment can be made either way.》Yoshitaka initially held the title Sama-no-suke and succeeded Morikazu, governing the Yamada-no-shō in Gujō District.《marginal note: Initially, when Azuma Rokurō-dayū Taneyori, sixth son of Chiba-no-suke Tsunetane, and his son Nakatsukasa-nyūdō Sosen performed meritorious service during the Jōkyū era, they were appointed to the position of jitō (land steward) of Yamada-no-shō in Gujō District, Mino Province. Dōkei was a tenth-generation descendant of Nakatsukasa-nyūdō. Yoshitaka appears to have inherited the hereditary domain of his maternal grandfather Tsuneyoshi.》
During the time of Regent Hideyoshi, Sama-no-suke Yoshitaka lost his hereditary domain and was moved to a place called Obara in this province. Ōsumi-no-kami, son of Shinbei-no-jō Taneaki,

【Left page】
Tanemoto governed a place called Ōchi and followed the Korean campaign in Bunroku 2 (1593), dying in that country. His son Kohachirō Tanenao succeeded his father's house.《marginal note: Regarding Yoshitaka's loss of the Gujō domain, the exact year and month are still unknown. I believe it occurred when Inaba Chūbei Sadamichi was transferred from Sone Castle to Gujō Castle. The territory that Yoshitaka governed was land worth 7,500 koku, while the territory that Tanenao governed was land worth 6,500 koku.》In the autumn of Keichō 5 (1600), when the eastern and western armies arose, most of the people of this province followed Osaka's summons and served under Gifu Chūnagon Hidenobu. Yoshitaka had his own thoughts and did not follow that summons. While in this situation, word came from Sakakibara Shikibu-shōyū Yasumasa by order of Lord Tokugawa that he should quickly join the eastern forces. Yoshitaka was greatly pleased and, as an ally of the main country, with only a small force, separated from his clan and engaged in military