【Right page】
Since it was a province that [their ancestors] had ruled, he wished to receive territory in that province and pass it on to his descendants for a long time. When he died making this request, in Kan'ei 13, in accordance with his wishes, his sons were granted divided territories in that province. 《marginal note: This is what is commonly transmitted. Whether this was really so, the year and month of Naomori's death are unknown》His eldest son Tango-no-kami Naoshige was granted a portion of his father's hereditary domain and resided in Saijō in Nii District, Iyo Province. 《marginal note: 30,000 koku》
《marginal note: The year, month, and day of his death are still unknown》His son Kenbutsu Naooki succeeded to the family headship and granted territory to his younger brother Han'ya Naoaki. 《marginal note: It is said that 5,000 koku were divided from the 30,000 koku》Naooki later incurred guilt and was exiled to Kaga Province on the twenty-ninth day of the seventh month of Kanbun 5, entrusted to Kaga-no-kami Tsunatoshi, and his family line was extinguished. 《marginal note: When the Imperial Palace was being rebuilt, Naooki served in that role, but after the construction was completed, he secretly》
《marginal note: went down to Iyo Province and petitioned during the imperial return to Kyōto　　　especially since there were many rumors of his usual dissipation, his domain was confiscated》

【Left page】
Mimasaku-no-kami Minamoto Naoya was Naomori's second son. Since he initially came as a hostage, he was granted a stipend by the Shogun's family 《marginal note: Taitekuin-dono Daijō-kokō》and served them. When his father died, he was granted a portion of the hereditary domain. 《marginal note: 20,000 koku at Kanbe in Ise, 10,000 koku in Iyo Province, ruling 30,000 koku in total, and he was planning to build a castle at a place called Kawakami in Iyo》
《marginal note: but died while planning this》He died before long without male heirs, and wished to have his daughter marry the second son of Koide Ise-no-kami Yoshichika and have him succeed to the family headship, but this matter did not reach official attention in time before he died.
Two-thirds of his domain was reduced, and one-third was given to Yoshichika's second son to succeed the family. 《marginal note: 10,000 koku》He was called Uemon Naotsugu. His son was Tsushima-no-kami Naoyoshi 《marginal note: later Tosa-no-kami》
Kurōdo Minamoto Naoyori was Naomori's third son who received a portion of his father's hereditary domain and was granted the Komatsu area in Iyo Province. 《marginal note: 10,000 koku》His son was Yamashiro-no-kami Naoharu 《marginal note: later Ukon-shōgen, also Hyōbu-shōyū》