【Right page】
Hearing this, he rushed back to his home province as a supporter of the Kantō side (Tokugawa faction), and when it was reported that Osaka forces were attacking down into the province, his forces numbered only six hundred men who barricaded themselves in Imao Castle. Such was the extent of Ichihashi's position. Saying that if the eastern enemies were defeated, he would surely come as a surrendering retainer, the forces of Itō and Maruge took position in front of Fujikawa, but before they could attack, Nagakatsu sallied forth from the castle, spent the day in arrow warfare across the water, and launched night attacks on the enemy camp, fighting fiercely. The besieging forces could not withstand this and withdrew to Fukuoka Castle. When Nagakatsu continued his attacks, the castle was finally captured and [the defenders] fled to Osaka Castle. Nagakatsu remained at Fukutsuka Castle, blocking the roads to Kuwana and Ōgaki, pushed into the castle town of Ōgaki, and cut off the heads of seventeen guard soldiers,

【Left page】
which he presented [to his lord]. After the war ended, Nagakatsu's achievements were considered substantial, and rewards were granted {{marginal note: combining his original domain with new grants totaling 20,000 koku}}. In Keichō 13, he was transferred to Yabashi Castle in Hōki Province. In the same 19th year when Osaka forces rose up, he rushed up to attack the castle, and when forces rose up again, he set up camp in his own domain at Hoshida Village to support the Ōgosho's camp, and following orders, had his men defend that castle. In the summer of Genna 2, when the Ōgosho passed away, according to the wishes he had left behind, many lands attached to Sanjō Castle in Echigo Province were granted to Nagakatsu. This was heard to be a reward for his military achievements at Osaka {{marginal note: 41,300 koku}}. At the age of sixty-four, he died on the seventeenth day of the third month of the same sixth year. Having no male heir to succeed the family, his nephew Nagamasa was made to inherit the family line. Shimōsa-no-kami Nagamasa {{marginal note: actually the son of Hayashi Uemon-no-jō [someone]}} initially