【Right page】
was granted [the castle] and became the deputy governor (mokudai) of that province.《Marginal note: The "Azuchi Nikki" records: "Hemmi Suruga-no-kami of Wakasa died and [his line] was extinct for four months, so his domain of 8,000 koku was divided, with 3,000 koku given to Takeda Magohachirō and 5,000 koku to Mizoguchi Kin'emon." The "Nobunaga-ki" records Mizoguchi Take. Take was his childhood name, and at this time he was called Kin'emon.》 The following year (Tenshō 10), in the sixth month, Oda-dono was killed. In the spring of the same eleventh year, after being defeated at the Battle of Shizugatake in Ōmi Province, Shibata Shurinosuke Katsuie retreated to Echizen Province. When Chikuzen-no-kami Hideyoshi subsequently attacked, Hidekatsu led his troops and joined Hideyoshi's forces at the port of Tsuruga, fighting as a vanguard. Soon his merit was rewarded and he was granted Daishōji Castle in Kaga Province《Marginal note: 44,000 koku》, was also appointed Hōki-no-kami, and granted the court rank of Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade. 《Marginal note: What is transmitted in the world is that when Oda-dono died, since Mizoguchi's original master [Niwa Nagahide] was [still alive], he belonged to Niwa. In the summer of Tenshō 13, Nagahide died. That year, when Hideyoshi intended to attack Sassa in Etchū, he borrowed the forces of Nagahide's son Nagashige to destroy Sassa, and finally seized Nagashige's domain. From this time, many of Niwa's retainers became Hideyoshi's retainers, and it is said that at this time Mizoguchi was also summoned by Hideyoshi.》

【Left page】
In Tenshō 14, he was granted Junior Fourth Rank Lower Grade and given the Toyotomi surname. In Keichō 3, he moved to Shibata Castle in Echigo Province《Marginal note: 60,000 koku》. In the autumn of the same fifth year, when war broke out simultaneously in east and west, since this province bordered Mutsu and was an important location, Hidekatsu defended his own castle as a supporter of Tokugawa-dono and suppressed the bandits who rose up throughout the province. In the same fourteenth year, Hidekatsu died at the age of sixty-three. His eldest son, Hōki-no-kami Sadakatsu, initially received a character from the Taikō's name and was called Hidenobu, was granted court rank and appointed Shuzenshō. In the autumn of Keichō 5, following his father, he pacified the bandits in the province, and when his father died, he inherited the house《Marginal note: 50,000 koku》. The domain...