【Right Page】
Rice Pounding
　For base rice (motome), one person processes four mortars per day (about 1 to 3 go 5 gō per mortar), for secondary fermentation rice (soemai) five mortars per day. For premium sake, four mortars. The rice must be processed extremely finely.
　Particularly, old pestles are avoided, and when replacing them, wood from Owari five-needle pine is used.
　When the pestle tip becomes worn and hollowed, it greatly damages the rice. Therefore, workers around the mortar constantly monitor this.
　Owari wood is preferred for its soft wood quality.

Rice Washing
　First, stagnant well water is pumped out to obtain fresh water. Every trace of sediment and impurity is removed to achieve extreme
　cleanliness. With three people working on one half-cut tub, the water is changed forty times. For cold-season sake, this extends to fifty times.

Terminology
　○Tōji (Head of sake workers, also called oyaji. During the Zhou dynasty, there was a person called Tōji, and his descendant named Tokō gained fame for skillful sake brewing. Hence the title is named in emulation)
　○Emon (Head of koji workers. One theory suggests it derives from the meaning of "making flowers." Another theory states that in China, when making koji, one sleeps restlessly under shelves for seven days, guarding the fermentation room entrance, hence "emon" from "guarding")

Brewing Equipment
【Left Page】
　Over 200 half-cut tubs (each allocated to one batch) ○ Over 20 moto-oroshi tubs ○ Over 3 three-shaku tubs ○ Empty
　17-18 mortars ○ Over 400 koji trays ○ Steamers must use straight-grain Satsuma cedar,
　where steam leaking through the wood grain is considered good. Other tubs use plain-sawn lumber ○ About 380 pressing bags for a 12-koku sake press ○ Firewood requirement is over 130 kan per moto

Ash Preparation
　To one to of Bungo ash, add 4 shō 5 gō of quicklime, knead well, and place in a jar. Then, initially
　prepare dripping water using sifted ash residue, used for moistening clear ash.
　There are, of course, oral traditions for this.

Reconstituted Ash
　To one to of quicklime, add 4 shō of Bungo ash. Roast in a pot and add moisture before use.
　○For heating enclosed sake, before the rainy season is considered best.

Sweet Cooking Wine (Mirin-chū)