【Right page】
○Giant salamander　　　　○Yoshino arrowroot

○Red frog (mountain toad)　　　　　○Takagamine grapevine moth

○Hawk net　　　　　○Duck net

○Yoshū (Iyo Province) ridge-crossing duck　《divided text: Settsū Province mist net　Double-return technique》

○Bear hunting　《divided text: Deadfall trap | Extracting bile》　《divided text: Cave bear | Testing authenticity》　《divided text: Striking with an axe | Making fake bile》

【Left page】
On the Varieties of Stone

Stone is the bone of mountains. The "Wuli Lun" (Treatise on Natural Philosophy) states: "The essence of earth becomes stone. Stone is the seed of qi (vital energy). The way qi produces stone is like the sinews, tendons, claws, and teeth of the human body," and so forth. However, the quality of stone is not uniform across every country and every mountain. This is due to the variations in climate and local conditions, and thus it follows that stone is also produced through qi. Moreover, plants, trees, and aquatic creatures can all transform into stone. The "Bencao" (Materia Medica) mentions petrified pine; the "Song Shu" (History of the Song) mentions petrified cypress; and miscellaneous histories mention petrified bamboo. The "Daizui Bian" (Record of Inebriation) states: "North of Yangquan and Fuyu Mountain, there is a clear stream spanning several dozen paces that submerges plants and trees, all of which transform into stone." Furthermore, in one country within Italy, there is a remarkable spring, and whatever falls into it will, within half a month, develop a stone skin that encases the object. Also, in a western country of Europe, there is a lake where, if a wooden stake is inserted into the ground within it, the portion underground transforms into iron, while the portion submerged in water transforms into stone. Japan too has many such places, and in general, the coastal beaches and lakeshores of cold regions all have this property. It should be understood that petrified artifacts and other objects also depend on the particular location where they are found. Furthermore, there exist "yin-yang stones" that, when struck with a whip, can bring rain or stop rain, and in Japan they are treasured…