[Right Page]
Tunnels are cut through for distances of ten to twenty chō (approximately one to two kilometers). When the miners illuminate the tunnels with torches, the interior becomes pitch black, making it difficult to distinguish stone from soil. Even the miners' complexions are different from those of ordinary people. As for why they must dig so deeply: originally this stone has an outer crust (skin) that is extremely hard. This is what is now called "nebu-kawa" and sold on the market《note: the original "nebu-kawa" is from Iyo Province》; it cannot be split by driving in wedges. One can only peel it apart layer by layer. The Teshima stone in common circulation is the inner core of this stone. Therefore, they dig in after removing the outer crust. Among the sites, "Ie no Ura" has seven mining pits. However, since one must cross an entire mountain to return, most of the objects are manufactured inside the mountain and then carried out. These include water vessels, water basins, braziers, single-burner stoves and the like; there are no particularly large items. "Kō Village" is a fishing village, but stone workers also dig from the southern side. The stoneworkers live in clusters at the foot of the mountain. It should be noted that all the mountains of Sanshū (Sanuki Province) consist entirely of this stone; the rocky caverns of Iyatani, Zentsuji, and the Daishi (Kōbō Daishi) are also made of this stone.

○ The grain (texture) of the stone is as if fragments of rock have gathered and congealed. It resembles pumice and has a coarse grain. Therefore, when fashioned into water basins, water seeps through and they cannot hold water. However, the stone does not deteriorate when exposed to fire. The stone produced in Utsunomiya in Shimotsuke Province resembles this stone and is somewhat finer in quality. Pumice is a transformation of sea foam, and is produced in Iyo, Satsuma, Kishū, and Sagami. Since this mountain (Teshima) is also an island in the sea,

[Left Page]
it is suspected that since the creation of the world, it may be something formed from the congealing of tidal waters. The name "Shiwaku" may perhaps be a corruption of "shio-awa" (salt foam/sea foam). ○ Shiwaku stone has become a "御留山" (a mountain from which quarrying is prohibited by domain authorities), and what is now called by that name is largely prized as "kaitsu-ki" (shell-encrusted stone). This is beach rock from the surrounding area; its grain resembles fine white rice, its quality is hard, and it is used for stepping stones, water basins, and irregular decorative stones in gardens. The moss that grows quickly on it is considered a virtue. Beach rocks pierced and hollowed out by waves into unusual and irregular shapes are particularly treasured.

○ Mikage Stone

It is produced from the mountain valleys of two districts in Sesshū (Settsu Province): Muko and Muhara. At the coastal village of Mikage at the foot of the mountain, there are stoneworkers who fashion it into various objects and ship it out; hence it is called "Mikage stone." The name "Mikage Mountain" belongs to the mountain in Kamo, Jōshū (Yamashiro Province) where hollyhock (aoi) is gathered; it is not actually a mountain name in this province (Settsu). However, within the village there is "Mikage no Matsu" (the Mikage Pine), and there is an ancient poem by Lord Mototoshi in the "Shoku Kokin-shū." Originally this mountain was at the coast, and in former times it was not possible to transport the stone by ox-cart. Now, however, the shoreline has gradually silted up and the mountain has grown more distant from the sea. Moreover, stone near the mountain entrance has been completely exhausted, so now the stone is quarried deep within, transported by ox-cart from Sumiyoshi Village, some twenty chō (approximately two kilometers) higher up, and relayed down to Mikage Village. The stones of Namase-kawara along the Arima Highway also come from this deep interior mountain area. As for the finest quality of this (stone, continued on the next page…)