Those produced have somewhat refined stone grain. These are not all quarried, but rather large blocks are cut and dropped down the mountain, then divided into thousands of pieces for distribution.

○Uses are: For sword smiths: taiguchi; for polishers: aokaya, shiroma, chamiko, amakusa, iyo, and jōkenji stones, progressing through increasingly fine grades to inokura and uchikumori, finally using uwahiki to bring out a blue-cloud luster. 《Uwahiki refers to stone powder from uchikumori. However, it is also called Narutaki chitsuka and is sometimes used before inokura. This is also called kaki.》 ○For razors: rough polishing with Karatsu, shiroma, aomiko, chamiko, amakusa, then finishing with Narutaki, Takao, etc. ○For knives: tobacco knives use taiguchi, medium whetstones, Hirao, Somata, etc., not reaching finishing stones. Also for thin-blade vegetable knives: rough polishing uses taiguchi, shiroma, aomiko, chamiko, white Iyo; final stage uses hiki for coloring. ○For coins: polish with Karatsu and Miko-ga-hama, then burnish with Yoshu red. ○For carpenters 《and》 box makers, joiners, etc.: use Monzen, Hirao, Somata blue whetstones, then finish with Narutaki, Takao, etc. ○For cooking knives: Yamashiro blue ○For small knives: Minamimura ○For bamboo crafts: Amakusa ○For needles and tweezers: rough polish with Tosa, then burnish with Yoshu white and red ○For carving: Yoshu white

○For paper cutting: Somata. Generally it is like this. In general usage, hard materials are applied to soft ones, and soft materials are polished with hard ones, but there is a natural compatibility between metal and stone qualities that cannot be determined categorically.

Varieties of Mushrooms and Fungi

Those growing on the ground are called kin or jin, those growing on wood are called sen. Kin in the Wamyōshō is read as "take," sen as "kinomimi." There are several types of kin: wood fungi 《kikurage types》, soil fungi 《types growing from earth》, stone fungi 《iwatake types》, etc., with extremely many varieties. The Song person Chen Renyu wrote the Kinpu (Mushroom Treatise) in great detail. The Honzō states: "Generally fungi grow in mountains during the sixth and seventh months when steamed by humid heat, and are sweet, smooth, and edible," etc. However, those recorded in the Kinpu and Honzō are mostly different from those found in our country, making complete identification difficult. ○While these are commonly called kusabira, in the Wamyōshō vegetables are called kusabira. In the dialects of central Honshu and Kyushu they are called naha. In the Owari region they are called mimi.