There is something called "rai-kin" (thunder fungi). It is suspected to be a type of cultivated mushroom. The Tsūga states: "Strike椿 (tsubaki), elm, kōzo and such with an axe and cut them, let their bark rot in rain for a long time, pour rice-washing water on them, and when thunder sounds, mushrooms will grow. If thunder does not sound, strike them with a large axe and mushrooms will immediately sprout." This is similar to the method of cultivating shiitake mushrooms. Now, those produced in Yamato Province's Yoshino and also in the mountains of Ise surpass those from Hyūga. The method is to cut many hornbeam trees, gather them in one place, bury them slightly in soil, build fences around them to ward off wind, and expose them to sun and rain for about one year. When they are well rotted, strike them with the aforementioned axe to make cuts, and this alone suffices - there is no need to pour rice-washing water. However, those that first grow are few, and generally the third year after is considered the full prime. After that, as the yearly growth decreases, axes are applied again year after year. They appear in spring, summer, and autumn, but not in winter. Among these, spring ones are considered top quality and called "spring fragrance" (haruko). Summer ones have thin caps and inferior taste. Separately, there is an exquisite variety called "snow fragrance" (yukiko) which has thick edges and complete form. This is selected from among the spring fragrance variety and is prized for having pure white undersides.

○Stone Ear (Iwatake) 《Also known as: Stone Reishi》

On the summit of Tengu Peak in Kumano, there is a great rock, and many grow on top of it. They are all in precipitous places on mountain rocks. During summer's fiery heat, they become very small like pine moss. The surface is black, the underside blue-green, shaped like wood ear but without stems. The black part attaches to rock and grows. To harvest these, ladders are set up, ropes are used for support, or one rides in baskets suspended from tree branches - such activities are as shown in the illustration. "Though it looks frightening to onlookers, it is easier than monkeys climbing trees, and even young nightingales are said to be harvested in this manner." Now, those from Yoshino are considered top quality.

Additional Notes
Besides these, mushroom varieties are extremely numerous. ○For matsutake, those produced in Yamashiro Province are considered best. Generally they only grow on female pine trees. Therefore, since male pines are numerous in the western provinces, matsutake are scarce there, while bukuryō (poria)...