Poria is abundant. The capital region has many female pines, so mushrooms are plentiful but poria is scarce. ○ Golden mushrooms grow between winter and spring, resembling matsutake but smaller. ○ Shimeji ○ Nunohikitake ○ Hatsutake has an underside like verdigris, called "aohachi" in the Owari region. ○ Nametake is called "mizutataki" in western provinces and grows in winter. ○ Oyster mushrooms are shipped in large quantities from Koya and grow on various trees. ○ Maitake resemble oyster mushrooms but grow in overlapping clusters on single stems. They are small like needles with purple tips. ○ Wood ear mushrooms attach to tree bark and when first grown are pale yellow tinged with red. When harvested and dried, they turn black. In Japan, those growing on elderberry trees are considered top quality. ○ Mulberry mushrooms are of two types: the hard ones are bracket fungi on mulberry trees, while the soft ones are edible wood ears. Besides these, locust, elm, willow, poplar, and wax trees all produce mushrooms. ○ Cedar mushrooms grow on cedar stumps, resemble oyster mushrooms, and are common in deep mountains. ○ Kudzu mushrooms are the essence flowers of kudzu, and red mushrooms are also of this type. There is one variety that grows in spring called warbler mushrooms or "sasatake," known as red mushrooms in Tamba and shitei mushrooms in Nara, among other names. ○ Reed mushrooms are shimeji that grow among reeds and bush clover, appearing around September. ○ Hedgehog mushrooms are also called haritake. Unlike ordinary needle mushrooms, the genuine ones grow with spread caps, having needles on the underside of the caps, white in color and bitter in taste. ○ Leather mushrooms grow abundantly on tree roots in shaded hilly areas. They have short stems and grow in overlapping clusters. The surface is black with tea-brown hair, the underside white without gills. Leather mushrooms are black in color and of the same species. Black leather mushrooms are also the same. ○ Mushroom varieties are generally as described above. Besides these, there are many with poison that are not used for food. For instance, bamboo mushrooms grow in bamboo groves, and earth mushrooms are also called fox umbrellas, which include varieties of ghost cap, earth peak, and ghost mushrooms.

○ Honey 《Also called》 Hundred Flowers Essence, Hundred Flowers Stamen

○ Generally, places that brew honey exist in all provinces, but among them Kumano in Kii Province is considered first. Aki Province comes second. Besides these, Ise, Owari, Tosa, Iwami, Chikuzen, Iyo, Tamba, Tango, Izumo and others have produced it since ancient times. There is also imported honey, but it is of inferior quality. This is manufactured with sugar or white sugar. To test this, when domestic products are boiled, bees naturally gather, while imported ones