...the things do not gather together, and by this we understand. Honey is stored in the honeycomb during summer months, with each bee preparing food for their winter retreat. One type naturally builds nests in human dwellings, and the honey stored within is called "mountain honey." That which is stored in nests built in the hollows of large trees is called "tree honey." In Kumano, the above-mentioned is called mountain honey and is considered top quality. That which is stored among rock crevices is called "stone honey." Honey collected from bees raised at home has a weak flavor because the combs are harvested every year; this is called "domestic honey." When combs are dried in the blazing sun with containers placed below to catch what melts and flows out, this is called "dripping honey" and is of superior quality. The Chinese name is "raw honey" {{Alternative method: Put in a trough and extract by burning with fire. However, it is crucial to carefully monitor the strength of the fire, even to the smallest degree}}. Also, when combs are crushed together with bee larvae, ground up, boiled with water and squeezed to extract, this is called "pressed honey" {{Chinese name: cooked honey}}. Generally, honey has no fixed color but changes to various colors depending on the nature of flowers from different directions.

○Domestic Bees {{Chinese names: flower thief, honey servant, royal waist slave, flower matchmaker}}
If one wishes to keep them at home, first make either a bucket or box, pour sugar water or sake into it, make many holes in the lid, and place it near nests built in tree hollows. The bees will naturally move into it, which can then be brought home. Change the lid and hang it under the eaves or below windows. Though there are standards for the size of these boxes and buckets, they are not uniform across all provinces. According to one method heard from a family in Kyushu, if using a box, it should be nine sun square and two shaku nine sun tall, hung vertically. Some households consider hanging them diagonally or horizontally. For the box material, fragrant wood is avoided, and old pine wood must be used. Also, only sawing is used, avoiding planning with a plane. The board thickness is about four bu, with both ear sections made quite sturdy and strongly bound with rope, or else they will become very heavy later and naturally fall and break. There are two doors, upper and lower, with a gap of one bu eight rin by about four sun horizontal opened above the lower door as an entrance for the bees. If opened even one or two rin wider, mountain bees and others will peer through the gap and greatly disturb the honey bees. Even when the queen emerges, it is through this hole, and it is generally quite small. The number of boxes is limited to three or four per household, with the remainder borrowed from neighbors' eaves here and there.

○Comb Construction: Not like ordinary combs resembling bells. The cells do not face downward but are built to fill the entire box, with cells facing horizontally like pigeon houses in human dwellings. First...