【Right page】
Woven into vessels, these are called kuzurako (kudzu baskets) and are manufactured in Minakuchi. Kuzurako gets its name from connecting vines together. ○ Kudzu cloth is made by boiling the vines and splitting them like hemp fibers, then spinning and weaving them. In the Book of Songs, chigeki refers to chi (fine thread) and geki (thick thread), which were woven in ancient China, and there appear to have been varieties similar to today's Echigo crepe. ○ The word kuzu means "fine scraps" and is a name related to water starch, while the original name of the plant is katsu (fuji). Fuji means "whip," and in ancient times this was used as a whip. Therefore, mourning clothes are called katsu-goromo (kudzu garments) because they are made of kudzu cloth.

Since the vines, leaves, roots, flowers, and bark all benefit the people, villagers in remote areas take their relatives by the hand to live in the mountains, digging and eating the roots. When the plants grow too high to be made into starch, they go down to the foot of the mountain to spin the fibers. The benefit and salvation this provides to people ranks second only to the five grains. ○ Bracken root also ranks next to this and is similarly made into water starch. Though its quality is inferior, its effectiveness in saving people from hunger is unchanged. The hermit life of Bo Yi and Shu Qi on Mount Shouyang was sustained by this.
《Marginal note: Counterfeits are made by adding wheat gluten, and the taste is quite poor》

【Left page】
○Besides this, the uses of kudzu starch are very numerous. Sometimes it is made into rice cakes or suitors (wheat dumplings), mixed with face powder, used as paste, or for seasoning in cooking—it benefits people in various ways.

○According to one book, while kudzu is good at removing poison, the part of the root that penetrates five or six inches or more into the soil is called katsu-tan, which refers to the neck, and consuming this will cause vomiting.

○Mountain frog (red frog)
Many are produced from Saga in Yamashiro, and also from Tanba and Sayo Mountain in Banshu. They are also found around Kanzaki in Settsu, but their quality is not good. Generally found in the recesses of bamboo grass fields and reed plains, they are caught using small nets, or tools like Chinese nets with dragon heads held in both hands and twisted like spinning a top. The net spins around and spreads to about three feet square. Caught this way, their intestines are removed and they are shipped as dried goods. Their color is like peach-colored silk, their limbs are very long, and their eyes resemble the pivot of a fan. However, many of those sold in the market today are counterfeits. ○ The Bencao Gangmu states that mountain frogs are larger than toads and yellow in color, which does not match Japanese specimens. This may be because they are from different countries. In the Yamato Honzo...