【Right Page】
　　that he gave me, I thought I should keep it close to my heart," and so forth. [The rest is omitted]

The meaning of this passage should be savored. Also now, from the western provinces come squid-noshi, shrimp-noshi, or sea cucumber-noshi and such. They are peeled extremely thin, and their appearance is pure and has elegance.

○Every year on the first day of the sixth month, the village of Kunisaki in Shima Province presents naka-noshi (long abalone strips) to both Grand Shrines. Therefore, that place is also called Noshi-saki or Sasae-saki. Now, they do not make it from turban shells. This appears in the Engi-shiki as mikuri-noshi (imperial kitchen abalone). Also, the annual New Year tribute to Edo consists of pieces over three shaku long and over one sun wide, plus several other varieties.

　　　○Pearls [Chinese name: Li-zang-zhen]
These are pearls from akoya shellfish. Namely, those taken in Ise are called Ise pearls and considered superior grade, while those from Owari are considered inferior grade. Those from Omura in Hizen are considered superior grade, but are not involved in the drug trade. Akoya shellfish are also called sode-gai (sleeve shells) because their shape resembles a sleeve. In Wakanoura they are called kocho-gai (butterfly shells). They are about 1.5 to 2 sun in size, ash-colored, and some have a slightly blackish tinge. The inside is white with a bluish tint, lustrous and thick. However, not every shell contains them. The pearls from I-

【Left Page】
se are round in shape with a slight bluish tint. Those that are not round but elongated and have a greenish tint are pearls from sekimei (abalone). Drug dealers call these "shell pearls." Those from Owari are not perfectly round, have a dull color with no luster, and are quite small. These are pearls from clams, corbicula clams, mussels, and such.

　　　　　　The shape is like this [Diagram of Akoya Shell]
　　　　　Appendix
　　Some say that "akoya" is a place name, located in Chita District of Owari Province. There is also the same name in Ōshū. Also, in the "Shin Sarugaku-ki" it appears as "akuya-tama." The "awabi-tama" of the Man'yōshū is marked as "akoya-tama" in the Rokujō. Also, recently it is said that many are obtained from shells called "namima-kashiwa." The pearls from ikahi (mussels) are the aforementioned Owari pearls. Also in Saigyō's "Sankashū" collection there is a poem:
　　　Taking akoya from ikahi shells, piling up the shells, showing the traces of treasure indeed

　　Looking at these various points, if akoya is a place name in Owari, then true pearls should be from Owari, yet now in Ise they take these shells and call them by the name akoya, which