【Right Page】
What can be seen is that shells that were once abundant in Owari now exist only in Ise, but that's not all. The abalone pearls (awabi-dama) from the "Rokujō" and the freshwater mussels (ikai) from Saigyō's poems were all called "akoya" in ancient times. Since many pearls were harvested from various shells at Akoya, they became confused and the general term "akoya" was used.

○Sea Shrimp 《Chinese name: Kakawai, Alternative name: Kōka. Ebi is a general term with approximately thirty-odd varieties. Among these, what the Chinese call ryūka refers to sea shrimp》
Commonly called Ise lobster. This is because they are sent from Ise to Kyoto. Also, since they are sent from Kamakura to Edo, in Edo they are called Kamakura shrimp. Also, since they are sent from Shima to Owari, in Owari they are called Shima shrimp. Among Ise lobsters, there are five-colored specimens that are extremely rare. The whiskers are white, the back is blue, the edges of the overlapping sections are green, and yellow, red, and black are intermixed.

○The fishing net is generally seventy fathoms long and about two ken deep. However, there are large and small variations depending on the width of the rocky shore and the spacing between rocks. The mesh facing forward and on both sides (three directions) is coarse, with the forward depth being about fifteen fathoms.

【Left Page】
The mesh at that depth is fine and is called the "bag." With floats (using buckets) and sinkers (using ceramic bottles), it generally resembles a sea bream net. This is set at dusk and pulled the next morning, and all the shrimp get caught by piercing through the mesh. Since they have the nature of escaping backwards, they pierce through tail-first. They also get caught from outside the net.

○The shrimp's intestines belong to the brain, and their eggs are outside the abdomen. The eyes are purple-black with yellow areas in front, protruding like warts. There are four whiskers at the mouth, with two whiskers being one to two shaku long. The limbs have joints like reed shoots. The shell is entirely like hard armor. They jump and leap well. This is the flea of the sea. Fleas also have their entire body similar to shrimp.

○The etymology of "ebi" is "e-hige" (handle-whisker). "E" means branch, also called "e" (bud) and "e" (bay), representing human branches and sea branches. Calling the Ezo people "Ehishi" is likening them to the hairy people's island. Using them in New Year's Hōrai decorations is probably celebrating the auspicious characters of "ebi" (sea elder).

○Yellowtail (Buri)