【Right Page】
It extends to about two ri (approximately 8 kilometers). For hauling them up, methods such as pulleys and hand-reeling are used, and the techniques of each region are largely similar with minor differences.

○According to one theory, yellowtail travel in schools, passing through the great waves of the northeast and circling the southwestern seas. By the time they reach the waters off Tango, the fish have become fat with abundant oil and their taste is extremely sweet and delicious. Therefore, they are considered a specialty product.

○"鰤" (buri) is a Japanese vulgar character. What is called "gyoshi" (fish master) in the Honzo Komoku refers to old fish or is a general term for large fish, so it does not explain their form. Or rather, the explanations of sea fish given in China are all extremely crude. This is because, being a large country distant from the sea, it is difficult to actually see and examine these creatures, so mostly only fragments of hearsay have been recorded. However, when Japan created the character "鰤," it seems to have combined "魚" (fish) and "師" (master/old) to represent the meaning of something greatly aged.

Also, the reading "buri" likely comes from the meaning of old fish, deriving from "furi" (old/aged), calling it the "furi" fish, which became habitually pronounced with a voiced sound. ○The small ones are called wakana, tsubasu, inada, mejiro, fukuragi, and hamachi. In Kyushu, they are also called large fish, so they seem to be appropriate for New Year congratulations.

【Left Page】
◯Tuna (shibi) - Large ones are called king tuna, medium ones are called uncle tuna (commonly called mekuro), and small ones are called mejiro. In the eastern provinces, they are called maguro.

Net fishing is extremely abundant in Chikuzen Munakata, Sanshū, Hirado, and Gotō. Among these, those from Hirado and Iwashimizu are considered top quality. Generally, those caught from the autumn equinox in August until October are called "hirenaga." Those caught from October until winter's doyō period are called "kuro" and these are large. Those caught from winter's doyō until spring's doyō are called "hatara" and are small fish of only about one shaku two or three sun (36-39 cm), which are last year's offspring of black tuna. All have meat similar to bonito with a very red color. The taste does not match bonito. Sometimes a single net catches as many as fifty to seventy thousand.

○These are called "hatsunomi" because no household in the city buys a whole fish, so the meat is cut and weighed on scales to meet various demands according to size. Therefore, in other regions too, they are called "cut bodies of large fish."

Also, the reason for naming these "hatsu" (first) is that long ago, when this meat was first appreciated and people began catching it in small amounts, people would rush to compete for the first catch,争ひ争ing to be first to obtain it, just like how people in Edo today debate the early or late arrival of the first bonito of the season. Thus, the first catch of the initial nets came to be called "hatsu."