Also, those that exist on rocky shores, attached to stones, piling up in great numbers like mountains are called "kaki mountains" (oyster mountains).
The small, separated ones are called "plum blossom oysters." These are what come from Hiroshima. In Chikuzen, these are called "Uchi-gai" (inner shells) because they exist on the rocky shores of inland seas. They are also called "Oki-gai" and "Korobi-gai."
This refers to large ones that are separate and not attached to stones. There is also something called "Namimakashiwa." They are abundant on seashores. Their shape is round, thin, and small. The outside is reddish with small spines. They are most beautiful.
Connoisseurs store many of them for viewing pleasure. This is what Kan Hōshō described as "furei." What is called "Sumakashiwa" in poetry books refers to oyster shells. There is also one called "sennin" (hermit). This refers to those with wide spines attached to the shell. Those with long spines about one inch long that attach in great numbers are called "sea chrysanthemums." There are also those without spines, like scattered clouds, and their colors come in several varieties. [The above adopts explanations from Honzō and various other texts]

○The reading "kaki" is probably a transformation of "kake." In an ancient poem,
"Treading the rocky cliff path of Miyoshino," what was composed is the same as what is now
commonly called "gake" (cliff), perhaps this is how it began to be said. The word "kaketa" (chipped/broken) also

has the same meaning - both refer to things that are not perfectly round or square.
○Burning these shells to make ash for plastering walls is mentioned in Honzō.
○In Yamato Honzō, there is a discussion of oyster shells attached to large stones on high mountains. This is also
what is mentioned in Honzō, and there is a debate by Kōzan Rōjin. Since it's unclear which is correct,
I omit it here, but the theory that these are shells attached during the time of primordial changes over the long lifespan of heaven and earth is too far-fetched an explanation.

End of Volume Three of the Illustrated Guide to Famous Products of Japan's Mountains and Seas