【Right page】
And they do not charge separately for this, making profit by pickling the intestines in salt and selling them as shutō (salted fish entrails). ○ Also, in some places, they set up the cooking area about one ri away in another location, place a large cutting board, and have two people face each other, cutting the head and holding the tail for downward cutting. Their skill is extremely fast, and this is true throughout the Kumano region.
○ Thus they shape it appropriately, arrange it in baskets, stack them in many layers, steam them in boiling water in a large cauldron, remove them sequentially from the bottom baskets, cool them in water, remove small bones and wash them well, then arrange them in steaming baskets about five shaku long with bamboo-mat bottoms, dry them for about thirty days in the sun, shave and shape them with shark skin, and polish them with rope to complete the process. Back sections are considered superior, belly sections secondary. The back curves upward, the belly is straight.
Counterfeits use tuna and are very fishy. 《Marginal note: When drying, if it rains, they use straw fires to remove moisture from under the baskets. For cooling》
《Marginal note: They select the water carefully. Therefore in Tosa they use the famous water from a place called Shimizu, making it the finest product》
○ Someone says that belly sections taste inferior not because they lack fat, but because武家 (warrior families) avoid using belly sections as gifts due to the inauspicious name.

【Left page】
○ The character 鰹 is a Japanese vernacular character. This was created by combining the two characters found in the Engishiki, Wamyōshō, etc. as 堅魚. As for the etymology of "katsuwo," the Tōga says it derives from the character 䰴魚, but this is hard to believe. One theory says "katsuwo" derives from "hard fish" (katai uo), meaning dried fish, which then came to be used for the name of the living creature as well. ○ Also, the Tōi Hōkan applies 松魚 to this fish. This book was compiled by the Korean court physician Heo Jun, but when I recently asked Korean envoys, they said 松魚 refers to what we call salmon here. Indeed, the flesh is red like pine knots.
When I asked later envoys, they applied the characters 古固魚 to our katsuwo. However, this also appears to be a recent vernacular usage. The aforementioned 䰴魚 refers to what we call mana-katsuwo, also called 鯧 or 魚游. This agrees with what Shunsui said, and writing mana-katsuwo as 魴 would be an error.
○ Dried bonito is a daily necessity in our country, harmonizing the imbalance of the five flavors and serving as the primary seasoning agent. The name "katsuwo" is indeed ancient, appearing in the Man'yōshū 《Marginal note: long poem》 "Mizu no e no ura"