[Right page]
"The island children trying to catch bonito and sea bream but failing [annotation: abbreviated below]" - The Man'yōshū is a poetry collection from the reign of Emperor Shōmu. Also in the Engi-shiki's Ministry of Popular Affairs, it is recorded that bonito broth was offered as tribute, and "ikari" is probably what is now called "nitori." Furthermore, in the Ministry of the Treasury, tributes from Shima, Sagami, Awa, Kishu, Tosa, Hyuga, Suruga, and Bungo are also recorded.

○Also, in Kenko's Tsurezuregusa: "The fish called katsuō in the sea of Kamakura is a rare thing in that region, which is treated as special nowadays. Even the elderly of Kamakura have passed down that until we were young, this fish was never properly served before respectable people. Even servants would not eat the head, but would cut it off and throw it away. Such things, as the world comes to an end, even the upper classes come to partake of," etc.

○This shows that in Kenko's time, he found it strange that nobles and such would eat it raw.

○This is the thing called katsuō no tataki. It is a type of salted fish paste. Products from Seishu, Kishu, and Totomi are considered top quality, with Sagami Odawara ranking second. Also, products from Oshu Tanagura are white in color and superior in taste to others. This is what the provincial lord offers as tribute.

[Left page]
○Sea cucumber [annotation: dried sea cucumber, sea cucumber intestines]
This is something to be treasured among delicacies. In the eastern seas: Owari Wada, Mikawa Saku Island, Sagami Miura, Musashi Kanazawa. In the western seas: Sanshu Shodoshima has the most, and they are also harvested in various places in the northern provinces. In China they are extremely rare, so they make counterfeits using donkey skin or male genitalia. Therefore, envoys and merchants from that country seek them here and return with great quantities. Since these are used like ginseng for treating children's weakness and emaciation, Shizhen's "Food Materia Medica" calls them "sea ginseng." Also, those harvested at Mount Kinka in Oshu are round in shape and yellowish-white in color, containing gold dust in their belly, so these are called "golden sea cucumbers."

○For fishing: to catch them in the open sea, attach a net to the stern of the boat and run, and they will naturally enter. To catch those attached to rocks on the sea floor, use the juice of dried sea cucumber or