[Right page]
Round like a citrus fruit, with many spines resembling a chestnut burr. At beaches like Sumiyoshi and Futami, these spines are shaved off to make toys for children. The shape resembles armor and helmets, with the mouth at the center of the shell. The interior is lacquered to make vessels. The flesh does not fill the shell completely, being very small in quantity but containing oil. Fishermen mix it with salt to make a superior sake accompaniment. Those with a yellowish-red color are considered best. Products from Omura, Goto, and Hirado are prized. The purplish-yellow ones are from Satsuma Shimazu domain, being soft with exceptionally fine fragrance. Those from Echizen have stickiness and luster superior to others. When used as seasoning in cooking, it provides a refined flavor in place of miso. Grilled sea urchin and sea urchin dengaku should be left to the discretion of connoisseurs.

○The fishing method: fishermen go out to tidal flats and search among the rocks, immediately extracting the meat and removing the shells, washing them well and storing in buckets to send to wholesalers. The wholesalers mix them with salt and sell them.

○"Uni" is a transformation of "kaitan" (sea urchin). There is also a type called kabuto-gai (helmet shell) which belongs to this category but is different.

○Whitebait (in Yamato Honzo it is called kaisangyo, rejecting the previous theory of calling it "kisuko")

[Left page]
At the inlet of Nishinomiya in Settsu Province, during spring in the second and third months, about five straw huts are built within the distance of one cho, arranged alternately on both banks like dog teeth. Stakes for fish weirs are driven out about one to two ken from the riverbank, holding back water. When the tide rises, fish ascend, and when it ebbs and they descend, they gather between these stakes. Waiting for this, holes are pre-drilled in the tops of posts to thread net ropes through, and pulleys are attached to the holes to raise and lower the nets. The nets are made of mosquito net cloth in four directions, lowered beside the stakes where fish gather, and periodically raised to scoop up fish with a scoop net made by stretching cloth over the bottom of a ladle. This is as shown in the diagram.

○I believe this method resembles the ancient ajiroki (fish weirs) of the Uji River. The ajiroki had stakes driven in two rows in a widening pattern like a spread net, and both water and small sweetfish would drift and remain between them, which ajiro guards would net and catch. In the Man'yoshu:

"The warrior at eighty Uji River's fish weir stakes, the waves that hesitate - their destination unknown"

This poem describes the drifting of water. I believe that whitebait, ice fish, and the noodle-like fish (toromesako) that ascend in large numbers from this sea in the third month are also called shiro-uo, commonly said to be young ayu (sweetfish).