[Right page]
...to catch the tail. Since fish swim against the current, the boatman supports by pushing with a reverse oar.

○ The ancient name for trout is "haraka" (red belly). As an annual ceremony, an offering of red-bellied fish is presented with this poem:
　　The red belly caught at Nagahama, an ancient example of the eternal spring, is also for our lord

Every year on New Year's Day it is offered to the Emperor. If late, it is offered on the seventh day. This follows the precedent from the Nihon Chronicles, when in the 18th year of Emperor Keikō's reign, fishermen presented these fish when crossing from Tamaina village. Therefore it continues to be offered without interruption to this day. Hence it is also called the "nie no uo" (offering fish). Nagahama is in that district and is also called Nagasu.

○ In the Wamyōshō, haraka fish and trout are listed as two separate things. The character "鰚" (haraka) is not found in dictionaries and must be a local term. Some say that nowadays salmon is sometimes used for the haraka offering at the imperial kitchen on New Year's Day, so perhaps both trout and salmon are called haraka.

○ It is said that calling salmon roe "hararago" may be a transformation of "harakago" (red belly child). Also, Tōjakusui states that trout are the same as "engyō" (pool fish) and are commonly called "ohikawa." Therefore, while the Wamyōshō divides them into two...

[Left page]
...things, the reason for this division is unclear and needs further consideration. Ohikawa is a red-bellied fish.

　　○ Lamprey
These are found in various rivers and seas. Among these, those caught in Lake Suwa in Shinshū are considered the finest product. The approximately one ri between Kami-Suwa and Shimo-Suwa is covered with ice in winter months, with thickness generally reaching two to three shaku. When the cold is most severe, mysterious footprints appear across this one ri of ice, forming a single path. This is called "kami no owatari" (the gods' crossing) and marks the beginning of travel. At this time, eels are caught. First, small huts are built on the ice. To construct these, fires are lit to melt holes, and pillars are set in these holes to create resting places for fishermen.

Also, holes are drilled in various places to accommodate nets or ropes, firewood is piled and burned, long lines are set, and fishing with bait yields tremendous numbers. When there is no ice, eel rakes are used. There are also many rockfish in this lake. Also called redfish or red belly. These are caught by attaching drag nets to bamboo poles, inserting them through ice holes and pulling them through to other holes.