【Right page】
【Upper section】
Ōno - Aritōshi (thorny shrub)
Kinzō - Tortoiseshell star boxwood
Kudari - Kumano chinquapin
Harima - Oak
Fukasawa - Star anise
Matsuura - Sasanqua camellia
Kurumaya - Aritōshi
Fukasawa - Edo pride daphne
Iida - Podocarpus
Ōhashi - Village cloud daphne
Tsuruki - Small-leaf boxwood
Kamegorō - Aritōshi
Kudari - Boxwood
Matsumoto - Round-leaf aritōshi
Kōjiya - Camellia
Yamataka - Azalea
Jōkeiji - Spotted hisagi
Koba - Boar child aritōshi
Umekawa - Aritōshi
Sanuki - Claw speckled holly
Sanuki - Jiangnan flower
Botanko - Great Ming daphne
Sanuki - Chinquapin
Honjo - Narrow-leaf aritōshi
Asakura - Tea plant
Mizuno - Sasanqua
Nagashima - Aritōshi
Ichinomiya - Star boxwood
Naitō - Lacquer painting cup camellia
Mizuhisa - Printed calico goldfish camellia
Takinokawa - Nandina
Okaemon - Hisagi
Murakumo - Coastal grove
Mizuno - Morning mist sakaki
Sakurai - Red citron
Tenchō - Blown painting holly
【Upper section outside frame】
《Split writing: Right→》Types of speckled varieties

【Middle right section】
[Lists continue with owner names and plant varieties]

【Lower right section】
[Lists continue with owner names and plant varieties]

【Middle-lower section, center】
The varieties of variegated and speckled plants produce rare specimens yearly in the world, and it is lamentable that only the names of old varieties remain. Regardless of the relative merits of new and old varieties, this plant name collection is now being disseminated to the world at Rishōji Temple at Yotsuya Ōkido.
From the 180 varieties in my possession, I present to the world 36 varieties that I particularly cherish. Yotsuya Mizuno...

【Middle left upper section written horizontally from right】
Sun-loving plants
【Middle left section】
[Lists of plants suitable for sunny locations]

【Lower left upper section written horizontally from right】
Shade-loving plants
【Lower left section】
[Lists of plants suitable for shady locations]

【Left page】
In the autumn of Bunsei 1st year (1818), Year of the Tiger, Mizuno-ō had planted a dwarf cypress from Yamamoto's place, and suddenly it produced variant leaves. The following spring, the buds emerged like those of a cypress room, with closely packed leaves, and the tree's shape became round and luxuriant like a bandalsugi cedar. Variegated leaves developed in a half-body pattern, with pure white leaves mixed in, completely resembling a dwarf cypress. While two or three-stage variations in plants and trees occasionally occur, such a rare variant species that departs from its original form as shown in the illustration is unlikely to appear again in the future. Therefore, Mizuno-ō considers this the foremost among all his trees.

【Cypress potted plant illustration】
【Pot, upper left】Painted by Untei

Dwarf (chabon) lodging【Within frame】
This is Mizuno-ō's secret
tree, which he has never
given to others, but
in the autumn of late Bunsei era,
for certain reasons it was
offered to a retainer's garden, and after three more years
was presented to a western retainer's garden. The transplanting
of this tree is said to still be commanded today.
The remarkable nature of this tree's rarity
can be understood from this.

【Upper margin】
From here onward
records
Mizuno-ō's
rare specimens:
winter trees,
summer trees,
herbaceous plants—
180-some
varieties