The head priest serves the Shogunate's horses. The horse stipend for Shidori Kanatsu should be five koku, etc. Among the twenty-one positions at the horse grounds, there are four vacancies. Shidori Kanatsu was appointed as Head Priest, Yasu Shimoda as Negi, Tsuchida as Wakamiya Negi, Fukuda as the same Hafuri, Miyakawa as Nara Negi, Awaji as the same Hafuri, and Takehara as Sawada Negi. At this time, the officials were: Head Priest Norihisa, Chief Negi Seihei, Hafuri Shigezoe, Assistant Negi Mitsuhisa, Hafuri Shigeyoshi, Kataoka Negi Hirohisa, Hafuri Shigenobu, Kifune Negi Okihisa, Ōta Negi Nobunao, Wakamiya Negi Wakahisa, Hafuri Yasunori, Nara Negi Arihisa, Hafuri Suechika, Sawada Negi Edaaki, Hafuri Seiyu, and Ujigami Negi Yasuka.

Next, regarding the theory of Dekisato's songs: This time, concerning Seiyu's clan not providing gold, there were many instances of preliminary runs at both barriers of Chinken during the tree-side ceremony for the competition, but

it is ancient precedent that interruptions should be considered defeats. However, the judgment of those below the steps is shameful to future generations. Particularly regarding Chinken's violation of the barriers, people unexpectedly rejoiced physically. Nevertheless, the fact that three people came together to the government office seats resulted in much subsequent ridicule. Ultimately, there are rumors that the mistakes of those below the steps are inescapable. According to accounts, on that day (the 5th) it rained heavily all day, so Head Priest Norihisa's seating area was somewhat low, and due to the rain and wind, water seeped up to his knees. Being elderly, he became chilled and his complexion changed. Therefore, matting was laid out in response to the government office seats below the steps.

{{Marginal note: Matter of stopping the viewing stands}} [Red ink]
This is quite reasonable, quite reasonable, they agreed and returned home. Next, regarding the matter of the racecourse viewing stands from this year onward: except for the magistrate's viewing stand, all others throughout the entire shrine were discontinued. This should be recorded later. Today, the Shogunate inspectors Watanabe Chikugo-no-kami and Kubo Heiemon both came to observe the horse racing, but since there were no viewing stands...