《Marginal note: Due to delays in the scheduled time, the competition was held with the "three delays" pattern》【Written in red】
Due to the confusion, the competition was conducted with the "three delays" pattern. Then the head priest again this year took his seat in the office building for the sacred feast. Following last year's precedent, the head priest and both lower-ranking officials, three people together, held the sacred ceremony with three ceremonial stands. Until now, due to matters concerning the three stands, the head priest did not take his seat, which was considered improper. From last year, after deliberation and evaluation of the entire shrine was completed and decided upon in assembly, he began taking his seat. This shall continue in the future. This is added as a precedent.

Enpō 9th year《Marginal note: Era changed on September 29th to Tenna 1st year》
　　　Left　Governor of Shima, Sueteiru《Marginal note: Akira, ruled as defeat》
8th match
　　　Right　Assistant Governor of Iwami, Ujiyori《Marginal note: Early victory despite falling at the marker post》
《Marginal note: Victory by being early despite falling at the marker post》【Written in red】

Regarding the 8th match's outcome, the left rider certainly did not retreat, and appeared slightly faster when passing through under the marker post, but perhaps due to misjudgment, a messenger declaring defeat came. Though I wondered about this, it was unavoidably ruled a defeat. All the spectators felt the same way.

《Marginal note: The nineteen horses after Kanazu all stopped at the edge south of the earthen wall at the passing place - this is an oral tradition》【Written in red】
Ujinawa's record states that all nineteen horses after Kanazu stopped without passing the ancient great cedar. This great cedar refers to the area at the southern edge of the earthen wall at the racecourse passing place. This concerns the sacred fence area, according to oral tradition.

Tenna 2nd year
《Marginal note: Ran outside the barriers and ultimately did not enter the barriers, ruled as defeat》【Written in red】
　　　Left　Sahyōe Ujiichi　　　《Marginal note: The left rider ran outside to the west and ultimately did not enter the barriers, yet ruling this as defeat was an unprecedented decision》
6th match　　　　　　　　　　　《Marginal note: The right rider made one run, said to be extremely fast》
　　　Right　Assistant Governor of Mikawa, Suetō《Marginal note: Upper right》