The two riders Sukenori from the eighth group《left of eighth group》and 《right of sixth or seventh group》were secretly summoned from their residences. They immediately withdrew from the prayer retreat quarters, and as their substitutes wearing purification robes, preliminary prayer retreat and shrine visits were conducted. On the following day (3rd day) at the hour of the dragon (7-9 AM), that widow died.
《Matter of becoming incapacitated on the 3rd day at dragon hour》【Red ink notation】

Regarding the incapacitation of these two men, although there were rumors on the following 3rd day, since neither of the two men reported to anywhere, there was an investigation by the sixth and eighth groups.
《No precedent for having substitutes ride wearing purification robes for those who become incapacitated before the purification ritual for shrine visit》【Red ink notation】

There was no precedent for having substitutes ride wearing purification robes for those who become incapacitated before the purification ritual for shrine visit. Therefore, this matter was reported from both sides to the entire shrine community, and it became a matter for evaluation by the entire shrine. Consequently, Kiaki and Sukenori were set aside, and Yasutoshi from the sixth group《left of eighth group》and Ujiichi from the eighth group《right of sixth group》were additionally requested. It was announced to the senior riders and the riders' group that these two men should perform the duties, and each group acknowledged this.

After this, the two men Yasutoshi and Ujiichi also suddenly fell ill, so they sent word through messengers to the prayer retreat quarters that they wished to perform their duties wearing purification robes. However, due to the urgent nature of the situation, after deliberation, there was internal permission for both men to perform their duties wearing purification robes. Thus, Kiyotō as substitute for Yasutoshi and Suechika as substitute for Ujiichi performed throughout the preliminary prayer retreat and shrine visit the day before the 5th day horse riding, as well as the pilgrimage to Kamowakeikazuchi Shrine and ritual offerings.

Shōtoku 1《Hōei 8 changed era name to become Shōtoku 1》
5th day
　　　　Left《Ashi》　　Ōmi-no-kami Yasukado  
　Fourth group　　　　　　　　　　Mochi《Both men fell from horses》
　　　　Right《Shingū Negi》Hyōgo-no-suke Yukiaki