1. During the horse racing, there was extremely heavy rain. Therefore, it was decided that an abbreviated koburi (shortened version) would be appropriate. The first and tenth positions proceeded as usual, while the rest performed a single round of the three-way koburi before being dismissed. This decision was conveyed from the reviewing stand to the supervisors at the exit.

《Marginal note: Due to heavy rain, abbreviated koburi ceremony》【Red ink notation】

《Marginal note: Claiming no defeat despite being overtaken, and proceeding to Tongū shrine》【Red ink notation】
1. Suekuni of the ninth position left was overtaken. However, he claimed to the reviewing stand that since he was in a pursuing position, this did not constitute a defeat. Although he was supposed to be pursuing, he showed no pursuing behavior. He rode while retreating about three jō within the barriers. When the reviewing stand repeatedly stated that there was no grounds for declaring this a draw, he showed no acceptance whatsoever. Regarding Suekuni, he insisted it was not a defeat and had already proceeded to Tongū shrine to perform worship. The reviewing stand decided it was a defeat and that no reward would be given. Such behavior was unprecedented. Although he should have taken his seat at the divine offering banquet in the office building, perhaps due to objections from his relatives, he immediately departed.

1. The divine offering banquet was held in the office building as usual. At this time, Shigetachi (first position left) alone removed his court cap cords, while all others did not remove theirs. Both reviewing stands took their seats. The head priest and administrator (Junior Third Rank Yasutaka) did not take his seat as the deputy of the current administrator and immediately departed. The inspector took his seat on the long platform below the wooden flooring in the office building. The reviewing stand officials and jockeys took their seats on the tatami mats above the wooden flooring as usual.

《Marginal note: Construction of barriers behind the separation area near the cherry trees at the horse departure point》【Red ink notation】
1. Behind the separation area near the cherry trees at the horse departure point, barriers were erected by the shrine community to keep away spectators. This was the first time since the current year.

Kyōhō 5th year
5th day
　　Left: Kuranokami Yasumasa《Marginal note: Fell from horse at the west barrier in front of Tongū shrine》
Sixth position
　　Right: Iwami no Suke Ieaki