1. Dragon lanterns rise to Mt. Daifukuji every year on August 17th

1. There is an arrowhead stone at a place called Hachiman beside Fukuno village

Nōshū Noto District
1. There is a Kannon hall at a place called Ushigahana in Tazuruhama village. Dragon lanterns rise there in certain years

1. Jōrinji temple in Kumaki Nakajima village was formerly a seven-hall temple complex (shichidō garan). The principal image of this temple is Shakyamuni Buddha, created by Nyorai Buddha. In previous years, it was to be taken to serve as the principal image of Tentokuin temple, but it became extremely heavy on the road and could not be transported, so it was returned to Jōrinji temple

1. In front of the lecture hall of Sekidōzan, there is a stone that fell from heaven. It is called Dōji Stone

1. There is a large turtle in the waters off Wakiura. In years when it surfaces, ships cannot pass through. Even when there are damaged ships, no corpses appear. From that bay to the island land is about six to seven chō. Perhaps it cannot serve here - it constantly remains in the waters off Wakiura village. Last year, when it surfaced, a clerk of Kakuemon from Jūson Kumaki village spotted it, and said the turtle's shell appeared to be about one hundred ken across on the water

Hōshi District  
1. At the house of a tōne (village headman) in Wajima-saki village, there is a stone called Shida Koshikake-ishi (Shida's Sitting Stone). Shida Kotarō sat on this stone at this place to make salt

1. At the Tenjin shrine in the same village, there is an unusual pagoda that was the first of its kind made in Japan
(Perhaps Myōsenji temple?)

1. In Myōsenji village, there are the mausoleum of Lord Yoritomo and graves of the great lords of that era. There is a stone boat donated by Kajiwara. It was formerly a great temple complex and prosperous land. Now only pedestals remain. It is said to have declined after the founding of Kōyasan

1. At the same temple, a great serpent about thirty fathoms long later appeared

1. At the same place, a star fell and became a round stone that remains there

Suzu District
1. At Kōshōji temple in Misaki, there are Yoshitsune's Omote-ha flute and Korean flutes

1. The tōne of Takaya village (whose title is jūson) has continued for forty generations without succession from outsiders (hereditary position)