They were living in luxury contrary to Buddhist law, so the year after his return, he ordered Sano Genzaemon to kill the extravagant monks, and the temple complex was reduced in size. Later, Uesugi Kenshin of Echigo also came to this place and destroyed all the shrines and temples. A monk named Myōkū from Kangakuin also converted to Jōdo Shinshū in Bunmei 6 (1474) and married. There is now an Ikkō-shū temple called Kōgenji in this village, said to be descended from him. There is a mound called Kangakuin Mound, where a monk lived until about a hundred years ago. This monk's grave site is still called Kangakuin Mound today.

1. In a place called Nishimura within the same village territory, there are field names such as "Gongen no Shōmen" (Front of Gongen), "Dainichidō," "Kannondō," "Tō no Ba" (Pagoda Site), "Hasuike" (Lotus Pond), "Kōdō" (Lecture Hall), "Bishamondō," "Wakamiya," "Ōtorii" (Great Torii), "Sekibutsu" (Stone Buddha), and "Geba no Hashi" (Dismounting Bridge). All of these places are said to be the old sites of shrines and temples.

1. Within the territory of Futsukaimachi Village, there is a mound called Raihai Mound (Worship Mound). Long ago, when the high priest Shakunyo was passing through to Inami, he gathered grass and sat here to rest, so the local people respectfully called it the Worship Mound.

1. Within the territory of Nojiri Village, there are the Iwatake Shrine and Daigengen Shrine. Long ago, brothers named Kawai Gorō and Kawai Rokurō came from a place called Nojiri in Shinano Province to serve and protect this gongen deity. Therefore, the village name was taken from Nojiri in Shinano Province and called Nojiri Village. The Ikkō-shū temple called Tōgakuji in the same village is said to be descended from these brothers.

1. Within the territory of Akamaru Village, there are the ruins of an old castle called Asai Castle. In ancient times, Prince Genshō Tennō entered here, and afterwards Shimo-no-ma Izumi resided there.

1. In the mountains within the territory of Dōtsubono Village, there are the ruins of an old castle. In previous years, a person called Noza-emon is said to have lived in this castle.

1. Regarding Saimyōji Village, long ago when Lord Saimyōji of Kamakura was making his provincial tour and passed through this place, he rested here. After a village was established subsequently, it came to be called Saimyōji Village. Also, in a place called Amidadō Valley within this village territory, there are two stones. These are said to be stones where Lord Saimyōji sat to rest. There is a place called Saimyōji Mound, and the river is also called Saimyōji River.