Those who have control over groups should convey these instructions regardless of their rank.

Bunsei Year of the Rabbit (1819)
◦Regarding the increase in porter wages at post stations within the domain, it has been proclaimed as stated in the attached document, so this should be understood. Above stated.
　1st month, 6th day　To all　Additionally to groups　Metsuke (Inspector)

From this Year of the Rabbit
until the coming Year of the Sheep
for five years
as before
40% increase

Itatori post station
Imajō post station
Sabanami post station
Asamizu post station
Funahashi post station
Nagasaki post station
Funayose post station
Hosorogi post station

From this Year of the Rabbit
until the coming Year of the Sheep
for five years
30% increase

Yuo post station
Wakimoto post station
Imajuku post station
Fuchū
Kami-Sabae post station
Mizuochi post station
Fukui
Kanazu
Takaya post station

Proclaimed as above　1st month　Same as above

Oral Instruction
◦Regarding the inspection tour of the villages in the newly acquired territory (abbreviated below)
1. Concerning the route of passage (abbreviated below)
1. In case of sick persons, foot injuries, etc. (abbreviated below)
1. In case of natural fires during overnight stays (abbreviated below)
All the above texts are the same as last year

1. Regarding villages for overnight stays and short rests, since there are impoverished places, there will likely be inconveniences with meals, bedding, and other matters. Particularly regarding Nakanomura village, being a small village with insufficient lodging facilities, arrangements are made to distribute guests to nearby villages. Moreover, all matters are extremely inconvenient. Therefore, instructions should be given so that there are no misunderstandings toward the villages.

Understanding the above instructions, strict orders should be given down to all retainers. Above stated.
　2nd month, 24th day　Metsuke (Inspector)
　The above was conveyed to those in the entourage

Oral Instruction
◦Regarding the iris decorations for children's May celebrations among the retainers, which has been repeatedly announced, there has been excess, and in recent years competition has (abbreviated below)