【Continuation of Tabular Format】
【Left Column】
Wang Gai (Bureau of Receptions official. Native of Jiaozhou, Shandong.)

【Right Column】
Lin Linzhuo (Secretary of the Grand Secretariat. Native of Putian, Fujian.)

【End of Tabular Format】

Shang Eki has not yet requested investiture. His father Shang Jun died before being established as ruler. His son Shang Kei is now enfeoffed.

Behind the hall, a hall of six bays was constructed by excavation. The inner hall has three bays. There are chambers for both envoys on the left and right. In the rear courtyard are two wooden pavilions, east and west. The eastern one is called "Changfeng" (Long Wind), inscribed by former envoy Wang Ji. The western one is called "Tingyun" (Resting Clouds), inscribed by envoy Lin Linzhuo. The plaques have already deteriorated. The building was also re-roofed. We again inscribed on top of it. The service quarters in two rows each have nine bays, facing each other east and west. The eastern courtyard has one water well. Whetstone walls surround it on four sides like a fortress. The height is about thirteen or fourteen feet. Extremely solid and well-built. The floors inside the hall buildings all use square bricks. Tiles are laid on top. However, all walls use sandwich boards. The service quarters use reed matting with earth plastered on top.

《Appendix》Former Envoy Residence
Southwest of the envoy residence, the site of the former envoy residence is connected. In front there is also a ceremonial gate. Above the main gate is a small wooden pavilion. Upon entering the gate is a great hall of three bays. The floor is laid with boards, raised about three feet from the ground. Outside are the two characters "Zhujie" (Stationed Credentials), written by former envoy Wang Gai. Also, during the Chongzhen period of the former Ming, envoy Du Sance wrote the four characters "Meimian Miji" (Always Harboring Thoughts of Inadequacy). There was a tower to the west, but nothing remains today. 《Hu Jing's record states: Yang Lun, Bureau of Receptions official, resided in a small tower on the western side, naming it "Tinghai" (Listening to the Sea).》 It has now been newly repaired. Among the wooden pavilions, only the eastern wooden pavilion relates to the old construction. The beams and pillars of oak wood are all extremely sturdy. Former envoy Zhang Xueli's record states that upstairs were one hundred poems about plum blossoms inscribed by Du Sance. Now they have been plastered over and nothing remains. Upon measurement, if the two officials Ping and Feng were to reside here, they would close the front ceremonial gate, breach the rear wall, and share a gate for entry and exit.

Facing the former envoy residence was the Sixi Pavilion. In the 37th year of Jiajing, investiture envoy Guo Rulin had