"Explanation of the Sixi Pavilion." It states: "The Ryukyu Celestial Envoy Residence, upon entering through the gate, has a main hall of three rooms. Leading from the main hall to the study are three rooms. I was situated in the east, while Lord Li Jichun was situated in the west. Behind the rooms, there are again three rooms of official quarters where attendants reside. Both sides are flanked by corridors, with six rooms each. On the gate is written 'Lodging for Sedan Carriers and Attendants.' During the hot months when the heat was oppressive, the Ryukyu people divined a vacant plot behind the rear wall for me. They laid earth, thatched it instead of using tiles, erected pillars and made it into a pavilion. I therefore inscribed it 'Sixi' (Rest and Reflection). With this I could compose poetry and songs, hoping to forget that my body was in a foreign land."

The hall of the Celestial Envoy Residence was formerly named "Sailu" (Sprinkling Dew). In the fourth year of Wanli, investiture envoy Xiao Chongye wrote an "Explanation of Sailu Hall." It states: "The envoy residence formerly had a plaque but it was not fitting. The Tang people said, 'Ten thousand li east of the sea, [dew] sprinkles on Fusang.' The meaning lies in cherishing the distant. I name it with 'Sailu.'" Vice-envoy Xie Jie's record states: "Sailu Hall is the hall of the Celestial Envoy Residence. This is why Remonstrance Official Envoy Xiao named this hall."

《Minister Baoguang notes: These two entries should belong in the former envoy residence. Now the plaques are ruined and the pavilion collapsed. None can be verified. According to Guo's record stating "entering from the gate, main hall of three rooms," today inside the main gate of the old courtyard is immediately the great hall. There is no ceremonial inner gate. This is clearly evident.》

At the Celestial Envoy Residence, daily there are one chief interpreter and twenty red-capped scholars who take turns standing duty at the gate, awaiting orders.

Beside the Celestial Envoy Residence, support services are divided into seven offices. The first is the Residence Affairs Office, which handles all large and small matters that should be carried out in the residence. The second is the Reception Office, which handles matters of repairs, furnishings, household goods, etc. in the residence. The third is the Livestock Management Office, which handles matters of supplying and delivering sheep, pigs, chickens, ducks, etc. The fourth is the Provision Office, which handles wine and rice for the residence