The four characters "Imperial Edict Thrice Bestowed" were hung above the main beam. From the second year of Kangxi, King Shang Zhi was enfeoffed - he was the great-great-grandfather of the current king. In the twenty-second year of Kangxi, King Shang Zhen was enfeoffed - he was the great-grandfather of the current king. The king's grandfather Shang Chun did not live to ascend the throne. The king's father Shang Yi did not live to request investiture. By the time of the current King Shang Jing, five generations have passed. All received the imperial seal from Our Emperor. Within sixty years, the grand ceremony was performed three times. The imperial grace extended to five generations. This is truly a rare event in all of history. Therefore, we specifically record this to show distant peoples the boundless governance of Our Emperor and Heaven, extending nurturing care without limit even to the corners of the sea where the sun rises. Between the left and right pillars, we specifically wrote two plaques. One records the names of investiture envoys from the former Ming, and one records the names of the three missions of envoy-ministers from this dynasty.

Record of Plaques - Appendix

During the Hongwu period of the former Ming, King Satto of Chuzan first established communication with the court. Wu Ning succeeded to the throne and first came to report the death [of his predecessor] and request succession. Until the end of the Ming dynasty, sixteen generations were transmitted. Generation after generation requested investiture, with over thirty investiture envoys. They are fully listed in the official histories. However, unofficial records contain many errors. If China and foreign lands use different records, this would not accord with the principle of unified writing under one rule.

When the Imperial Qing received the Mandate, King Shang Zhi first came to request investiture. Up to now, five generations [have passed]. The investiture ceremony has been performed three times. All came bearing Our Emperor's precious seal. This is especially a grand event of all ages. We record this together in sequence, in order to illuminate this magnificent precedent and be cautious in our envoy duties. Dispatched envoys take over a year to arrive. After the Jiajing period, some arrived as late as three or four years.