(Continued from the previous page) This was a system of the Warring States period. Moreover, since the customs of Japan and the national histories of various houses in recent times are kept secret and do not fall into the hands of the common people, it is impossible to set forth the facts in detail.

The *Wagakoto-hajime* states: "This originated when Nagao Igen, a retainer of Uesugi Norizane, established this practice during the Tenbun era (1532–1555) of the reign of Emperor Go-Nara, the 106th human sovereign. Igen said: 'When one enters enemy territory and the townspeople and common folk (*jigenin*) have fled and are no longer present, men of low rank such as foot soldiers (*chūgen*) have no means to purchase even small quantities of goods. Therefore, unless one has gathered and accumulated sufficient funds, one cannot use them as payment. Furthermore, in a prosperous and peaceful world, having *ketsuman* (shortfalls and surpluses) is the way of enduring governance. Therefore, it would be proper to set 96 coins as the payment unit, with a 4-coin shortfall. Moreover, dividing by 32 coins into three parts, and further dividing 32 coins into four parts yields 8 coins. In this way, the use of coins will also be convenient.' And so it was established thus."

This explanation may well be correct. However, the *Honchō Tenmon* (Astronomy of Our Land) states: "The sun at the winter solstice is 24 degrees south of the equator, and at the summer solstice is 24 degrees north of the equator; it travels 48 degrees between north and south, making a round trip of 96 degrees to complete one year. Therefore, modelling this on the course of the sun's annual celestial journey, 96 coins are taken as the *shō-hyaku* (abbreviated hundred), and this is named *o-ashi* (honorable money)."

Yet another theory states: "Nine and six are the ultimate numbers (*kyokusū*) of yin and yang. When things reach their ultimate point, they inevitably change and transform easily. Therefore, this was taken from the meaning of exchange and circulation (*kōeki kōtsū*)." The two theories each have their respective origins...