(Continued from previous page) ...(the true meaning of mathematics has been) lost, and what remains is mostly impractical and remote from human affairs. As stated at the beginning, it is a matter of no practical use, and the more refined it becomes, the more its original purpose is lost. In China (Kando), though the techniques may be less sophisticated, the original intent has been preserved to this day. Viewed from this perspective, it is certain that Japan has excelled in technique since ancient times.

Setting aside ancient history and thinking about the medieval period onward: around the time of the Hōgen and Heiji (Disturbances), the Retired Emperor (Sutoku-in) made his resolve and great upheavals arose. Minamoto no Tameyoshi was killed by his own son Yoshitomo at Shichijō Suzaku; Taira no Kiyomori killed his uncle. Yoshitomo was killed in Owari Province's Chita District by his retainer Osada (Tadamune); Hachirō Tametomo was killed on the island of Izu (Ōshima); and the Retired Emperor (Sutoku) was transferred to Sanuki Province (Sanshū). In the Jishō era, there was the Rebellion of Yorimasa. From the Hōgen (Disturbance) onward, the Taira clan seized control of the realm, and their power shook all under heaven; but from the latter part of the Jishō era, the Minamoto clan rose up en masse in the east, and from Yoshinaka's march to the capital through the Genryaku and Bunji eras, Emperor Antoku passed away in the western seas (at Dan-no-ura). Although Yoritomo pacified the realm, Yoriie was killed by Sanetomo, Sanetomo was killed by Kugyō, and Kugyō too was destroyed by Tokimasa (of the Hōjō clan). The old retainers of the Wada, Chichibu, Miura, and Sasaki clans had their families destroyed by Tokimasa. Although power then passed to the six successive shoguns of Kamakura, the Jōkyū Disturbance arose at the behest of Retired Emperor Juntoku. The Hōjō clan seized power, and Yasutoki and Tokiyori possessed virtuous character, showing no favoritism in governance; they themselves refused to accept rank above the Fourth Grade, established the Formulary (Shikimoku), took oaths, and acted without bias or partiality toward kin or strangers... (continued on next page)