[Left folio]
[Rear of cover page] (blank)

[Right folio]

According to a written inquiry into reports (fūmon tazune-gaki) submitted with an attached map by Kawakami Kingorō, the magistrate (daikan) of Nakanojō in Shinshū Province: Around the hour of Yotsu (approximately 10 p.m.) on the night of the 24th day of the 3rd month, a sudden great earthquake occurred. Although most of the walls of the Nakanojō jin'ya (magistrate's compound) collapsed from the shaking, the main buildings suffered no particular damage. Similarly, in the villages under the jurisdiction of the jin'ya, eaves and the like fell due to the tremors, but there were no collapsed houses or injured persons. Even within the jin'ya compound, people pitched outdoor camps in the garden and there was no one remaining in the main building. Until dawn of the same night, there were as many as eighty to ninety tremors of various magnitudes. From the following day, the 25th, through to the last day of the month, tremors continued at a rate of approximately 150 or 100 times per day, with five or six major shocks among them each day. From the 1st through the 5th of the current month, the intervals grew longer at approximately thirty to forty tremors per day, though among these there were still two or three major shocks per day. Even now, the tremors have not ceased. There are still many people in the villages who are sleeping outdoors.

Item: Among the areas under jurisdiction, in six villages within Mizuuchi District, there are places where all private homes have been completely destroyed and many deaths have occurred. In other areas, partial damage is more common. Hand-agents (tedai) have been dispatched to conduct inspections, but the full investigation has not yet been completed.

Item: Within Mizuuchi District of the Matsushiro domain, there is a district known as "Yamanaka," a place assessed at 30,000 koku. The villages therein experienced particularly violent earthquakes, with landslides occurring in each village, all houses completely destroyed, and an enormous number of deaths. Below Mizuuchi Bridge in the same district... (continues on the next page)