【Right Page】
The cannon operators Hayashi Kyūemon, Usuki Kyūzaemon, and Wakamatsu Jintayū (since Usuki Kyūzaemon was ill, Usuki Yaemon of the same family attended) were summoned to the main reception hall and first given the following confidential instructions. Since Chinese ships had been drifting near Wakamatsu and Shirajima since last year (the year of the Rooster), Kokura, Hagi, and our domain consulted and carried out expulsions. At that time, they appeared to return without incident, and it was reported to His Majesty that repeated driftings would cease. Now Inspector Watanabe Geki has been dispatched as an envoy to the three domains, and during his stay, orders have been given to drive them away with cannon according to imperial will. Using cannon loaded with 20-monme and 30-monme shot, board small fast boats similar to whaling vessels, and when weather and wind conditions are favorable, approach the Chinese ships and fire the cannon at them—such were the orders given. Keep this in mind. Of course, orders were given that all three domains should dispatch a few ships each. This should be done so as not to be detected by the Chinese ships.

【Left Page】
Of course, this does not mean complete destruction, nor is it merely intimidation. Orders were given that it would be acceptable to destroy the upper parts of Chinese ships and even if Chinese crew members were killed in the process. Since these are complex orders, detailed instructions were given that everyone should understand them thoroughly as directed from Edo. Orders were given to privately review the written directive regarding the expulsion of Chinese ships. When asked whether cannon should be fired from small fast boats and whaling vessels according to these orders, Hayashi Bunemon replied that any kind of small boat could serve the purpose. For several years he had taken disciples to Tahama for training, and during these trips he had fired from the small boat Dendōmaru, which worked quite well. However, with the official vessels, the conditions are quite