"should ally with Matazaemon." By this decree, not only was his life spared, but he was also granted security in his residence and fiefs.

Matazaemon-dono also announced to everyone: "Having defeated Katsuie, Hideyoshi has become overly complacent. Therefore, let us withdraw," and he entered Kaga's Oyama Castle. Half of Kaga Province and all of Noto Province were granted to Maeda Matazaemon Toshiie. The instructions given to Cho Kuroemon within Noto were: "You are to be placed under Maeda Matazaemon. Everything is to be according to Toshiie's discretion."

[Note] The above passage from the Kawasumi Taiko-ki is a factual record with the same meaning as the certificate. The preface to the new edition states: "The author of this book was an experienced elder who lived during the Eiroku and Tensho periods and personally witnessed the wars of that era."

Koze Hoan's Taiko-ki states: "On the 24th day of the 4th month, Kitanosho Castle fell. On the 26th, [Hideyoshi] went down to Kaga Province for administrative purposes, stayed at Kanazawa Castle for three to five days, granted Ishikawa and Kahoku districts in addition to Toshiie, and then promptly returned."

In a personal letter from Lord Toshiie given to Tomita Kagemasa on the 27th of the same month, it says: "On the 25th, we took possession of Komatsu Castle, and on the following 26th, we arrived at Miyakoshi and established camp at Kanazawa Castle. It appears the matter can be concluded today." [Note] According to the meaning of Koze's Taiko-ki and this personal letter, the granting of the two Kaga districts was likely on the 27th or 28th. The Tomita-shi Honpo Jojikou considers it to be the 26th, but this is probably incorrect.

In the 9th month of Tensho 13, the personal letter from Toyotaiko regarding the additional grant of the three districts of Tonami, Imizu, and Nei in Etchu Province, formerly Sassa Narimasa's territory, is as follows. The wording of the certificate to the heir Toshikatsu is not recorded in various old records.