there would be no choice. The Kampaku's residence in Fushimi is the finest. If this were to be given [to someone else] and Niikawa District of Etchu were granted as an additional fief, it would be appropriate.' When this was reported, it was immediately ordered as stated above. Lord Toshiie gratefully received this with thanks," and so forth. Thereafter, it was heard that Jibu [Ishida Mitsunari] and Uemon [Masuda Nagamori] together were instructing about great provinces, and relations became increasingly strained.

One, according to the "Honpō Joji-ko": "The former domain of Sassa Narimasa, Niikawa District of Etchu Province, along with the late Toyotomi Hideugu's residual mansion in Fushimi, were granted to our domain founder in the autumn of Bunroku 4, 7th month." The genealogical records relate this to Bunroku 3, but this is probably an error. According to Nagaaki's notes: "On the 16th day of the 7th month of the 4th year, Lord Hideugu was forced to commit suicide. Because of this, our domain founder was entrusted with the protection of Lord Hideyori, and was to be granted Hideugu's former domains of the three provinces of Mino, Owari, and Ise, though the Kenbun-shū records them as the five provinces of Mino, Owari, Mikawa, Iga, and Ise."

One, according to the "Sanshū-shi Kyōkō Yoko": "In Tenshō 15, year of the boar, 6th month, the Toyotomi lord [granted] Sassa Narimasa the single province of Higo with 450,000 koku, excluding his former domain of Niikawa District in Etchu Province. Narimasa took the Etchu warriors including Jinbo Ujiharu and his son with him when he transferred to Higo Province. From this time, the single district of Niikawa became a public domain." The author's note states: "According to Keishū's examination, from this year until Bunroku 4, for nine years, Niikawa District was under the Toyotomi lord's domain and became our lord's stewardship. One theory states that in this year Niikawa District was granted as additional fief from the Toyotomi lord to our heir as reward for battles against the Tsukushi people, and within the district about 10,000 koku around Nunoichi was granted to Hijikata Kanbei Takehisa. Upon examination, this theory is incorrect."

One, also in the autumn of Bunroku 4, year of the sheep, the single district of Niikawa in Etchu Province and...