【Right Page】
is also transmitted. When water and earth mix and stagnate, that water and earth become diseased. When the disease persists for long, strange-shaped creatures arise where water and earth transform. It is foolish for people to pay no mind to things they commonly see, yet think unusual events are things that should not exist. Whether it be the birth of earthworms and frogs that we commonly see, or the birth of flies and crows, if we investigate the reasons for their birth and know their origins, both unusual things and common things follow the same principle. Ghosts and monsters are also the union of yin and yang, transformations of water and earth. All are diseases arising from places where heaven and earth are not in proper order. The union of male and female is yin and yang. Divided into upper and lower, it is heaven and earth - the two hexagrams of qian and kun. Qian is taken as father and kun as mother. Male is clear qi, female is turbid blood. When these two things unite, clear and turbid mix, qi becomes blocked, and the woman's blood stagnates and

【Left Page】
does not flow, so the woman is ill for ten months. Though the months are fulfilled and the child emerges from the womb, truly throughout a woman's life, the child is her disease. Fire is the child of wood. Wood is scorched by its child fire and is finally consumed. Therefore, fire emerging from wood is wood's disease. Earth is fire's child. Fire finally dies out and becomes earth and ash. Earth emerging from fire is the trace of fire's diseased death. Metal is earth's child. When metal is born, earth becomes something without nature. Therefore metal is also a disease for earth. Water is metal's child. When the child water is born, moisture is taken by the child, and when metal dries up, metal's nature is exhausted. This water emerging from metal is also metal's disease. Wood is water's child. Wood takes water's moisture and branches, leaves, flowers, and fruit flourish. For this reason, wood arising from water is water's disease. From this, when the mother becomes depleted,