【Right Page】
The mindset is slightly different. Medicine for "descending fire" (降火) [with "kudasu" (to lower) written as a marginal note] is good.

1. Hassen (Eight Exclusives) begins on mizunoe-ne (壬子) and ends on mizunoto-i (癸亥). It is written as "Eight Exclusives" because there are eight days when the water of mizunoe (壬) and the water of ne (子) cycle together, the wood of kinoe-kinoto (甲乙) and the wood of tora-u (寅卯) cycle together, and thus the Five Elements of the Ten Heavenly Stems and the Five Elements of the Twelve Earthly Branches unite as one. "Sen" (専) means exclusive or single-minded - because two things become one. Of the twelve days of Hassen, four days fall outside the cycling of the Five Elements of stems and branches, so they are called "interval days" (間日). These are ushi, tatsu, inu, and uma (丑・辰・戌・午). Because the Five Elements converge in one place during Hassen, qi becomes vigorous and illnesses are stirred up. Also, the day after Hassen ends is kinoe-ne (甲子). Since it occurs every sixty-one days when the six qi change, the alternating qi becomes turbulent, causing patients to suffer afflictions.

【Left Page】
1. Kinoe-ne cycles every sixty-one days. The winter solstice falls in the middle of the eleventh month. On the kinoe-ne day after the winter solstice, yin reaches its extreme and one yang begins to emerge. This is called the "first qi." The second kinoe-ne and third kinoe-ne are called the "second qi" and "third qi." Also, the summer solstice falls in the middle of the fifth month. On the kinoe-ne after the summer solstice, one yin begins to emerge and yin-yang alternate here. This is called the "fourth qi." The fifth and sixth kinoe-ne are called the "fifth qi" and "sixth qi." With sixty days each, six times six makes 360 days, and it returns and cycles like the previous year. When kinoe-ne affects the human body, it is a time when yin-yang change, so just as when people exchange places - those who leave here and those who come here interact and become especially turbulent. If one understands this principle and exercises caution before and after these periods, afflictions will