(Continuing from the previous page) From around late December, koban (gold oval coins), ichibu-ban (one-bu coins), and nibu-ban (two-bu coins) gradually began trading at higher prices. By the New Year, from early spring onward, coins marked "Fumi-no-ji," "Fumi-no-ji," and "Yasu-no-ji" each had varying prices according to their grade, rising to around two ryō and two bu. "Fumi-no-ji" koban were traded at around three ryō. Coins of five ryō denomination, if one possessed them, could fetch as much as fifteen ryō. Keichō-kin and Kyōhō-kin gold coins were traded at extremely high prices. It is said that one bu of Kō-kin was now worth one ryō.

In late January, "Fumi-no-ji" koban sold for around three ryō, one bu, and two shu. Other gold coins also varied in price according to their grade; "Yasu-no-ji" at one ryō and one bu became worth over three ryō, and two-shu gold coins traded at up to one ryō, one bu, and two shu per ryō. This was truly an extraordinary situation, and high-price trading continued progressively.

On the 4th day of the 2nd month, an official proclamation (o-fure) was issued: from the 1st day of the 2nd month onward, "Yasu-no-ji" koban at three ryō, one bu, and two shu; "Yasu-no-ji" ichibu-ban at three bu and one shu; "Sei-ji" (regular character) koban at two ryō, two bu, and three shu; and "Sei-ji" ichibu-ban at two bu and three shu — these four types were to be accepted in circulation without hindrance. Following this proclamation, the trading of gold coins calmed down somewhat. After that, two-shu gold coins began to be bought up increasingly, causing unrest once again. In Edo, those who traded two-shu gold coins were apparently arrested. As a result, by around the 8th day of the 2nd month in this locality as well, the trading of two-shu gold coins had completely ceased.

From around the 15th day of the 2nd month, "Shinji-bun" (true-character Bun) koban and ichibu coins showed signs of rising in value, and buyers appeared. From around the 20th day, they were being purchased at around four ryō and one bu, and prices continued to rise.

○On the 3rd day of the 3rd month, the various daimyō were scheduled to make the ceremonial visit to the castle for the Hinamatsuri festival, at around the Hour of the Fifth Bell in the morning (approximately 8 a.m.). On that same day, there happened to be a heavy snowstorm, so fierce that one could barely see one's footing. About twenty-five or twenty-six men wearing red cloaks, dressed in the manner of retainer attendants, stood on both sides of the road. As Lord Ii Kamon-no-kami (Ii Naosuke) was passing by, the men in red cloaks rushed in from both sides with drawn swords, attacking his palanquin. They thrust their drawn blades into the palanquin from both sides. Furthermore, many of the palanquin attendants and escort retinue suffered wounds and injuries, and some died on the spot. It was said that these men were Mito rōnin (masterless samurai from the Mito domain), and among the approximately sixteen men,

(Written in the upper margin: On the 1st day of the intercalary 3rd month, an official proclamation declared it the 1st year of Man'en.)

it was said that one Satsuma rōnin had also been among them, and reports of this spread progressively.

○On the 12th day of the 5th month, storms struck all the way from the Kamigata (Kyoto-Osaka) region to the Nagoya area, and the Kantō region also suffered damage with many places in Musashi Province (Musashino) affected. Prices of rice and grain rose progressively. With continued rainfall from spring through summer, the barley and wheat crops failed, and prices kept rising. Around the 7th month:

　　Superior rice: 5 shō 3 gō　　Superior barley: 1 koku 1 tō　　Superior wheat: 8 tō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Cash: 6 kan 700 mon
　　Medium rice: 6 tō　　　　　　Medium barley: 1 koku 3 tō　　　Medium wheat: 8 tō 7 shō