If one is in mourning or ill and cannot go to the site, they should inform the magistrates the following day. However, for mourning periods other than for parents, one should still report for duty.

[Red ink notation at bottom] On November 17th, Kyōhō 5 (Year of the Rat), although Takada Magozaemon was in mourning for his parent Shinsai, since seven days had passed, he inquired of the senior retainers whether he should go out for flying spark suppression, and there is a record of orders for him to report.

1. In both the domain (Fukui) and Edo, during fires, even during mourning periods, individuals should report to their assigned locations without concern.

1. On August 6th, Kyōhō 19 (Year of the Tiger), when Castle Deputy Koma Ichiuemon was in mourning, Castellan Tsuneyasu Uemon inquired of the senior retainers whether he should report to the main castle during castle town fires, and if so, whether he should refrain from audience. There is a record that Okabe Sazen conveyed that he should report during fires and need not refrain from audience.

[Red ink notation at bottom] In March, Kyōhō 4 (Year of the Boar), regarding Princess Toyo's attendant Kawamura Gōuemon's mother's mourning period and duty conduct inquiries, during fire evacuations, since fires involve defilement, it would not be problematic to accompany the evacuation, as stated by Lord Karasumaru (Mitsuhide).

1. On November 27th (intercalary), Genbun 2 (Year of the Snake), when shrine fire-fighter Ashida Zusho was under mourning obligations, only personnel should be sent out during the mourning period, and he should take the field after mourning ends. He should report to the Buddhist hall but refrain from the shrine, as conveyed by Okabe Sazen, according to records.

[Bottom section] On June 22nd, year 5 (Year of the Monkey), during Zusho's mourning period, he took the field throughout the mourning and abstinence period. Regarding Zusho, he was to remain outside the gate while only personnel entered within the gate, as conveyed by Okabe Sazen and transmitted to Zusho.

Details appear in the section on various fire-related matters.

1. In records from Kyōhō 19 (Year of the Tiger), it was ordered that at fire sites, magistrates should not neglect giving instructions to the Kōchi personnel and should provide appropriate judgment and greetings to prevent major fires.

[Red ink notation at bottom] 1. Prevention methods should be coordinated and instructed in consultation with town magistrates. Sailors

[Red ink] This is Kan'en 1st year

1. According to records from Enkyō 5 (Year of the Dragon), the Bow Corps Commanders, Cedar Formation Magistrates, and Long-Handle Weapon Magistrates were ordered to suppress and extinguish flying sparks during fires as previously instructed. They should divide into various locations as deemed appropriate and work diligently on prevention. Regarding extinguishing operations, these should be reported to the magistrates, but since no word of this has been heard until now, this is being communicated, as conveyed by the senior retainers. Furthermore, it was conveyed to the magistrates that this directive should be recorded by the relevant officials.

[Red ink notation at bottom] On April 5th, Kyōhō 3 (Year of the Dog), there is a record that flying spark suppression was ordered for these personnel during this period. Also, one person each from Cedar Formation and Long-Handle units should report so as not to interfere with night patrols. Fire-fighting equipment: 15 tea whisk bamboos and 10 water baskets per person, 4 ashiko each.

[Red ink] Records from Kan'en 1st year, namely this

1. On December 23rd, Hōreki 5 (Year of the Boar), at the lord's quarters, senior retainers [appointed] to room flying spark suppression duty:

[Crossed out, red ink] 4

[Lower section]
One person each from among:
Bow Corps Commanders: Kaga Kurōuemon, Ōzeki Shingozaemon
Cedar Formation Magistrates: Mochizuki Hachirōuemon, Ōta Sanuemon
Long-Handle Weapon Magistrates: Yamada Yagozaemon, Nagata Shirōbei

The following was further conveyed:
During fires, flying spark prevention should be carried out as previously ordered.
Depending on the location, they should divide appropriately to various places for thorough prevention, and extinguishing operations should be reported to the magistrates. Since no word of this has been heard until now, this is being communicated.

This was conveyed by Matsudaira Shume, with Magistrate Hatano Bunuemon present. A written directive was given to Bunuemon to record this directive with the relevant officials, and it was communicated accordingly.

1. In June, Meiwa 8 (Year of the Rabbit), the following appointments were made:
1. Two Senior Armorers each were appointed to fire site theft prevention
1. Two messengers each were appointed to fire site patrol
1. Bow Corps Commanders, Construction Magistrates, Cedar Formation Magistrates, and Long-Handle Weapon Magistrates - these eight people in total were designated under the title of "Regular Fire Fighters"
Previously they were called "Flying Spark Suppressors," but this was changed as stated above. From this time, Construction Magistrates were added, and town scaffolding workers were designated to accompany the Regular Fire Fighters.
However, while previous documents referred to Kōchi fire fighters as Regular Fire Fighters, the designation was changed to Castle Town Fire Fighters.

[Red ink] ○ Should be inserted one page earlier

1. On the 15th, Kyōhō 3 (Year of the Dog), since there were extra town fire fighters, the senior retainers instructed that magistrates should also take charge of one or two groups for fire prevention. Accordingly, Ōmiya Hikouemon consulted and there were about 50 people in the Kyōmachi group, who brought tea whisk bamboos and water baskets as their share and were instructed by Hikouemon to the group leaders to receive instructions from the magistrates. For the others, one group each should be assigned to town magistrate assistants to work, as Hikouemon conveyed.

1. On July 5th (intercalary), Kyōhō 6 (Year of the Ox), the senior retainers conveyed the following:
For minor fires, even if fire-fighting personnel report, if the fire cannot be confirmed, they need not report. When the castle is upwind or when wind is blowing, this would be exceptional.

1. In the 18th year (Year of the Ox), the following was issued:
Even when there are reports of fires, when the fire source is unknown and no smoke can be seen, the castle town becomes tumultuous, which happened recently as well. There are those who report for duty as previously ordered, and this may indeed be the case. Regarding those who report to the castle interior during fires...