Wind, Snow, Water, Drought, Thunder, Earthquakes, etc.

1. On July 20th, Enpō 9, Year of the Rooster, due to strong winds, the castle compound stone walls were slightly damaged, and reports were made regarding crop damage for that year.
   However, generally speaking, even slight damage to castle grounds should be reported according to protocol.

1. On the 6th day of intercalary 5th month, Tenna 3, reports were made due to flooding.

1. On September 9th, Jōkyō 4, Year of the Rabbit, due to strong wind and rain, the compound walls were damaged in various places, but since it was only wall damage and matters concerning fields and private houses were minor, no special report was necessary.

1. In the 8th month of Genroku 14, Year of the Snake, due to flooding, reports were made regarding crop damage of over 83,770 koku.

1. In mid-intercalary 7th month of Kyōhō 6, Year of the Ox, regarding crop damage in the administered territories due to flooding.

[Red ink] Same 17th year, 2nd month, Year of the Rat: Report regarding damage to people in the domain due to heavy snow last winter. Same 1st month: Reports of damage to houses due to heavy snow in nearby areas and various places, with successive records.

1. Same 17th year, 3rd month, 11th day, Year of the Rat: During the recent flooding, regarding boats, two small boats from Dōgata and one sent to the lower town were causing difficulties with ferry operations. When this was reported to the senior councilors, they said that the Dōgata boats had been designated in previous years, and since this was not the original intention, additional boats should be provided so as not to cause difficulties, and this should be discussed with the head boatman. This was communicated to head boatman Nakamura Yasaku, and one boat each was added to both sides. Later, on the 14th, Yasaku reported that additional boats had been arranged.
   However, after this, the lower town took responsibility, and the lower town possessed five small half-boats to perform Dōgata official duties. Naturally, the Dōgata boats should be provided first to retainers and below for official use.

   1. It is prohibited for boats going to the lower town to dock at the embankment and cross the thoroughfare. They should pass through within the gate area.
Kyōhō 16, Year of the Boar record

1. Previously, five small half-duty boats from Ago village came up and served. Regarding the silver allowance for this, there are records.

[Red ink] Ri