1. On the 29th day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 18, Year of the Ox, as the road in front of Nakajima Kangiin became poor, road construction was undertaken. However, since a portion of the roadside leading to Shimoyama Hanzaemon's [recorded in the Sōkyo salary register] group town was excluded from the road construction, the ground became quite hollow. Hanzaemon reported that due to this condition, it looked unsightly and, most importantly, water would pool during rainy periods causing inconvenience to traffic, so he wished to build up the earth along the road and requested that this be ordered. Upon examination, since the roadside was within Hanzaemon's group town territory and was definitely under group jurisdiction, it was difficult to order as government construction, which was communicated to Hanzaemon. However, since the group members were of modest means and it would be burdensome for them to undertake construction themselves, it was communicated that if Hanzaemon petitioned, it would be handled. He then said he would like to petition, and since this matter need not be formally submitted through written petition via intermediaries, he requested that we communicate orally to the Senior Councilors on his behalf. When this was communicated, we were asked if there were precedents. We reported that in previous years when the road through Nomura Ichirōzaemon's group area was in poor condition, Ichirōzaemon petitioned and road construction was ordered by the government. We were then told that since it was a small area, the construction office should be ordered to build up the earth, which Genba's office communicated, and this was conveyed to Hanzaemon as well as the Road Magistrate and Minor Construction Office.

1. On the 1st day of the 6th month of Genbun 2, Year of the Snake, for the replacement of Katsumi Bridge, although previously a boat bridge was placed behind Tōkōji Temple, it caused much damage to the fields, so about thirty ken of embankment and thickets south of Katsumi-guchi Gate were cleared and a temporary boat bridge was built for passage.

1. On the 4th day of the intercalary 7th month of Genbun 5, Year of the Monkey, passage was stopped for repairs to the bridge in front of Nakajima Kangiin.

1. On the 8th day of the 7th month of Enkyō 2, Year of the Ox, the bridge extending toward the Nanatsu-kura Gate over the moat at Minagawa Tazaemon's rear stone wall construction site was severely damaged and seemed likely to disappear entirely, so colleagues jointly communicated that repairs should be undertaken. Sukeroku's office communicated that light repairs should be added and this should be reported to the Construction Magistrate from the construction office.

1. On the 5th day of the 8th month of Genroku 1, Year of the Dragon, regarding those who would perform the bridge-crossing ceremony for the completion of Great Bridge construction, upon examination it was found that Kyōmachi Daikokuya Kizaemon and Tawarazaemon had been appointed for generations. However, recently Tawarazaemon's parent Shōseki had been banished for misconduct, so other suitable persons for the bridge-crossing ceremony were communicated to Town Magistrate Atsumi Shinemon and inquiry was made to Edo. The response came that this time Oaratame-honmachi money exchanger Araki Zenzaemon and Komaya Chōemon should be appointed, and that examination should also be conducted locally. After consultation among officials, it was previously conveyed through Mokunosuke to Shinemon that Araki and Komaya should be appointed. Since today the 5th was an auspicious day, Zenzaemon and Chōemon performed the bridge-crossing ceremony. As celebration for this, thirty kan of copper coins were granted to both men, and it was communicated to Shinemon that they should each receive two sets of seasonal clothing as gifts.