Gunpowder Storage

1. During years when the lord is absent (years when the domain lord is in Edo for sankin-kotai), when the gunpowder storage undergoes repairs and gunpowder must be moved elsewhere, the magistrates and inspectors shall oversee the process.
   However, the following personnel are expected to be present: two magistrates, one armed attendant chief, two gunpowder magistrates, three weapons magistrates, two foot soldier inspectors, one second bailey storage keeper, one castle deputy's assistant, six regular foot soldiers, nine advance foot soldiers, two castle guard group members, and one assistant from the castle deputy's support group.

1. In the 3rd year of Genbun, Year of the Horse, repairs were made to the Ninomaru gunpowder storage, and when the repairs were completed on the 4th day of the 4th month of the 4th year of Genbun, Year of the Sheep, there are records of the procedures for storing gunpowder from the original Construction Office turret.

1. In the 3rd month of the 2nd year of Kansei, Year of the Dog, gunpowder that was on the second floor of the Shimizu Gate was transferred to the original Construction Office turret, and there are records in the general affairs documents regarding the procedures for the seven-man guardhouse passage and other various administrative matters.

1. On the 9th day of the 5th month of the 2nd year of Enkyō, Year of the Ox, because the Ninomaru gunpowder storage was located near the main castle and there were concerns about lightning fires, the inspectors who had been previously appointed deliberated and reported to his lordship. They inquired about precedents for establishing storage facilities at locations not too far outside the castle grounds, and were instructed to also consult with the chamberlains, whereupon the purport of his lordship's intentions was communicated.

1. In the 4th month of the 4th year of Tenpō, Year of the Snake, when the Nakajima gunpowder storage was completed, there are records of the various procedures for transferring saltpeter from the original Construction Office turret.