Temples

1. On the 21st day of the 8th month of the 6th year of Bunka, Year of the Sheep, when the construction of the main hall of Kōkenji Temple was completed, for the purpose of inspection, three senior councillors (however, the duty officer does not attend), one magistrate in charge of construction, all inspectors, both construction magistrates, both works magistrates, and other relevant officials shall attend respectively. They shall wear hemp formal dress, accompanied by one attendant, one servant, and sandal bearers, but shall not carry spears.

1. On the 25th day of the 4th month of the 16th year of Kyōhō, Year of the Boar, Construction Magistrate Imamura Dan'emon went to Monthly Duty Officer Atsumi Shin'emon and reported: This time there will be construction work on the stone pagodas of Lord Shōan'in and Lord Hōsen'in at Daianji Temple, and as before, foot soldiers were ordered to accompany the work. However, regarding the senior gunner squad leaders wearing swords while on duty, he reported that previously there was no precedent for wearing swords. But since there were previous examples of wearing swords, he ordered the senior military leaders to have the squad leaders wear swords. Also, regarding all foot soldiers wearing short swords from the boat landing to the temple, he said this also had no precedent, but the leaders acknowledged that they had been wearing them during such construction work from before. Since both matters were not accepted, he reported that this matter should be communicated to the senior councillors. Shin'emon responded that if there were no issues according to previous regulations, such things should not be worn, but given such circumstances, it would be difficult for them to make a decision, and communicating to the senior councillors was at their discretion. Dan'emon wrote this matter in a statement and brought it for review. The content is as follows:

Statement of Report
1. This time, construction work on the stone pagoda at Daianji Temple was ordered, and as before, advance foot soldiers were ordered to accompany the construction work. At construction sites around Fukui, including Shakudani riverbank work, senior gunner squad leaders do not wear swords but only large short swords, serving according to established regulations. However, this time at the Daianji construction site, squad leaders wore swords, so when told this had no precedent, they claimed they wore them during the previous construction of Lord Tangen'in's stone pagoda. However, at that time, two construction magistrates were not appointed, and Shimoyama Seizaemon served alone. Seizaemon's approach was that for construction work, the manner of foot soldiers' service could be handled in any way, which is indeed reasonable. Since this construction work was assigned to two people, it would be difficult to change the established legal customs that construction foot soldiers have followed from before into new methods. When this was communicated to the squad leaders, they consulted and respectfully agreed, serving with only short swords during this period. However, the senior military leaders consulted together and ordered them to wear swords instead. Also, foot soldiers going to construction sites had previously not worn short swords but served with mountain swords. Even until now, at construction work in Kamo, Shakudani, and other riverbank areas, they did not wear short swords. However, this time they were told that when leaving Taya Village, all foot soldiers should serve wearing short swords as ordered by the senior military leaders. As stated above, this has no precedent and is a new method. It would be difficult for us two to order this based on our own judgment. Generally, foot soldiers have various distinctions in their service methods, and they cannot serve if there are even slight differences. Therefore, the varieties of service methods are extremely strict, and orders are given without deviation according to previous customs. Construction sites should be managed under the direction of us two magistrates. However, if squad leaders are made to wear swords and foot soldiers going to construction sites away from villages are made to wear short swords according to the direction of senior military leaders - matters that have had no precedent until now - then hereafter the senior military leaders will direct how foot soldiers serve at construction sites. If so, this will interfere with construction-related official duties, and moreover, matters that contradict established laws and regulations may arise. At construction sites, members of our groups serve with small staffs. Since we appoint representatives for directions at construction sites, they serve with short sword-staffs. The senior gunner squad leaders serving at construction sites are appointed to mediate when issues arise with general foot soldiers' service methods or disputes and arguments, and have served from before. Therefore, like small staffs, they serve with short sword-staffs.