1. On March 5th, Meiwa 3 (Year of the Dog) - Fire at Fukui Mitsu Bridge

1. On March 25th, Meiwa 8 (Year of the Rabbit) - Fire at Fukui Mikami-machi, 919 houses including retainer residences and townhouses

1. On October 14th, An'ei 3 (Year of the Horse) - Mikuni Port fire, 786 houses. Inspector Atsumi Shinemon, Senior Commander Kawasaki Saburosuke, and Foot Inspector Seki Kōzaemon were dispatched. Six temples, one shrine, sixty storehouses.

1. On August 27th, An'ei 4 (Year of the Sheep) - Kameya-machi fire. The corner turret, official residences, construction office, accounting office, small horse exit, large horse exit, Daimyo-machi entirely, and other townhouses were destroyed.

1. On July 10th, Bunka 6 (Year of the Snake) - Katsumi fire, total of 154 houses
Front seal

※ Regarding the two Fuchū fires, after deliberation that a report should be made from Honda Kuranosuke's office, a report document was prepared. Kuranosuke's retainer Magara Kansuke, accompanied by Edo caretaker Yokota Sakutayu, completed the report to duty officer Sakai Saemon.
"My retainer Honda Kuranosuke, whom I have stationed there, reports that on the 3rd of this month, townhouses were destroyed by fire in Echizen Province Fuchū, and on the 17th of the same month, another fire broke out from townhouses in the same location, destroying Kuranosuke's residence as well as houses and temples of his retainers. While Kuranosuke will report the details, I am also making this report. April 28th [Lord's name]"

Copy of the report document from Kuranosuke's office:
In the territory of Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami, at Fuchū where I am stationed, on the 3rd at the hour of the dog, fire broke out from townhouses, with the following losses:
1 - 219 townhouses, 1 temple, 3 shrines
On the 17th of the same month at noon, fire again broke out from townhouses in the same location, with strong west winds causing the following losses:
1 - 1 residence, 1 secondary residence, 97 retainer houses
1 - 39 temples, 6 shrines, 1,634 townhouses
1 - 6 deaths by fire, no injuries to cattle or horses
This being the situation, I hereby submit this report. Honda Kuranosuke

Previous page seal

[Circle with cross mark] At this time, there was an inquiry from Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-kami. In previous years, orders from the government stated that reports should be made when over one hundred houses within the castle town are destroyed, but no reports are required when over one hundred houses are destroyed in distant rural areas. Accordingly, Kaga-no-kami handles matters in this manner. Regarding this current matter, since it involved over two hundred houses in three villages, and particularly as it was away from the castle town, no report was made. Future deliberations should follow this precedent.
I note that among ancient records, there are statements that reports to the government should be made even for rural areas when one hundred houses are affected. However, given that in Hōreki 12 (Year of the Horse), following Kaga-no-kami's inquiry, no report was made, this practice is currently unnecessary.

1. On the dawn of March 16th, Bunka 1 (Year of the Rat) - Fire broke out from Keya Twenty-three Houses district, 143 townhouses suffered collateral fire damage, including 13 collapsed houses and 7 temples with fire damage. A report was made for this incident.
※ Previous three pages

1. On November 19th, Hōei 4 (Year of the Boar) - Fire broke out at the residence of Ōgoban Ichimura Sukeemon after 5 o'clock this morning. The main house was completely destroyed, but there was no spread to other buildings. Although it was only one house, since it was within the Sannomaru citadel, and ten years earlier in November during his father Kanemon's time this residence also had a fire, and at that time confidential communication was made to Lord Tsuchiya Sagami-no-kami in Edo with reports to the monthly duty elder, it was ordered that a similar report should be made this time. Immediately, caretaker Hori Jūbei went to monthly duty elder Lord Inoue Kawachi-no-kami to make the report. It was communicated to the intermediary that this was not arson.

1. On December 16th of the same year - Ichimura Sukeemon's residence has had repeated fires since his father's time, causing tremendous inconvenience within the citadel. Through a petition and oral statement, he requested through group leader Suganuma Yoichirō to be relocated to any townhouse area. He was ordered to remain at the same residence.

Oral Statement:
One retainer residence within the third citadel of Hyōbu-dayū's castle grounds
Was destroyed by fire on the 19th of this month. There was no spread of fire and it was quickly extinguished.
I come forward to report this matter as instructed from the domain.
November 28th [Lord's name]
Caretaker