【Red notation in brackets】"This clause exists in the various records"
　However, on the 25th day of the intercalary 9th month of the same year【in box】"イ 26th day"　Hereafter, for Buddhist monks who petition to be newly granted residences, 55 tsubo shall be granted
　This is a reduction from previous practice, as conveyed by Koma Ise-kata monthly duty officer Ōtani Gizaemon, and also communicated to the residence magistrates

【All circle marks are in red】
　1. 55 tsubo　　ninja agents
　　イ〇55 tsubo 2 bu or 52.5 tsubo

〇1. 20 tsubo 2 bu　　Kyōhō 16, year of the boar, 7th month, 5th day: two ninja subordinates as per regulations
　　　　　　　　　　ninja subordinates, specifically long-spear bearers
　　　　　　　　　　　Since 40 tsubo 4 bu would cause hardship, regarding the matter of increasing area
　　　　　　　　　　　the supervising head petitioned, and on 8/25 it was granted as requested, as recorded

〇1. 24 tsubo　　personal ashigaru
　　As per previous regulations　advance ashigaru

〇1. 24 tsubo　　cleaning staff

〇1. 20 tsubo　　chūgen (servants)
　　including poor drainage land

　1. 30 tsubo　　rifle range land

　1. 40 tsubo　　archery range land

　1. 96 tsubo　　officials who collectively performed courtesy, ashigaru rank
　　　Kyōhō 15, year of the dog, 7th month, 22nd day: horse keeper Matsumoto Zenzō's residence was previously allocated 90 tsubo as ashigaru rank, but since he was appointed to minor official rank, an increase was granted making it 96 tsubo　　　　　　　
【Red notation below in brackets】"Various records"
　　　　　　　　On the 17th, those who collectively paid their respects, hereafter
　However, in Kyōhō 15, year of the dog, 5th month, if residential land is petitioned for, hereafter it should be allocated as follows, as conveyed by Inaba Uneme-kata
　and communicated to residence magistrates 〇Sugita Danshichi and Sakai Rokurōemon by inspector monthly duty officer
　　　　　Ōtani Gizaemon, as recorded
　　　　　　　　The above
〇1. 100 tsubo　Nakamura Ninzaemon, Nakano Jiemon
　　　　　　　Hyōe
　　　　　Takase Jinshichi　of this category　　　　　
　However, this may have been previously determined, as there are such written records

　1. Generally when residences are granted, drainage should run 3 shaku to one side, and for residences attached to the outer side toward the approach, and archery ranges, wherever there is no road to that location, roads of 9 shaku width and appropriate length should be granted as determined by inspection

　1. Reception and transfer of ashigaru residences are under their head's supervision; falconers under their head's supervision; kitchen staff, meal attendants, storehouse guards, and recruitment divisions, lateral inspectors, cleaning staff, and monks under their heads
　　under the direction and supervision of the magistrates

　The above was conveyed by the senior retainers on Tenna 2, year of the dog, 10th month, 29th day. At that time, residence exchanges were announced and regulation documents were entrusted. When this was reissued in Kyōhō 3, the old precedents were eliminated
【Red insertion below "entrusted" at bottom right】matters of residence reform should be consulted

【Red notation in brackets】
"800 ri states: The above 〇 sealed clauses were found in Terasawa-shi's memorandum, so recorded here for reference"

　1. Ashigaru residences: 25 buildings　　
　　However, including 2 group leader houses within this number
　　1. Besides these, on the open land west of Sakura riding ground, there are about 13 vacant ashigaru residence lots
　　However, matters concerning group leader residences appear in the section on minor officials and below

1. Kyōhō 15, year of the dog, 5th month, 21st day: The residential land for three salt-handling officials was previously allocated behind Tōkōji temple, but since increased area was to be granted, the following was communicated to the residence magistrates:
　Communicated by letter: Previously, the salt-handling officials Ōuchi Hikozaemon, Murai Yaichirōemon, and Morizawa Jiemon who were ordered to relocate from Matsoka were allocated 66 bu of residential land, but as previously communicated, minor officials are hereafter to receive 96 bu, so please arrange for reallocation
　as should be communicated, and thus it is. The above
　　　　5th month, 21st day　　　　　　　　　Kōzuki Buzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　　To Sugita Danshichi-dono
　　　　　　　　　　　To Sakai Rokurōemon-dono