Section on Temporary Residences

1. Kaei 2, year of the rooster, 2nd month, 25th day (1849)
　　　　　　　Magistrate: Oka Hanzaemon　Inspector: Tsuchiya Jūrōemon

Okada Kinzaemon (who serves as head of naval personnel) petitioned regarding his official residence granted land: the Kinzaemon granted land of over 70 tsubo located in the north lateral section that was previously granted as a loan to Nakazawa Shichibē, requesting that this be designated as tea garden land. Accordingly, it was granted as petitioned, and this was communicated. Regarding this matter, issues of land loss etc. should be discussed and handled, and the matter of land rent rice should be handled by Heizaemon.

Regarding this land petition, Kinzaemon had privately communicated through a proposal document during this time, so a document was also privately submitted to the senior retainers as follows:

　　　　The official residence is in extreme disrepair, and due to recent strong winds, both the main house and nagaya cannot be left as they are, necessitating reconstruction cost estimates

1. Within the official residence, regarding the remaining land that became interspersed after the 200 tsubo granted land was partitioned for Nakazawa Shichibē in previous years, fortunately in connection with tea garden land calculations, we wish to offer over 70 tsubo as tea garden land
　　However, if designated as tea garden land, cultivators would likely contribute about 2 kan mon of silver

1. We wish to submit the above 2 kan mon of silver to the趣意方 (Purpose Office) and arrange for profit at the same location. However, until the末盛講 reaches maturity, in 15 years it would amount to about 5 kan mon

1. If the末盛講 group members collaborate and can continue at the Purpose Office, we wish to contribute the profit portion. However, until the講 matures, the profit portion would be about 15 kan mon

1. Regarding the contribution of the above two accounts, we wish to receive the academy currently at Sakura Baba and use it to rebuild the official residence main house

1. If the above four articles are granted as petitioned, we wish to rebuild the nagaya using the old timber from the current main house building
　　However, with repairs as crude as before, future restoration may not be adequate, so we wish to use tile roofing. For these various expenses, we calculate it could be done by selling the stones and other stone materials at the academy

　　　　Precedents
1. Regarding official residence reconstruction: In Bunsei 4, year of the snake (1821), regarding Mitsuoka Magonemon, when he was at what is now Hatanaka Tōhachirō's official residence, he borrowed 900 mon of silver, with half given as a grant and half as an interest-free 10-year installment plan

1. Regarding nagaya reconstruction: In Tenpō 9, year of the dog (1838), at Kagaguchi official residence, Kanie Zenemon borrowed 400 mon of silver at the札所 with monthly interest of 8 shu for 5 years, after which the principal and interest were rolled over, currently becoming a 15-year plan

1. Regarding the above two borrowings, since housing is expensive now, borrowing about double the above amount might be granted. However, if the previous petition is granted, there would be no expenditure required
　　However, considering double the amount, borrowing 2 kan 600 mon, of which the calculated silver over 15 years would be about 2 kan 300 mon plus interest of about 1 kan 200 mon, totaling about 3 kan 500 mon

We respectfully request that based on the above intentions, a favorable and prompt evaluation be made. Above
　　　　　　　2nd month

△　　Official residences, surrendered residences, borrowed residences

1. Genbun 6, year of the rooster, 7th month, 11th day (1741): Regarding town magistrate Hiramoto Tadami's residence, hereafter for the front reception room office section, both roof and tatami repairs shall be ordered. Record exists. When Nara Gonzaemon served as town magistrate, silver was provided for nagaya re-roofing expenses the previous year.

On the 16th day of the 9th month, it was communicated at the magistrate's office that there should be no repairs for the office section, which differs from what was previously announced, but Tadami communicated that since it would be troublesome to raise various objections, please do not implement it. Record exists.

1. Enpō 2, year of the ox, 5th month, 8th day (1745): Head falconer Kishi Mozaemon's official residence suffered major damage, requiring repairs to the rear rooms of 2 by 4 ken and additionally a 10-tatami corner room. When instructed to examine precedents, reference was made to when Iwagami Kajidayū served as head of naval personnel and his official residence suffered major damage beyond his means to repair. At that time, through inspector Kōzuki Buzaemon to Sakai Yozaemon's office, when this situation was communicated, it was heard that any kind of repair effort would be commendable, so unused areas could be removed at discretion. When Mozaemon later requested to remove the site, Koma Tachi no Kami's office communicated that removal should be done considering future occupants' residence needs, and this was communicated and removal was carried out. Record exists.

1. Kansei 12, year of the monkey, 4th month (1800): Nakagawa Rokuzaemon's residence caretaker's dismounting area utility building nagaya, which had previously been privately maintained, suffered major damage, so hereafter the nagaya section shall be repaired from above

1. Bunka 3, year of the tiger, 9th month, 29th day (1806): New guard unit Shimazaki Denemon was appointed to succeed Mizuno Shinsuke in the accounting office's custody of old goods from kitchen inspector, and upon moving to the official nagaya, his previous Kaminohashi granted residence was ordered to be surrendered. The surrendered residence was currently granted as a loan to foot soldier inspector Makino Ichizaemon. Of course, when Denemon is reassigned again, that residence would be granted to Denemon again. Accordingly, it was so ordered, and since there were no tatami at the accounting office nagaya, 23 tatami from Denemon's surrendered residence were given to Denemon

1. Same 5th year, year of the dragon, 7th month (1808): When Takagi Shōemon was appointed as garden pond attendant, since there were no tatami in the garden pond utility nagaya, his previous granted residence was designated as a surrendered residence, and when he petitioned for tatami to be provided, they were granted as requested. Also, the previous garden pond attendant Tada Hikozaemon was granted retirement, and his son Kaizaburō was granted succession, but since there was no borrowed residence, successor Takagi...