Regarding Estate Petitions and Estate Grants
1. According to records from the 22nd day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 15, year of the dog (1730), regarding whether there were precedents for estate petitions that had been filed during a parent's generation and had stood for many years, the estate magistrate was to deliberate on this matter. When this was communicated to Sakai Rokurōemon for consideration, he reported after investigation that there were no previous examples of parents' petitions being established. This matter was then communicated to Inaba Uneme's office, and there is a record of this.
　　1. On the 25th day of the 11th month of Hōei 4, year of the boar (1707), when Nishiwaki Jingotayū's son Toyoharu was summoned for service, Toyoharu newly
　　　petitioned for an estate. At that time, following an inquiry from the estate magistrate and deliberation, the senior retainers ordered that the parent's petition not be used and that the date when Toyoharu petitioned be recorded. There is a record of this.
1. In Hōreki 3, year of the rooster (1753), since the caretaker Wada Iwanosuke was young and living together with his uncle Sasakura Gunzaemon, if he would not move to the estate, it should be returned, and if he petitioned again later, it would be granted. Since it was returned under these terms, the petition order was examined and it was granted to Ogi Tōemon of the great guard unit. Details are also found in the cohabitation section.
1. Regarding the granting of estates, for those of messenger rank and above, senior retainers make the announcement; for members of various guard units, announcement is made to their unit commanders.
1. The same precedent applies when estate exchanges are ordered.
1. When estate grants or estate exchanges are ordered, this is communicated to the estate magistrates through the inspectors.
1. In Bunka 7, year of the horse (1810), part of Kaifuku Inobei's estate land was requisitioned and a medical school was built.
1. In the same year, estates were surrendered and permanent Edo duty was ordered for retainers of Lord Ryūtokuin [Shigetomi] who were ordered to return to the domain after his death, as well as for those who were ordered to return to the domain due to personnel reductions during permanent Edo residence. All of these were granted estates.
　　However, since new allocations were ordered within the extensive estate lands of the retainer class, there were variations in tsubo area, and buildings were also those for 25-koku rice stipend recipients with entrance halls attached.
1. In the same year, those who had previously negotiated directly for extensive estates, surrendering tea garden land as leased land and building estates, Takeda
[Red ink notation] Missing