The back of the estate to Nakano Giemon, the interior of the riverside estate to Nomura, Tashiro, and the estate vicinity to Nishimura - all were granted. Hereafter, such matters are to be discontinued.

1. Regarding estate grant petitions to be submitted to the duty officer, these should be communicated to the estate magistrate and recorded in the petition order registry. The senior retainers shall instruct the intermediaries accordingly, and then the inspectors shall communicate this to the estate magistrates.
　However, the same applies to all samurai and various officials.

1. On the 5th day of the 2nd month of Kyōwa 1, year of the rooster (1801), at the Council Chamber as follows:　　　Kaifuku Kyūemon
　　Regarding Hirase Gozaemon of junior new guard rank and Seki Chōtarō of foot soldiers,
　　the upper estate grant was ordered. This matter is to be communicated to Gozaemon.

1. On the 20th day of the 3rd month of Bunsei 1, year of the tiger (1818), since Sukagayama Gunpei's house was destroyed in a recent nearby fire,
when he wished to construct a house, upon petition, it was ordered as per the attached document, and this was communicated to Gunpei.
Furthermore, regarding the damaged land, it was communicated to the estate magistrate to handle it as before. Monthly duty officer Hasebe Koemon
　　　Attached document
　Sukagayama Gunpei petitioned for his estate at Mitsuhashi district, at Ogino Matasaburō's leased land, to have tsubo area added and transferred alongside Daisenji temple and the estate land where Gunpei had been residing. Therefore, it was ordered as petitioned. Moreover, the estate granted to Gunpei this time is designated as a granted estate.

1. On the last day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 12, year of the sheep (1727), since Hayashi Yotayū had no estate, he wished to construct a house if granted the vacant land beside Yasumoto Shinsuke's estate in Amakusa-chō. Matsubara Zenzaemon served as intermediary and communicated this to the senior retainers at the Council Chamber. Upon examination today, since the estate land was considerably short of the regulation 225 tsubo, when Zenzaemon made private inquiries, Yotayū reportedly said he would like to receive the grant even if insufficient. When this was communicated to the senior retainers, it was subsequently granted despite the shortage.

1. In the 5th month of Kanpō 2, year of the dog (1742), when Shimada Seizaemon's upper estate was granted to Yamada Tosaku, it had been abandoned since the previous year and was severely damaged, so official repairs were carried out. There is a record of this precedent.

1. On the 25th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 5, year of the rat (1720), the estate land where Aizawa Shōsuke had been residing was granted to Yokoyama Genjirō of the great guard. This was because it had been previously communicated that Genjirō's current estate was narrow and he was having difficulty building and expanding a practice hall. However, this was granted as a contiguous expansion.

1. On the 5th day of the 6th month of the same 6th year, year of the ox (1721), a two-ken strip of Kitajima Izaemon's upper estate was additionally granted to Ogino Riemon of the great guard. This was because it had been communicated that the archery range at Riemon's current estate was inconvenient, so it was granted as stated.

[Red ink notation] Missing