Various Matters Concerning Estate Transfers

1. When samurai are ordered to transfer estates, or when the estate owner's lineage ends, if relatives or connections who serve separately in official duties reside on that estate and have built their own quarters, regarding their petitions to take over those quarters: while petition documents have been submitted until now, hereafter the circumstances should be communicated to the estate magistrate, and after the estate magistrate's examination and communication to each party, if there are no issues according to precedent, the estate magistrate should be informed to allow the takeover. The same applies to masterless samurai (rōnin) who have built quarters within such estates.
　However, if there are connections to the main family and it does not follow the logic of separate quarters, changes may be made at the estate magistrate's discretion at that time.
　　　　Simple matter [?]

1. After estate transfers are ordered, inquiry should be made to the senior retainers, and this should be communicated to the estate magistrate.

1. When estate transfers are ordered, transporting old tatami mats and other unsightly items through the Iron Gate area would obstruct traffic, so it should be communicated to the owner that restraint is appropriate. However, passage through Kawaguchi Gate and Sannomaru requires notification by letter to the monthly duty inspectors.

1. In the 8th month of Kansei 12, year of the monkey (1800), regarding the petition for mutual exchange between Tagaya Gonbē's lower estate in Tawara-chō and the former land of Aoyama Jirōemon in Tera-chō.

1. Since there are official laws regarding estate transfers, inquiries should be made to the estate magistrate, and it was ordered that exchanges be made without discrepancies between parties. Reference should be made to the initial provisions for estate inspection. The provisions regarding estate tsubo area should also be referenced.

1. In the 12th month of Bunka 8, year of the sheep (1811), the monthly duty inspector communicated to the guard commanders and others that the phrase "wish to exchange" should no longer be acknowledged in mutual estate transfer petition documents.

1. When estate transfers occur, if both parties communicate through written statements their desire to transfer storage sheds and similar structures through mutual agreement, inquiry should be made to the senior retainers, and if instructions are given to proceed as convenient, this should be communicated to both parties as well as the estate magistrate. On the 26th day of the 10th month of Kōka 3, year of the horse (1846), Sengoku Man'emon and Habakabe Kumazō, as such.

[Red ink notation] Ra