1. Meiwa 9, year of the dragon (An'ei 1, 1772), 5th month, 16th day, to Mito Tajima:
Regarding Yamakawa Korenosuke's matter: due to his young age, his father Isono Tamiya has been concerned about household management and other matters. This year, during his Edo residence duty absence, his petition to live with Tamiya during said absence has been approved as requested, and this matter should be communicated to Korenosuke.
Isono Tamiya has been similarly instructed in this matter.

1. Tenmei 3, year of the rabbit (1783), 3rd month: During御書院番 Takebe Sakutayū's absence for Edo duty, he reported that he had left his household in the care of one Muraoka Shōtayū of the Maruoka retainer group during his absence. Since this concerned another domain, the matter was discussed with the senior retainers, who stated that since this was a personal matter regarding his home village that we had acknowledged, he should be told to proceed as he saw fit.

1. Hōreki 3, year of the rooster (1753): Due to Wada Iwanosuke of the residence duty group being a minor, he lived with his uncle Sasakura Gunzaemon and surrendered his residence. There is a record of this, which also appears in the section on surrendered residences.

1. The following was proclaimed:
1. Gambling has long been prohibited, but since many have recently been gambling, punishments have been ordered. Since gambling occurred in samurai residences and long-houses, from now on all those under command and even the lowest servants should be strictly ordered to observe this prohibition.
1. Even if they are relatives, those whose conduct over a year cannot be verified should not be allowed to stay within the residence.
1. Lodgers of lower-ranking people should not be carelessly accommodated. If accommodation cannot be avoided, after investigation, if they are reliable persons, guarantors should be established before accommodating them. Of course, the situation of lodgers should be monitored without negligence through personal inspections. During Edo residence duty absence, relatives should be even more careful in conducting investigations before accommodating anyone.
The above has been proclaimed and must be strictly observed. Masters will be held responsible for any who violate these rules. Above.

1. When residing in townhouses, official seals must be obtained from the town magistrate's office.

1. Kanpō 1, year of the rooster (1741), 10th month, 28th day: Ōmachi Masaku had a fire at his residence last 8th month, and since reconstruction was not yet complete, his petition to live with his elder brother Saitō Kisaku during the winter was approved.

1. Kyōhō 11, year of the horse (1726), 8th month, 25th day:
Regarding samurai borrowing residences during their absence for Edo duty, henceforth there is no need to petition with written requests; the inspectors should be notified by the landlords, and this should be communicated to colleagues. This was communicated at the council through Takada Kozaemon and Ōtani Gizaemon from Sakai Gyōbu's office.

1. When members of the guard units depart for Edo duty and wish to leave their wives, children, and relatives in others' care during their absence and lend their house and residence to others, they should be told they may do so as they see fit.
However, this matter should be reported to the inspectors on a slip of paper. Also, those receiving care need not have their unit commanders report this - it suffices for the individuals themselves to report. Sometimes both parties may complete the process by having the individuals report rather than their unit commanders.

1. Bunka 3, year of the dragon (1806), 4th month, 8th day: Hababe Jūrōsaburō made arrangements to lend his house during his absence to Yajima Shichiuemon for his Edo duty. However, Jūrōsaburō's departure was temporarily postponed, and Shichiuemon needed to vacate his previous rental to the landlord. Therefore, a petition was submitted requesting that Jūrōsaburō's house be lent to Shichiuemon, and that Jūrōsaburō temporarily live with his elder brother Ihara Jōsuke until his departure. This was approved as requested.

1. Kyōwa 3, year of the boar (1803), 11th month, last day: The following was communicated.

[Red ink notation] Mu