Residence Construction and Demolition/Storage

1. Hōreki 4, year of the sheep (1754): When economic reforms were proclaimed, regarding house construction matters, the written regulations issued in Kanpō 2, year of the dog (1742) should be observed. However, for main houses and all other construction matters, not only new construction but even repairs must be reported according to their type, as proclaimed in the official notice, which remains on file.

Oral Communication
Regarding individual house construction matters due to economic reforms, this follows what was communicated in the spring. However, since then, it has been heard that some individuals have removed their front-facing fences and made green hedges instead. Hereafter, even for minor matters, any demolition must be reported to the inspectors and receive instructions. Please understand this directive. Above. 10th month, 29th day. Inspectors

1. Same year, 10th month, 28th day: The written directive issued to Matsubara Tazen was as follows:
"Regarding one room of the sitting area of your residence that was recently demolished: You did not report this to the inspectors, and arbitrarily demolishing house construction is impermissible. Of course, if there were reasons such as major damage making repairs difficult, you should have reported it first and then any measures could have been taken. The fact that this was not done shows poor management and is extremely improper conduct. Therefore, you are reprimanded and should exercise restraint." Above

1. Kyōwa 2, year of the dog (1802), 11th month, 13th day:
"I seek your opinion through this letter. My residence was damaged by fire in previous years and the rebuilding remains cramped, so this time I have built an extension of an eave 3 shaku by 2.5 ken toward the north from the main house. I hereby report this matter. Above."
To Matsubara Zenzaemon-sama, Sengoku Man'emon

Although this was reported as above, since such letters should not be communicated to the estate magistrate in the future, this time also it was not communicated.

[Red ink notation] U