1. Bunka 6, year of the snake (1809), 9th month, 25th day: The following was decided:
   1. Regarding minor extensions such as eaves to main houses using old timber from storehouses that members of the household have applied for and stored away: such work will not be permitted in the future. However, reconstruction of an entire building will be decreed after deliberation at that time.
   [Red ink annotation] Application for extending the southern eaves by 2 ken and 3 shaku.
   1. If the stored old timber from storehouses is used for house construction as described above, eventually the household retainers will have no storehouses, which is not good for administrative control. Therefore, this was decided after deliberation. When Sugita Koheiji submitted such an application this time, it was decreed that construction work using old storehouse timber for minor extensions is difficult to permit. [Marginal note: Bunka 12, year of the ox (1821), 11th month, 10th day: Kuno Sakuemon requested to use old timber from a storehouse that collapsed in snow years ago for house construction this time, but we replied that using stored old storehouse timber for minor house construction is not permitted. Monthly duty officer Ogino]

1. Bunka 8, year of the sheep (1811), intercalary 2nd month, 9th day: Ihara Genbei reported that a 2 ken × 3 ken storehouse in his residential compound had become severely damaged and he wished to demolish and rebuild it. After deliberation with colleagues, we informed Genbei that it was at his discretion.

1. Kyōwa 1, year of the rooster (1801), 5th month: Hashimoto Shun'an reported through a written statement that his residential compound was cramped and he wished to build a 2 ken × 2.5 ken storage storehouse, which he would demolish when no longer needed. When this was reported to the senior councilors, they said it was at his discretion. This was communicated to Shun'an and also to the estate magistrate to handle it as before.

1. Bunka 1, year of the rat (1804), 2nd month, 29th day: Cormorant official Mizoguchi Kyōemon submitted the separate document below, so after investigation with colleagues, it was communicated that it should be decreed at his discretion.

   Memorandum
   There is a 9-shaku square hut in my compound, but it is inconvenient, so I wish to demolish it and build a 9-shaku square hut as an auxiliary building in the same location. Moreover, since there is no place to live during recent floods, I wish to build up the ground and construct buildings higher. Please kindly report this matter. 2nd month
   To Tōma Yogozaemon-sama, Morikawa Kizaemon

   However, the above matter was not reported to the estate magistrate.

1. Same year, 3rd month, 29th day: Kyōemon again submitted the separate document below, so we informed Kyōemon that it was at his discretion and took the opportunity to discuss this with the senior councilors.

   Memorandum
   There has been a corner building on the south side of my compound, but I previously applied to demolish it and make it an auxiliary building as a 9-shaku square storage hut, which was graciously approved as requested. However, if the site for this hut is raised significantly, the roof will become high and very dangerous during windstorms. If I make it a 9-shaku square plastered storehouse, the roof will be lower. Then there should be no particular problems during windstorms, as the craftsmen have advised. Since this is originally a flood-prone area, raising the ground would also help during floods. Therefore, though I am embarrassed to make another request, please mercifully approve the change to a plastered storehouse as requested. Please kindly obtain approval for these matters repeatedly. 3rd month
   To Fujita Yogozaemon-sama, Morikawa Kisaku

1. When storehouses are built, reporting that they will be demolished when no longer needed or when residences are changed is a matter of discretion. This is recorded in the estate register of Kansei 4, year of the rat (1792), 4th month, 24th day. However, on Bunpō 1, year of the rat (1818), 2nd month, 3rd day, when Atobe Kazue and Kamisaka Jingorōemon reported storehouse construction, in the follow-up letter to the diagram it was communicated to both men asking whether demolishing the storehouse would be difficult if there was already a storehouse at the destination residence during residence changes. Monthly duty officer Suzuki Jūzaemon. Both men's written statements included that they would demolish [the storehouse] during residence changes or when no longer needed.

1. Bunka 8, year of the sheep, intercalary 2nd month, 1st day: A written application for storehouse construction by retainer Yoshimasu Yasubei of Sakai Yozaemon's group was submitted addressed to Yoshida Genhachirō and Teramoto Shingorōemon, so it was reported to the senior councilors as usual and the written application was sent to the estate magistrate.

1. Tenpō 5, year of the horse (1834), 2nd month, 11th day: Takada Hamon requested to slightly reduce and rebuild a 2 ken × 3 ken storehouse he had stored years ago. Since this involved reducing it by about 2 shaku, after deliberation it was handled as before. Monthly duty officer Ōzeki Shingorōemon.

1. Same 6th year, year of the sheep (1835), 2nd month, 27th day: Sakai Yozaemon's group reported that retainer Yoda Ikutarō had submitted a written application addressed to estate agents Fujijirōemon and Isoya Tōkurō requesting to build a storehouse at his residence. They reported that it was approved as requested, and this written application was communicated to the estate magistrate. In the 11th year, year of the rat, retainer Takahashi Tarōzaemon of the same group made the same request.

1. Tenpō 14, year of the rabbit (1843), 1st month: When castle deputy retainer Kojima Kyōzaemon built a storehouse, the castle deputy submitted a notification document addressed to monthly duty officer Yamamoto Genzaemon, handled as usual.

[Red ink] I