1. Tenpō 8, year of the rooster (1837), 11th month, 25th day: Akita Sangozaemon had previously reported and built one storage building, but this time submitted a written application to build a 1 ken × 3.5 ken corridor to the said hut, which he would demolish when no longer needed. This time colleagues deliberated, it was not reported to the senior councilors, monthly duty officer Saburōbei took note of it, and since the written application was attached and handled by the estate magistrate respectively, it was communicated to handle it as before. It was also communicated to Sangozaemon that it was at his discretion.

1. Tenpō 9, year of the dog (1838), 3rd month, 20th day: Regarding a 2 ken × 3 ken storage storehouse that Kuze Hachizaemon had previously reported and stored at his residence, this time he wished to use the old timber to build a 2 ken square structure. While this constituted a reduction in size, due to special circumstances it did not become an exceptional case, and the application was completed.

1. Same 10th year, year of the boar (1839), 2nd month, 20th day: Nagami Ichigaku's application to use old timber from a storehouse he had previously reported and stored to build a slightly reduced structure was completed. However, it was to be reduced by about 2 shaku.

1. For written applications to rebuild severely damaged storehouses with the same floor area, the monthly duty officer takes note and there is no need to report to the estate magistrate. Tenpō 10, year of the boar, 6th month, 23rd day, Nakarai Chūan handled it thus.

1. Tenpō 12, year of the ox (1841), 3rd month, 3rd day: Takano Hanemon reported that he wished to build a 4 ken square library according to the wish of his adoptive father Sōemon during his lifetime. Application completed.

1. Kōka 1, year of the dragon (1844), 2nd month, 16th day: Regarding the storehouse reconstruction of retainer Kajikawa Kizaemon of Koma Moku (though he was retired at this time), a report was made through the inner scribes by written document.

1. An'ei 9, year of the rat (1780), 7th month, 24th day: When household retainers applied to store severely damaged storehouses, it was decided that the applicants should be informed that they would be rebuilt and handed over as before when residences were changed, and that estate changes would not be handled through mutual arrangement.

1. Kyōhō 20, year of the rabbit (1735), intercalary 3rd month, 10th day: Naval commander Nakamura Tarōzaemon reported that of two storehouses at his residence, one had become severely damaged and was difficult to maintain, so he wished to dismantle it. Since this concerned an official residence, when the matter was referred to the senior councilors, they said it was at his discretion.

[Red ink] I