Gates, Long Houses, Fences, Bamboo Hedges, Alley Entrances, Windows, and Projecting Lattices

1. Hōreki 4, year of the sheep (1754): Record of the directive issued regarding removing front-facing fences and making bamboo hedges. This appears in the section on residential construction.

1. Enkyō 2, year of the ox (1745), 4th month, 7th day: When Sakano Hachiemon reported via written application that his long house had become severely damaged and he wished to cut away some parts for repairs, he was told that repairs were at his discretion but cutting away parts should be reconsidered. Monthly duty officer Tanabe Gotayū.

1. For household retainers opening windows in front long houses and such, there is no need to consult with the senior councilors; it can be concluded by accepting it whether by letter or written application. For installing projecting lattices, a written application must be submitted and the senior councilors consulted.

1. Kyōwa 1, year of the rooster (1801), 9th month, 19th day: Matsudaira Shuma reported that at his residence on the riverside, there was a long house with projecting lattices that had a one-ken window, but this time he wished to make it a two-ken window, so he requested this be accepted. Accordingly, this was communicated to estate magistrate Miyakita Chōzaemon.

1. Tenpō 4, year of the snake (1833), 8th month, 15th day: Honda Shuri reported by letter that he wished to open two second-floor windows six ken east from the west side of the north part of his residence's front long house. Upon examining precedents, various ranks' practices were observed. Since last year, there has been a regulation that from kōchi (senior retainers) onwards, addressee names should be written on written applications, but since opening windows is a light matter, colleagues decided it would be appropriate not to report to senior councilors by accepting it among colleagues. This was newly discussed among colleagues and communicated to the estate magistrate as guidance. Hereafter, for window openings, from kōchi to guard units, all do not need written applications and can be concluded by acceptance whether by letter or oral application. For installing projecting lattices, written applications must be submitted and senior councilors consulted. Naturally, addressee names should be written starting with kōchi and including colleagues. Monthly duty officer Ogino.

1. Bunka 5, year of the dragon (1808), 11th month, 11th day: Honda Shuri reported that regarding the 2 ken × 9 shaku second-floor storehouse with projecting lattices that he had reported last year, built east of the rear gate on the north side of his residence, he now wished to remove the projecting lattices. When this was communicated to the senior councilors, it was approved as requested, so this was communicated to Shuri.

[Red ink] No