1. Bunka 1, year of the rat (1804), 10th month: The following was reported, and when consulted with the senior councilors, Ōtani Tange replied that it should be handled at their discretion, so this was communicated to both persons:
　　　　Oral memorandum
　　Since my neighbor Ogino Magouemon is closely related, I wish to open an alley entrance at the residence boundary. Given the current times with few people, in case of emergencies we would like to look out for each other without interference. Although there have been recent edicts, we have strictly enforced security measures. I wish to open this alley entrance. Please handle this matter favorably. Above
　　　　　　　　11th month　Ariga Kyokujin
　　However, Ogino Magouemon also submitted a written application with the same content

1. Opening boundary fences with neighbors for passage is not acceptable as it compromises security, but it may be granted if there are valid reasons such as family relationships, water supply issues, looking out for each other when no one is home, or fire prevention

1. Kyōwa 1, year of the rooster (1801), 8th month, 22nd day: Suganu Shikibu's deputy came and reported that the same family name Yajirō's residence front fence area had its roof blown off by the heavy wind and rain the day before yesterday, making it unsightly. Since it was during a mourning period, he inquired how to handle the repairs. Since it was unavoidable, I immediately replied that it should be handled at their discretion

Mark: All should be considered

△1. Kansei 4, year of the rat (1792), 4th month, 24th day: Construction magistrate Suzuki Hyakusuke, who previously had no long house, requested to build one, stating in his written application that he wished to demolish it when unnecessary and during residence changes. However, while demolition when unnecessary is acceptable, demolition during residence changes is not proper, so Koma Taitō instructed that this should not happen in the future. Hyakusuke's written application was revised to state demolition only when unnecessary. Regarding storehouses, etc., they may be handled at discretion both when unnecessary and during residence changes.
　　However, Hyakusuke's stipend is 100 koku. Therefore, for 100-koku stipend recipients, saying they will demolish when unnecessary became acceptable.

[Following in red ink]
1. Tenpō 12, year of the ox (1841), 7th month, 29th day: When 100-koku Suganu Heibei built a long house, stating he would demolish it when unnecessary or during residence changes, this was approved. This is
　　　very suspicious　Monthly duty Ōseki Shingozaemon

Exceptional cases
　Bunka 11, year of the dog (1814), 11th month, 24th day: 150-koku Ishihara Kizaemon built a 3×2 ken long house, stating he would demolish when unnecessary, approved at discretion　Monthly duty Nakamura Naka
　Tenpō 11, year of the rat (1840), 6th month, 5th day: 150-koku Moro Kyūzaemon built a long house with attached lower building, stating he would demolish when unnecessary, approved　Monthly duty Yokota Sakutayū
　　However, among other 150-koku stipend recipients building long houses, many do not have the phrase about demolishing when unnecessary, though it is common among 100-koku recipients. Even among 100-koku recipients, some do not have this phrase
[End of red ink]

△Tenpō 6, year of the sheep (1835), 2nd month, 5th day: 125-koku Kawai Yasabei, who previously had no long house, requested to build one this time, stating he would demolish it when unnecessary in the future, approved

△1. Same year, 6th month, 25th day: 150-koku Yagi Jirōhachi demolished his existing 2×9 shaku long house to rebuild it as 2×6 ken, stating he would demolish 2×4 ken 3 shaku of it when unnecessary, approved

1. When there are notifications of new gate construction, if it is not on granted land, immediate instructions are given and no reports are made elsewhere　Kaei 1, year of the monkey (1848), 1st month, new guard Tomo Keizaemon; same year 8th month, caretaker Takeshita Jōtayū

1. When gates become severely damaged and are demolished to be rebuilt with old wood, this is reported to senior councilors but not to estate magistrates
　Example: Tenpō 7, year of the monkey (1836), 5th month, 11th day, Mito Tetsuyoshi, thus monthly duty Nishio Goemon
　　Same 8th year, year of the rooster (1837), 2nd month, 29th day, Sugiura Yūzō, same case
　　　However, at this time, while no written application was sent to the estate magistrate, it was reported for information　Monthly duty Ōta Saburōbei

[Below the above]
　However, regarding gates that fell due to the great wind of Kōka 3, year of the horse (1846), and subsequently only the passage gate was rebuilt as before, no written application is needed and only notification to the inspector is sufficient. Even for matters of about 3 shaku moved left or right, the same applies

△1. Tenpō 12, year of the ox (1841), 9th month, 23rd day: When 150-koku Hori Kanzaemon submitted a written application to build a long house stating he would demolish it when unnecessary, it was decided after deliberation that for 150-koku stipend recipients, requesting to build new long houses and demolish them when unnecessary in the future was not acceptable, and his written application was revised

△1. Same 14th year, year of the rabbit (1843), 7th month, 4th day, the following was approved　Oral memorandum
　　The existing long house inside the fence on the north side of my residence was destroyed by fire this time, so I wish to build it extending the frontage by 3 ken. When it becomes unnecessary, I wish to demolish it, so please handle this matter favorably. Above
　　　　　　　　6th month, 28th day　To Ōseki Shingozaemon-sama　Koma Taitō

1. Kōka 4, year of the sheep (1847), 6th month, as follows　Oral memorandum
　　The back of my residence has been a living hedge until now, but this time I will make it a board fence. Therefore, for emergencies, I wish to install an alley entrance. Please convey this matter favorably. Above
　　　6th month　To Okada Chōbei-sama　Castle deputy yoriki　Kojima Gōzaemon
　This written application was handled by monthly duty Ishihara Jinjūrō as usual, but it was said that such written applications from yoriki had rarely been submitted before. It does not appear in the residence records either

△1. Kaei 1, year of the monkey (1848), 5th month, 25th day: When handling the written application for building a long house by 100-koku messenger Aoki Yoichūemon, it was decided after deliberation among colleagues that hereafter, when 100-koku stipend recipients build long houses and their written applications only state they wish to demolish when unnecessary, it should be written as "when unnecessary other than residence changes." Details are recorded in the residence register

[Red ink] No