The rice that resulted was handled and taken by higher authority, hence there was the aforementioned dispute. Regarding this location, after the tea house was demolished, sometime during the Genmun era (1736-1741), when Nara Chūzaemon was serving as inspector (metsuke), there were circumstances that led to an investigation of the Ashida family as well. The conclusion was that since this was land granted to Ashida, it could not be granted to others.

Despite the above circumstances, this time it was decided to grant it as residential land to Katō Dōan.

1. Kyōwa 1, year of the rooster (1801), 6th month: Regarding land survey duties for the residence magistrate group, instructions were issued to deduct guard duties, as recorded in the "Various Groups" section.

1. Kyōwa 2, year of the dog (1802), 3rd month, 18th day - Memorandum of verbal statement:
Regarding farmland of 162+ tsubo behind Jizō-machi toward Kawate within Matsumoto domain holdings, through direct negotiation with the landowner, I am now making this my affiliated residence. Concerning land rent and annual tribute, I naturally wish to fulfill obligations to the landowner under my retainer's name. Please handle this matter appropriately. - 3rd month, Sano Naizen
This was communicated previously and also reported to the senior councilors.

1. Kyōhō 11, year of the horse (1726), 10th month, 15th day: For inspection of Matsuoka relocation residential lands - 5,050 tsubo behind Tōkōji temple, 9,423 tsubo of vacant land at Kaminohashi, 15,480 tsubo around Shinyashiki area, and all vacant residential lands at Keya - senior councilors, administrative officials, magistrates, inspectors, residence magistrates, etc. attended. However, magistrates and inspectors engaged in tax exemption duties did not attend.
On the 29th of the same month, for the land division, Magistrate Amemori Shinshichi and Inspector Kōzuki Buzaemon were appointed as officials in charge, and orders were given for them to work in consultation with Nakane Yukie and Residence Magistrate Kumagai Kohyōe.

1. Bunsei 13, year of the rat (1830), 5th month: Construction of houses by destroying rural rice fields and dry fields was prohibited.

1. Matters concerning treasury guards, local headmen, official craftsmen, local headmen, etc. appear in the "Administrative Jurisdiction" section.

1. Tenpō 4, year of the snake (1833), 3rd month, 20th day, Council Chamber - Monthly Magistrate:
The house and residence where Takeda Gensaku has been residing is designated as official land - Kondate Gorōdayū
To be handled in consultation - Note: This is in Kagi-machi - Monthly Inspector: Yokota Sakudayū

Takeda Gensaku's house and residence to be exchanged with Matsuo Jiemon's house and residence, this matter to be communicated to Gensaku - Head of Great Guard: Shimada Seizaemon
When this was communicated to the residence magistrate for handling as before, Gensaku declined using drawings of the vacated residence.

1. Same year, 5th month, 29th day, Council Chamber - Monthly duty:
Regarding Takeda Gensaku's house and residence, which previously became official land - Kondate Gorōdayū
This time it is designated as tea garden land, to be handled in consultation - Same: Ōida Kinai
When this was communicated to the residence magistrate for handling as before, Gensaku declined using land survey drawings of the vacated residence.

1. Kyōwa 1, year of the rooster (1801), 6th month, 8th day: Tagaya Gonbei petitioned for a secondary residence in Kodōgu-machi, and replacement land was granted in the Ishiba farm area. This was communicated to the residence magistrate for information. On the 23rd of the same month, drawings of tea garden land to be designated within the secondary residence land and drawings of Gonbei's secondary residence land were communicated from the residence magistrate, so after reporting to the senior councilors, these drawings were placed in the official document box.

1. Same 3rd year, year of the boar (1803), intercalary 1st month, 11th day:
Guard duty group member Kawabata Chōbei's residence being extensive, regarding the western area land - Nakagawa Rokuzaemon

[Red ink] O