Regarding the petition to surrender a ten-ken wide strip of land, it was granted as requested, and this matter should be communicated to Chōbei.

Regarding Kawabata Chōbei's extensive residence, etc., it was granted as petitioned, and this was communicated. The surrendered land portion is designated as official land, so we should consult and handle this matter appropriately. Also, Jūdayū should communicate this matter to the residence magistrate. - Suzuki Shinhachiō, Murata Jūdayū

On the 23rd of the same month, at the audience hall, the senior councilors issued the following directive - Suzuki Shinhachiō:
The western area adjacent to Kawabata Chōbei's residence, which was previously petitioned and became surrendered land, then became official land, has now been designated as tea garden land. This should be understood accordingly.

On the 25th of the same month, the following at the Council Chamber - Tanabe Kyūzō:
Regarding Nomura Jirōtarō of the New Guard unit's petition to borrow the tea garden land adjacent to Kawabata Chōbei for house construction, it was granted as requested. Land rent rice is imposed according to regulations, so this matter should be communicated to Jirōtarō.

The tea garden land adjacent to Kawabata Chōbei was granted on loan to Nomura Jirōtarō upon his petition. Naturally, land rent rice is imposed according to regulations, so this matter should be handled appropriately - Suzuki Shinhachiō

The official land adjacent to Kawabata Chōbei became tea garden land and was granted on loan to Nomura Jirōtarō upon petition, so this should be understood accordingly - Murata Jūdayū

1. Bunka 1, year of the rat (1804), 4th month, 25th day, the following was ordered at the Council Chamber. As there were narrow plots of land, this matter was communicated to the residence magistrate - Oda Hanzaemon:
Regarding the land at Yanagi-no-baba (Willow Horse Ground) that was announced previously and lent to petitioners, since it serves as tea garden land, it should be handled appropriately according to previous practices.

Regarding the Yanagi-baba mentioned in the previous announcement, etc., since orders were given to the magistrates to handle it according to previous practices, please consult and handle it appropriately - Imamura Denbei

1. On the 28th of the 5th month of the same year, since a three-shaku wide strip along the earthwork at Yanagi-baba was designated as tea garden land, Honda Shuri's office communicated that land surveying should be handled as before. This matter was communicated to Miyakita Chōzaemon. The survey date was set for the 3rd of the coming month, which was also communicated to Tajima Sōbei.

1. On the 7th of the 6th month of the same year, the following was communicated, which was then reported to the senior councilors:
Memorandum of verbal statement:
Since Yanagi-no-baba has now become tea garden land, if the area behind my unit's town becomes archery ground, please arrange for replacement land. Furthermore, please handle the matter of granting loans of the remaining land to members of the unit appropriately. - 6th month, To Nara Tarōemon-sama, Kuwayama Jūemon
Note: There are similar petition documents from other unit members, abbreviated here.

This is from the articles announced on the 8th of the 4th month regarding administrative streamlining, of which the following was announced:
1. Since there is currently no horseback riding at Yanagi-no-baba, for the exemption of those present at the horse ground and unit towns, a small amount of land rent

[Red ink] O