Regarding the petition to borrow land in exchange for rice, building construction was not permitted, but the land would be lent to petitioners as fire prevention space only, with the requirement to pay land rent rice.

1. Kōka 1, year of the dragon (1844), 1st month and 4th month: The matters of Okabe Sazen's residence land and Kuno Ihei's training ground land were mistakenly filed under the section for yoriki officials and lower-ranking residences, so they should be set aside.

1. Bunka 5, year of the dragon (1808), intercalary 6th month, 29th day: A separate written statement was submitted and communicated to the senior councilors:
　　　Verbal Memorandum
　Due to my difficult financial circumstances, I attempted to raise funds in Osaka, but without a warehouse residence there, business negotiations cannot be concluded.
　However, there is a suitable property for sale in the back street of Dōjima Shinchi, so I wish to petition for its purchase. Please communicate this matter favorably to the senior councilors. - Intercalary 6th month, 29th day, To Murata Jūdayū-sama, Sakai Geki

1. Kansei 4, year of the rat (1792), 8th month: Inaba Oribe made an internal inquiry: "Kuno Magoshirō's residence land is insufficient, so he wishes to submit a petition to receive the land he is currently borrowing."
　Regarding this, fellow officials investigated and found that Magoshirō had exchanged his original granted residence and now lives in the Aburachō area, and moreover receives foot allowances totaling 25 koku, so such a petition would not be accepted.

1. Kansei 9, year of the snake (1797), 6th month, 11th day: Foot inspector Nishimura Tōshirō petitioned to receive the elevated land from Hagiwara Chōbei's former residence that had become tea garden land and to construct a house there, which was resolved through consultation with the senior councilors.

1. Bunka 13, year of the rat (1816), 6th month, 11th day: The following statement was submitted, so fellow officials acknowledged it and communicated that he could proceed at his discretion. It was not communicated to the residence magistrate.
　　　Statement
　　The house and residence where I have lived until now has been licensed land since ancient times, purchased by my ancestors from both Hamacho's Notoya Gonemon and Hayashiya Shinzaemon families, but it is an extremely noisy location
　　that interferes with my adoptive father's illness and causes worry, so I secured permanent borrowing rights to land within Fudōin temple grounds for residence and sold the previous house and residence to Notoya Gonemon
　　as my ancestors had purchased it. Since I have lived there since ancient times, I report this matter. Please handle it appropriately. - 6th month, To Hasegawa Takemon-sama, Tsuchiya Gengo
　Note: In the 9th month, when the aforementioned construction was completed, he requested permission to build a gate with an entrance of 2 ken by 1 ken on the south side, but this was not communicated to the residence magistrate, and Gengo was told he could handle it at his discretion.

1. Tenpō 6, year of the sheep (1835), intercalary 7th month, 7th day: Verbal Memorandum
　　My retainer named Mori Chōgetsu was living in a house built on land within Hōzōin temple grounds in Hamacho, but after a fire, it came under my jurisdiction, so he now wishes to build a house.
　　I report this matter. Please handle it appropriately. - Intercalary 7th month, 7th day, To Ōita Kinai-sama, Sakai Geki, Takanori

　This concerned house construction on granted land, which should be reported with a written statement, but since it concerned house construction on held land, no written communication was necessary and could be handled at discretion, so an immediate response was given and the written statement returned.

1. Tenpō 13, year of the tiger (1842): Murakami Okinosuke previously borrowed tea garden land, and in the following year of the rabbit,
　3rd month, 29th day: He was permitted as petitioned to reduce the previous 11-ken long house gate to 7 ken, rebuild it moved 7 shaku southward, and construct a detached gate facing south within the tea garden land borrowed last year.
　　　　　　　　　　[Simple diagram below]

1. Kyōhō 12, year of the sheep (1727), 8th month, last day: A record stating that due to Hayashi Yotayū's narrow residence land, additional land was granted upon petition, appears in the residence petition section.
　[Lower section]
　1. Kōka 2, year of the snake (1845), 3rd month, 16th day: Sleeve lining, Tanabe Gotayū, Hosoi Senpaku
　　The aforementioned residence land is cramped, causing anxiety during emergencies, so there was a petition to grant as additional land an open area of about 10 ken east-west by 4 ken on the south side at the rear,
　　but additional land grants are difficult to approve, so it was designated as borrowed land with the condition of removal when needed for official use. - 3rd month

1. 7th month, 20th day of the same year: When the late Lady Teishōin's residence and garden were established, due to cramped land conditions, 19.5 tsubo of land from Shibuya Gonzaemon's granted land was borrowed, but if it is currently not needed for official use and returning the land would not be inconvenient, Gonzaemon's petition to exchange and return the same amount of land within the same location was granted as requested.

[Red ink] O