Fires at Bodhi Temples

1. February 13th, Shōtoku 5 (Year of the Sheep) - A record exists of Zuigen-ji Temple catching fire and the mausoleum being destroyed.
1. March 27th, Kyōhō 17 (Year of the Rat) - Tōkō-ji Temple was destroyed by fire. Lady Ōbai-in's memorial tablet was temporarily housed in a shed, the temple precincts were temporarily enclosed, and matters regarding ancestral guardians were recorded.
1. March, Meiwa 2 (Year of the Rooster) - Kezō-ji Temple was destroyed by fire.
1. August 21st, Kansei 6 (Year of the Tiger) - Unshō-ji and Kezō-ji Temples were destroyed by fire.

1. Regarding the instructions issued for fire prevention procedures at Unshō-ji Temple, various fire prevention regulations were issued.
1. March 20th, Kyōhō 4 (Year of the Boar) - Among the advance military commanders, Tōgō Saburō-zaemon and Higuchi Koza-emon were assigned fire watch duty at Unshō-ji Temple, but Saburō-zaemon was ill and Koza-emon was in mourning, so an inquiry was made about how to proceed.
Since these two men were assigned using units close to Unshō-ji Temple, assigning others in their place would not work in an emergency. Therefore, while it would be different if Saburō-zaemon recovered from his illness and could appear for duty, for now even though he is in mourning, Koza-emon should appear and direct both units. This was conveyed through greetings, and when the matter was also consulted with the senior retainers, they agreed. Monthly duty officer: Arakawa Suke-zaemon

1. Evening of September 15th, Kōka 1 (Year of the Dragon) - Zuigen-ji Temple was destroyed by fire. A written statement from the temple officials was conveyed to the senior retainers. (Marginal note: Hyakuri [the writer Asai Hyakuri] says | The matter of presenting this to His Lordship is not clear)
1. July 8th, Gembun 4 (Year of the Sheep) - The temple district advance units of Oguri Ku-zaemon and Nakamura Tarō-zaemon were completely destroyed by fire, so they reported that they could not appear at Unshō-ji Temple for the time being. (Marginal note: Keya nari | Kaga)
Kurō-zaemon and Sakai Rokurō-zaemon (Marginal note: Keya | Yo nari) were in the vicinity of the unit's town area, but since they were closer to the advance position, after consulting with Koma Moku, it was conveyed to both men that they should appear at Unshō-ji Temple for the time being.
On the same 26th day, Ku-zaemon and Tarō-zaemon reported: "Since our units are close to Unshō-ji Temple, we have been ordered from long ago to appear at Unshō-ji Temple when there are fires in the castle town. Considering this fire in our unit's district, since it is a unit district near Unshō-ji Temple, if there were a fire in that area, we would be concerned about our unit members' homes, making it difficult to rush to Unshō-ji Temple. Moreover, in a fire severe enough to destroy the unit district as happened this time, we must particularly defend the unit district, so our unit members cannot be stationed at Unshō-ji Temple. In that case, even if only the close supporters of Unshō-ji appear, it would not suffice, so assigning those who hold unit districts near Unshō-ji Temple would be pointless. We would like to request that in the future, those who hold unit districts distant from Unshō-ji be assigned." Since this was a reasonable observation, I acknowledged it and consulted with my colleagues, who all thought it reasonable. Yesterday, the 25th, I reported the details to the senior retainers at the council, and they agreed that from now on other advance commanders should be told to appear. Koma Moku conveyed that it would be appropriate to tell Kaga Kurō-zaemon and Sakai Rokurō-zaemon that they should appear at Unshō-ji Temple in the future, so this was conveyed to Kurō-zaemon and Rokurō-zaemon.