This was inconvenient. Therefore, there were rumors that monetary compensation might be granted, but since money was also questionable, there was a private consultation when Awaji-no-kami Seisan from the administrative office came and suggested that rice would be better. Accordingly, I replied that it would be appropriate to grant one person's stipend until the eldest grandson Bingo-no-suke Tsunanaka receives his stipulated rice fields.

25th day, Boshin, light rain: Ground transfer was ordered, and hiring two messengers from Otoshiro's place was completed as usual.

○ The third meeting of the second session of the village compact association was held at Chinken's place. Tsunaki attended the gathering, and Tsunsen, Hosai, Tsunehiro and others brought their share money, making it successful. Since this was the first participation after receiving [the position] from Hosai and Kiken, a special offering was made, and one ira fish was sent via Seishi. The responsible members Chikaki, En, Ken, Kyo, and Ho were entrusted with this.

○ Regarding whether a posthumous reward should be granted for the late Tsunetsugu, the senior and junior members of the shrine community investigated and prepared the following written report:

《Former Wakamiya Head Priest》 Omi-no-kami Tsunetsugu
He faithfully served as an evaluation officer for a long time, and after his appointment, he attended shrine rituals without negligence. Moreover, all shrine affairs were handled smoothly and diligently. Particularly having reached over eighty years of age, when he unexpectedly fell critically ill, there was a humble petition, and based on the special consideration granted, his grandson Bingo-no-suke made a private appeal for promotion. However, since this was an unprecedented matter, it was difficult for the entire shrine community to reach a consensus through consultation. According to the private consultation and decision, as a posthumous reward until Bingo-no-suke receives his stipulated fields, the matter of granting five koku of rice annually - how should this be handled? Since this matter is also under abbreviated evaluation, perhaps two koku of rice annually could be granted, but this should be decided after further consultation with the senior and junior members.

23rd day of the 8th month

Regarding the above, yesterday all senior and junior members, and again this evening, all senior and junior members from Shingu and the other two groups gathered, and based on the inner intention, it was decided and replied that two koku each would be granted.

26th day, Kimizu, clear: Tsunakei made daily visits to Kifune and requested Teise to serve as substitute. ○ Yesterday for the senior and junior members' duty, Ujihiko served as substitute. ○ On the 8th of this month, the lantern lecture was postponed due to ritual pollution and now