everything was tragically burned down. Regarding the deaths, it is extremely difficult to determine the numbers, but rumors suggest that in Zenkōji town alone there may have been approximately 20,900 immediate fatalities. Of the townspeople and travelers in that area, rumors say that by the morning of the 25th, only about 200-300 people remained. While some others had fled, this was nonetheless a tremendous disaster. Regarding Inariyama-shuku in Ueda domain, which is a neighboring post town to the west of Shiozaki Village, it collapsed in the earthquake and then was completely destroyed by fire, with countless immediate deaths among travelers and others. The exact numbers are still unknown, but rumors suggest about 3,000 immediate deaths. Other post towns and villages that collapsed and burned likely also had many immediate fatalities.

Regarding the Sai River in Shinshū, its flow stopped from the night of the 24th when the earthquake occurred, and from around midday on the 26th when we departed from that area, there was no flowing water at all. About 7-8 ri upstream from the Tanbajima-shuku area, there was apparently a drawbridge called Minoji Bridge, but landslides occurred before and after that area, blocking the Sai River. It's impossible to predict from which villages and in which directions flooding might occur. Naturally, villages along the river as well as those in low-lying areas have been evacuating one after another. Due to this, officials from Ueda, Matsushiro and other places have been dispatched to the highways to restrict passage. Rumors suggest that the damming of the Sai River has made the Matsumoto area of Shinshū like tidal waters, with water pushing into Kikyōgahara Plain, entering Lake Suwa, and flowing into the Tenryū River. However, it's likely that after water accumulates sufficiently at the landslide sites, it will break through and cause massive flooding all at once. In any case, we believe there will be extensive areas of flood damage due to the Sai River. Due to the earthquake, we departed from that area after midday on the 26th