Without receiving relief assistance, there is nothing that can be done. The above concludes my report.

4th month of the Sheep year　　　　　　Takagi Seizaemon

At my domain of Matsushiro in Shinano Province, as I previously reported, due to the great earthquake, Mount Iwakura in the villages of Yamataira and Hayashi in Sarashina County collapsed and slid down, burying and blocking the Sai River in two places. Water gradually accumulated to several tens of jō in depth, but when the water level reached over two shaku above the blocked area, it suddenly burst through. Yesterday on the 12th at around 7 PM, there was great rumbling from that mountain area, followed by the loud sound of rushing water. Then suddenly torrential water burst forth along that river course, immediately breaking through or overflowing the embankments on both sides, beyond what flood control measures could handle, as reported continuously by the river officials. Soon after, water rushed into dozens of villages throughout the Kawanakajima area,

flowing into the Chikuma River and causing backflow. Water surged up extensively, reaching even near the castle. From evening until the ninth hour of night (around midnight), the Chikuma River rose about two jō above normal water levels. Not only Kawanakajima but also riverside villages in the counties of Takai and Minochi were submerged, with several locations where new rapids appeared to have formed. Crops were naturally covered with mud, and there must be numerous places that were completely buried, though it was difficult to assess in the darkness. After midnight, the water level finally seemed to stabilize, but by dawn it gradually began to recede. Although I had previously instructed village officials to prepare flood defenses, this was an unprecedented and extraordinarily rapid flood that caught everyone off guard. I am concerned that in addition to houses being swept away, there may be many drowning deaths and various other losses. I will investigate the details and report further, but I first submit this preliminary report. The above concludes this matter.