Other damages:
Collapsed public notice boards: 12 locations　　Collapsed village granaries: 22 locations
Collapsed temples and shrines: 66 locations　　Collapsed storehouses: 331 locations
Collapsed storage buildings: 914 locations

The above occurred due to the great earthquake on the night of the 24th of this third month in the villages of Takai and Minochi districts of Shinano Province, which are under my magistrate's office temporary custody.

　　　　　　　Below, same content as the report by Takagi Seizaemon mentioned above, omitted

Particularly in both Minochi and Takai districts, the earthquake damage was so severe that if left unattended, many villages would become completely ruined, affecting human lives and causing the loss of future tax collection and national benefits. This is such a serious matter that relief must be provided at all costs, or there will be no solution. Moreover, due to this earthquake, at Mount Kokūzō in Hirabayashi village within the domain of Sanada Shinano-no-kami, approximately 2.5 ri upstream from the ferry crossing at Tanbashima village on the Hokurikudō highway, a landslide occurred over an area of about 20 chō. This slid into the Sai River, filling it up and blocking the river channel, causing water to be dammed up. Currently, the upstream villages are flooded. However, if this accumulated water breaks through, the naturally buried dam site will be washed away by water pressure. We are concerned about what kind of flood this might cause, so we informed the villages along the Chikuma River in our jurisdiction as a precaution, and received contact from Shinano-no-kami's retainers about this matter. Due to this, the Chikuma River is currently 7-8 shaku lower than normal water level, and villages along the river are worried and have evacuated to higher ground in the mountains. We don't know what will happen if the dam breaks, and if several days' worth of accumulated water is suddenly released, it will cause another water disaster. People are extremely anxious and worried about this situation. Please carefully consider the disaster and hardship situation described above, and provide 2,500 ryō of gold for continuation funds and for the major damage to irrigation channels for self-repair to these villages.