The time was the fourth year of Kōka, year of the sheep, third month, twenty-fourth day, around the fourth hour of night (around 10 PM). An earthquake struck the eight provinces of Kantō and other neighboring provinces, continuing for some time. Among these areas, the vicinity of Zenkōji Temple in Minochi District, Shinshū Province was particularly severely shaken, and the thirty-six sub-temples, the mountain gate, the Niō gate, the approach, the shops, and the temple grounds were all shaken down. Just as people thought they had fallen to the bottom of the earth, fires suddenly flared up from the shops in front of the mountain gate, black smoke scorched the sky, and the entire temple complex became engulfed in flames. As it happened to be the time of the special temple exposition (kaichō), there were countless male and female pilgrims from various provinces, all chanting the name of Nyorai with one heart. Miraculously, despite such a great fire, it did not spread to the main hall, and the people who had taken refuge there remained safe, and night gradually gave way to dawn. They felt deeply moved, believing this to be the divine protection of Buddha. However, the earthquake was strong, and in the town, Takei Lane, Gondō-chō, Ta-chō, Ganseki-chō, Yokozawa-chō, Nishi-chō, Taka-chō, Sakura Lane, Hatanaka-chō, Nishi-yokochō, Shimo-nishimon, Monomi-chō, and Hatagoya-chō were all shaken down without exception. The fire became increasingly fierce, people lost places to flee, and the situation of men and women crying and screaming was truly like hell in all directions - a sight too terrible to behold. Here, something miraculous occurred: there were 618 guests staying at innkeeper Heizaemon's establishment. Of these, 398 people were saved in the main hall. Another 49 people, who were preparing to take refuge in the main hall and had come out to the shop front, were from Osaka. Additionally, 74 people were from Edo's Honchō, Ōtemma-chō, Nakabashi, and Maki-chō. These people, startled by the earthquake, did not know where to flee.