Freshly drawn water. For abundant flowers, it is recommended to draw water in early morning. Originally, mountain well water is best. It is beneficial when used for various medicines.

Snipe. There are many varieties. Generally they are similar, being sweet and warm. Supplements deficiency and greatly warms.

Table salt. Pungent and greatly salty. The fundamental classic says it neutralizes poisons, cools the blood, moistens dryness, and is beneficial for stopping pain.

Shrimp. Sweet and salty. There is poison within three inches from the tip of the tail. During the time of fullness in the stomach, it is beneficial for leucorrhea, creamy discharge, and painful urination of the penis. Not good for seriously ill patients.

Water caltrop nuts. Sweet and neutral. If eaten raw, there is poison that causes impotence. If boiled, it pacifies the interior and neutralizes wasting-thirst and alcohol toxicity. Also serves as food supplement so there is little hunger. This is because it serves as a food supplement for a long time. Especially not good for cold conditions.

Fermented sauce (hishio). Sweet and warm. Benefits the interior, moves qi downward, and promotes appetite.

Skylark. Mildly sweet. Supplements deficiency.

Mozuku seaweed. Sweet, salty, and cold. Resolves goiter, blood qi, and phlegm. However, great care should be taken when used for seriously ill patients.

Rice cake. Not made with glutinous rice. Steam only old regular rice, then pour hot water over it to make rice cake from regular rice. Sweet and warm. Beneficial for supplementing spleen and stomach, harmonizes the interior. No problem for sick patients.

Shrike. Slightly bitter and neutral. Good for children's malnutrition disease. Also beneficial when the tongue cannot move properly and one cannot speak well.

Algae fish. Sweet and neutral. No effect and no poison, not troublesome for sick patients.

Wagtail. Sweet and cold. Assists yang and augments essence, therefore stimulates sexual function.

Vinegar. Made from several ingredients. Low grade is made by adding bad materials, so it has no effect and is poisonous. Medium grade is called yuzu vinegar, made from various sour fruits by different methods. Extremely sour with good taste. However, it brings out nervous conditions, so it is useless for sick patients. Top grade is made from good rice. That...