Those who do not know [the imperial favor] are called inhuman beings (ninpinin) and occasionally suffer public disasters, illness, and calamities. Since I am a coward, I have not experienced these three disasters in my sixty-two years to this day. Or perhaps there are many bold people - in recent years, many people go to the magistrate's office. Is this not a fearsome thing?

Patience is sometimes a treasure. Discretion comes before the situation arises

If one understands this principle, one will not have to appear before the government authorities, will live a lifetime without trouble, and will have no worries or anxieties. Otherwise, no matter how much longevity one's physiognomy may indicate, when one breaks the law, one loses one's life. Even if one's physiognomy shows development in later years, if one has wrong understanding in youth, one loses one's head. Even with a poor physiognomy, if one has compassion and hidden virtue, one loses the evil physiognomy. Is this not a case where one mind is better than a hundred physiognomies? If one does not forget the fundamentals in all things, everything will proceed clearly. One should carefully consider this principle and guard against misunderstanding.

If one knows the root, the nobility of understanding all things without seeing even the branches and leaves of trees, bamboo, grass and flowers

In any case, it is good not to forget the fundamentals. A certain person came and said: "My ancestor was a descendant of the ninth generation of Emperor Seiwa, of the direct line of the Omi Genji clan, and served Sasaki Shiro Takatsuna. However, due to repeated conflicts with adulterous men, and because footprints were found in the snow one morning, I became a ronin and now pick up paper scraps. I do not forget my ancestry, but why do I suffer such hardship?" I answered: "Because you are fond of adultery, you need much paper. Therefore, you now appear as a paper scrap collector. However, while some ronin engage in highway robbery, you have no such intention and make your living by collecting things discarded by the world - this is truly admirable. Soon the papers will accumulate and can be exchanged for money. Making a living by picking up discarded things, versus making a living by forcibly taking things people dislike, versus making a living through diligent effort, versus making a living while living at ease and playing, versus making a living while crying, versus making a living while laughing, versus in the world of asura [continues]..."