The Illustrated Sino-Japanese Encyclopedia, Five Fruits section states:　5th day of 5th month, Mizunoe-uma year
　　　　　　　Chestnut flowers　　　　　　　　　　Copied during medicinal plum rains
　　　　　　　　　fall during the May rains, so commonly
　　　　　　　　　chestnuts and plum rains are associated

　　　　　The Wamyō Ruijushō states:
　　　　　　　　Chestnut (kuri)

　　　　　The Kenmei'en states:
　　　　　　　　Chestnuts are friends of blade quality, also called selected seeds
　　　　　　　　　　Japanese name　Ku-ri

　　The Enlarged Tashikihen, Five Fruits section states:
　　　Chestnut (ritsu) (Japanese name Ku-ri) ○ Thatch chestnut (bōritsu)　　　　(Japanese name, upon current examination, Shi-ha-ku-ri)
　　　　(Supplementary alternative names) Bamboo grass chestnut (yuritsu)　　Hot chestnut (retsuritsu)
　　　　Board chestnut ○ Mountain chestnut (sanritsu) ○ Awl chestnut (suiritsu) ○ Shin chestnut (shinritsu)

Mountain Hermit Collection
　Mountain winds blow the peak's small chestnuts, scattering
　　falling abundantly in the garden of Ōhara village



　　　　　　　　　　　　　A certain book states:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　In the 4th year of Emperor Keikō's reign, in Ōmi Province
　　　　　　　　　　　　　there was a dead tree whose crown pierced the sky and entered the clouds. When asked about its origin,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　the provincial elder said it was a chestnut tree from the age of gods. Because this tree's
　　　　　　　　　　　　　branches aligned with the mountains, it was called Namie Mountain, and because of the
　　　　　　　　　　　　　connected high peaks, it was called Hira Mountain.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　The soil formed from fallen leaves was entirely chestnut leaves.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　The name of Kurimoto County also originates from this.



　　　　　　　　　　　　　There is one type called valley chestnut, a local name, abundant in
　　　　　　　　　　　　　the wetlands of the Kiso mountains. Its fruit and leaves do not differ from ordinary chestnuts.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　The wood grain is finer than ordinary chestnuts, making it good for crafting utensils. The fruit is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　small but there are many large trees. It is a type of thatch chestnut.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bamboo grass chestnuts (sasa-kuri) refers to small ones - small chestnuts. Also called brushwood chestnuts.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　The Erya commentary states "In Jiangdong, small chestnuts are called bamboo grass chestnuts."
　　　　　　　　　　　　　In Cui Yuxi's Dietary Classic, they are called pillow seeds.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Brushwood chestnuts are less commonly sold like large chestnuts, but
　　　　　　　　　　　　　are often used as dried chestnuts for New Year celebrations.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　The method for making pounded (kachi) chestnuts is detailed in fruit manuals.