【NANTEN (Nandina domestica / Heavenly Bamboo)】

The Zōho Tashiki-hen, section on tall trees, states:
　　Nanshoku (Southern Torch)　《Japanese name》《Also called: Nantemu (nanten)》　《Alternative names》Southern Torch Plant/Herb《Injue》
　　　　Nanzoku (male continuation)《same source》　《Additional name in Zōho》Nantenshoku (Southern Heavenly Torch)《Zukei》
　　　　Senshuku (dye bean)《Injue》　Kōshukusō (monkey bean grass)《same》
　　　　Sōmoku no Ō (King of Plants)《same》　Inamoku (Inaho tree)《same》
　　　　Gyūkin (ox sinew)《Shūi》　Uhanso (crow rice grass)《Nichika》
　　　　Bokuhanso (ink rice grass)《Kōmoku》　Yōtō (raised paulownia)《same》
　　　　The red variety is called Funshoku (literary torch)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Full moon day of the 5th month, Mizunoe-uma year
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Faithfully copied
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　【Seal】Enki (Garden Tree)


　　　　　　　　　The Honzō Kōmoku (Bencao Gangmu) states:
　　　　　　　　　　　Nanshoku is a tree that resembles an herb, and therefore
　　　　　　　　　　　is called the King of Plants.
　　　　　　　　　　　The Southern Heavenly Torch, whose appearance resembles bamboo, is therefore
　　　　　　　　　　　called Ranten-chiku (Orchid-Heaven Bamboo) in the Gafu (painting manual).


The Minoraikō Saijiki states:
　Nanten flowers《Take the juice and soak rice in it to make tori-meshi (bird rice); eating this makes one as healthy and robust as ox sinew. Hence it is named gyūkin (ox sinew).》

According to the theory of Chen Cangqi:
　It blooms with small flowers in the fifth month. During the Cold Food Festival, one gathers its leaves, soaks them in water, and uses them to dye rice. The color is blue-green with a lustrous sheen. This is the method for making seiseihan (blue essence rice) and sekkihan (stone fasting rice).
○ Although this tree is difficult to grow very large, in the mountains of Sashū (Sado Province) and Tōshū (Tosa Province), there are specimens reaching two jō in height and one shaku two to three sun in girth.
　These are made into pillows. Commonly, these are called the "Pillow of Handan." In Enshū's Ichinomiya, the mountains are full of nanten trees.
　According to popular tradition, nanten is said to eliminate evil dreams. Therefore, women insert these leaves into the back of their mirrors. This is because the mirror is a woman's morning grooming implement. Subsequently, it became common to cast nanten designs onto the backs of mirrors, just as Chinese mirrors use the water-chestnut flower (ryōka) design. And so on.