【A species of Chinese pink (Dianthus). As explained in the text, the characters for "eyelid" (眼皮) are applied to it. This is distinct from the similarly pronounced plant "ganpi" (雁皮).】

Written on the tenth day of the latter part of Rinshō (sixth month), year Jingo. 【Seal】 Flowering Grasses

From the Tashikuhen, section on Marsh Grasses:

Sensh'unra (剪春蘿, Lychnis senno / Chinese campion)
《Japanese name》《According to current investigation: Kamhi (眼皮, "eyelid")》　《Alternative name》 Senkōra (剪紅羅)
　　Ganpi (眼皮, "eyelid")　《From the Hyakukyō》

According to popular legend, when the Great Master Bodhidharma was meditating facing a wall for nine years, wishing not to fall asleep, he cut off his own upper and lower eyelids (mabuta) and cast them to the ground, whereupon this plant grew. The inside of its flower is red, and it was deemed to resemble eyelids (mabuta); hence it was named "Ganpi" (眼皮, "eyelid").


【Masaki (Japanese spindle tree, Euonymus japonicus)】

From the Wakan Sansai Zue, section on Shrubs:

Tōsei (冬青, Masaki)　 Also: Tōsei (凍青)
《Tang pronunciation: Tōn-tsuin》　《Commonly called》 Masaki (末左木)
　　The name means an abbreviation of Masa-aoki (正青木, "true blue-green tree")
　　Commonly written with the character 柾 (masa)
　　Also called Tamatsubaki (玉豆波水)

Tōsei is identified as Masaki, and also as Tamatsubaki. Tōsei is the holly (Ilex), and what is called Tamatsubaki is of the same family as Tōsei—it is not a species of camellia (tsubaki), but a distinct plant. Further details are given in the entry on Tōsei.

Hekigyō (薜茄, Masana)　《This is what is called Komanjū (木饅頭), a separate plant》
Flower of Heki (薜, Masaki)
　Written on the same day, same season

From the Zoho Tashikuhen, section on Tall Trees:

Tochū (杜仲, Eucommia ulmoides)　《Japanese name》 Hahimiyumi (波比未由美)
《Alternative name》 Shichū (思仲)　《Betsuroku》 Momen (木綿)
《Zoho alternative names》 Men (檰)　Shisen (思仙)《Honkyō》

【Seal】 Miscellaneous Trees

From the Yamato Honzō:

Tochū (杜仲) (Mayumi / 正木)
　The leaves resemble those of the orange and are thick; they do not
　wither through the four seasons. The height does not
　exceed six shaku; it is used as a hedge. When the fruit ripens,
　it splits open to reveal red seeds within. Called Masaki,
　etc. The trailing vine (kazura) of Masaki is a
　separate growth of the same plant. Leaves and fruit are the same. The vine
　Masaki ○ Masaki-no-katsura is the same
　plant. One variety, Hibari-masaki, is not a vine. There are also thin-leaved ○ white-leaved
　varieties. Tochū is Mayumi. Those whose stems
　when broken produce filaments—all
　bear the name Tochū,
　so it is said.


【Kugaisō (Veronicastrum sibiricum)】
【Seal】 Medicinal Herbs

From the Kyūkō Honzō (Famine Relief Materia Medica):
　Iреisен (威霊仙, Kugaisō)　《One name》 Nōshō (能消)

From the Yamato Honzō:
　Ireisen (威霊仙)

　　From the Jikinsho (地錦抄):
　　Japanese popular name: Kyūkaisō (九蓋草)
　　　　　　　　　　　　 Kurumasanshichi (車三七)

Written on a day in Suihin (fifth month), year Jingo

From the Zoho Tashikuhen, section on Vining Grasses:
　Ireisen (威霊仙)　《Japanese name》　《Commonly called Funahara—this is an error》

The Honzō Kōmoku named it "i" (威, "mighty") on account of its fierce potency, and "reisen" (霊仙, "divine immortal") on account of its miraculous efficacy.