As recorded in the "Zōho Tashiki-hen" (Supplementary Multi-Knowledge Compilation) under marsh plants:
　　Duck's foot grass　Japanese name　tsukikusa　also called　tsuyukusa
　《Note: kōseki》　　name　kusa　Upon present examination　aobana

In the "Wamyō Ruijūshō" (Japanese Names Classified Collection) it says:
　　Duck's head grass (tsukikusa)
In "Yōshi Kango-shō":
　　Duck's head grass《Note: tsuki｜kusa｜》
In "Benshiki Rissei":
　　Pressed red grass
○"Kyūkō Yafu" (Famine Relief Wild Plant Manual)
　　Mosquito net sedge (kayatsurigusa)
　　Mosquito net sedge《Note: vernacular Japanese character｜》
　　Sedge grass《Note: Alternative Names Classification｜》
　　　　《Note: Wamyō Ruijūshō｜》

　　　　　　　《Note: Alternative｜names｜}}Qin chicken tongue grass《Note: Supplementary｜collection｜》　Blue bamboo seeds《Note: ｜same}}　Bamboo chicken grass《Note: ｜compendium｜catalog}}　Light bamboo leaves《Note: ｜same}}　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Earring grass《Note: same｜}}　Blue cicada grass{{Note: same｜}}　Blue lady grass
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Bamboo leaf grass《Note: same｜}}

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Listed in "Kyūkō Yafu," "Alternative Names Classification," "Yamato Honzō," etc.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same characters recorded, so not written here

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three species copied in the 6th month of the Mizunoe-Uma year

　　　　　　　　　　　　　In "Wakan Sansai Zue" (Illustrated Sino-Japanese Encyclopedia) under fragrant plants:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 　Menrokugiku - what plant this refers to is unstudied, but
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　mosquito net sedge
　　　　　　　　　　　　　"Kyūkō Honzō"　　identifies this as mosquito net sedge. The form is roughly
　　　　　　　　　　　　　similar but the flowers are quite different. In the above section, mosquito net sedge is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　illustrated. Is this a difference between Chinese and Japanese varieties?

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　I say:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Children tear mosquito net sedge and
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　pull apart the middle of the stem, using this to imitate fishing
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　nets as play. Perhaps this can be called
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　the male form of kōbushi? They all
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　resemble each other well.

　　　　　White hyacinth bean《Note: library collection｜}}
　　　　　　　Hidden yuan cowpea (ingen sasage)
　　　　　"Shokukyō" says:
　　　　　Moth eyebrow bean (ingen mame)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　My interpretation:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　White hyacinth bean refers to
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　white flowers of moth eyebrow bean. It is not
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　incorrect regarding ingen sasage. Moth
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　eyebrow vine is wisteria
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　bean - a different species.

I also say:
"Wakan Sansai Zue" states: hyacinth bean (ingen mame) is
namely moth eyebrow bean. Its flowers are purple, resembling
wisteria flowers and face upward. Its pods are one to two inches long.
The seeds are sometimes black or chestnut colored,
large like black beans. This is commonly called wisteria bean.
Also, white hyacinth bean is namely the white, flattened type of hyacinth bean.
The flower color is white. This is the white variety of wisteria bean. Since none
match the hidden yuan bean, I abbreviate here.

　　　　　　The same book says:
　　　　　　　　　This is recorded in "Kyūkō Honzō." In recent times, it came from China as a type of hyacinth bean.
　　　　　　　　　Kyoto vernacular calls it ingen bean; Chikushi vernacular calls it nankyo bean, etc.