Cotton Flower

The Wakan Sansai Zue (Illustrated Sino-Japanese Encyclopedia), in the section on wetland grasses, states:　
　　Grass cotton (Kusawata)　Koshū
　　《Kiwata》　Ku-sa-wa-ta
　　　　　Commonly called momen (cotton)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Because silkworm cotton is called true cotton,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　this is called momen (tree cotton)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　There is separately tree cotton, namely
　　　　　　　　　　　　　spotted branch flower


The Supplemented Tashikihen, in the shrub section, states:
　　　Tree cotton (Mokumen)《Japanese name: upon examination, Kiwata》
　　　　　《Alternative names》Ancient shellfish (Kobai)《Gangmu》Ancient end (Koshū)《Japanese name》
　　　　　Kiwata　This is what the Japanese people
　　　　　cultivate
　　　　　《Supplementary alternative names》Kalapa (Kyraha)《Sanskrit》Kalapa (Kiraha)
　　　　　Kalpa (Kō)《Same》　Shizhen said there are two types of tree cotton: those resembling
　　　　　trees are named kobai and also named spotted branch flower. Some make
　　　　　those resembling grass are named koshū and also named
　　　　　white fold (Hakuchō)


The Bencao Gangmu states there are two types of plants: those resembling trees are kobai and spotted branch flower,
those resembling grass are named koshū. This species comes from the southern barbarian lands and first entered Jiangnan at the end of the Song dynasty. Now it
extends widely to Jiangbei and beyond. Without silkworms there is cotton, without hemp there is cloth. Its benefits spread
throughout the world. How great are its benefits!《abbreviated below》〇It is traditionally said that in ancient times, besides silkworm cotton, the bark of mulberry
was made into clothing. This was called momen《reading: yū》. In the middle ages, grass cotton began《In our country, during Emperor Kanmu's reign, before the end of China's Song
dynasty》, about two hundred years earlier than in China.
〇Its flowers face the sun. By nature it dislikes north winds and prefers west winds. It most dislikes moisture. Originally
　　being a southern species. Commonly called sun-shining grass. This is it.


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Year of Mizunoe-Uma, 7th month, twenty-
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ninth day, copied