Three to four layers. They steam and eat it together with the leaves and share it with each other. They call it "oni-mochi" (demon rice cakes). According to folk tradition, in ancient times demons appeared. They made these to offer to them. This also has the meaning of exorcising demons and warding off epidemics. On the twenty-fourth day they send off the kitchen god. On the fifth day of the first month of the following year, they begin to welcome back the kitchen god.

Every new moon and full moon, the women of each household take pottery vessels and go to the battery. They draw fresh tidal water and return to offer it to the kitchen god. Sometimes they offer it to the stone deity in front of Tenpi (Mazu).

The first, third, fifth, and ninth months - these four months the people of the country call auspicious months. Women lead each other to the Yukizaki cave along the coast. They worship the water deity and pray for good fortune.

In the homes of government officials, when there are people crossing the sea, they carve wood to make small boats. About one shaku in length. Both mast and sail are complete. They attach it to a pole top and stand it in the courtyard. They watch the wind to divine news of return. When they return, they immediately remove it. (Marginal note: Called "wind flag." Also called "goryo.")

In general, when making vows, they all use stones as deities. In all places of sacred mountains and shrine clusters, there are giant stones. They stand separately in several places. They set up incense burners, burning incense and candles in front. They burn wine and set out animal offerings and fruits to fulfill vows. They all offer supplies to the stones. They do not set up divine images. In old records there are female kings, female lords, Benzaiten, six-armed deities and such. These are probably the various deities of the founding of the country. Transmitted for a long time, the words have changed. Not everything is accurate. Female shamans who pray for people's illnesses chant in melodious voices throughout the night. There is no drumming or music.

The common people throughout the country are all cremated when they die. Powerful official families first use burial. After some time passes, they carry out the body and then use cremation. (Marginal note: The previous envoy's record states: Using the days before and after the Ghost Festival, they bathe the corpse in stream water. After three, four, or five years, they put water into the hole, wash the corpse to remove the rotten flesh, collect the bones and put them in jars, and store them in stone pits. At seasonal festivals they open and look at them.)

The coffin construction is round like a wooden shrine. About three shaku high. They wash the kneecaps with warm water. They bend the legs and perform seated burial.