cloth. This is spread throughout the room. When entering a room, one must remove footwear. Hence it is called "foot-treading cotton." This is the same from the royal palace to common households.

The buildings seen in Naha are all village dwellings of common people. The official residences and great houses seen in Shuri have walls, fences, and roof structures that are all extremely magnificent and orderly. However, they also build houses in single rows dividing interior and exterior, without multi-story complex rooms.

Only government offices begin to connect eight or nine columns to build large houses. The column foundations for each room of every house can reach more than twenty locations. Houses use oak wood to make beams and pillars. They are firm, smooth, and fine-grained, not becoming worm-eaten for a thousand years. Also called Luohan cedar. Those produced in Oshima and Kikkai are the finest. The price is also extremely expensive. To build one room of a house costs up to five hundred gold pieces. Therefore, even the houses of Kume officials who have served in government positions for years still mostly use thatched construction. The great houses of Shuri all use this [wood] to construct houses and floor the ground. After a long time, it becomes lustrous and suitable for admiration.

Since walls already use boards, there are no plastered walls. They mostly use patterned decorative paper, either white or white ground with green flowers, and paste it on.

Bamboo blinds are extremely coarse. They are woven using whole thin bamboo stalks. They are hung around the four sides of the house eaves.

The hanging scrolls in houses are all short and small, not exceeding four to five shaku. This is because the houses are small. In the case of noble houses in Shuri, the length is no different from Chinese hanging scrolls.

For the characters on folding screens, sometimes four panels are used. The custom is to first write one large character at the top, such as spring-summer-autumn-winter or benevolence-righteousness-propriety-wisdom. Below, three or four lines of poetry are added. These do not necessarily need to correspond with the large character.