Ninth Month: Plum trees begin to bloom　Wu-tu fruits ripen 《Note: A fruit called "ancient ba-ti-si." Shaped like green fruit but flattened. Fujian also has these, called wu-tu》
Persimmons turn purple　Frost falls　Sea hawks come 《Note: There are no hawks in the country. In this month northeast winds arise, and they drift over from Japan》
Soybeans are harvested　Wheat seeds are sown　Thunder first ceases its voice 《Note: Sometimes it does not cease its voice until winter; this occurs at times》　Fields
are completely cultivated　Ma-shi-qiu-zi comes 《Note: Name of a bird with green wings and white eyebrows》　Snakes become violent 《Note: Snakes emerge in this month. If they injure people, death is immediate》

Tenth Month: Green seedlings emerge from water　Tangerines fruit　Field beans are sown　Iron trees have
flowers　Snakes hibernate　Rainbows hide and are not seen　Pine dew enters soil and transforms into mushrooms 《Note: In soil under pine trees》
《Note: This month has earth mushrooms shaped like taro. They are transformed from pine dew that drips into the soil. Color is white. Those emerging from cow dung are gray and inedible》　Paper kites rise　Shi-
qiu-du comes 《Note: Name of a bird. There is also a bird called "mo-du-shi" that comes with yi-shi-qiu-zi in this month》

Eleventh Month: Narcissus blooms　Cold chrysanthemums flower　Wolfberries turn red　Earthworms chirp
Canna lilies turn red　Yellow flowers appear in the wild 《Note: Like Chinese dandelions, blooming throughout mountain crevices》　Heavy rains fall at times

Twelfth Month: Buddha's hand points to the sky　Green pigeons arrive　Hibernating insects do not bow down　Mosquitoes do not
cease their voices　There is no ice

Products
The climate of Chuzan is mostly warm with little cold. There is no ice, and frost and snow rarely fall. Vegetation is always green. Of local
products, those same as China are marked only by name. Different products have their shapes described in detail. Flowers
and plants have their blooming times recorded together, as follows.

Grains: all six grains are available. Six types of rice. Three types of wheat. Legumes include mung beans, red beans, black beans,
white beans, soybeans, and small beans. Soybeans are the same as China's yellow beans with fuzzy pods. They grow in the seventh and eighth months. Field