What is seen in the fields, compared to those produced in China, are particularly small, barely the size of small black beans. Among unique products is sweet potato. It exists everywhere, planted by plowing seeds into sandy soil. Vines grow and cover the fields. People use this as food, and its benefit equals grain crops. Each household plants several dozen banana plants. They strip these to make thread and weave banana cloth. Men and women all wear this in winter and summer. The profit equals that of sericulture. The old records of Ming investiture envoys Xiao Chongye and Xia Ziyang state: "The soil does not plant cotton, the land is not suitable for tea." Now there are also some occasionally, but they are just not cultivated very extensively.

Among vegetables there are Chinese cabbage, mustard greens, spinach, radish, coriander, luffa, winter melon, eggplant, sword beans, broad beans, taro, scallions, garlic, Chinese chives, ginger, black pepper, Chinese onion, celery, shepherd's purse, bracken, bottle gourd, coriander, fennel, chrysanthemum greens, wild rice stem, purple seaweed, Chinese cabbage, wood ear mushroom, and agar seaweed. Unique products include kelp, arctium, spicy buckwheat, poria vegetable, and jar vegetable. There are also pine mushrooms, called chiku-ra in the local pronunciation. They grow in the soil under large pine trees during the ninth and tenth months. The fruit is round and white in color, a type of fungus with fresh and delicious taste. Those produced in Gushikami are the finest. Gray ones grow in cow dung and are inedible. 《Note: Among sea vegetables there is kelp, also called kombu. There are also red vegetables, similar to》《Note: agar seaweed but somewhat flattened. They emerge from tidal flats. There are also chicken-foot vegetable and qilin vegetable》

Among trees there are pine, cypress, hinoki, cedar, banyan, camphor, gardenia, willow, pagoda tree, palm, and boxwood. Parasol trees are very few. Unique products include oak and others.

【Oak】Also called Arhat cedar. Leaves are short, thick, and triangular. Same as China's Buddhist pine. The wood grain is hard and smooth. In building houses throughout the country, beams and pillars all use this. All islands have it. Those from Kikai are the finest.

【Fukugi】Leaves are like holly but particularly large. They grow in opposite pairs. About two inches long, shaped like kidneys and thick.