and glossy. Also called tokiwa-gi (evergreen tree). The tree grows straight upward to a height of over one zhang. It does not wither throughout the four seasons. The leaves can be used to dye green color. It produces small yellow flowers and bears fruit like oranges that are edible. There is also one tree with the local name ya-ra-bo. All leaves resemble fukugi. They also grow in opposite pairs. White flowers resemble plum blossoms. They fruit in the eleventh and twelfth months. Both are called kunshi-ju (gentleman trees). 《Note: The leaf patterns are paired like weaving, the center edge reflects in the sun, becoming transparent and creating a golden-yellow color. Old records mention that doulou tree leaves are like oranges - this must be exactly that.》

【Iron Tree】This is the phoenix-tail cycad. Also called kai-sō. It has a palm trunk with cycad leaves. The leaves are rigid and upright, emerging in pairs, curving like a phoenix tail. Reflecting in the sun, there is one line in the center, clear and shadowless. It does not wither through the four seasons. It is planted everywhere.

【Black Wood】Leaves are like cinnamon, growing straight upward. The exterior is no different from ordinary trees, but the heartwood is black in color. However, there are also those with white grain. There is also red wood.

【Oil Tree】Leaves resemble oranges. Fruit is about the size of oranges but inedible. It is used to press oil. There is also fukuman-gi. The tree is several feet high. Leaves somewhat resemble hibiscus but are slightly smaller. Flowers are like oranges. Seeds cluster in red color and are edible. There is another tree with leaves resembling holly. Height over one zhang. Flowers like jujube. Seeds grow in clusters like China's ligustrum seeds. Sweet and sour, edible. Can also dye things to make blue-lotus color. Called yama-kome (mountain rice), also called no-makoto. This is sei-sei (blue essence).

【Gubadisu】Tree height over two to three zhang. Leaves large like persimmon. Leaf shape has five branches. Fruits in the eighth and ninth months. Like green fruit but somewhat flattened. Taste is fragrant and sweet. Fujian also has this, called bosho.

【Una】Tree height over three to four zhang. Leaves resemble paulownia. Opens flowers in late summer. Like China's autumn mallow with yellow petals and sandalwood-colored center.