(Continued from previous page) ...one could hear voices like the buzzing of mosquitoes. These, one supposed, must be the cries of people. And so, upon reaching the near side of Kanda Bridge, he met one of his disciples and borrowed a horse, and from there proceeded to pay his respects at the mansion on Yayosu Riverside, and so forth.

That is all that is recorded. There is also no mention of fires breaking out in various places at that time. Generally speaking, whenever a great earthquake strikes and houses collapse, fires invariably break out — this is true in both cities and rural villages alike. Therefore, fires must have broken out here and there on that occasion as well. Master Hakuseki was living at that time at the foot of Yushima Tenjin Shrine. When the great earth began to shake, the way the house swayed was, to use a comparison, like being aboard a *chokibune* (a small sculled boat). Even so, he did not leave the house; it was only when the smaller walls began to crumble that everyone went out to the garden. Had one panicked and rushed outside before the walls crumbled, tiles and other falling objects could well have caused injury. This is entirely reasonable. In the present earthquake, there were many similar cases.

A certain person living in Honjo had a wife, a daughter, and employed one manservant. At the time of this earthquake, all three family members were resting when they were startled awake. They sprang up and tried to open the storm shutters to get outside, but the latch was stuck fast and would not open readily. At that moment, the manservant also woke in alarm, pushed open the hinged door at the entrance to his room and ran outside. The daughter, quick-eyed, spotted this, and alone dashed over to that door and went out through it. As she made her way toward the neighboring property, she passed through the gap between the *nurigome* (plastered storehouses), when suddenly the storehouse collapsed at that very instant. The earthen sections known as *hachimaki* — the plastered ridges at the upper part of the storehouse wall at the boundary with the roof tiles — crumbled and fell in fragments, striking the daughter on the head. Unable to endure the blow, she fell to the ground on the spot, and further earth and tiles came crashing down upon her in succession; she could not even cry out, and died there just as she was.

When the earth was cleared away and she was examined, her eyes had burst from their sockets, blood poured from all seven orifices of her head, and she was crushed flat — a sight so terrible that one's senses reeled and one's heart was thrown into confusion. Her parents wailed as if driven to madness, but there was nothing at all to be done.

It must be noted, however, that at that moment the parents, held up by the stubborn latch that would not open, were fumbling about when the shaking ceased. And so they emerged unharmed, and indeed their own house had not collapsed at all. Yet the daughter, having swiftly spotted the manservant's exit and taken it as her guide to escape toward the neighbors', had instead...

(Continued on next page)