...thinking only that if he could be pulled out quickly enough, he would be saved. Among them, there was just one person who paused to consider the matter and perceived that something could go wrong—that if only they raised the fallen beam, it would have been easy enough for this many people to do so—yet this thought had not occurred to the others, and as a result one man was caused to die in agony. One can only say this is deeply lamentable.

Upon reflection, this is not an isolated case. When the mind is thrown into panic and confusion, one's wits and capabilities become darkened and cease to function. Thus it is that people very often resort to utterly misguided measures—trying to stop boiling water by adding more hot water, or rushing into a fire while carrying firewood. It is for this reason that one who, from childhood, has applied himself diligently to study, and who, in whatever moment of crisis, can summon to mind the precedents of Japanese and Chinese history and the lessons of others' successes and failures—such a person deserves to be called wise, and may rightly be termed a man of heroic quality.

On this point, I have long been in the habit of citing the following account from the *Zen-Taiheiki*: when the stockade at Koromo River was broken and Abe no Sadatō was fleeing on horseback alone, Yoshiie no Ason nocked an arrow and gave chase, and in a kind of half-absent murmur called out the verse: *"Koromo no tate wa hokorobini keri"* ("The warp of the robe has come undone"). At this, Sadatō turned back and completed the verse: *"Toshi o heshi ito no midare no kurushisa ni"* ("Such is the anguish of threads long tangled"). Yoshiie was so moved by this that he praised Sadatō's spirit as admirable, loosened the arrow he had nocked, and did not pursue him further. Yoshiie was in the midst of a victorious battle, his spirits high, and was moreover a commander of refined and cultured sensibility—so such an elegant exchange on his part is perhaps not so surprising. But Sadatō had already seen his stronghold fall, and was carrying terror in his heart; had that arrow been loosed, his life would have ended on the spot. That at such an extreme moment he did not lose his composure and was able to respond with a perfectly apt impromptu verse—this is surely an achievement that none but a true hero could accomplish.

In former times, on the fifteenth day of the first month of Kanmon 1 [1661], a great fire broke out in the capital of Kyoto, and the imperial palace as well as many noble residences were burned. At that time, the Major Counselor Shimizudani and the Counselor Kazahaya, among others, were all wandering about fleeing the flames. They happened to encounter one another on the road, whereupon Shimizudani, upon seeing the other, spontaneously composed: *"Kazahaya to kiku mo osoroshi kyō no hi ya"* ("Even the name Kazahaya—'swift wind'—sounds fearsome on this day of fire"). The Counselor Kazahaya, without missing a beat, replied: *"Shimizudani tote yake mo..."* ("And yet even a Shimizudani—'clear water valley'—is burning...")