(Continued from the previous page) ...waves like mountains came surging and crashing, flooding the shore, and the roaring of those waves' afterforce swept beyond several *chō* to strike the foot of the mountain, reverberating through heaven and earth — there were no words sufficient to describe how terrifying it was. Seeing this, the young men were greatly astonished and filled with fear. "Had this old man not been here, we would all have become waterlogged debris on the ocean floor. How grateful we are that he saved us!" they said, bowing down and prostrating themselves before the old man. So a certain person told me. This is the same principle as that of an inchworm, which draws itself in for a moment before stretching forward: when the tide suddenly retreats, one must perceive that it will likewise suddenly return, and take care to avoid that peril.

　　There is yet another account to record. A person known to a friend of mine had traveled up to the capital (Kyoto) on business, and on the fifth day of the eleventh month of Kaei 7 (1854), the Year of the Kinoe-Tora, was on his way home, crossing the sea at Kuwana by boat. Looking toward the shore, although no sound could be heard, the rows of pine trees appeared to sway and tremble, their branches intertwining and moving as though rustling in a great wind — yet the sea itself was calm. All aboard were puzzled, and as they watched together, the open sea suddenly turned pitch black, and what had just been visible could no longer be seen. There was not one person who was not startled and thought, "What strange and uncanny thing is this?" At that moment, the ship's captain spoke to the passengers, saying, "This is surely a tsunami. There is no way to escape now, so everyone, please prepare yourselves." The person heard this and was overcome with grief, imploring, "If there is any way to escape this peril, please tell me." But the captain shook his head and replied, "There is absolutely no way to escape this. We can only entrust ourselves to Heaven's will," and then fixed his gaze firmly on the horizon. The person thought, "This is the end," and taking the most precious and important of his possessions, tied them securely around his abdomen, and steeled himself for what was to come. Just then, the tide began roaring and surging with a thunderous sound, and at the very moment the counter-waves seemed to crash back, a great thud struck the bottom of the ship — and the vessel flashed and soared two or three *jō* up into the air. After a brief moment it crashed back down with a tremendous bang, only to be struck again by the counter-waves and launched upward just as before. This happened no fewer than five times in succession, and all the people aboard...
(Continued on next page)