Before he could even say "Earthquake!"—his legs gave way and he collapsed with a thud. Though he tried to get up, he was, just like children playing the game called "tawara-korobi" (barrel-rolling), only able to roll about, and found it impossible to stand. At that very moment, something like smoke and something like sand came blowing up from the mud, striking him full in the face, so that he could not even open his eyes or mouth. His senses fell into a haze and he lost all awareness of his surroundings. After a while the shaking subsided, and he gradually regained his senses. Rising and looking around, he saw that the houses had all uniformly collapsed and crumbled, bearing no resemblance whatsoever to how they had stood before. The sounds of people weeping could be heard in every direction, and he was almost mistaken in thinking he had fallen alive into the Screaming Hell. Composing himself and looking carefully, he found that not only had his own house collapsed, but it had sunk some three shaku into the ground, and as for his clothing and household goods—buried under collapsed roofs and walls—there was no immediate way to retrieve them, and he was left in utter bewilderment. As the entire area was in such a state, there was not even a single evening's worth of rice to be had, and even the vessels in which to cook it were all buried in the ground, leaving him utterly at a loss. In particular, all the wells in the vicinity had collapsed; and even those that had not collapsed had mud blown into them, making the water quite undrinkable. Thus the people were cut off from all food and drink.

(It should be noted that while the Edo earthquake was severe, things did not come to quite this pass. The fact that casualties were far greater than in other regions was simply due to the density of the population.)

By the following day, the village headman had gathered supplies from various places and finally managed to obtain rice. It was cooked into porridge and distributed, and for the first time people were able to wet their throats. Mr. Nakayama too, on the following day, did not take his first sip of porridge until the Hour of the Sheep (approximately 2 p.m.).

Around this time, a manservant of my relative who had been staying in Sunpu—a man named Yoshizō—told me about the earthquake, and this is what I heard: No sooner had the cry of "Earthquake!" gone up than the latticed shutters immediately cracked and shattered with a wrenching sound, the sliding doors fell over, and the posts along the veranda edge all toppled at once. He tried to get outside but could not even stand; only with great difficulty did he manage to roll his way out. The shaking continued violently, and so he clung to a large tree nearby—one that would have taken a full armful to embrace—but the trunk swayed so greatly that he was repeatedly thrown off, some—