Corrected by Tomioka Tekō
A Brief Account of Envoys from the Kingdom of Chūzan
Newly published in Kaei 3 (1850), Year of the Dog - Wakabayashi-dō edition

【Library seal "Hōrei Bunko"】

That country is located 1,600 ri south of Satsuma Province and 1,700 ri due east of Fuzhou.
The shape of the land is like a flowing dragon without corners,
hence it is called Ryūkyū (flowing dragon). The width from east to west is several dozen ri,
and from north to south 440 ri. From Shuri, the capital of Chūzan,
south to the seashore of Kyan is 50 ri,
north to the seashore of Kunigami is 380 ri.

Map of Ryukyu Territory
South
East　West
North

【Place names in the map】
Shimajiri Province
Sashiki　Chinen　Gushikami　Mabuni　Makabe　Kyan　
Ōzato　Tamaki　Tomigusuku　Oroku　Kanegusuku　Takamine　

Nakagami Province
Kochinda　Haebaru　Mawashi　Naha　Kume　Naha Port
Shuri
Katsuren　Yonashiro　Nakagusuku　Nishihara
Gushikawa　Goeku　Urasoe　Misato　Ginowan　Tomari　Tomari Port
Chatan　Yomitan

Kunigami Province
Kyushi　Kin　Onna
Kunigami　Ōgimi　Nago　Nakijin
Haneji　Motobu　Unten

○During our Shōwa period [should be "Shōhei"], the country was divided into three parts called Chūzan, Nanzan, and Hokuzan. During our Eikyō period, they were again unified and divided into three provinces. Chūzan became Nakagami Province.
The various districts of Shuri, Tomari, Naha, Mawashi, Haebaru, Kochinda,
Nishihara, Urasoe, Ginowan, Nakagusuku, Chatan, Yomitan,
Katsuren, Yonashiro, Goeku, Misato, and Gushikawa
belong to this province. Nanzan became Shimajiri Province. The various districts of Ōzato,
Tamaki, Tomigusuku, Oroku, Kanegusuku, Takamine, Sashiki,
Chinen, Gushikami, Mabuni, Makabe, and Kyan
belong to this province. Hokuzan became Kunigami Province.
The various districts of Kin, Onna, Nago, Kyushi, Haneji, Nakijin,
Motobu, Ōgimi, and Kunigami belong to this province.

○The place where the king has his capital is called Shuri, and the port is called Naha.
It is a great harbor. There are thirty-six tributary islands.
Extending far and near across the surrounding seas,
the distance is 3,000 ri from north to south and
600 ri from east to west. Officials called sashiki are dispatched to govern the various islands.
These are called bugyō. Taiheisan,
Yaeyama, and Ōshima are large islands, so
three people [govern them]; Bashi has two people;
the others each have one person.
However, the four islands of Bama, Ikei,
Isusan, and Iō
are very small, so
no officials are stationed there.
Local
headmen (officials)
are made to govern them.

Complete Map of Ryukyu's Tributary Islands
South
East　West
North

【Place names in the map】
Aragusuku
Baderu-ma　Komi　Bamado　Yunagoju
Korosema　Dakimanu　Ubama
Darama　Yaeyama　Mengūn
Korima　Irabo
Ukāmi　Taiheisan　Ikeima
Tsuken　Kodaka　Higashi-bashi　Nishi-bashi　Komeyama
Ryukyu
Bama　Ikei　Yoron
Donaki　Isusan　Angami　Iheya　Iō
Yuro　Doko　Erabu
Kakēroma　Ukinu
Kikai　Ōshima

○These two maps are reduced versions of maps from the "Denshinroku." The distances in ri and other details are all based on the "Denshinroku."