【Upper Section - Continuation from Previous Page】
27th Shō Tei: Son of Shitsu
28th Shō Eki: Grandson of Tei, son of Shō Jun
29th Shō Kei: Son of Eki
30th Shō Boku: Son of Kei
31st Shō Sei: Son of Boku
32nd Shō Kō: Son of Sei
33rd Shō Iku: Son of Kō
34th Shō Tai: Son of Iku

From Shunten's accession in Bunji 3, year of the Fire Boar (1187), to this year Kaei 3, year of the Metal Dog (1850), it has been 665 years. During this period, there have been four dynastic changes.

【Lower Section - Continuation from Previous Page】
Fukakusa Village:
"With falling snow, even Utsumi's bed is buried - winter brings sorrow to Fukakusa village"

In reply to someone:
"The snow on sleeves, words that conveyed sorrow - may you know the depth of your heart too"

With celebratory feelings:
"Since waves and winds are calmed in your reign, the path is not far to the Land of the Rising Sun"

Early Spring:
"The catalpa bow - spring must have come, as I see at dawn mist trailing across distant peaks"

Mountain Village Flowers:
"If spring came but brought no flowers, by what sign would the mountain village await visitors?"

Bamboo Grove Lantern:
"Who lives there? In the deep night of bamboo groves, does the shadow of that lamp exist or not?"

When heading east again:
"Mount Fuji is so wondrous that however many times I face it, it feels like the first time"

At Ukishima Plain:
"In the mountain wind that blows down snow from Fuji's peak, Ukishima Plain suddenly grows cloudy"

Presented to Mr. Nikai:
"With the traces we first trod as bonds from long ago, please continue to guide us on the path of poetry"

Giving something to a woman on a boat at Yodo - Kochinda Satonoko:
"Who is the master? Even if gossip spreads, may there be times when we are enveloped in the smoke of empty waterfalls"

During the diplomatic mission of Kansei Tsuchinoto-tori - Prince Ginowan:
"Gazing at countless mountain ranges layer upon layer, I clearly recognize that snowy peak of Fuji"

At Hachijō Island:
Joyful:
"Drifting boat, how nostalgic that you carry and bring His Lordship by grace"

The last poem was composed by a person from the tributary island of Ōshima who was shipwrecked on Hachijō the previous year. Being so overjoyed by the generous kindness of the local officials, he forgot his own poor skills and expressed his innermost feelings. This also shows how imperial civilization extends even to barbarian lands.

Miscellaneous Matters:
The people's character is calm and steady with broad-mindedness. When facing situations, they do not waver, and they well cultivate moral teachings and emphasize etiquette. They preserve old traditions and revere gods and spirits. Their self-designation as the "Land of Propriety" is fitting. Since Keichō, when there is a succession, they send envoys to perform succession rites, called "gratitude envoys," and when the Shogun's reign changes, they send envoys to offer congratulations, called "celebration envoys." The Qing emperor also sends envoys when the king succeeds to investiture the royal position. This is called the "investiture envoy." The crown is of Ming design, made of black gauze. In the country, except for the king, retainers do not wear it carelessly, using only the cap. The cap originally covered the topknot on the head. Now paper is pasted with glue as the frame, with the cap attached on top. There are seven layers in front and twelve behind. Colors distinguish rank differences. The robe is called "kin," loose-fitting with sleeves reaching to the fingertips. The undergarment is small, made of silk and hemp. The sash is one jō four to five shaku long and six to seven sun wide, worn around the waist. All have rank distinctions. Socks are the same as Japanese tabi. Straw sandals and wooden clogs are also the same.