【Right Page】
Smallpox circulates nearby, while measles travels around foreign countries, so the intervals between epidemics are distant. Which book records when this disease first arose in China is not detailed in any text, but I think it was not far before or after the beginning of smallpox. For this reason, medical texts from the Sui and Tang dynasties also did not clarify its symptoms and discussed it while confusing it with typhoid fever with eruptions.

In Japan, during the 14th year of Emperor Bidatsu's reign (31st human emperor), year of Kinoto-Mi, this disease spread and deaths were extremely severe from court officials and ministers down to all the people, as detailed in the Nihon Shoki (Chronicles of Japan). In ancient times it was called akamokasa, inamekasa, akahōsō, etc., but later it was named hashika or inazuri. According to one theory, thirty-four years before this, in the 13th year of Emperor Kinmei's reign (30th human emperor), year of Mizunoto-Saru, Buddhist statues, sutras, banners, canopies, etc. were presented from Baekje Kingdom.

【Left Page】
When there was discussion about whether the Emperor should worship these or not, Nakatomi no Kamako, Mononobe no Okoshi and others remonstrated that if foreign Buddhas were worshipped, the national gods would surely become angry, so these were not worshipped but placed at a location called Oharuda. Due to originally having deep faith, these were bestowed upon Iname no Sukune, and Iname rejoiced limitlessly, abandoning his Mukohara mansion to make it into a temple. In this year, measles suddenly spread and deaths among all people were extremely severe. People said this was because Iname worshipped foreign Buddhas, causing the anger of heavenly gods and earthly deities to bring such malevolent epidemic qi - all of this was Iname's fault - so people of the time named it "Iname's pox." Looking at the chronology of epidemics, this is a theory with foundation. Looking at what is recorded in various chronicles, there seem to be some omissions, but what is certain is that from Emperor Bidatsu's 14th year Kinoto-Mi until Southern Court Emperor Go-Murakami's Kōkoku 4th year Mizunoto-Uma, over 758 years, there were twenty epidemics. The detailed evidence for this is...