【Right Page】
like the echo responding to a voice. In recent times, Zhang Luyu of the Qing dynasty wrote in his book "Yitong" about a disease of strange qi and evil poison called fansha that spread from the northern desert to present-day China. Not only this, but among the many diseases transmitted from foreign regions, there are terrible diseases such as gedaweng and guarangweng that sometimes flow from foreign countries to China. China is not a country surrounded by seas like our Japan. That land borders barbarian territories extending for tens of thousands of li in all directions, so naturally, following human traffic, many diseases of evil poison are transmitted. Alas, for what reason do the miasmatic qi of yin and yang bind and congeal in various ways in the lands of foreign barbarians, producing such diseases of evil poison? Later, these will also be transmitted and flow to Japan, and many more people will die unnatural deaths. This is truly frightening. All these are strange qi of different regions, and before they become human diseases, their poisons congeal and

【Left Page】
settle in various ways. The evidence that poisonous qi differs by region is that the disease called kamaitachi exists in the Kanto region but not in western provinces. Also, the poisonous qi called inugami is abundant in western provinces but does not exist in Kanto. These too are caused by the qi of their respective lands and are not strange. In our Kai Province's Naka District, dropsy is abundant and extremely difficult to treat, while malaria is easy to treat. Even within the same province, in Tsuru District, dropsy is easy to cure but malaria presents extremely difficult symptoms. That various disease poisons exist within one province is all due to the workings of yin-yang miasmatic qi. How much more so in the vast expanse between myriad countries - what kinds of disease poisons might arise from the various miasmatic qi cannot be measured or known.

Innate Poisonous Qi
Various medical texts say that smallpox is caused by swallowing impure birth blood, or that it comes from the lustful fire of parental intercourse, or that it is the outbreak of fetal poison due to epidemic pestilence, and there are various other theories