【Page 42】
1. Middle Secretary　　　　　　　　　　　Tenth class
1. Acting Middle Secretary　　　　　　　　Eleventh class
1. Junior Secretary　　　　　　　　　　　Twelfth class
1. Acting Junior Secretary　　　　　　　　Thirteenth class
1. Scribe　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fourteenth class
1. Domain Administrator　　　　　　　　　　Fifteenth class
　　　The above shall be officials appointed by domain authority. They shall be appointed through domain deliberation and then reported.
1. Extra-class　　　　　　　　　　　　　　First and second class, third and fourth class
　　　All salaries shall be appropriately provided from domain funds.

Deputy松田 attached an additional explanatory document to the previous official communication, explaining the reasons why tributary missions, congratulatory missions, and investiture ceremonies must be abolished, and the significance of adopting the Meiji era name.

【Page 43】
August 5th: Regent Prince Ie, the Sanshikan Urasoe Ufuya, Ikeshiro Ufuya, and Tomigawa Ufuya submitted a written statement to Deputy Matsuda stating that they would comply with the official communications regarding the deployment of a detachment for the protection of the domain (referring to the communication from the Minister of State previously delivered by Interior Minister Okubo to Ikeshiro Ufuya in Tokyo), as well as the directive to send students to Tokyo for criminal law investigation and educational training. In person, they further stated: Regarding tributary missions, congratulatory missions, and receiving investiture ceremonies, these practices stem from our domain's tradition of serving both the Imperial Country and Qing China as parent nations. If these were to be suddenly prohibited, it would be equivalent to severing the bonds of filial affection, so we request that these be continued as before. Regarding the era name issue, using the Imperial calendar for the Imperial Country and the Qing calendar for Qing China is an unavoidable matter due to our allegiance to both countries, so we request that this be continued as before. Regarding administrative reform, it should be determined according to our national character and in accordance with popular sentiment.