【Right Page】
Shell refers to crab shells. ○Cocoons are made by raising silkworms to produce cocoons and extract cotton. Shō refers to mulberry cocoons. ○Iramuši (stinging caterpillar) is also called black-beard insect. It grows on trees. If it stings a person, they swell and feel pain. ○Inchworms live on trees. They move as if measuring with fingers. ○Maimaimuši (whirligig beetle) is also called shi-mother insect. It lives in water, is black in color and small. ○Slugs have two horns and resemble snails. Also called earth snails. ○Earth spiders live in earthen holes. Also called tetutō. They are found in old caves. ○Wall spiders live between walls and doors. Also called wall mirrors. Their nests are called wall cocoons. ○Jumping spiders are also called fly leopards. Fly locusts and fly leopards are all the same. ○Sparrow pots are also called stinging caterpillar chambers. They are nests of stinging caterpillars. ○Mantis egg cases are found on tree branches. Also called mantis chambers. They are mantis nests. ○Giant serpents are large snakes. They live in deep mountains and vast fields and swallow people. ○Snakes live in grass and eat frogs. Snake is a general term. ○Vipers resemble snakes but are shorter in length and black-yellow in color. Their jaws are yellow, heads large, mouths pointed, and they are extremely venomous, often biting people. Also called hami or upturned-nose snake. ○Black snakes have black bodies with luster, round heads and red eyes. Also called black-tip snake or black-flower snake. ○White snakes are about one shaku long. Also called tin snake or golden snake. ○Two-headed snakes have one head without mouth and eyes. Seeing this is inauspicious. Also called Yue King snake. ○Forked-head snakes have bifurcated heads. Also written as thorny-head snake. They are particularly venomous and should not be touched. ○Flying ants emerge from rotting wood. ○Rhinoceros beetles have green backs like helmets. If you catch this insect and wear it on your body, people will love and be charmed by you. ○Potato worms grow on potato leaves. ○Caterpillars emerge from tree leaves and eat branches until they wither. ○Rice weevils grow inside rice. Commonly called grain weevils. ○Midges are katsuho-mushi. They appear in Jun's Wamyōshō.

【Left Page】
Annotated Supplemented Kinmō Zui, Volume 16

Rice and Grains
This section records the five grains and all types of food.

【Upper Section】
○Uruchi rice increases qi, harmonizes stomach qi, supplements the center, increases kidney essence, and strengthens the intestines and stomach. ○Glutinous rice warms the center, increases qi, warms the spleen and stomach, constricts urination, and stops diarrhea from deficiency cold. ○Millet nourishes kidney qi, removes heat from spleen and stomach, promotes urination, and treats stomach reflux. ○Proso millet increases qi, supplements deficiencies, removes heat, calms the center, benefits the stomach, cools the blood, and relieves summer heat. ○Rice plants are the same as grain stalks - harvested rice.

【Lower Section】
Early rice (Wase)
Late rice (Okute)

Uruchi rice
Brown rice
Polished white rice

Glutinous rice
Glutinous rice (same as above)