【Title】
Bone-removing
Catfish
《Subtitle: Catfish｜Troubles》Great Houses Burned

【Main Text - from upper right】
Kashima (deity)
♪There, they're saying "quickly" over there too. What are you wandering around for? Hurry up! Now, work hard and make food for the craftsmen.

Courtesan
♪Ah, I'll bring it up now. How frustrating. Don't rush me like that, wait a little. Once I get ready, I'll bring it up leisurely. Here, another sake cup - this is the third one. How frustrating.

Merchant
♪Well, this earthquake was terrible, so you must be in great trouble. Strangely, we also wondered what to do at that time, but things seem to have calmed down a bit, though we still don't know what will happen.

Entertainer
♪Well, you people can walk around pushing your wares even in these terrible times and they sell well, so you're fine. But for people of our status, we're truly troubled from now on. However, things are gradually becoming peaceful everywhere, so next spring should bring good recovery.

Laborer
♪Ah, delicious sake! This great catfish grilled is exceptionally delicious. Wow, once you know this taste, you can't resist it. But the Kashima boss said such things don't happen often, so let's eat to our heart's content while we can.

【Main Text - middle and lower from right】

Roofer
♪This is strange - a great hit, great hit! This thing, this thing - nothing beats this. Well, let's all join in and have a drink. Looking at this makes me unable to resist.

Artist
♪Hehehe, thank you very much. Please, I beg of you. I must have plenty of things to draw.

Landlord
♪Yes, yes, it will be ready soon. Please, quickly - I want this to end. I'm really not used to this, so my back is starting to hurt.

Publisher
♪How about it, you fellows too [...] with this incident, there might be a little [...] something to draw. This [...] if it continues too long, the aftermath will be bad, so quickly fix things properly...

Warehouse owner
♪Yes, sir, your order is ready. Well, we really suffered greatly from this earthquake. Please come up quickly.

Plasterer
♪Well, this is wonderful. This thing, this thing. Well, I want to get started quickly. I'll ask for my share right away.

Carpenter
♪Hey, hey, miss, bring another plate quickly. Once you taste this flavor, you can't resist it. And sake too - hurry up!