Steaming agents have medicinal vapors that do not easily dissipate, and have the effects of dispersion and strengthening. Also, when pathogenic toxins lodge in the stomach府 causing persistent vomiting and retching, one must steam the gastric cavity. The formula is:

Volatile Steaming Agent (Yixielang Formula) Main treatment: vomiting, hiccups, shortness of breath, cough
Grape wine (120 sen) Aromatic herbs (Aromatisecoloit) (two handfuls of those having volatile aromatic properties)
Boil these four or five times and place on the affected area while hot. Replace when it cools. For weakened people, it is good to steam the lower limbs at a distance.

Chapter Six: Efficacy of Enemas

When pathogenic factors lodge in the intestinal folds and the mechanism of transportation is nearly abolished, and internal medication is ineffective, nothing is better than irrigating medicinal liquid into the intestines to obtain the benefit of a direct route. Generally speaking, people's constitutional endowments are not the same, like their faces, and cannot be discussed with one example. Generally, when used for those whose gastric transformation is not vigorous, the merit surpasses that of internal medicines. The historical experiences of Western philosophers are seen in various books and certainly do not await my explanation. Now I present three formulas, each divided by main function, to show to scholars as follows: First is the "stopping formula," which can stop diarrhea. Second is the "stimulating formula," which can rouse what is sunken and固. Third is the "lubricating formula," which can guide constipation.

Stopping Enema Formula (same as above) Main treatment: persistent diarrhea
Flour decoction (3-4 cups) Opium (1 rin 6 mo or 3 rin 2 mo strong)
Mix these two ingredients to appropriate temperature and irrigate into the anus with a water syringe. 2-3 cups, 3-4 times daily. It is best when the medicinal liquid does not leak out.

Stimulating Enema Formula (same as above) Main treatment: weakness of the five body parts, lying in bed touching clothes, or diarrhea