On the night of the 2nd day of the 10th month of Ansei 2 (1855), at around 10 o'clock (the Hour of the Boar), a sudden great earthquake struck Edo and the surrounding area within a radius of four ri (approximately 16 km). The number of collapsed houses is beyond counting. Fires broke out from the ruins of collapsed buildings, and there were very many deaths and injuries. Those who escaped unharmed must truly have been under the protection of the gods and buddhas. It is difficult to convey detailed information to relatives in distant provinces and other regions. Therefore, in order to allow people to understand the situation at a glance, the locations of fires have been numbered and described in detail as follows.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chisaian [Seal]
　　　　　　　　　Composed by
　　　　　　Koishikawa
Ogawamachi

　　　　From the morning of the 3rd day to the 20th day, rice-ball lunches were distributed to disaster victims.　　　　　　　[Official Use]

[Locations of Relief Shelters (24 locations):]
・Outside Asakusa Kaminari Gate
・Fukagawa Kaibe Shinden (new reclaimed land area)
・Outside Saiwai-bashi Gate　　　　　　　　　Width: 36 ken
・Within Fukagawa Hachiman shrine grounds　　Length: 75 ken
・Below Ueno Hill (Ueno Oyamashita)
・Tōeizan (Kan'ei-ji Temple) at the same location

Outside Hitotsubashi Gate　　　　　　　　　　　　　Machi Kaisho (Town Office)

　　　　　Honjo Warishita Canal　　

　　　　　㊉ This area: heavily damaged

　　　　　Shitaya　　　　㊂
Wadakura Gate　Shichiken-machi　　　　　Sakamoto-machi
　　　㊈　　　　　　　　　　　　　This area: damaged　　㊃　This area: heavily damaged

　　Outside Sakurada Gate
　　　　　　　　　　Near Saiwai-bashi Gate　　　　Chōja-machi
　　㊆　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　㊄　　　　　　　　　　　㊁
　　　　　　Hatchōbori　Collapsed houses and　　　　East Monzeki (temple gate) area
　　　　　　　　　　　　　storehouses numerous in
　　Shiba Imachi　　　　this area
　　　　　　　　　　　　This area: minor damage　　㊀ Shin-Yoshiwara
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shibai-machi (theater district)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tamachi to Umamichi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sumida River
　　㊅　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Suwa-machi　East Bridge

Teppōzu　　　　　No. 11: Kyōbashi
　　　　　　　　　　Takemachi

No. 12
　　　　　　Ōkawa riverside　Ryōgoku Bridge　　　　　　　　No. 23
　　　　　No. 13　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Koume-machi

Tsukuda Island　　Ōhashi (Great Bridge)
No fires/injuries　Eitai Bridge
　　　　　　　　　Ofunakura-mae (in front of the official boat storage)

　　　　　　　　No. 16　　　　　　No. 22
No. 15　　　No. 19　Ishihara area　Nakagō　　　　　　For details,
　　　　No. 17 No. 18　En-chō　　　　　　　　　　　　see the text
　　　　　　　　　　Tokuemon-machi　　　　　　　　　　on the left
　　　　　　　　　Honjo　　　　No. 21
No. 14　Fukagawa Eitai-ji Temple area　Five Eyes　No. 20　Ishihara



[Annotation ㊀ – Shin-Yoshiwara:]
In Shin-Yoshiwara, all the districts within the licensed quarter—Edo-machi, Kyō-machi, Kado-machi, Ageyamachi, Fushimi-machi, and Naka-no-machi—were completely destroyed by the earthquake. Moreover, fires then broke out upon the ruins, resulting in the deaths of approximately 2,300 or more people. The number of injured is beyond counting. The official notice board (Gokōsatsu) outside the Ōmon gate, as well as the canal on this side, survived the fire. The right (eastern) side burned, and the area along Nihon Tsutsumi (the embankment) also suffered damage.