(Continued from previous page) ...Yashiki, Yanagi-machi, Gusoku-machi, Sumi-machi, Zaimoku-machi, and as far as Hatchome-kashi, all burned. Some storehouses (dozō) survived in between. From Kyōbashi to Shinbashi, both residences and townspeople's houses suffered major damage. Tsukiji, Odawara-machi, Minami-Iida-machi, and Moto-Yanagiwara-machi — this area suffered extensive damage, with a particularly large number of collapsed buildings. The main hall of Nishi Honganji temple was unharmed, but several buildings within the temple precincts suffered major damage. The residences in this area suffered major damage, and many storehouses collapsed.

⑫In Teppōzu and Jikken-machi, the residence of Lord Matsudaira Awaji-no-kami burned. In Akashi-machi, there were many collapsed buildings. In Funamatsu-machi, Lord Hosokawa Noto-no-kami's residence was unharmed, but many other buildings suffered major damage. Tsukudajima suffered major damage but no fires. North of Moto-Hatchōbori, along the main street, the clan residences (kumi-yashiki) of Hatchōbori and Kayaba-machi were unharmed, and Yakushi-dō was unharmed, but townspeople's houses on all sides suffered many collapses and damage.

⑬Reiganjima, Shio-machi, Yokkaichi-machi, Shirogane-machi, Ōkawa-bata (the Sumida riverbank), and Minami-Shinbori all burned. The middle residence of Lord Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami survived. Minato-machi and Nagasaki-machi suffered major damage. To the north of that area, in Kita-Shinbori, the residences of Lord Kuze, Lord Izu, and Lord Doi suffered slight damage. Lord Tayasu's residence was unharmed. All other buildings suffered major damage. In Gyōtoku-kashi, Koami-machi, and Tōkanbori, the residences of Lord Sakai, Lord Honda, Lord Hayashi, Lord Kishū, Lord Mikawa, Lord Inoue Kawachi, and Lord Hori Izumo all suffered major damage, as did the residences in Ginza and the area from Jinzaemon-machi along Ningyō-machi-dōri to Hatagomachi. Across from there, Kobune-machi, Horie-machi, Motofune-machi, and Setomono-machi — all of these areas suffered extensive major damage without exception. To the north, along the Ōkawa (Sumida River) bank, from Lord Andō's residence to those of Lord Shinjō and Lord Suganuma, and along the back street, Lord Akimoto's, Lord Maki-no-Tōtōmi's, and Lord Nagai Hizen's — in all four directions along the Ōkawa... [text continues]