《Third son of Shrine Head Yasuhisa》
Entry: Shigefumi — In the sixth month of Nin'an 1 (1166), appointed from ujibito to Hafuri of Kataoka. On the thirteenth day of the first month of Kenkyū 2 (1191), appointed Shrine Head.

《Fourth son of Narihisa》
Entry: Noritada — On the eighteenth day of the sixth month of Ninpei 4 (1154), appointed from ujibito to Negi of the Wakamiya shrine.

《First son of Shrine Head Shigetsuke》
Entry: Narishige — On the third day of the third month of Hōan 2 (1121), appointed from ujibito to Kibune Negi. On the thirteenth day of the fourth month of Hōen 2 [Note: the character "男" appears to be an error for "年"] (1138), appointed Shrine Head.

《Second son of Shrine Head Narisuke》
Entry: Shigetsuke — On the twenty-second day of the sixth month of Kanji 5 (1091), appointed from ujibito to Gon-Negi. On the nineteenth day of the eleventh month of Ten'ei 2 (1111), appointed Shrine Head.

《Second son of Shrine Head Shigetsuke》
Entry: Shigetsugu — On the twenty-seventh day of the second month of Hōan 2 (1121), appointed from ujibito to Kataoka Negi. On the third day of the eleventh month of Kyūan 1 (1145), appointed Shrine Head.

《Third son of Sei-Hafuri Nōsuke》
Entry: Sadanari — On the twelfth day of the fourth month of Jishō 5 (1181), appointed from ujibito to Kibune Negi. On the twentieth day of the second month of Kenryaku 2 (1212), appointed Gon-Hafuri.

《Child of Sei-Hafuri Iekage》
Entry: Suenori — Appointed from ujibito to Ujigami Hafuri.

《Third son of Shigetsuke》
Entry: Sukenori — On the sixteenth day of the sixth month of Daiji 3 (1128), appointed from ujibito to Kibune Hafuri.

《Fifth son of Shrine Head Shigeyasu》
Entry: Sueyasu — On the nineteenth day of the eighth month of Karoku 1 (1225), appointed from ujibito to Wakamiya Negi. This was due to Sueyasu's presentation of a poem (waka).

《Second son of Shrine Head Shigetada》
Entry: Shigenori — On the fifteenth day of the seventh month of Heiji 1 (1159), appointed from ujibito to Kibune Hafuri. Later became Senior Negi (Sei-no-Negi).

《Third son of Shigetada》
Entry: Aritada — On the sixth day of the fourth month of Chōkan 1 (1163), appointed from ujibito to Ōta Negi.

《Grandson of Shrine Head Kagehisa》
Entry: Otohisa — Appointed from ujibito to Shashi (shrine administrator).

《First son of Kiyohisa》　　　　　　　　　《Second son of Shrine Head Kagehisa》
Entry: Takehisa — Appointed from ujibito to Shashi.　　Entry: Kiyohisa

《Grandson of Sei-Hafuri Suehisa》　　　　《First son of Shrine Head Hirohisa》
Entry: Nobusue — Appointed Ujigami Gon-Hafuri.　　Entry: Tomihisa
　　　　　　　　He is the son of ujibito Hisanobu.