《Former Sei-Hafuri, Junior Secretary of Punishments (Gyōbukyō); with seal》
　　　Kan'ei 4 (1627), Eleventh Month, Ninth Day　　　　　　Kaan
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Kibune Negi》
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Setsuhisa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Kataoka Negi》
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Seihira
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Gon-Negi》
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mitsuhisa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Sei-Negi》
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yoshihisa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　《Shrine Head (Kannushi)》
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Takahisa

Entry: A further copy (重ねて提出する写し) submitted by the shrine administrators.

Entry: Regarding the genealogy of the Hafuri position that was previously submitted by the ujibito and shown to your office (the Court Liaison): the fact that Shigeto and Shigemura have been serving as deputies (代) of the Gon-Hafuri is evidenced by the posted notices (はりふ) and other documents at the shrine, all of which confirm that they have served as Gon-Hafuri deputies up to the present day. Should you harbor any doubt in the matter, we respectfully request that an envoy be dispatched to examine the situation directly.

Entry: Concerning any examples (precedents) submitted by the ujibito apart from those mentioned above, we request that these be shown to our side as well. Upon reviewing them, we will submit our formal response.

Entry: From ancient times, there has been absolutely no instance of an ujibito rising to the position of shrine official (社官). In the genealogies of shrine officials and historical records (旧記) and other documents, there is no case of an ujibito becoming a shrine official. The official duties (家職) of shrine officials and those of ujibito are entirely separate. Should there be any doubt regarding this matter, we will submit a full written account of all particulars.

　　　As stated above, these matters all accord with shrine law as established from precedent (先規). We therefore respectfully request that a thorough investigation be conducted. We are not asserting anything that constitutes a new practice (新儀). As stated in our previous document, should anything we have submitted prove to be false, we are prepared to accept whatever investigation or punishment may be ordered. Written accordingly—