Item: Regarding the Archers' Procession Ritual (歩射の神事, Hosha no shinji) held in the afternoon of the 16th day.

　　　Those who are to serve in these sacred ceremonies were scheduled to begin their ritual purification (kessai) from tomorrow. However, upon hearing that the shrine officials (社司) intend to submit letters of resignation from their ritual duties (神役), we dispatched messengers repeatedly to confirm this matter, and were told that they do indeed intend to submit such letters. We consider this situation to be of serious concern, and respectfully request that this matter be conveyed to the appropriate authorities. Respectfully submitted.

　　　　11th day of the 1st month, Kanei 5 (1628)　　The Kamo Clan Members (Ujibito) [Upper]

　　　[Editorial note:] The portion omitted in the above was written out again here. Please refer to this location and insert it in the appropriate place, judging by the dates indicated.

Item: Memorandum (Oboe) submitted by the shrine officials:

　　　　　　Memorandum

Item: As stated in the previous letter, regarding the matter of Shigetsugu and Shigemura holding the position of Gon-hafuri (Provisional Ritual Priest): as can be seen from the posted notices (張り文) at the shrine and other documents up to the present day, they have been serving in this capacity as proxies (名代). We therefore request that you dispatch someone to verify this. Furthermore, if there is indeed evidence that the proxy received the kuzen (口宣, official appointment document), we strongly request that this be formally rectified at this time.

Item: In addition to the above, we have repeatedly requested, as previously stated, that the precedents cited by the clan members (ujibito) in their submissions be shown to us (the shrine officials' side). We are entirely unaware of what kind of precedents are being cited as grounds for their claims.

Item: Since ancient times, there has been absolutely no precedent of clan members (ujibito) assuming official positions within the shrine. Up to the present day...