The gods take shrine rituals and festivals (jinji sairē) as their fundamental concern, and people should take the precedents of established rules as their principal guide; moreover, one should correct the pollution and ritual impurity (owai fujō) of the mourning period (fuku-ka), and should sincerely and wholeheartedly offer prayers for the peace and safety of the realm. Yet the said Shigenori (重則) deliberately contrived (zōi) to neglect the shrine rituals, and willfully turned the use of shrine resources (shin'yō) toward his own obstinate self-interest (gashū) — further augmenting his claims [note: a marginal annotation in red ink queries "猶歟" here] — and in the end, invoking the authority of warriors (bushi), he even plotted to have [warriors] march upon this very shrine [note: red annotations read "社か," "本ノマヽ," and "当社歟"]. However, the warriors halted their mobilization [note: red annotation queries "催歟"]. Is this not entirely the fault of Shigenori? Should an evildoer with malicious schemes (bō'aku) ever be entrusted with that post, it would become all the more the foundation of the eternal ruin of the shrine. Furthermore, without consulting [note: red annotation queries "竒歟"] the shrine officials (shashi) and clan members (ujibito), to mete out punishments according to the gravity of their offenses in such a sweeping manner is excessive. Yet even lamenting whether the matter of Shigenori and his son should be reconsidered in light of the laws of that shrine leaves one with feelings that surpass mere words. We humbly beseech that the purport of these matters be heard, that a person to serve as hōri (祝, chief ritualist) be swiftly appointed by imperial command, and that increasingly fervent prayers (jukki) for peace throughout the realm be offered with distinction — and to this end, we once again reverently submit this report as a matter for imperial audience (gosōmon). Thus it is respectfully stated as above.

　　　　Entoku 3rd year (1491), 4th month, [day]

We humbly note that this shrine is the unrivaled sacred shrine (shibyo) in all of Japan, the preeminent divine spirit (reijin) among the Three Shrines, and the guardian deity (chinju) of the imperial capital. Therefore, in accordance with the reign of the Wheel-Turning Holy King (Konrin Seio — i.e., the Emperor), this deity has been entrusted [with protection], illuminating and guarding countless hundreds of millions of souls. Ever since then, the shrine officials (shashi) and clan members (ujibito) have, through shrine rituals and festivals, served to protect the imperial throne (hōso) and the peace of the realm under heaven — there is no other purpose. In the meantime, since the time of our forebear Shigesa (重定), County Lord (agata-nushi), the lineage of successive generations of hōri (祝) has been continued. Now, Shigenori, having been appointed as shō-hōri (正祝, Principal Ritualist) in the 17th year of Bunmei (1485), subsequently usurped the imperial will (eiryo) and his involvement in the matter of the gon-hōri (権祝, Provisional Ritualist) post is something unheard of in all of history, past and present. In general, with regard to shrine rituals and festivals, while maintaining an outward appearance of proper observance, he has contrived to divert the actually delivered shrine offerings (gennō no shin'yō)… (continued on next page)