(Continued from previous page) ...we are informed that such lands exist. With all due reverence, should a land survey (検地) be ordered, there would likely be considerable surplus revenue (出目) to be found within the precinct. By whatever means of investigation and deliberation (御吟味) deemed appropriate, we humbly request that orders be issued ensuring that the shrine (社頭) continues to be maintained and that the sacred rites and festivals be properly performed.

Item: The twenty-two annual sacred rites (神事), ritual offerings (神供), and daily offerings (日供) have all fallen into decline. Both the rites currently being performed and those that have already lapsed were, in former times, conducted across the six villages (六郷) of the precinct and the shrine's sacred landholdings throughout the various provinces. However, since the time of the Taikō's reign, the shrine's landholdings have become insufficient; and we have been managing the rites by economizing (勘略) within the current shrine lands. Under such circumstances, even those of the twenty-two rites that have lapsed could be reinstated within the current shrine lands through such economizing measures — yet because shrine clan members (氏人) have unlawfully occupied these lands, even the ritual offerings (神供) on the part of the presiding priests (祝方) are now lacking. Since it is a fundamental principle (法義) of Shinto that both sides [of the offerings] are to be honored, we find it wholly inappropriate — indeed, deeply improper — that one side should be absent. The sole purpose of sacred rites and festivals is to pray for the peace of the realm (天下御祈祷). We therefore fervently wish to revive the performance of these rites. In particular, the lapsed rites could be reinstated at relatively modest cost.

Item: Regarding repairs to the current shrine, in former times we would fell and sell timber from the sacred mountain (神山) and the surrounding shrine precincts, using the proceeds (用脚) for repairs; but as this too became unsustainable, we are grateful to have received an order for reconstruction (御造営). However, there are no longer large trees in the vicinity of the shrine...