(Continued from previous page) At the time of the cadastral survey, [the lands] were reported as shrine lands, and thus the shrine domains across various provinces as well as the six townships (roku-gō) within the precincts were consolidated and fixed at over 2,570 koku, and were granted to us as shogunally-sealed shrine lands (go-shuin-ryō). However, a directive (go-shochi) formally dividing the shrine's domain has never been issued. In spite of this, the shrine parishioners (ujibito) have been fraudulently seizing these lands under the name of "family holdings" (karyō). They claim to have acquired them through purchase deeds, but this is an utter falsehood. In the two ritual ceremonies known as the Tsuchitoki Festival and the Ueshi Festival, the divine rites are still performed in the two sacred rice fields designated as the Kannushi-den and the Hogi-den; yet even these sacred fields have come under the possession of others. There is no reason whatsoever to grant shrine lands on the basis of purchase deeds used to illegally seize shrine properties through private acquisition. We wonder whether such cases exist at other shrines as well. We have heard that during the reign of Taitoku-in (Lord Tokugawa Hidetada), the lands of Matsuo Shrine were inspected and instructions were issued to the shrine officials. We humbly request that the lands of this shrine also be inspected and that a formal directive dividing the domain be issued.

Item: The 60 koku of Kibune Shrine's domain is included within the total assessment of this shrine's domain; however, 50 of the 140 shrine parishioners (ujibito) have been seizing lands beyond their allotted stipend fields (kyūden), making it impossible to properly administer the positions of kannushi (chief priest) and hogi (ritualist), and consequently the divine rites and festivals have been neglected. In order to conduct affairs as has been customary, the kannushi and hogi in charge of the divine rites and festivals should, for all generations to come, be removed… (continues on next page)