Within the shrine household community (社家中), we have taken on even these burdens and continued to perform the rites. In this manner, while each of these individuals neglects the sacred rites themselves, they have the audacity to demand of the community of shrine people (社人中) that everything be carried out in accordance with records dating back five hundred years — a situation we find most troubling. Such is the state of affairs regarding the rites that have been performed from a hundred years ago down to the present day.

One item: Regarding the matter of repairs (御修理), we hereby submit the following. From ancient times, repairs have been carried out diligently. We possess documentary evidence (証文) demonstrating that both the reconstruction and the repair of the two shrines of Kamo and Kibune have been funded either through per-koku levies (石高割り) on the shrine households, or through the field-allocation rice (田当米) contributed by the shrine people. The so-called "field-allocation rice" refers to a contribution made when a shrine person newly takes up their allotted stipend fields (給田), on which occasion celebratory sake is offered to the entire community. At present, five to of sake money per person is paid and applied to shrine expenses. That repairs have been conducted through such contributions is clearly attested in the records right up until the time of the recent reconstruction project. The fact that the shrine's worship hall (拝殿) and associated structures have remained in continuous use also bears witness to this. While ordinarily taking absolutely no interest in the matter of repairs, [the plaintiffs] have seized upon the occasion of the reconstruction being carried out in the current reign to suddenly present themselves as deeply concerned about repair matters. Furthermore, regarding the matter of the tutelary shrine (氏神の社), there is a practice called "otonari" (おとなり), in which the names of all the peasant villagers (惣百姓) are listed. On such occasions, sake has been served by the community of shrine people. In return, the custom has been for barrel money (樽代) to be paid to the community of shrine people — but this time...