- Due to the inspection rounds, I moved to position "ichi-no-in" (first mark) as shown in the diagram of Fuyō-no-ma's veranda and took my seat.
When the rōjū (senior councilors) attended and took their seats in Fuyō-no-ma, I placed my fan behind me. The ōmetsuke (chief inspector) came out to the side and took his seat. As the ōmetsuke made his greeting, I and Sakon-shōgen went out to Fuyō-no-ma and prostrated ourselves. We were then informed by the goyōban (duty officer) that Suō-no-kami's request for retirement due to illness had been granted as petitioned, that family headship would be transferred without issue to Sakon-shōgen, and that he was appointed to a seat in Kari-no-ma. Sakon-shōgen expressed his gratitude for this gracious decision, and both of us withdrew.

- Upon leaving, Suō-no-kami's rusuii (caretaker) was waiting at Naka-no-kuchi, so I informed him of what had been announced. Then, as proxy for Suō-no-kami, I brought a written statement for the rōjaku-mawari-tsutome (senior-junior rotation duty) to express gratitude, left it with the receptionist at the entrance, and returned home.

- I did not attend Nishi-maru (Western Citadel) as I was serving as proxy.

Diagram of the Announcement in Fuyō-no-ma
[In the diagram:]
Fuyō-no-ma
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fuyō-no-ma Veranda
△△△△△Senior Councilors
　　　　　　　　　　　Attended in this manner
　　　　3　Withdrew in this manner
　　　　　　　　　　　　2　○○○Chief Inspector
　　　　 1　Myself
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　△Sakon-shōgen
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　○Inspector
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kiku-no-ma
Kari-no-ma
　　　　　　　　　During the inspection, I took my seat here, and when the senior councilors attended and
　　　　　　　　　took their seats in Fuyō-no-ma, I went out to position 2 and sat down.
　　　　　　　　　The chief inspector made his greeting, and we went out to position 3 where Sakon-shōgen and I
　　　　　　　　　prostrated ourselves together. We were informed that Suō-no-kami's retirement due to illness
　　　　　　　　　had been granted as petitioned, that family headship would be transferred without issue to Sakon-shōgen,
　　　　　　　　　and that he was appointed to a seat in Kari-no-ma. Sakon-shōgen
　　　　　　　　　expressed his gratitude for this gracious decision, and both of us withdrew.