【First Page】
Kōka 4 (1847), Year of the Sheep, Third Month
　Letter about the Great Earthquake in Shinshū

On the night of the 24th of this third month, around the fourth hour (approximately 10 PM), a great earthquake suddenly occurred.
Most of the walls around the Nakanojō magistrate's office compound collapsed from the shaking, but the buildings were undamaged. In Motomura as well, eaves and such shook similarly, but there were no collapsed houses or injured people. Even within the magistrate's compound, temporary shelters were set up in the gardens, with no one residing in the main house. From that night until dawn, there were eighty to ninety tremors large and small, with 170 or sometimes about 100 per day, of which five or six were major earthquakes.
From the first to the fifth of this month, it decreased to about three or four times per day at longer intervals, but among these there were still two or three major earthquakes, and the tremors continue to this day. Many people in the villages are still sleeping outdoors.

1. In the administrative territory, six villages within Minochi District had all their private houses collapse. Similarly, there are many dead in these locations, but in other areas there is mostly damage. We have dispatched assistants for inspection, but the investigation is not yet complete.

1. In Matsushiro domain's Minochi District, there is a village called Yamanaka, a location of over 30,000 koku. This village experienced particularly strong earthquakes, with landslides occurring in every village, all houses completely collapsed, and an enormous number of deaths. In the same district, below Minochi Bridge, on both banks of the Saigawa River, there are two villages called Tebayashi and Nagai. The mountains of these branch villages collapsed from both sides, rocks blocked the Saigawa River, and houses and trees remain buried under the collapsed earth, creating what looks like a massive embankment about eight chō wide, resembling a natural mountain. Not a drop of water flows downstream. Upstream, several villages are submerged like shallow waters, spanning six to seven chō or fourteen to fifteen chō in the middle, with a length of over five to six ri. From the 24th until today, over ten days have passed, but the water still hasn't flowed down. The collapsed area is about eighty to ninety ken higher than the previous water level, but gradually water has accumulated over thirty ken above. Perhaps due to the continuing clear weather, the Saigawa has decreased in volume, and the water accumulated in that wide area rises about two to three shaku per day and night. If there were heavy rain, it would be different, but otherwise it may not flow down for twenty to thirty days. However, the villages downstream are in an uproar, with people carrying food and fleeing to the mountaintops or entire villages evacuating elsewhere, fearing that it might suddenly break through and destroy their villages. We sent inspectors to assess the upstream situation, and they reported that in its current state, it doesn't appear likely to break through easily, and even if it becomes full, it would probably flow down naturally like the spout of a teapot.

1. In Matsushiro castle town, there were collapsed houses in two districts, but the intensity varied by location. Throughout the domain territory, there were numerous collapsed houses and deaths. Reports received so far indicate over 2,000 deaths, and the portion from Yamanaka village has not yet been assessed, but it's rumored within the same domain that there may be about 10,000 deaths in total.

【Second Page】
1. Zenkōji town is currently holding its special exhibition, so there were numerous pilgrims from various provinces. During that night's earthquake, those who tried to flee were also crushed, unable to move either foot before being crushed to death. In families of ten people, six or seven died, and some entire families perished, creating mountains of corpses. Furthermore, fires broke out in three or four locations, and with fierce winds, nine-tenths of the town houses burned down. Only the main hall, mountain gate, and head temple remained; all else was consumed by fire in an unprecedented disaster. We gradually hear that of the temple territory's 8,000 people, over 3,000 died, and approximately over 2,000 visiting pilgrims perished. Additionally, how many thousands died along the highways is unknown.

1. Iiyama castle town and Inariyama village in Ueda domain experienced earthquakes followed by fires like Zenkōji town, with numerous deaths among both local residents and lodging pilgrims. Furthermore, along the Hokukoku highway within both Minochi and Sarashina districts, there were similarly collapsed houses and deaths, with some areas still not cleaned up. From Tanbajima to the Zenkōji area, the stench remains terrible, and travelers cover their noses.

1. The pattern of this earthquake appears to have originated in Minochi District of Shinano Province, with extensive landslides and ground fissures, and some places where entire villages collapsed. The five districts of Takai, Sarashina, Hanishina, Chikuma, and Azumi similarly have many locations with landslides and collapsed houses, though these are secondary effects. Even within these, there are variations in intensity depending on geological conditions. Chiisagata and Saku districts experienced only aftershocks without houses collapsing to that extent, though even these could be called major earthquakes compared to ordinary tremors.

1. Echigo Province also experienced a similar major earthquake, but this is only hearsay and the facts are completely unclear. The above.

　　Kōka 4, Year of the Sheep, Third Month
　　　　　　　　Shinano Province
　Administrative Territory　　　Magistrate
　　Of 50,000 koku　　　　　Takagi Seizaemon

　　1. 2,115 houses　　　　　Collapsed
　　　　　Of which 10　　　　Burned
　　　　　Of which 16　　　　Buried in earth
　　1. 782 houses　　　　　　Half-collapsed
　　1. 12 locations　　　　　Collapsed notice boards
　　1. 26 locations　　　　　Collapsed temples and shrines
　　1. 331 locations　　　　　Collapsed storehouses
　　1. 518 people　　　　　　Immediate deaths
　　1. 1,460 people　　　　　Injured
　　1. 156 horses　　　　　　Dead
　　1. 2 cattle　　　　　　　Dead

　　The above is accurate. We hereby submit this report. The above.
　　　Year of Sheep, Fourth Month　　　Magistrate Takagi Seizaemon