【Cover】
Published in early winter of Ansei 2 (1855)
Discourse on Earthquakes
Edo, published by Tenmon Bookstore

【Main Text】
Discourse on Earthquakes

【Legend】
"Yellow circles" - These colors indicate the provinces where great earthquakes occurred on the 4th day of the 11th month of Kaei 7 (1854)
"Blue circles" - These colors indicate places where, after the earthquake on the same month and day, rumbling began offshore and became a great tsunami around 11 o'clock at night
"Red circles" - These colors indicate the great earthquake that struck the Kanto provinces at 10 o'clock on the night of the 2nd day of the 10th month of Ansei 2. However, there was no tsunami at this time.

Generally, the space between heaven and earth is based on the two forces of yin and yang. When these two forces are in harmony, all is peaceful. The earth is 90,000 ri thick and has holes in all four directions, like a beehive or resembling the gills of mushrooms. Water and fire pass through these, entering and exiting. However, when yin energy is blocked above and yang energy lurks below, it tries to rise but cannot ascend. Therefore, the earth gradually swells, and when the time comes, it breaks through the yin energy and rises. At this time, the great earth trembles greatly. For example, when baking rice cakes, if fire penetrates to their center, they gradually swell up. Therefore, when strong earthquakes first occur, they blow mud and sand up from underground, and the earth feels as if it's sinking because yang energy is released and the swollen cavities in the earth contract. However, they do not contract all at once, so in one day and night there are 30 to 50 tremors, or 20 to 30 tremors, shaking little by little until gradually returning to normal.

Thus one should understand the principle that even if there are frequent tremors after a great earthquake, there will not be great shaking like the initial one. From ancient times to now, great earthquakes in Japan and China have occurred repeatedly, already recorded in historical documents, and from listening to people's stories, all are like this.

Yet people spend days setting up temporary shelters on main roads, worrying that there might be another great tremor, exposing themselves to cold winds and night air, eventually becoming ill without thinking. Anyone who knows even a little of this principle should explain well to women and children that they should not lodge by roadsides for long periods.

○Popular belief says there is a catfish underground, and when it moves its tail fin, the earth shakes because of it. While I have not investigated the basis for this in detail, on the cover of a calendar from Kenkyu 9 (1198), an "earthquake insect" is drawn with the names of Japan's 66 provinces recorded. Such theories have been current for 6-700 years. Buddhist scriptures attribute it to dragons. A book called "Earthquake Studies" records that ancient theories were like this. I think that popular publications of that time invariably included this illustration, and its form was not actually a catfish but something of strange shape resembling a dragon. Now I borrow that illustration here merely as a reference to see at a glance the provinces that suffered earthquake and tsunami disasters in the years of the Tiger and Rabbit (1854-1855).