The warehouses were severely damaged.

　　Asakusa and
　　New Yoshiwara area

New Yoshiwara's Edo-cho 1st and 2nd districts, Kyo-cho 1st and 2nd districts, Kaku-cho 1st and 2nd districts, Ageyamachi, Fushimi-cho - all completely shaken and collapsed. Moreover, fires broke out from Ageyamachi, also from Kaku-cho, and again from Edo-cho 2nd district. The entire pleasure quarter burned down completely with not a single storehouse remaining. The injured and dead are beyond counting. Outside Daimon gate, the official notice board and buildings on the same side survived the fire, but everything on the opposite side burned down. North of the Amigasa tea houses below the embankment, a little remained but was severely collapsed. Fire broke out from Ta-machi spreading to the 1st and 2nd districts, then both sides of Umamichi street were severely damaged and burned. The fire spread into Saruwaka-cho, where Nakamura-za theater in the 1st district, Ichimura-za in the 2nd district, and Kawarasaki-za in the 3rd district, along with the front and back actor quarters, all completely collapsed and burned. Also in Yabu-no-uchi, many Iroha tenements in this area all severely collapsed and burned. From Yama-no-yado and Kuhonji temple, the opposite side remained, and to the south the fire was stopped at Tozawa tenements in Hanakawado-cho. The entire west side of the same Umamichi was severely damaged and burned. The fire was stopped at the corner of Kannon's rear gate on Minami-umamichi. Instant deaths in this area exceeded 850 people, with the number of injured unknown. In Sensoji temple grounds, various shrines in Okuyama were all damaged, but the main Kannon hall, mountain gate, bell tower, Zuishin gate, Kaminarimon gate, Sanja shrine, and Nenbutsu hall all remained completely unharmed. The nine-ring finial of the five-story pagoda was slightly bent. All temple sub-temples were severely damaged. The Iroha tenements within the temple grounds were all severely damaged. Along the riverside near Higashi bridge, areas up to Sanya canal survived the fire, though there were very many collapsed houses.