52

if left as is, it will eventually absorb carbonic acid from the air and revert to calcium carbonate. When it transforms into calcium carbonate in this way, its disinfecting power becomes weak. For disinfection purposes, it is always used as quicklime powder or lime milk.

Method for preparing quicklime powder: When a small amount of water is added to quicklime lumps, they generate high heat and explode into white powder. This is quicklime powder. Since heat is generated during the manufacture of quicklime powder, it should not be done in containers that are prone to breaking.

Method for preparing lime milk: When water is gradually mixed with the quicklime powder produced as described above and stirred thoroughly, it becomes a white milky liquid. This is lime milk. According to regulations, one part quicklime mixed with nine parts water is used as ten-fold diluted lime milk. Therefore, adding one koku of water to one can of quicklime (about five kan) will yield the prescribed lime milk. Alternatively, divide one can

of quicklime into ten parts, take one part (approximately 500 me), put it in an empty one-to petroleum can, and add water while stirring until it reaches the rim of the can.

Usage:
1. Both quicklime powder and lime milk must be prepared immediately before use. This is because they gradually transform into calcium carbonate over time after preparation, weakening their disinfecting power. Therefore, when a can of quicklime is opened, it should be used up completely without remainder as a general rule. However, there is no problem if the remainder is immediately sealed tightly.

2. Quicklime powder and lime milk are suitable for disinfecting vomit and other excreta, ditches, cesspools, wells, bathtubs, etc. Although they have often been used under floors in the past, it is best to use them only when there is contamination with disease-causing agents or suspected contamination. In such cases, the amount used should be sufficient so that the ground cannot be seen.

53