58

Items that cannot be avoided may be provided for food and drink after being subjected to boiling disinfection.

(2) For washing areas, lime milk should be poured over the entire surface and left for twelve hours, after which it should be washed with clean water.

(Ho) Floor boards should be wiped with carbolic acid water.

(He) Walls, doors, and sliding screens should be sprayed with carbolic acid water up to the height that hands can reach, or wiped with the same medicinal solution.

(2) Rooms with little risk of pathogen contamination (example: guest room)
(I) Pillars, thresholds, corridors, and tatami mats should be wiped with carbolic acid water as appropriate to the situation.
(Ro) Doors, sliding screens, sliding doors, etc. should follow the provisions of item 3 (Ro).

(3) Rooms with risk of pathogen contamination (example: living room)
(I) Pillars, thresholds, corridors, and tatami mats should follow the provisions of item 4 (I).

(Ro) For doors, sliding screens, and sliding doors, the knobs, handles, edges, and other parts that are constantly touched by hands should be wiped with carbolic acid water, then exposed to direct sunlight.

(Ha) Other items with risk of pathogen contamination should be disinfected by appropriate methods.

(4) Rooms with high risk of pathogen contamination (example: sickroom)
(I) Pillars, thresholds, corridors, and tatami mats should have carbolic acid water sprayed on their surfaces or be wiped with the same medicinal solution, and tatami mats should additionally be exposed to direct sunlight.

(Ro) Doors, sliding screens, sliding doors, and walls should be sprayed with carbolic acid water up to the parts that hands can normally reach, or wiped with the same medicinal solution, then exposed to direct sunlight. However, for storm shutters, only the parts touched by hands should be disinfected.

(Ha) Disinfection of floorboards and under-floor areas should be performed only when they have been penetrated by contaminated matter or when there is suspicion of such penetration.

59