【Title】
The World in Ansei Era, The People's Prosperity

【Main text in four sections with illustrations】

【First Section】
It is the teaching of gods and buddhas that humans should observe the five constant virtues, but having forgotten this way, both high and low have entered the terrifying path of greed. To save the common people, the gods and buddhas consulted together and requested the Kashima deity. The Kashima Grand Shrine tied the keystone to a catfish, declaring that the world's rise and fall should be corrected. The catfish humbly accepted and, as a messenger of the gods, devastated an area of about ten ri in all directions centered on Edo at the fourth hour of the night on October 2nd, Ansei 2nd year, toppling houses, splitting the ground, and causing countless fires.

The Rich:
"Oh no, oh no, this is unbearable! With this earthquake, our carefully saved money, even our thousand-ryo strongboxes are broken and burned in fires, leaving us with nothing. Oh, what a pitiful earthquake! What should we do? We want to flee but cannot escape. Oh, oh, oh!"

【Second Section】
Blind Musician:
"What a tremendous earthquake! Kyoto and Osaka shook terribly, but I thought Edo was safe. This is unbearable! Oh, look, houses are collapsing! Walls are falling and I can't see. Sand is getting in my eyes. Everything, where did the money go? Even the pillars are broken. How sad! I want to open my eyes. Oh, oh, oh!"

Catfish:
"Hey, hey, you greedy rich people and even you blind musicians, listen well! Until now, whenever I moved even slightly, you said it would bring ten thousand disasters. Your concern for your own safety is also (because you are greedy)..."

【Third Section】
"...because you are greedy. In this world where great greed has become the mark of both high and low alike, even impossible things become possible in this floating world. Meanwhile, poor people suffer continuously year-round, and no matter how much time passes, their situation never improves. The rich take pride in their wealth, and though they are merchants, they buy samurai status with money, pay others to serve in their place, and collect stipends. When times are good, they pile up rice bales in their homes from their gains and put on airs. These are all stipend thieves."

【Fourth Section】
Therefore, the gods and buddhas are greatly angered, and this is a stern command from heaven to make the world peaceful this time. Do not be surprised, do not lament! All you rich people are reaping what you have sown. This is the equalization for the peace and tranquility of the lower country. Do not make a fuss! There is nothing to cry about. Crash, crack, crumble, crumble, crumble!