【Right Page】
The Figure of a Certain Mother
Shochiku Cinema Kamata Super Special Production Modern Film

Original Story & Screenplay・・・・・・Suyama Mitsu
Director・・・・・・・・Sasaki Tsunejiro
Cinematography・・・・・・・・Aoki Yu

・Cast・
Ohara Kiku・・・・・・Yoshikawa Mitsuko
Daughter Tsuyuko・・・・・・Mizukubo Sumiko
Uncle Ichitaro・・・・・・Mizushima Ryotaro
His wife Ocho・・・・・・Futaba Kahoru
Uchida Masazumi・・・・・・Fujino Hideo
Daughter Minako・・・・・・Mitsukawa Kyoko
Fujii Hiroshi・・・・・・Takeuchi Ryoichi
Mori Daizo・・・・・・Arai Jun
His wife Okane・・・・・・Iida Choko
His son Yasuo・・・・・・Tani Reiko
Geisha Tsunaji・・・・・・Tsukuba Yukiko
Nagauta instructor・・・・・・Kawada Yoshiko

◇Synopsis◇Tsuyuko, daughter of a teahouse proprietress who just graduated from girls' school, felt dejected despite her mother Ohara Kiku's thoughtful efforts, because her friends didn't come to celebrate her graduation. The next day, trying to console Tsuyuko, Kiku went to Atami with geishas and entertainers, but their foolish revelry only made Tsuyuko feel more disgusted. In Atami, Tsuyuko met Fujii, whom she had briefly gotten acquainted with on the train, and somehow felt attracted to him. Tsuyuko's real father Uchida wanted to take Tsuyuko into his mansion when the marriage of Minako, his daughter by a different mother, was decided, but Kiku strongly opposed this. When Minako was to be married, they arranged a marriage meeting for Tsuyuko as well by selecting a groom, but this was unbearable for the pure-hearted Tsuyuko. One day, Kiku sensed Tsuyuko's feelings toward Fujii and with shallow calculation called Fujii over, but by then Fujii was already engaged to Minako, and when Kiku's scheme was exposed with bad results before the three of them, Tsuyuko single-mindedly resented her mother. In her overwhelming grief she attempted suicide, but was narrowly saved by Minako and Fujii. Seeing that everything she did for her daughter's sake, to make her daughter happy, turned out to have the opposite effect, mother Kiku finally made her last resolution. She would leave Tsuyuko behind and go far away from the capital. Tears truly shone in Tsuyuko's eyes as she saw her off.

Rayart Film
Special appearance by Ueyama Kusabito
"Tyrant of the Isolated Sea"

The Tattooed Magistrate - Middle Volume
Shochiku Cinema Kyoto Shimogamo Special Production Period Film
Film adaptation of serialized novel from Osaka Asahi Newspaper

Original Story・・・・・・・・Hasegawa Shin
Script and Direction・・・・・・Fuyushima Taizo

・Cast・
Toyama Kinshiro・・(dual role) Hayashi Chojiro
Peasant Hyakunosuke
Negishi Hizennokami・・・・・・Onoe Eigoro
Ochiyo・・・・・・・Iizuka Toshiko
Osaya・・・・・・・Inoue Hisae
Odeko no Matsu・・・・・・Yamaji Yoshito
Kurama Ichiryu-sai・・・・・・Hirota Takashi
Tanuma Oribe・・・・・・Nakamura Kichimatu
Ekozawa Tanaka・・・・・・Takamatsu Kinnosuke
Yamagiwa Magobei・・・・・・Tsuboi Tetsu
Nabetora・・・・・・・Sawai Saburo
Hanzaki Kanshiro・・・・・・Niizuma Shiro

◇Previous Volume Synopsis◇Peasant Hyakunosuke, seeking revenge for his aunt and father who died deceived by the lord of Matsumae, met the female traveling entertainer Ochiyo on his journey to Edo, and promised to let her chivalrous spirit help him take revenge. The man Ochiyo said to ask for help, Kin-san, had the appearance of a town boss beating up the delinquent samurai Yamagiwa at Oyaji Bridge - this was Hyakunosuke's first meeting. At their second meeting, when he came asking about Kin-san's whereabouts from Yamagiwa, Kin-san turned out to be the distinguished samurai Toyama Kinshiro, and Hyakunosuke had failed. Though the two-sword man was his enemy, the Matsumae mansion failed to bribe Kinshiro and as a last resort tried to kill Hyakunosuke, asking the yoriki and police spies, but these men had their dark secrets held by Ochiyo, so they tried to kill Ochiyo first, using Odeko Matsu, but failed again, and instead Matsu became Hyakunosuke's ally.

◇Middle Volume Synopsis◇When Hyakunosuke, saved from danger by Zenzo, decided to stay in Edo, the secret faction elder Suginami of the Matsumae house stopped Tanuma's subordinates from trying to kill Hyakunosuke, but was nearly killed by the ronin swordsman Hanzaki hired by Tanuma, fortunately falling into a moat and being saved. Several days later, Hanzaki attacked Hyakunosuke in Ningyocho but failed twice due to Kin-san's appearance. The third time, he pretended the lord was passing by at a collapsed bridge and thought he had finished him, but Hyakunosuke was recuperating from wounds received in the Ningyocho brawl at Osaya's house. Nabetora, who had become Hanzaki's accomplice, wanting to eliminate Ochiyo who knew of his past misdeeds, learned of Hyakunosuke's safety and told Hanzaki. Around that time, hearing that the Shogun was making a pilgrimage to Nikko and the lord of Matsumae was among the party, Hyakunosuke came to inform Ochiyo's house, only to find Ochiyo in danger from Hanzaki. With time pressing, protecting his benefactor Ochiyo, Hyakutaro fought desperately, and just as Kin-san leaped out at the critical moment, relieved Hyakunosuke ran straight toward the procession.

【Left Page】
・Coming Soon・

・・・The Bored Man Episode 5・・・
The Racing Bored Man
・Original by・・・Sasaki Midzuzo・
・Director・・・Koishi Eiichi・
・Starring・・・Ichikawa Utaemon・

The fifth episode of The Bored Man, specially written by Sasaki Midzuzo (author of the previous Bored Man) again for Utaemon films... The first work of the revival of the acclaimed period drama trio of Koishi Eiichi and Utaemon

Starring Isono Akio, Mitsui Hideo, Abe Shozo
A work by Kamata's famous nationally acclaimed hoodlum trio, a curiosity
Our hoodlum three musketeers in exhilarating explosive laughter humor
"Hoodlums and Sea Bathing"

Starring Oka Joji, Takeuchi Ryoichi, Tanaka Kinuyo
A literary work close to the heart of Kume Masao, whose directorial and cast staff have been nationally acclaimed
"Daphne"

Starring Tsubouchi Yoshiko, Takeuchi Ryoichi, Himori Shinichi  
Tsubouchi Yoshiko, heroine of "Tears of a Migratory Bird," again in combination with Takeuchi Ryoichi in a literary work by authoress Yoshiya Nobuko
"Joys and Sorrows of Women"

Starring Mizukubo Sumiko and Fujii Mitsugi in their first pairing
A work close to the heart of psychological director Naruse Mikio - starring Mizukubo Sumiko and rugby player Fujii Mitsugi in their first film together
"My Married Woman's Hairstyle"

Starring Sakamoto Takeshi, Fushimi Nobuko, Obinata Den
An ambitious work by the talented Ozu Yasujiro - a modern film starring newcomer Sakamoto Takeshi with Fushimi Nobuko and Obinata Den
"A Whim"