These things are also good to know, so I record them here.

Extracting Iron Bullets

According to someone's explanation, bird guns (muskets) have long range, and surprisingly cause few deaths and injuries. Large cannons are even more so. For long-distance shooting, the quadrant at forty-five degrees is the limit for high-angle shooting. There are graduated high-angle shots for each range, but the range is extremely far. 《Upon reflection, although bird cannons are said to have originated in the West, the manufacture of signal fires has existed since ancient times in the Zhou and Han dynasties. According to司馬相如's biography, "raising beacons and burning signal fires," the Han Book's commentary suggests these used firewood. However, in the Shoku Nihongi, in the fifth year of Wado under Emperor Genmei, it states that the beacon fires of Takayasu in Kawachi Province were abolished, and for the first time beacon fires at Takami and in Kasuga of Yamato Province were established to communicate with Heijo-kyo. The long poem in volume six of the Man'yoshu reads "On Ikoma Mountain's beacon hill, branches of bush clover..." and the Kokin-shu reads "Guardian of the beacon fields of Kasuga, come out and see..." These clearly used gunpowder, not firewood. For details, one should read what I have written separately. Seeing that the range of gunpowder prepared using saltpeter manufactured in our country exceeds what is claimed in the West (Holland), we can understand that the properties of this substance produced in our country far exceed those of foreign countries. I discuss this matter in my forthcoming publication "Methods of Saltpeter Refinement"}}

【Left page】
《One should read and understand these things》In our country, during the Eiroku and Tensho periods, it was common and not unusual for mounted warriors to charge their horses into musket battles and rout the enemy. It is said that it was actually harder to charge into arrow battles, but surprisingly easy to charge into musket battles. However, no matter how well-forged the armor and helmet, there seems to be no famous piece that could withstand a powerful musket ball fired at close range without being penetrated. Therefore, one can only hope for a natural shield that protects the body through sincere loyalty. However, the sword-bayonet guns of the barbarians were created because of their naturally weak character and lack of sharp swords and spears. Though they may appear convenient, they are actually extremely crude weapons.