【Right page】
This is most excellent, but since such measures are difficult to achieve in military camps, one should remove clothing morning and evening to properly dispel stagnant qi. Regarding pouring water over oneself, while in camp, both generals and soldiers alike should strive to bathe frequently in water regardless of hot or cold weather, to the extent that the body trembles - this is most beneficial. If one does not neglect this practice, the skin texture becomes firm and dense, enabling one to withstand cold and heat well. Even when traveling through rain and snow in the deep night, or enduring clouds and fog, there will be no hindrance to the body. Moreover, ailments such as colds and heat stroke will be fewer, movement will be light and agile, and the spirit will become refreshing. The marvelous effects are beyond description. ※Note: The effectiveness of water is documented in many sources beginning with the Suwen, including the Chronicles of Japan (Empress Jito), Continued Chronicles of Japan (Emperor Genmei), Tale of Flowering Fortunes (Emperor Suzaku's water ablutions), the Great Mirror (Emperor Sanjo's water ablutions), Essays in Idleness, Continued Ancient Tales, Choshuki, and

【Left page】
※Note: Kagerou Diary, Records of the Grand Historian (Biography of Lord Okura), Book of the Later Han, as well as the Biography of Hua Tuo cited in the Records of the Three Kingdoms, Senkan-kyo Ruisho, Confucian Gate Affairs, Treatise on Epidemic Diseases, Comprehensive Theory of Cold Damage and other diseases, Agama Sutra, Abhidharmakosa, Dasasahasrika Vinaya, and many others.
Immersing in river water and learning to swim is most excellent. Or even entering the sea and diving underwater to accustom the body is beneficial. Since military personnel who cannot swim may meet unexpected death, this is important. If one normally regulates breathing well, even when entering the bottom of water, one can endure for some time. Moreover, in human bodies and all living things, there exists within the chest cavity what is called the lungs, which draw in external air and expel it ※Note: Though it appears that both internal and external forces push against each other, inhalation occurs when qi expands from outside, while exhalation occurs when qi expands from inside. Therefore, these two movements of expansion and compression originate from one source - namely, the opposing force of the vast qi that fills heaven and earth as it flows back and forth - there are membrane sacs that contract and expand with breathing, like bellows ※Note: This is a metaphor using bellows made of leather, and their