【Right page】
This is the nomenclature, and in ancient times there was no such distinction - even generally epidemic conditions were referred to as cold disease (kanshitsu) or shanghan. The stagnant humid air that wind cannot penetrate, the miasmatic qi of mountains, and the sultry steamy qi of places where many people gather in crowds, as mentioned earlier - all these that affect people and cause illness are entirely due to the stagnant, obstructive, withering and killing cold qi within them that suppresses and blocks the yang qi rising from the skin. Therefore, even malignant qi between heaven and earth that affects people is nothing other than this. Hence, even conditions with severe fever and no chills from the beginning, or temporary colds from brief naps, are all properly called shanghan. The reason this is also called "wind" is that wind and qi are originally one, and what invades the skin surface is the cold qi within wind. 《Marginal note: In my previously published work called "Uta Shanghan-ron Zokuben"

【Left page】
《Marginal note: this is recorded in detail and should be consulted》 In the Eiga Monogatari, it says "suffering from wind symptoms, one bathes in hot water." This half-bath method of immersing the body below the waist in hot water to induce sweating is a remnant method from our country's ancient times that is far superior to Kakkonto or Maoto prepared in small doses using the recently imported, weak-flavored keishi (cinnamon) or Tosa cinnamon. Therefore, for inducing sweating while in military camp, using this method should suffice for most cases. Even for dysentery patients who initially have diarrhea with tenesmus and straining, if this method is used, even if not completely cured, it has the benefit of alleviating the disease's intensity. It is best to put two to three go of salt in a large basin, place rice straw over it, and pour in boiling water. In this, one thoroughly warms the body below the waist. To induce sweating, after sipping hot, thin gruel or anything else,