[Hirofumi] was sent back to his uncle Jingoro at the Hoshino Munei family home in Uji from a place called Shojuji Temple. ○At the household gate this evening, lots for the Nirvana hanging were drawn as usual by everyone. However, regarding Chukosha Kawase Shuzen, who had just been promoted for the first time, when inquiring how to handle his appearing in the inner quarters, it was ordered that he should appear and receive [the lot]. ○After lighting the lamps, there was a three-group assembly at the lecture hall.

The subject was the presentation of a written statement submitted by Shigetake expressing his wish to decline the stipend rice field. This was acknowledged by the council. A copy of the written statement is as follows:

Shigetake
From January of this year, I was to be included among the ten or more persons receiving stipend rice fields, but considerable time has passed since autumn of the year before last, and I am deeply apologetic. However, I have been serving the Kanshuji family unavoidably since my predecessor's time, and am currently fulfilling the strict role of military court liaison. Though young, Shigetake serves in the position of clerk, has been assigned to handle public and military affairs, and makes annual journeys to the Kanto region. Under these circumstances, having ten or more people serve in other provinces would disrupt established precedents, which is regrettable. Therefore, I wish to decline receiving the stipend rice field. Throughout the year I am extremely busy with unavoidable stays at temporary lodgings and guest houses, and I worry that I may not be able to properly fulfill shrine duties. Though it is extremely presumptuous, I would like to receive [the stipend] after returning to reside at my main residence and fulfilling my ceremonial duties. At that time, please provide guidance according to the unanimous wishes [of the group]. In any case, I will decline the stipend rice field for the near future, and though precedent is difficult to predict, I earnestly request your kind permission so that there will be no hindrance to my eastern travels.

First month of the year of the cock
Kaga-no-suke Shigetake

16th day, jia-xu, clear. This dawn, there was a fire near Koyuki Shrine in the Tō-no-dan area.

17th day, yi-hai, clear. Rain in the evening. Regarding the matter of Horikawa Hirofumi's running away from home, I went to the Hoshino residence in Uji, met with Saemon-no-shi, and gave him various teachings and admonishments.

18th day, bing-zi, cloudy. Stayed overnight at the Hoshino residence in Uji last night, and when returning this evening stopped by the Horikawa residence, arriving home around half past the hour of the cock. ○The court liaisons departed for the Kanto region today as usual for this time of year.

22nd day, geng-chen, clear. For the accounting of the fifth Kagura lecture meeting, assembled at the council hall after lunch for various matters.