For the first seven-day memorial, the widow lady Misa and Hozai came up to the capital from Ōtsu and visited the grave before the hour of the horse.
○Regarding the cleaning of the aforementioned burial ground, recently arranged with the caretaker for 500 mon.

10th day, teibo-u, cloudy then ■ rain. Visited the grave at the hour of the snake.
11th day, tsuchinoe-tatsu, rain then clear. Visited the grave at the hour of the horse.
12th day, tsuchinoto-mi, clear. At the hour of the snake, visited the grave together with mother.
13th day, kanoe-uma, clear. Around the hour of the snake, visited the grave together with mother.
14th day, kanoto-hitsuji, clear. At the half-hour of the dragon, visited the grave.
15th day, mizunoe-saru, cloudy. At the hour of the snake, visited the grave together with mother. ○Regarding Keisen's resignation from the position of Goban-shū Shūfuku Bugyō due to recent problems, he submitted his resignation until the deputy Shiken could take over, but since it was only temporary, there was a ruling that it should remain as is, with no permission granted, and word came from him recently about this matter.

16th day, kinoto-i, rain from the upper part of the hour of the cock. Today is the Aoi Festival. Heavy rain and wind all day, a rare occurrence in recent years. ○Since no replacement has been appointed following the death of Shoshidai Lord Naitō Kii-no-kami, the ceremonial horses usually presented during the annual festival were this year presented by the monthly duty Western Magistrate, Lord Suda Ōsumi-no-kami.

17th day, kinoe-inu, clear. Visited the grave before the hour of the horse. ○Yesterday, the 16th, being the second seven-day memorial of the late County Head Tsunaoka, Hozai came up from Ōtsu to visit the grave.

18th day, kinoto-i, clear. Visited the grave at the half-hour of the snake.
19th day, hinoe-ne, clear. Conducted grave visitation at the half-hour of the snake.

20th day, hinoto-ushi, clear. Visited the grave at the hour of the snake. ○Regarding the thirty-five day memorial offerings for the late County Head Tsunaoka, after consultation among Keimoto, Keii, and myself, we withdrew and conducted ■ today. This matter had been previously communicated to Hozai.

21st day, tsuchinoe-tora, rain fell and did not stop all day.
22nd day, tsuchinoto-u, rain. Around the half-hour of the snake, visited the grave together with mother, but today is the provisional limit. After nightfall, thunder sounded several times.
23rd day, kanoe-tatsu, clear. Today being the end of the mourning period, early in the morning father and son bathed, shaved the frontal hair, arranged their hair, and immediately Keikan