24th day, tsuchinoe-saru, rain. Visiting the palace to inquire about the health and express gratitude to the Imperial Family and Lord Kuga and others regarding yesterday's visit.

29th day, mizunoto-ushi, clear. Due to father's duty for the meeting of elders and young people, Tsunachi attended. As usual.

10th month, large (30 days)

1st day, kinoe-tora, rain. At the council hall, the customary lottery for household retainer duties was held. Tsunachi was permitted but did not draw a lot and was not assigned. However, there are seven people wearing purification robes.

3rd day, hinoe-tatsu, cloudy. From Lord Kuga, regarding the previous visit by His Lordship the Lesser Captain to our house, as acknowledgment for the offerings presented, today gifts were bestowed through the senior lady-in-waiting: fifteen booklets of small-format paper, one bundle of dried squid, etc., along with an accompanying letter. A reply was immediately submitted.

5th day, tsuchinoe-uma, rain. Among those selected by lot to wear purification robes, notification was given as usual by junior members that there would be a gathering this evening. Accordingly, after lighting lamps, changing into formal dress, we assembled at the council hall. After gathering as usual, minor positions for two seasons were decided: Hotei to serve as leader in the 11th month, and Kiō as leader in the 4th month. Next, when lots were drawn, Keisen was assigned to festival duties. After this was completed, everyone dispersed.

11th day, kinoe-ne, clear. For monthly prayers, due to father's duty turn, having [someone] serve as substitute.

12th day, kinoto-ushi, clear. Since late July, due to illness from swelling, I had been absent from Imperial Family guard duty and had requested leave, but from today I resume service.

13th day, hinoe-tora, clear. Visited Lord Kuga to express gratitude for the gifts bestowed from the inner quarters regarding the recent visit. ○ Also to greet Kyoto relatives regarding lack of communication and to inquire about their health during illness.

14th day, hinoto-u, clear. Father is on duty. I will serve as substitute.

15th day, tsuchinoe-tatsu, clear. Being requested by Teisei to take charge of this year's deputy magistrate service duties.

19th day, mizunoe-saru, clear. In the Imperial Family, on the 13th of this month, a princess was born to a high-ranking lady (daughter of Lord Ikejiri). Today is the seventh night ceremony. She is called Lady Sumeaki.

22nd day, kinoto-i, clear. For shrine duty, making direct attendance.

23rd day, hinoe-ne, cloudy, rain falling after nightfall. Imperial visit from Sentō Imperial Palace to Shugakuin Imperial Villa (this being the second time).