Fourth Month, Major

1st day, Hinoe-Uma, clear - Tribute was sent to Kyoto as usual. ○ The Sacred Renewal Festival was held as usual.

3rd day, Tsuchinoe-Saru, rain - Lord Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami entered the house for the first time today. Around the first quarter of the Hour of the Sheep, both lords had an audience in the formal sitting room, with an exchange of sake cups. After sea bream fin and pine presentation, rice dumplings were served with side dishes. Next, special steamed sweets were served from the inner quarters in containers made of cedar wood shaped like inkstone lids. Celebratory sake was given to attendants of samurai rank and above, with clam soup, two dishes followed by red rice and side dishes. After a short while, they withdrew. However, for Lord Etchū-no-kami's entry today, five ryō of silver were bestowed according to precedent, which was received.

4th day, Tsuchinoto-Tori, clear and cloudy - As this year's warehouse administrator, today one to of yagi grain was received from the annual warehouse staff as additional stipend for the festival. ○ In the afternoon, the family elder went to pay respects at the house. However, since Keisen had not visited since being appointed to office last year, this was both for formal thanks and a long-overdue courtesy call. A box of mixed delicacies was presented (five prawns, two fresh shellfish). Then visits were made to the residences of Namba, Sasaki, Kawase and others for similar greetings, sending one bag of sweets to each. Other visits were made to related families at Seyakuin, Seo, Horikawa and others, returning home at evening.

5th day, Kanoe-Inu, rain - After morning meal, the household retainers held their annual bamboo-cutting assembly as usual. Due to this year's economy measures, no meal was provided. Takehara Shōma serves as warehouse administrator. Both the horses and additional rice for this warehouse position were entrusted to Teisen.

7th day, Mizunoe-Ne, rain - Today both imperial messengers and court messengers came up to the capital.

8th day, Mizunoto-Ushi, lightly clear - Various officials and court nobles going to pay respects in Kantō all came up to the capital today. ○ After midday meal, the festival horse racing inspection was completed as usual. ○ Namba Iyo-no-kami, the house's messenger to Kantō, came up to the capital today. The ceremony for the Kantō Chancellor's appointment will be completed on the 18th of this month without delay.

11th day, Hinoe-Tatsu, clear - Regarding this year's warehouse duties, a circular notice arrived from the ritual preparation officials. Festival implements are to be distributed, so one should go to the council chamber between the Hours of the Horse and Monkey on the coming 14th day to receive them. This was also forwarded to stable administrator Naoichi.