12th day, Hinoto-Mi, clear - My father made a direct visit for his regular duty. ○ In the afternoon, Seo Jihē came to visit.
This time regarding the betrothal arrangement between the sister (19 years old) of Matsumuro Hyūga, a non-Kurōdo shrine priest of the Soryū lineage at Matsuo Tsukiyomi Shrine, and my son Motokurō, 
since the internal agreement has been settled but there is no one to ask to serve as go-between, he requested that I somehow
serve as the formal matchmaker. When I consulted with the family elder, given past obligations and
family considerations, he readily agreed to take it on. So I immediately gave consent, whereupon
he quickly accepted and was greatly pleased. We shared drinks and he departed in the evening.

14th day, Tsuchinoto-Hitsuji, clear - In the afternoon, when the warehouse implements were to be presented, Tokiyo made a request that since
the three attendants for that day would all be going around, he wished to borrow red umbrellas. Therefore, today there was no need to
present the implement lists, and only the red umbrellas were to be presented directly by Tokiyo.

15th day, Kanoe-Saru, cloudy - Around the Hour of the Sheep there was thunder and an evening shower. In early morning I took Keikan and Keikei to the shrine, and at the shrine grounds performed the ritual preparation
as usual. Due to warehouse duties, I was in charge of the hollyhock section. ○ I received the shrine duty assignment and made a direct visit. ○ At the Hour of the Snake, my father
visited the shrine. ○ In the afternoon, mother brought Michie to visit the shrine. ○ Keiki did not visit the shrine due to a cold.

16th day, Kanoto-Tori, beautifully clear - The Hollyhock Festival. As I was warehouse administrator, during the shrine procession (at that time, half past the Hour of the Snake)
I wore pure white court dress and hakama (light purple), red diamond-patterned unlined robe, blue sash, wind-fold court cap, inserted hollyhock,
held katsura branches and a summer fan, and assembled at the office building. After a short while, nine shrine priests from Chief Priest Shigena downward, along with Ritual Vestment Office
Administrator Toshitane's representative Suegushi (however, among the shrine priests this year the Kifune ritual assistant was absent from duty, so deputy official
Ikuaki participated), and other musicians, sword-bearers, shrine servants, etc. all assembled, then after purification we formed ranks, and the officials
established the sacred treasure procession. I carried the sacred wagon zither (the upper left being the highest at the bag opening), following after Chief Priest Ōta,
leading attendants in plain jackets (one person), white-robed attendants (two persons holding hats), shoe-bearers, etc. These three persons had been
sent to the office building earlier at the request of shrine priest Tokiyo. The shoes were sent by Keisen this morning. At Watari Negi Bridge and
Tama Bridge, Deputy Onmyō Master Tomosumi performed complete purification of all sacred treasures, each received them and
crossed Tama Bridge, passed through the tower gate, and one by one ascended to the offering hall to display the sacred treasures. The warehouse sacred wagon zither was
displayed at the west end of the ritual area for the priests. This was properly in the eastern direction from the center. Therefore no repositioning was needed. Immediately I
took my fan, made one bow, then from the Ritual Vestment Office, as previously arranged, the ritual vestment boxes were carried by poles along the veranda...