was also extremely intoxicated, so he also stayed overnight. This entire matter was concluded today without any problems, which was most fortunate.

23rd day, Hinoto-U, wind and rain - Due to the imperial appointment of Ienari, the great lord of Kantō, as chancellor (sesshō) this spring, Aoyama Shimotuke-no-kami, the senior rōjū, came to Kyoto today as the shogun's representative to express gratitude.

26th day, Kanoe-Uma, morning rain, clearing at the Hour of the Dragon - Conducted the year-end house cleaning (soot sweeping).

27th day, Kanoto-Hitsuji, clear - Went out on business at the Hour of the Snake.

28th day, Mizunoe-Saru, clear - Conducted the rotating duty for Kyoto gambling supervisors.

Last day, Kinoe-Inu, clear - Monthly rotation duty for senior and junior Tsunehitsu. My father attended as representative. ○ In the evening, there was an order from the court nobles (densō-shū) to the shogun's family that tomorrow at half past the Hour of the Rabbit, one person from among the senior retainers should be sent to Aoyama Shimotuke-no-kami's lodging. ○ The lodging supervisor conducted summer rotating duties in Kyoto.

6th month, small (29 days), Mizunoe year

1st day, Kinoto-I, clear - Aoyama Shimotuke-no-kami made his first court visit today. Various tribute items from Kantō to the imperial palaces and other places - these should be recorded in detail.

2nd day, Hinoe-Ne, clear - Today at half past the Hour of the Rabbit, a senior retainer of the shogun's family was invited to Aoyama Shimotuke-no-kami's lodging, where silver coins sent from Kantō to the shogun's family this time were presented with a catalog: 50 pieces to the Retired Shogun, 30 pieces to the Young Lord, totaling 80 pieces.

7th day, Kanoto-Mi, clear - My father performed direct attendance duty.

8th day, Mizunoe-Uma, clear - Seo lay monk Kisai, who had been serving the retired lord Eifō of the Takawa residence at the Satsuma domain mansion in Edo for several years, recently died of illness according to a report. His son Jibei informed us that the funeral will be held on the coming 12th day at the Hour of the Rooster.

10th day, Kinoe-Saru, clear - My father performed the rotating shrine duty for Tsunehitsu. ○ We were told that one of father or son should come to the shrine on the 11th. ○ I went to the front gate of Seo Jibei's house through the lodging supervisor, and through clerk Tadahachi, offered condolences and requested that they arrange for a representative to attend the funeral on the coming 12th.