Due to the passing, there was an official notification that music and entertainment were to be stopped from yesterday the 18th until tomorrow the 20th.

20th day, Mizunoto-Mi, clear - Kyūemon, the village elder of Okazaki village in the shogun's domain, had been requesting retirement for some time. His request was approved today as wished, and two people were newly appointed to succeed him: Unsayori Shimo-Okazaki Shōbei and Naka-Okazaki Ōmiya Kyūemon. ○ For the accounting of the 10th Kagura lecture meeting, we gathered at the council chamber in the afternoon. Kazuaki-shu attended alone, concluded in the evening, and drinks were served. ○ Michie returned home from Horikawa before the Hour of the Rooster. ○ In the evening, there was an official notification to the junior officials that the succession of Donkain's treasures had been decided. Due to the death of the princess (called Tomohiko-no-miya) at the Sentō Imperial Palace, music and entertainment are to be stopped from yesterday the 19th until tomorrow the 21st.

23rd day, Hinoe-Saru, cloudy, rain in the afternoon - There was a notification that there would be a general assembly of senior and junior members after lunch tomorrow the 24th. ○ For the religious sect investigation today and tomorrow, as usual, we brought the seal stamps for two people to the shrine association and had them stamped for return. ○ Since the 10th Kagura lecture meeting was completed, the shrine association granted one ryō of silver as usual for the courtesy.

24th day, Hinoto-Tori, clear - After serving lunch, there was a general assembly of senior and junior members. My father attended in place of Aki. The purpose was a petition requesting permission for horseback riding, as thirty years have passed since the horse racing gatherings were prohibited by Tō-shi's official judgment. He was accordingly assigned to the committee.

26th day, Tsuchinoto-I, cloudy - Today I submitted the autumn day-count small folded paper to Shoshi-dayū Teisei. However, the position establishment begins on the coming 28th. ○ I requested Teisei to serve as substitute for the daily visit duty at Kifune Shrine on the coming 29th. ○ For the 8th meeting of the Sansha lecture to be held on the 3rd of next month, there was preliminary preparation at the lecture hall after lunch, with both Tsunemasu and Tsunehitsu attending. Due to childbirth complications, some were absent, and it concluded in the evening. ○ For the 100th day memorial of the late lay priest Seo Kisai, a bag of purple bracken arrived as an offering from elderly supporters.

27th day, Kanoe-Ne, cloudy - For the 25th anniversary of my birth mother's death anniversary this year, small rice cake offerings arrived. Accordingly, I sent one silver piece of three monme and one shō of white rice yesterday, and today after lunch I