[Namba Bizen-no-kami] arrived and took his seat. This was because he had been providing secret assistance since the previous occasion. Next, soup, three kinds of appetizers including sea bream fins, and additional soups were served, followed by the main meal service with steamed egg custard. In the latter part, more soup and sake were served. Everything concluded around the hour of the Boar (9-11 PM), and everyone dispersed. It was truly an auspicious occasion.

27th day, Tsuchinoto-I, clear - I went to the Horikawa residence to offer yesterday's greetings, and from the 100 gold pieces gifted by Shingū yesterday, the immediate repayment amounts were distributed to Gōshū respectively. The remaining 32 ryō 1 bu were still entrusted to and taken home by Keisen.

28th day, Kanoe-Ne, clear - The young lord of the shogun's household (Hyakutō-imasu-kata, 8 years old) had been suffering from smallpox since the day before yesterday, the 26th. When the appointed physician Sai Bun'an examined him, from around the hour of the Ox (1-3 AM) this morning, his condition worsened significantly and he was not doing well at all. Additionally, physician Shindō Gen'yuki was summoned and prepared medicine, but around the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM) there was a crisis, and by the hour of the Rooster (5-7 PM) his condition became critical. Suddenly, chamberlain Sakamoto Minbu, along with close attendants Fujikake Kurando and others were appointed to oversee the situation, and at the hour of the Dog (7-9 PM) he was taken down to Myōden-ji Temple for medical treatment. Regarding the young lord's chambers, Keisen was ordered to perform purification rituals, donning hemp ceremonial dress and conducting the purification with hemp mats, washed rice, and other materials.

29th day, Kanoto-Ushi, clear - This morning, a formal purification ritual was additionally ordered. I bathed early in the morning and put on clean robes, then conducted a formal purification ritual in the two-room quarters of the late Hyakutō-kun, preparing all the necessary implements. ○ The property deed for the house and lot owned by Houko's paternal uncle's elder brother Chiura (located on Kuromon-dōri, south of Shimodachiuri) had been borrowed by Horikawa Gōshū for some time and handed over as collateral for debt. Now that the repayment has been completed and the deed recovered, from today it will be newly entrusted to Keiko, so I received it from Gōshū. Accordingly, I sent a custody certificate for this document from Keisen to Gōshū. ○ I requested Teisei to serve as substitute for my father's regular duty.

11th month, long month
1st day, Mizunoe-Tora, clear - The Kifune Shrine renewal festival proceeded as usual. ○ My father has ceremonial meal duty. I requested Teisei to serve as substitute.