2nd day, Mizunoto-U, cloudy - Keisen has ceremonial meal duty. I requested Teisei to serve as substitute.

4th day, Kinoto-Mi, clear - Social head duty. I requested Teisei to serve as substitute.

6th day, Hinoto-Hitsuji, rain - Regarding Tōfuku-ji Temple's fire loss from previous years, they had been petitioning the eastern authorities for permission to hold lottery fundraising for five years. Last month on the 27th, through Matsudaira Izu-no-kami-dono, their petition was granted for 300 ryō lottery fundraising to be permitted for five years. Tonight, the temple's Shūsai-dō (during the Kasuga Festival sacred ceremonies) came to the gate entrance to report this matter.

7th day, Tsuchinoe-Saru, clear - From the money that Horikawa Ōmi-no-kami had been holding from previous occasions, the necessary portions have been gradually transferred. Of the remaining 45 ryō, another 35 ryō was transferred today, leaving 10 ryō which I took custody of today. A detailed written record of all money transferred up to now was submitted and delivered. ○ After Houko's marriage, according to Horikawa Gōshū's arrangement, 2 bu of gold was to be sent to Houko twice yearly. However, as that household gradually fell into financial difficulty, this has been neglected for the past 7-8 years. Therefore, the next day Houko sent a letter requesting this be resumed. This morning there was a reply from Gōshū to Keiko. Since an adopted son will succeed to Gōshū's position starting next year, they request that henceforth one person's stipend be sent annually. From the palace allowances, one woman's annual stipend can be sent without fail each year. After 2-3 years have passed, this matter will be discussed with the son and arrangements made, so please convey this matter well from me, they said. Therefore, I expressed gratitude for this generous treatment. ○ Tonight is the Kasuga Festival, the local tutelary deity festival.

20th day, Kanoto-Tori, light rain - Around the hour of the Tiger (3-5 AM) this morning there was thunder. ○ Special festival. ○ At the hour of the Dog (7-9 PM) winter season began.

Last day, Kanoto-Hitsuji, clear - The matter of Horikawa Gōshū's petition for Shingū Ukon's adoption was approved by the court nobles today. Most auspicious.

12th month, short month
1st day, Mizunoe-Saru, clear - Tonight there will be the customary three-group gathering, so I submitted my resignation from diary duties to the Western Group warehouse magistrate, and it was approved. ○ Horikawa adoption