25th Day, Mizunoto-I, Heavy Rain Day and Night - This was the first seven-day period [after death]. Early morning, Tsunechika and Yasuko visited the grave as usual. ○ Due to Lord Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami's passage through Fushimi Station and entry into the lord's household, five ryō of silver was sent as per precedent, conveyed through Hossei.

26th Day, Kinoe-Ne, Rain - Early morning, Tsunechika and Yasuko visited the grave as on the previous day. ○ From Hiaki, the head of the third group of the village compact association, 300 mon in copper coins was sent. However, according to precedent, this should have been sent on the day itself but was delayed.

27th Day, Kinoto-Ushi, Cloudy - Mother and Tsunechika visited the grave as usual.

28th Day, Hinoe-Tora, Cloudy - Grave visit same as yesterday. Heavy rain in the afternoon.

29th Day, Hinoto-U, Rain then Clear - Did not visit the grave due to flooding. ○ From the職中 [official colleagues], the portion of the late father's ishiuchi rice to be returned - five to seven shō seven gō two yū in judgment - was returned and received. This was specifically for the Ōrai rice fields, Kifune rice fields, riverbank fields, etc. However, due to being within the fifty-day mourning period, no receipt was sent.

30th Day, Mizunoe-Tatsu, Rain - Tsunechika visited the grave as usual. ○ Shūshi, age four, developed a fever from yesterday, so we requested examination by Sai Kinan and had medicine prepared. It was suggested this might be the epidemic smallpox.

Sixth Month, Large [30 days]

1st Day, Mizunoto-Mi, Clear - Mother and Tsunechika visited the grave as usual. ○ Shūshi's smallpox was definitively diagnosed. Therefore, as per precedent, from today we began worshipping the smallpox deity. Approximately sixth-grade pox, etc.

2nd Day, Kanoe-Uma, Clear - This was the second seven-day period. Mother and Tsunechika visited the grave as usual.

3rd Day, Kanoto-Hitsuji, Clear - Mother and Tsunechika visited the grave same as yesterday.

4th Day, Mizunoe-Saru, Cloudy - Grave visit as usual.

5th Day, Mizunoto-Tori, Clear - Grave visit as usual.

6th Day, Kinoe-Inu, Clear - Afternoon evening shower and thunder. Tsunechika visited the grave as usual.

7th Day, Kinoto-I, Clear - Afternoon evening shower. Grave visit same as yesterday.

8th Day, Hinoe-Ne, Cloudy - Mother and Tsunechika visited the grave as usual. ○ At the first quarter of the Hour of the Monkey, the summer earth season began.

9th Day, Hinoto-Ushi, Clear - This was the third seven-day period. Mother and Tsunechika visited the grave as usual.

10th Day, Mizunoe-Tora, Cloudy - Grave visit same as yesterday. ○ Due to Shūshi's smallpox, daily [treatment by] Sai since the last day of last month.