Both officials Shimohashi and Fujikake submitted [the documents] on behalf of [Horikawa], and since Danjō was ill, Kyōsen handled the temple correspondence entirely, with copies as follows:

Petition for Resignation (folded official paper)
Regarding myself: I was previously summoned and appointed to regular service, which was a most fortunate and grateful appointment by divine blessing. However, due to illness, I requested to be excused from regular duties, which was also graciously granted as requested, for which I am most grateful. Since then, I have been recuperating gradually, but I cannot see any prospect of full recovery and am in great difficulty. Therefore, although I am most fearful to request this, I wish to retire and focus entirely on my health, including trying hot spring treatments as I desire. I humbly request permission to retire.

However, as the Horikawa branch family would be most regrettable without a successor to the name, there is one called Chishirō, the youngest son of Kondō Oribe, who is the son born to my elder sister. I wish to request that he succeed to the family name. As he is still very young, I will later petition for his appointment to service. I humbly hope that through your compassion, this request will be granted as wished, and ask that you kindly convey this matter to the council of senior retainers.

Bunsei 12, Year of the Ox, 9th Month - Horikawa Danjō (seal)
To Lord Shimohashi Samon
To Lord Fujikake Kura

Supplementary Petition
Petition Document (folded official paper)

Item: Regarding Horikawa Danjō, who has been ill for some time and previously requested to be excused from regular duties, which was granted as requested. Although he has been recuperating gradually since then, he continues to suffer the same condition with great difficulty. Therefore, he respectfully requests once again to retire and focus on long-term recuperation. As it would be most regrettable for there to be no successor to the family name, I similarly petition that my youngest son (Chishirō) succeed to the family name, just as Danjō has requested. As this person is still very young, I will later petition regarding his appointment to service and other matters. I humbly request that through your compassion, this petition be granted as requested.