8th Day, Tsuchinoto-Mi, Clear - Regarding the domain villages of our household, today from the hour of the rabbit went on duty for land inspection. Retainer Sakamoto Minbu and I, Okazaki Taitō of the accounting office, each taking palanquins with two carriers and two loads, first proceeded to Kodera Village in Kizu District. For the porters sent out, all came from Kodera Village. However, the porters to Ogura were hired by the palace, with payment sent from Kodera, and the Kodera porters returned after withdrawing from Ogura. After the hour of the cock, arrived and lodged at the house of Hachiemon, head farmer of Kodera Village.

9th Day, Kanoe-Uma, Light Rain - From early morning completed land inspection toward the rice fields of Kodera Village, and lodged at the same place.

10th Day, Kanotono-Hitsuji, Rain - At the half-hour of the dragon, porters came from Kaseyama Village to meet us, and we each took palanquins to that village. On the way, stopped at Daichiji Temple in Sendōji Village, a temple of our domain people. This was a temple of ancient devotion by Lord Seigon-in, etc. From there to Kaseyama Village, regarding the wasteland locations from the Bunka Year of the Boar, this was a combined inspection and request. Around the half-hour of the sheep, arrived and lodged at the house of Sakagura, a domain farmer. This person practices medicine under the name Miura Kenryū.

○ My second son, uncle Chiyodayū Tsunekane, on the 10th day of the 12th month of last year of the rat, received a division from Makino-suke-dayū Kiken of the lecture group. Due to this being his first time this year, he sent five shō of offering rice to the head person Bitchū-no-suke Koken. According to precedent, distribution rice from this person will be available from this year. Although this year Tsunekane was in turn to be head person, being his first time, he yielded to the next seat Koken, following the precedent of general consensus.

11th Day, Mizunoe-Saru, Cloudy then Clear - Early morning, went directly from Kaseyama Village to board two boats on the Kizu River. Further from Kaseyama on duty, at the half-hour of the horse reached the Yodo waterway. Said to be six ri in between. Porters from Shimokuga Village came to meet us there, and we each took palanquins. At the half-hour of the monkey, arrived and lodged at the house of Hachirōbei, village headman of Shimokuga Village. From Yodo to Shimokuga is said to be over one ri.

12th Day, Mizunotono-Tori - From the half-hour of the dragon, inspected the rice fields toward Shimokuga. This year in this village there was extensive water rot, with over half completely ruined. From the half-hour of the horse went to Kamikuga. Village officials came out to meet us partway, and we completed inspection of some rice fields. Then, regarding this year's irrigation water, we completed inspection of wasteland areas and the grove wasteland areas under the care of head farmer Chūemon. We lodged at the house of Sōemon, village headman of the same village.

13th Day, Kinoe-Inu, Clear - From early morning inspected the rice fields of Kamikuga Village, completed around the half-hour of the horse.

14th Day, Kinoto-I, Clear - At the hour of the dragon departed, each returning to Kyoto by palanquin. The sending porters came from Kamikuga. At the hour of the horse returned to the palace, inquired after [his lordship's] health and reported completion. At the hour of the monkey returned home.

15th Day, Hinoe-Ne, Clear - Fixed day for attendance at the third lecture village council meeting. As usual, held at the house of head person Shōsei, after the hour of the horse