Attendees gathered, with Tsunechika as head person this year. However, since this was the first year after Tsunechika's succession, he provided one type of appetizer (marginal note: dried daikon radish and fried items) according to precedent.

17th Day, Tsuchinoe-Tora, Clear - The 550th anniversary memorial service for Zen Master Shōichi, founding abbot of Tōfukuji Temple. Our household did not attend, but sent sutra offerings with principal envoy Dayu Irie Noritomo Ason (marginal note: court dress) and deputy envoy Narai Fujikake Uneme (marginal note: formal dress). The aforementioned envoys served tomorrow on the 16th.

25th Day, Hinoe-Inu, Occasional Showers - Due to the death of the Middle Counselor of Mito (marginal note: current head), from yesterday the 24th until the 1st of next month, for seven days, there was a directive to cease musical activities.

26th Day, Teino-I, Clear - Our household's boar day celebration as usual. Left the palace after the hour of the sheep, completed at the half-hour of the monkey.

29th Day, Kanoe-Tora, Clear - Palace cleaning office duty, with Iiho Shugo and Tsunechika on attendance duty. Due to my cold, I requested Hitsukeken to serve as substitute.

11th Month, Major

1st Day, Kanotono-U, Clear - Kibune Shrine renewal festival, Ainame-sai, etc., as usual. ○ Our household retainer Iino Daigaku-no-jō received his first court rank yesterday on the 29th by imperial decree.

2nd Day, Mizunoe-Tatsu, Clear - Visited Sakamoto's residence in formal hemp dress for congratulations.

3rd Day, Mizunotono-Mi, Clear, Strong Winds - Around the half-hour of the sheep, fire broke out in Shirakawa Village, with several hundred houses reportedly burned down.

8th Day, Tsuchinoe-Inu, Clear - New Sakai lecture held at Iwai-ya in Sanbonmatsu, Kyoto. Koho and I attended, completed at the half-hour of the dog. ○ Received one container of steamed rice cakes from Bandō Daigaku-no-jō as celebration for his recent conferment of first court rank. For this celebration, three colleagues consulted together and sent one barrel of sake (one to) with formal accompaniment.

12th Day, Mizunoe-Tora, Cloudy - Palace storehouse duties. All matters as usual, completed at the hour of the cock.

15th Day, Kinoto-Mi, Cloudy with Light Rain - Ōtsu Hosai will depart for eastern regions on the 20th for imperial duties, as mentioned during his recent visit. For this celebration, today from the hour of the dragon, accompanied by Tsunetake, went to Ōtsu and presented two pairs of tabi as farewell gifts. Sake was served, returned home at the half-hour of the cock. However, today going via mountain crossing, viewed the burned ruins of Shirakawa Village - most pitiful.