1. If one is frequently startled and frightened by things during pregnancy, the child born will be irritable and suffer from convulsive disorders in children.

1. Do not perform moxibustion during the expected month of delivery. If moxibustion is performed, birth will inevitably occur within one or two days, and hastening it serves no benefit. One should wait for the umbilical cord to fall off naturally. Moxibustion in the previous month causes no harm.

1. During pregnancy, menstruation may continue to come monthly as usual and still result in childbirth. This is called "dirty pregnancy." Even when heavy bleeding occurs several months after conception, safe delivery can still occur. This is called "leaking pregnancy." This appears in medical texts.

Regarding food combinations during pregnancy:

1. If chicken eggs are eaten together with carp or sweetfish, the child born will develop childhood nutritional disorders and skin diseases.

1. If chicken and glutinous rice are eaten together, the child born will suffer from tapeworms.

1. If duck eggs and mulberries are eaten together, one will give birth to a breech baby.

1. If sparrow and alcohol are consumed together, the child born will be lustful and shameless.

1. If crab is eaten, one will have a transverse presentation birth. If water chestnuts are eaten, the fetus will be suspended (miscarriage).

1. If ginger shoots are eaten, one will bear a child with large fingers. If mushrooms are eaten, the child born will suffer from convulsive disorders.

1. If chicken eggs and dried fish are eaten together, the child born will suffer from skin diseases.

1. If shellfish meat is eaten, difficult labor will occur. If soft-shelled turtle is eaten, one will bear a child with a short neck.

1. If soybean paste and bean leaves are eaten, the fetus will be suspended.

1. If sparrow and soybean paste are eaten together, the child born will develop birthmarks.

1. If scaleless fish such as loach or eel are eaten, difficult labor will occur.