【Right page】
distant matters, and had let such talk pass by unheeded — until this year, on the night of the second day of the tenth month of Ansei 2 (1855), at the Hour of the Boar (around 10 p.m.), a great earthquake struck. The area of roughly twenty ri in all directions around the great city of Edo was entirely engulfed by this disaster. Among all affected areas, the city of Edo itself could be said to have suffered the most severely. When the earthquake first struck, a thunderous roar like that of a cannon rose from deep within the earth, and in an instant the ground shook and heaved violently, as if battered by crashing waves. People were seized with terror, thinking the earth was splitting open and the sky was falling. Before their very eyes, the homes of a million residents, storehouses, Shinto shrines, and Buddhist temples buckled and collapsed. The number of those crushed to death was beyond counting. Some were pinned beneath beams, some were trapped between shattered pillars, others were buried under fallen roof tiles, collapsed second floors, or the plaster walls of earthen storehouses. Men and women, young and old, wept and screamed,

【Left page】
crying out, "Help me! Someone lift me up!" — their voices utterly harrowing. Fires broke out from all directions, blazing furiously, the flames scorching the sky above, but the people, paralyzed with fear and panic in the immediate aftermath of the quake, had their minds thrown into such confusion — as if drunk — that they had no thought of fighting or extinguishing the flames. The fires could be seen in some thirty or more places, spreading near and far in all directions, and it seemed inevitable that the entire city would be consumed regardless of which way the wind blew. Yet as fortune would have it, that night the wind was calmer than usual, the force of the fires was weak, and the flames did not spread far. Even though there were very few firefighters available, by the time dawn approached, all the fires had been completely extinguished. This was truly a blessing within a disaster — the fact that there was no wind that night