**[Right folio]**

(The fire) stops at Takahashi to the south of Sangen-chō. The surrounding area suffered severe destruction, with collapses of houses large and small and fire spreading equally (throughout).

㊇ To the east of the same area, Fukagawa Nishi-chō burned. In this vicinity, both samurai residences and townspeople's houses collapsed extensively.

㊈ To the north of the same area, two blocks of Tokuemon-chō burned. The samurai residences and townspeople's houses in this area suffered the same (degree of damage). The stone embankments along the riverbanks of the same location collapsed entirely.

△ Honjo Ryōgoku — Ekō-in (memorial temple): The main hall does not exist, having been destroyed in a fire the previous year. The bell tower collapsed, various stone monuments toppled and broke, and the monks' quarters and other structures suffered major damage. To the east and north of this temple, both samurai residences and townspeople's houses suffered extensive damage, with an extremely large number of collapsed buildings.

㊉ To the east of the same area, (fire spread) from Aioichō 4-chōme to 5-chōme, and as far as Midori-chō 1-chōme and 2-chōme. The stone embankments along the riverbank in the same area collapsed. To the north of the same area, within the area up to the middle residence of Lord Tsugaru, many small residences suffered major damage and collapse. To the east of the same area, from the lower residence of Lord Matsudaira Chikugo-no-kami through Nagakura-chō, Irie-chō, and Nagasaki-chō, both samurai residences and townspeople's houses suffered major damage with many collapsed structures.

⑪ To the east of the same area, Midori-chō 1-chōme and 2-chōme burned. 3-chōme was spared. 4-chōme, 5-chōme, and as far as Hana-chō burned. To the north of the same area, the area to the north of the lower residence of Lord Matsudaira Noto-no-kami and the residence of Uemura Tatewaki suffered extensive damage to samurai and townspeople's houses alike, with collapsed buildings in numerous locations.

⑫ Kita-Honjo, Ishiwara, the Ushi-Gozen temporary shrine precinct, and Benten-kōji — more than one block burned. △ The samurai residences and townspeople's houses throughout this area suffered major damage and collapses at numerous locations, too many to record in their entirety.