[The Ming] again dispatched envoys Xiao Chongye and Xia Ziyang, both of whom left records, but their accounts overlapped with previous ones. In the 6th year of Chongzhen, Du Sance accompanied by his attendant Hu Jing made records that were particularly vulgar and absurd. In the 2nd year of Kangxi of our current dynasty, Zhang Xueli of the Ministry of War served as envoy and wrote the "Brief Miscellaneous Records" in 2 volumes, which was more detailed than previous works. In the 22nd year, Compiler Wang Ji wrote the "Chronicle of Chuzan's Historical Changes" in 2 volumes and "Miscellaneous Records" in 5 volumes, whose substantial content was incomparable to earlier works. However, regarding the jurisdiction of mountains and rivers, there were still omissions and gaps, and customs, institutions, and products were also not completely covered. This was because the mission's deadline was pressing, investigations were hastily conducted, and there were errors in language and writing on both sides, causing what was heard to be transmitted differently and lack credibility. Now, I have received orders to serve as Compiler, with Haibao as Vice-envoy accompanying me. We arrived in the Ryukyu Kingdom on the first day of the sixth month of the jihai year, waited for favorable winds for over a year, and finally departed on the 16th day of the second month of the gengzi year. We stayed in Chuzan for a total of eight months. During intervals between investiture ceremonies and banquets, I first requested the king to show us the Chuzan Seikan (Chronicle of Chuzan) and geographical records of mountains and rivers. I also frequently traveled throughout the mountains and seas with their officials who were versed in writing and translation, taking in all the distant and near topographical features. I examined their institutions and ceremonies, observed customs and made inquiries. For even a single object with an unusual form, I would invariably ask its name to ascertain its reality. I cross-referenced what I saw and heard, went back and forth to eliminate doubts and preserve what was reliable. I also compiled the sea routes, navigation courses, and various ceremonies of investiture and banquets into illustrations and descriptions, editing them into six volumes. While I dare not claim there are no errors or omissions, I believe I have nearly achieved the goal of transmitting reliable information. Moreover, the records of foreign countries in various histories are generally crude and sketchy. Now, although Ryukyu is separated by the great sea, according to new measurements of sun shadows, it lies directly east-west of Fuzhou at a distance of merely 1,700 li. Generation after generation receives investiture, and year after year pays tribute, no different from the interior territories. Humbly observing,