Then taking Eastern Sand Islet with Ding upper wind, using Chen-Xun compass bearing for eight watches, the ship took Little Ryukyu Mountain. With Wei upper wind using Yi-Mao compass bearing for two watches, took Jilong, with Shen-You upper wind using Jia-Mao compass bearing for four watches, the ship took Pengjia Mountain. With Hai upper wind using Yi-Mao compass bearing for three watches, the ship with Wei upper wind using Yi-Mao compass bearing for three watches took Flower Vase Islet. With Ding-Wei upper wind using Yi-Mao compass bearing for four watches, the ship took Diaoyu Islet, with Bing-Wu upper wind using Yi-Mao compass bearing for four watches, the ship took Yellow Tail Islet. With Bing upper wind using Yi-Mao compass bearing for seven watches, the ship with Ding upper wind using Chen-Xun compass bearing for one watch took Gumi Mountain. Again using Chen-Xun compass bearing for six watches, the ship took the two mountains of Tonaki and Kumejima 《Marginal note: Now translated as Tonaki and Aguni | Mountains. These two mountains are west of Kerama Mountain》. Again using Chen-Xun for one watch, took Kerama Mountain and arrived at port. Wang's record states 《Marginal note: Not recorded in this account, seen in | the ocean vessel compass record》 Yi-Chen eight watches to take Jilong Head, using Chen-duo Chen-Xun three watches to take Plum Flower Islet, single Mao ten watches to take the north side past Diaoyu Platform, Yi-Chen four watches to take Yellow Tail Islet 《Marginal note: The advantage lies in | these four watches》《Marginal note: The ship's hull lifted up and Yellow Tail Islet was already visible below, using Jia-Mao | compass bearing to take Gumi is definitely because the due west wind is favorable》. Jia-Mao ten watches to take Gumi Mountain, Yi-Mao seven watches to take Kerama Mountain, Jia-Yin together with Jia-Mao to take Naha Port.

From Jilong Mountain sailing east through Diaoyu Islet and Red Tail Islet to Gumi Mountain, all these mountains are situated to the south, borrowed as reference points, all passed on their northern sides. When the ship sees the mountains, the compass bearing is correct; when not visible, the compass bearing has already dropped and gradually goes northeast, inevitably leading to sighting Hekibi Mountain. The root of this problem all stems from using the Mao compass bearing too much and inability to read the wind when setting compass bearings.

Now, southwest winds are naturally all favorable, but whether coming from Wu, or from Ding, or from Wei, and