not one person suffered any loss and all returned safely. During the round trips, whenever the winds were slightly unfavorable, we subjects prayed to Tianfei and immediately received safety and good fortune. Since the time of pacifying Taiwan, Tianfei has manifested divine efficacy and compliance, already receiving His Majesty's additional investiture and sacrificial rites. Now she silently protects the investiture ships with various spiritual manifestations. We humbly pray for special imperial grace to permit local officials to offer sacrificial rites in spring and autumn to repay the divine protection," and so forth. We respectfully consider that His Majesty's virtue encompasses the entire world, his transformative influence reaches the edges of the seas, and wherever the imperial edicts go, divine spirits respond in cooperation. On this occasion, for the investiture of the King of Ryukyu, special envoys were dispatched to conduct the ceremonies, traveling round-trip through the extremely perilous regions of the great seas. Several hundred officials, soldiers, and attendants all obtained safety. While this was certainly due to Tianfei's divine manifestations, it was actually all the result of our Imperial Majesty's benevolent management of the hundred spirits and the sea deities' compliant efficacy. Upon investigation, in the nineteenth year of Kangxi, our Ministry deliberated and decided to invest Tianfei as "Nation-Protecting, People-Sheltering, Marvelously Spiritual, Brilliantly Responsive, Magnanimously Benevolent, Universally Beneficent Tianfei" and to dispatch officials to offer sacrificial rites. This was submitted as a memorial and received the imperial edict to follow the proposal, which was respectfully obeyed and is on record. Now that Tianfei has silently protected the investiture ships with various spiritual manifestations, local officials should be ordered to offer sacrificial rites in spring and autumn and this should be incorporated into the ritual code. When the day comes for the order to be issued, the relevant governors-general and governors can be commanded to comply. We subjects dare not act on our own authority and respectfully submit this memorial requesting an imperial edict. This was submitted on the third day of the eighth month of the fifty-ninth year of Kangxi, and on the sixth day of this month we received