【Right Page】

Based on what meaning is this questioned? In the answer, it clarifies that there is one great matter. Among the four dharmas within that one great matter, this is the text of the second "showing Buddha's knowledge and vision." That one great matter is precisely the One Buddha Vehicle. Showing Buddha's knowledge and vision means showing that the dharmakāya of the three vehicles are equal. This clarifies that because the dharmakāya of the three vehicles are equal, therefore One Vehicle is taught. Therefore it is most identical to the Compendium Treatise saying "because dharmas are equal, One Vehicle is taught." Hence this text is indicated. The latter text is within the explanation of the sixth negation among the six records. Negation means negating that there is no essence of the two vehicles, expressing that there is One Vehicle essence. That One Vehicle essence is the equal dharmakāya commonly possessed by all Buddhas. Because it is commonly possessed by the three vehicles, it is called equal. This clarifies that the dharmakāya of the three vehicles are equal, therefore One Vehicle is taught. Therefore it is most identical to the Compendium Treatise saying "because dharmas are equal, One Vehicle is taught." Hence this text is indicated. Therefore in the treatise it says "mostly," because this meaning is explained in various places throughout that treatise.

Question: Regarding the latter text, if so, why does the treatise say "śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas do not partake of that equal dharmakāya essence. Because their causes, fruits, practices, and contemplations differ"? Answer: That speaks about conditioned vehicles. The conditioned causes, fruits, practices, and contemplations of the two vehicles each differ and have distinctions. They are not the essence of equal dharmakāya. As for that unconditioned dharmakāya principle, between Buddha and the two vehicles, there are no distinctions of this and that. Therefore there is no contradiction.

Question: The treatise states: "Fourth, because of no-self being equal. If there were real pudgalas, there could be vehicle distinctions. Since the self already has no differences, therefore One Vehicle is taught." What does this mean? Answer: This explains the fourth cause. The Compendium Treatise states: "'Because of no-self being equal' means pudgalas are the same in being without self. If there were actually different pudgalas, there could be vehicle distinctions - this is śrāvaka, this is bodhisattva. Since there are no actually different pudgalas, therefore One Vehicle is taught."

【Lower Section】

The Water Commentary states: "Saying there is a self is what deluded emotions grasp. Within the bodies of all sentient beings, there is altogether no self. Since no-self is already equal, therefore Buddha teaches the Lotus Sūtra for the two vehicles."

Question: Why is there no real self within sentient beings' bodies? Answer: Bodies that are temporary combinations of the five aggregates are called sentient beings. Those five aggregate dharmas have no distinctions of this and that. Bodies of combination are provisionally called sentient beings. Therefore there is no real self.

Question: If so, why do non-Buddhists grasp at having a self? Answer: That is what deluded emotions grasp. Non-Buddhists do not understand bodies as temporary combinations of five aggregates, give rise to self-and-possession grasping, and grasp at self-self and other-other. Therefore they generate delusion, create karma, and revolve in birth and death. Sages, in accordance with reality, observe sentient beings' bodies and understand that there are only five aggregate dharmas with no real self. Because this no-self principle of all sentient beings is equal, Buddha teaches One Vehicle. If there were real selves, since śrāvaka selves would already differ and bodhisattva selves would already differ, there should be vehicle differences. However, there are no real selves. Therefore One Vehicle is taught.

Question: Since natureless sentient beings' bodies also equally have this no-self principle, why are they not the recipients of this Lotus One Vehicle? Answer: "No-self principle being equal" generally clarifies the reason why no-self principle pervades all sentient beings. However, two-vehicle practitioners and bodhisattvas equally perform pudgala-selflessness contemplation and equally realize the principle of person-emptiness and no-self. Regarding this aspect of equal meaning, One Vehicle is taught. Since natureless sentient beings do not realize the no-self principle, they lack the equal meaning. Therefore they are not the recipients of this One Vehicle.

Question: Buddha and the two vehicles having equal no-self - what differences are there between Buddha and the two vehicles? Answer: The Water Commentary states: "Within this there are actually distinctions. First, Buddha's body contains sovereign self, while two-vehicle bodies contain no-self. Second, Buddha's body contains dharma-emptiness, while the two vehicles have person-emptiness. There are these two distinctions."

【Left Page】

Incidentally discussing: Question: Regarding self, there are pudgala-self and dharma-self. How are they so named? Answer: "Self" refers to self-view, also called self-grasping. "Pudgala" is translated as "one who repeatedly takes [rebirth]," also called being, also called person. Grasping at having a real self is called person-self view. Grasping at having real dharmas is called dharma-self view. These have discriminative and innate [forms], and various aspects, as in Consciousness-Only doctrine.

Question: The treatise states: "Fifth, because liberation is equal. The three vehicles all attain liberation within affliction-obstructions. Since liberation has no distinctions." What does this mean? Answer: This explains the fifth cause. The Compendium Treatise states: "'Liberation being equal' means those three vehicles have no difference in liberation from affliction-obstructions. As the World-Honored One said, 'Liberation and liberation have no distinctions.' Due to this meaning, therefore One Vehicle is taught."

Question: How do the three vehicles equally attain liberation regarding affliction-obstructions? Answer: Two-vehicle sages take severing affliction-obstructions and attaining liberation-nirvāṇa as their fruition-completion. Bodhisattvas, at the vajra-like uninterrupted path, sever all innate affliction-obstructions and enter Buddha-stage as their fruition-completion. Therefore the sūtras teach: "The three vehicles equally sit on one liberation-seat." This is called the three vehicles equally attaining liberation regarding affliction-obstructions. Due to this meaning, One Vehicle is taught.

Question: Two-vehicle no-more-learning have not yet eliminated affliction-seeds, so why say their liberation equals Buddha's? Answer: Two-vehicle practitioners don't know affliction-obstacle seeds. Since they don't obstruct two-vehicle fruits, though having seeds they can attain liberation. Therefore it's said to equal Buddha's. Actually they're not equal. This only speaks about one aspect.

【Lower Section】

The Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sūtra states: "Seed-continuations are actually not afflictions. Present in two-vehicle bodies, they don't induce [anything]. There's no meaning, etc." For details, see Consciousness-Only doctrine.

Question: The treatise states: "Sixth, because natures are not the same. Within the two vehicles, undetermined seed-natures have distinctions. This śrāvaka body possesses both śrāvaka seed-nature and Buddha seed-nature. Due to having this principle, therefore One Vehicle is taught." What does this mean? Answer: This explains the sixth cause. The Compendium Treatise states: "Because various śrāvakas' undetermined seed-natures have distinctions. Namely, within śrāvaka bodies that turn toward bodhi, they possess both śrāvaka seed-nature and Buddha seed-nature. Due to this principle, therefore One Vehicle is taught."

Question: Why is One Vehicle taught because natures are not the same? Answer: Within one person's body, they possess both śrāvaka seed-nature and Buddha seed-nature. Due to śrāvaka seed-nature, they attain śrāvaka fruit. Having Buddha seed-nature, they can also become Buddha. Due to this principle of destined Buddha-becoming, One Vehicle is taught. Therefore Master Ji states: "Undetermined-nature various śrāvakas etc. will also become future Buddhas. Due to this meaning, Buddha teaches One Vehicle."

Question: If so, why does the old Compendium Treatise state: "There are two-vehicle people who, at their own vehicle stage, have not yet unified root-natures. Though seeking the One Vehicle path, they have not yet attained the two vehicles. Because their two-vehicle root-natures are not yet determined, they can transform into Mahāyāna root-natures. To convert such people, therefore One Vehicle is taught"? Therefore one should say: not yet having attained śrāvaka fruit, being able to transform into Mahāyāna nature, to convert such people One Vehicle is taught. Yet why say that within fruition-attained bodies, also having Buddha seed-nature, therefore One Vehicle is taught? Answer: That old treatise is erroneous. The new treatise should be taken as correct. Vasubandhu's treatise states: "Undetermined-nature various śrāvakas etc. will eventually become Buddha," which is the same as Asvabhāva's.