[Right Page]

are in three chapters. The Dharma Teacher chapter clarifies the reasons why those who can uphold and the dharma that is upheld should be revered. The Peaceful Practices chapter clarifies the practices to be upheld. The Encouragement to Uphold chapter clarifies those who can uphold. Explaining power is in the Supernatural Powers chapter. Because the Buddha World-Honored One possesses these supernatural powers, he can teach dharma. All is real and not false. He encourages and shows sentient beings. The power of practicing austerities is in the Medicine King chapter. Because Medicine King uses the power of practicing austerities himself to propagate this wonderful dharma. The power of teaching sentient beings to practice austerities is in the Wonderful Sound chapter. Wonderful Sound presently exists in the eastern land and secretly in this region. Originally transmitting the Lotus Sutra and teaching the practice of austerities. Now emitting light and summoning to show the multitude, encouraging the arousal of excellent minds and propagating this sutra. The power of protecting sentient beings from various difficulties is in the Avalokiteśvara and Dhāraṇī chapters. Avalokiteśvara rescues those who have not yet aroused the mind from difficulties, makes them leave suffering and arouse the mind to uphold the sutra. Dhāraṇī rescues those who have already aroused the mind and uphold the sutra from difficulties, making them leave suffering and uphold the sutra. Excellent merit power is in the Wonderful Adornment chapter. It clarifies that Pure Repository and Pure Eye uphold the Lotus Sutra, with perfect causes and accomplished path, possessing excellent merit power. Dharma protection power is in the Universal Worthy and Entrustment chapters. The Buddha himself entrusts in three cycles to protect the dharma.

Question: What are the six types of prediction the treatise explains? Answer: 1. Individual prediction. Śāriputra, Kāśyapa and the other four great śrāvakas are known by the assembly and their names differ, so they are given separate predictions. 2. Group prediction. Pūrṇa and the other 500 and 1200 people have the same name, so they are given predictions together at the same time. 3. Later prediction. Those in training and beyond training share the same title. Though also of inferior capacity, they are not known by the assembly, so they receive predictions later. 4. No-enmity prediction. Giving prediction to Devadatta demonstrates that the Tathāgata has no enmity or hatred. 5. Universal practice prediction.

Giving predictions to bhikṣuṇīs and heavenly women demonstrates that women, whether lay or monastic, who practice the bodhisattva path all attain Buddha-fruit. 6. Complete cause prediction. This demonstrates that all sentient beings possess Buddha-nature, as when Bodhisattva Never Disparaging gave predictions to those with conceit, etc.

Question: What are the seven types of accomplished merits manifested in the Introductory chapter? Answer: 1. Introductory section accomplishment. Just as Rājagṛha city surpasses other cities and Gṛdhrakūṭa mountain surpasses other mountains, this reveals that this dharma-gate is most excellent. The sutra says "dwelling at Rājagṛha city on Gṛdhrakūṭa mountain." 2. Assembly accomplishment has four parts: 1. Number accomplishment (because the great assembly is countless). 2. Practice accomplishment (śrāvakas cultivate Lesser Vehicle practices, bodhisattvas cultivate Great Vehicle practices. Bodhisattvas have supernatural powers and freedom, and among the four assemblies the monastics have consistent deportment). 3. Encompassing merit accomplishment (praising śrāvaka virtues, the treatise has sixteen phrases, the present sutra has six phrases. Praising bodhisattva virtues has thirteen phrases. See the treatise and commentary for details). 4. Deportment according to dharma dwelling accomplishment. The sutra says "At that time the World-Honored One was surrounded by the fourfold assembly, etc." 3. Tathāgata's time to teach dharma accomplishment. The sutra says "For the bodhisattvas he taught the Great Vehicle sutra called Immeasurable Meanings, etc." (To teach the merits of the Lotus, he first teaches the dharma-essence Immeasurable Meanings Sutra, hence saying "time has come"). 4. Dwelling in deportment conforming to the basis of teaching accomplishment. The sutra says "After the Buddha finished teaching this sutra, he sat in lotus position... wholeheartedly contemplating the Buddha." This clarifies depending on a peaceful resting place, the deportment that is the basis of teaching conforming to the rules of teaching. This should properly be called "accomplishment of dwelling in deportment conforming to the basis of teaching." After finishing teaching the Immeasurable Meanings Sutra and sitting in lotus position, it shows that wisdom dwelling in deep principle enables teaching dharma. 5. Dependence on causes for teaching accomplishment. The sutra says "At that time the Buddha emitted light from the white hair-mark between his eyebrows... raising up jeweled stupas." The treatise has two explanations. First, when the great assembly directly sees inconceivable unusual phenomena, [thinking] "The Tathāgata should teach for us," thirsting and wanting to hear, generating a sense of wonder - this is called "dependence on causes for teaching." Second, to manifest the internally realized extremely deep and subtle dharma within this dharma-gate, now divine light is emitted. The marvel is even greater. Because internally realizing the extremely subtle, externally manifesting the inconceivable. Through these causes for teaching, this auspicious sign alone is distinguished. 6. Great assembly present wanting to hear dharma accomplishment. The sutra says "At that time Maitreya... for teaching what?" Maitreya encompasses both his own and others' intentions, questioning Mañjuśrī alone. Questioning one person represents many people wanting to hear and generating wonder. 7. Mañjuśrī's answer accomplishment. The sutra says "At that time Mañjuśrī... making them all exhausted without remainder." The treatise says: Mañjuśrī with his knowledge of past lives directly sees past cause-and-effect relationships accomplishing ten types of events as if present before him, therefore he can answer. However, according to the treatise text, within this answer ten events are accomplished: 1. Directly seeing the cause of great meaning. The sutra text says "As I consider, etc." (Great meaning has eight phrases). 2. Directly seeing the cause of the profound meaning of worldly words, letters and phrases. The sutra says "Good sons, I in the past, etc." 3. Directly seeing the cause of the extraordinary. The sutra says "Good sons, like the past immeasurable and boundless, etc." 4. Directly seeing the cause of excellence. The sutra says "Next there was again a Buddha also named Sun-Moon-Lamp-Light, etc." 5. Directly seeing the cause of great enjoyment. The sutra says "That final Buddha before leaving home, etc." 6. Directly seeing grasping the cause of all Buddhas turning the dharma wheel. The sutra says "After the Buddha's parinirvāṇa, Bodhisattva Wonderful Light upheld the wonderful dharma, etc." 7. Directly seeing the cause of Tathāgata Good-and-Firm turning the dharma wheel. The sutra says "The eight sons of Buddha Sun-Moon-Lamp-Light all took Wonderful Light as teacher, etc." 8. Directly seeing the cause of ability to advance. The sutra says "These princes made offerings to the immeasurable

[Left Page]

etc." 9. Directly seeing the cause of recollection. The sutra says "The one who became Buddha last was named Dīpaṅkara, etc." 10. Directly seeing the cause of personally experienced events. The sutra says "Maitreya, you should know that at that time Bodhisattva Wonderful Light, etc." Cause means reason. Mañjuśrī directly knows and sees these events, verifies their reasons, and thus answers Maitreya. Therefore it is called "cause." Or these ten events mostly occurred in past ages and serve as causes for the present time. Hence they are called "causes." For details see the Xuanzan commentary. This only points to events for beginning students.

One Vehicle Private Record Volume Three (End)