[Right Page]

Recorded on the 10th day of the 8th month of Kan'wa 1 (985 CE), compiled by Monk Shin'kō.
When Shin'kō suffered a serious illness last winter, he made a great vow to Kasuga Daimyōjin to copy and offer one complete set of the Lotus Sutra and to perform the doctrinal debate on the One Vehicle teaching. Therefore, this was entrusted to his student disciple Chōju of lowest rank.

Enpō 3 (1675 CE, Year of the Wood Rabbit), 3rd day of 8th month: Copying work completed
Seikei, Candidate Lecturer (37 years old, 28th year of ordination)
Corrected errors and punctuation marks from a certain text.

Kansei 2 (1790 CE, Year of the Metal Dog), [day] of 2nd month: Copying with another brush completed
Gyōkei (8th year since ordination, 19 years old)

Same year 3 (1791 CE, Year of the Metal Boar), 9th day of 4th month: Red punctuation marks completed once through

[Left Page]

Table of Contents for Volume One of the Saishō Mondō-shō (Supreme Questions and Answers)

(Note: Each volume lacks an inner title, with only the outer cover title reading "Saishō Mondō-shō." Therefore I have privately added the inner title below.)

Volume One (Note: Each volume begins with volume numbers and table of contents. These were probably added later. Following this format below.)

Question: How does the commentary master explain the separately arising cause? (Two perspectives)
Question: How does one explain the perfection of the second samādhi?
Question: Is the benefit of the pure dharma eye among Mahāyāna or Hīnayāna benefits? (Two perspectives)
Question: Does the syllable "a" (ming) exist in Sanskrit?
Question: Regarding Paramārtha Tripiṭaka, on which translation do the three sections of this sutra depend?
Question: Regarding Paramārtha Tripiṭaka, there are two chapters in the circulation section - which are they?
Question: Was this sutra taught before the Lotus Sutra?
Question: How does the commentary master explain including this sutra in the third period?
Question: About the matter of one time, one assembly.
Question: Does the Golden Light Sutra manifest auspicious signs such as emitting light?
Question: Is King Fragrant Elephant Power the same as King Garuḍa?
Question: Is the pure land of Wonderful Banner Chamber due to Śākyamuni's divine power?
Question: Among the various yakṣa assemblies, is Vaiśravaṇa the leader?
Question: Regarding "I constantly dwell on Vulture Peak, proclaiming this precious sutra" - which of the three bodies teaches this?
Question: The sutra mentions "there is one of brāhmaṇa lineage, Kauṇḍinya" - how does one explain that this brāhmaṇa refers to the tenth among the ten dedications of merit?