are outlined.

1. The official titles and names used in Ryukyu differ in their appellations when addressing Japan versus China. The so-called regent, Sanshikan, and Osasu-no-soba officials are called Prime Minister, Legal Officers, and Intelligence Officials when addressing them [China], or when the Sanshikan serve as envoys to China they are called "Royal Uncles." For example, as with Prince Ie's Shō Ken [marginal note: called by his Chinese name] or Ginowan Ueekata's Kō Yūkō, the appellations recorded generally follow the original texts consulted, so it is inevitable that occasionally one person is referred to by two different titles.

April, Meiji 17 [1884] - Editor's note

○Okinawa Chronological Table: This table follows the years and records only major historical events. However, when there are no major events to record, it is condensed to connect with the following year, for example "Suiko 16, 18." This is done to avoid excessive pages. ○Numbers placed in the margins indicate years calculated backward from Meiji 17.

Ancient Period: From when the Tenson clan surveyed mountains and rivers, divided magiri, appointed aji and governed, until the time of Empress Suiko, approximately 17,802 years.

1278 [years before 1884] Suiko 15: The Sui emperor commanded Zhu Kuan and others to visit Ryūkyū.
16: The Sui emperor sent Zhu Kuan to summon and persuade Ryūkyū. They did not comply. Kuan took their cloth armor and returned. Ono-no-omi Imoako was in Sui and saw the cloth armor, saying "This is what the people of Yaku country (Ryukyu) use."
18: The Sui emperor sent Chen Ling and others to again summon and persuade, but they did not comply. Ling applied military force, captured 500 men and women and returned. Sui did not come again.
24: Thirty Yaku people successively naturalized. The tribute from the southern islands probably began here. In ancient times the southern islands were called Yaku.
28: August - Yaku people drifted and came to Izu Ōshima.
Jomei 1: April - Sent Tanabe no Muraji and others to Yaku. They returned in September of the following year.
Hakuhō 7: February - Entertained Tane islanders under the zelkova west of Asuka Temple. Tane also refers to Ryukyu.

1204: 8: November - Sent Yamato-no-Umakaibeano-Miyatsuko-Tsura and others to Tane Island. Granted stipends to southern islanders. This probably began in this era.
10: August - Miyatsuko-Tsura and others returned. At that time they presented a map of Tane country, saying "That country is over 5,000 ri from the capital, etc." September - Again entertained Tane people. The following year they presented tribute goods.
Jitō 1: March - Sent Aya-no-imiki-hakase, Shimo-osa-no-Morota and others to Tane to search for where the barbarians lived.
Monmu 2: April - Sent Aya-no-imiki-hakase and seven others to the southern islands to search for countries. The following year in July, Taneyaku, Amami, Tokara and others presented tribute goods. August - Offered them to Ise and various shrines.
Taihō 2: August - Tane rebelled against imperial commands. Raised troops to subjugate them and finally established officials there.
Keiun 4: July - Sent envoys to Dazaifu to grant ranks to southern islanders.
Wadō 7: December - Ō-no-asomi and others led back islanders from Amami, Shigaki, Kume and other islands. The following (Reiki 1) year southern islanders presented tribute goods.
Yōrō 4: November - Granted ranks to 232 southern islanders.
Jinki 4: November - 132 southern islanders came to court. There were differences in the ranks granted.
Tenpyō 7: Sent Dazai-daini Ono-no-asomi-Oi and Takahashi-no-muraji-Ushikai to the southern islands to erect monuments on each island.