Bunmei 9: Shō Senwi, younger brother of Shō En, ascended the throne. Soon after, he abdicated in favor of Crown Prince Shō Shin. In the 8th month, Senwi died. The position of chief justice changed hands frequently.
12: Yoshinao sent envoys with orders to Satsuma, urging the Ryukyu king to pay tribute. The following year, Shō Shin sent envoys to Satsuma to congratulate Tadataka on his succession to the domain.
17: Licentious shrines in Yaeyama were prohibited.

Meiō 1: Engakuji Temple was built.
3: Sōgenji Temple was built.
6: Shō Sei was born.

385 [years before 1884] 9: Ōhama in Yaeyama rebelled. Shō Shin ordered the loyal retainer Genga of Miyako to attack and pacify it. He placed head officials on both islands to serve in rotation from Shuri.

Bunki 2: Shō Shin sent envoys to Satsuma. A sutra hall was built in the pond outside Shuri Castle.

Eishō 5: For the first time, red walls, stone railings, and dragon pillars were built at Shuri Castle. The following year, for the first time, golden, silver, and copper hairpins were regulated to establish ranks of high and low.
8: Stone walls and stone gates were built at Mt. Ben-ga-take (where the Heavenly Ancestor clan is enshrined) and Mt. Sonohyan-utaki (where King Shunten's remains are buried).
13: Shō Shin's envoys congratulated Shimazu Tadaharu on his succession. Miyake Kunihide attempted to attack Ryukyu. Tadaharu killed him in battle.
15: Shō Shin sent envoys to tribute local products to Satsuma.

Daiei 2: The mainland monk Nisshū came to Ryukyu and built a temple. Last year, the Sanshikan sent a letter to Tanegashima Musashi.
5: The Ōuchi and Hosokawa clans attempted to trade with Ming. Their monk-envoys disturbed Fuzhou. Ming blamed Shō Shin and asked Ashikaga Yoshiharu to capture the bandits.

359: 6: Shō Shin had monks from Tenryūji Temple conduct diplomatic missions to Satsuma. This year, he made aji from various regions reside in Shuri. Shō Shin died. Previously, he had prohibited ritual suicide (junshi).
7: Crown Prince Shō Sei ascended. The following year Shō Gen was born. A Naha magistrate was appointed.

Kyōroku 3: Ashikaga Yoshiharu entrusted a letter to Shō Sei to deliver to Ming, apologizing for the violent behavior of envoys and requesting renewed relations.

Tenbun 3: The Ming emperor sent envoys to Ryukyu.

348: 6: Shō Sei attacked Ōshima. Yowan Ōoya was killed, having fallen victim to slander.
13: The southeastern wall of Shuri Castle was built. The following year, Shō Sei sent envoys and built a new royal palace on Ōshima to honor the Taira clan posthumously.
16: The Taimi Palace was built.
20: Previously, Setsu Dōmei obtained a wooden statue of Tenman-gū from Satsuma and returned. A shrine was built in Naha.

331: 23: Two gun batteries were built at the entrance to Naha harbor. The following year, Ie Island emitted light every night. A shrine to Amaterasu Ōmikami was built and an ancient mirror was found.

Kōji 2: Last year Shō Sei died. This year Shō Gen ascended. Our border people who invaded Ming were defeated and fled to Ryukyu. Shō Gen attacked and annihilated them.

Eiroku 2: Shō Gen had monks from Tenkaiji Temple tribute fifty kinds of items including gold and incense to Satsuma. People from Miyako drifted to Satsuma.
3: Shō Gen had the monk Gessen tribute local products to Satsuma and thank them for their kindness toward castaways. A certain Imaoka from Bitchū attempted to attack Ryukyu.
5: For the first time, an Ishimoto magistrate was appointed.
8: Shō Nei was born.
12: Shō Gen sent Tenryūji Temple to pay tribute to Satsuma.

314 Genki 1: Yoshihisa had the monk Setsuzan compose a reply letter and attached his father Takahisa's letter.
2: Attacked Ōshima. After Yowan's slanderous death, other chieftains plotted rebellion and ceased tribute. Therefore Shō Gen personally attacked and pacified them.
3: Shō Gen died. Gen admired the customs of mainland Japan. Tenman-gū was built in Kume village.

Tenshō 1: Shō Ei ascended. When Setsuzan served as envoy to Ryukyu, his reception violated old customs because the mourning period had not yet ended. Setsuzan returned in anger.
2: Yoshihisa sent envoys to rebuke Ryukyu's arrogance. The following year Shō Ei sent envoys to congratulate Yoshihisa on his succession and apologize for the previous year's disrespect.
5: Ōtomo Sōrin consulted with Yoshihisa and sent envoys to Ryukyu.
6: Shō Ei had monk-envoys from Tenkaiji Temple and others tribute to Satsuma.
7: The gate plaque of Shuri was changed to display the four characters "Shurei-no-kuni" (Land of Propriety). The following year Shō Ei sent tribute envoys to Satsuma.
13: Shō Ei congratulated Satsuma on the daily expansion of its domain boundaries.
16: Hideyoshi unified the realm and ordered Yoshihiro to recruit Ryukyu. Shō Ei obeyed the command. Soon after he died.

296: 17: Shō Nei ascended. He made Shō Kō prime minister. Nei dispatched principal and deputy envoys to have an audience with Hideyoshi in the capital. Yoshihiro led them to the meeting.