Tenshō 18: Hideyoshi gave a reply letter to envoys and had them return to their country. Shō Hō was born.
19: Hideyoshi raised troops for the Korean campaign. He gave a letter to Shō Nei. He also ordered Yoshihisa to promote military service for the Ming campaign. A certain Niiro served as envoy to Ryukyu.

Bunroku 1: Hideyoshi was angered by the delay in Ryukyu's military tribute and had Yoshihisa supervise and demand it. This year, the Jana clan rebelled. Mō Hōgi suppressed them.
2: Shō Nei dispatched envoys and sent provisions to Satsuma. The following year, Hideyoshi ordered Yoshihisa to inspect the entire island.

Keichō 2: A stone bridge was built below Shuri Castle and named Taihei Bridge.
4: Shō Nei again sent envoys to Ming with requests. Ming said, "The maritime turmoil has not yet ceased; people should not be sent."
7: A Ryukyu merchant ship drifted to Ōshū. Tokugawa Ieyasu ordered the post stations to send them to Satsuma. The following year they returned to Ryukyu.
8: A Ryukyu ship drifted to Hizen. Yoshihisa tried to persuade the Ryukyu envoys to have an audience with the Tokugawa. Shō Nei did not comply. A mainland monk encouraged nembutsu practice among Naha people.
9: Yoshihisa sent envoys to rebuke Shō Nei, saying "Quickly send diplomatic envoys, otherwise we will dispatch warships." In the 9th month, Shō Nei sent diplomatic envoys.
10: Last year, Ukita Hideie attempted to take Ryukyu but failed. Yoshihisa requested Ieyasu's permission to attack Ryukyu. Ieyasu said, "If they do not respond after being urged again, then we shall discuss conquest."
11: Ryukyu neglected military tribute. The headmen of the seven islands were ordered to urge this. Wakana detained them. At this time Iehisa was in Fushimi and ordered his retainers to build warships.

278 [years before 1884] 12: Last year, Noguni of Kume village obtained sweet potato seeds and returned from Fujian.
13: In the 9th month, Iehisa received permission to conquer Ryukyu. First he sent monk-envoys to persuade them. Wakana refused and insulted them. The envoys returned in anger.

276: 14: Iehisa made Kabayama Hisataka and Hirata Masumune generals, dispatched 3,000 troops, and conquered Ryukyu. After several days of fighting, he captured Shō Nei and returned in triumph.
15: Last year the shogun presented a personal letter to Iehisa and others. This year Iehisa led Shō Nei to Edo and had an audience with the shogun and his son.
16: Iehisa established a fifteen-article oath, permitted Shō Nei's return to his country, and granted him various islands. Shō Nei and his chief retainers presented oath documents. He returned to his country in the 10th month.
17: On the day of Shō Nei's return, Yoshihiro received shogunal orders and entrusted a letter to Nei to be delivered to the military headquarters in Fujian. This year Nei sent diplomatic envoys to Satsuma and also sent aji as hostages.
18: The Nago aji came to Satsuma as an envoy and reported on trade matters with Ming. At Shō Nei's request, a doctor was sent. Last year a woman was sent to Edo.
19: The Kunigami aji came to Satsuma and became a hostage, replacing the Katsuren and Ōzato aji. Ba Ryōhitsu retired and Mō Keiso became chief justice.

Genna 1: The Osaka campaign began. Iehisa departed from Kagoshima. The Kunigami aji changed his appearance, took the name Samanosuke, and joined the military units.
2: Iehisa worried about Shō Nei having no heir and persuaded him to establish a successor king. Last year Iehisa had a certain retainer teach methods of correspondence and record-keeping.
3: Ryukyu first began producing pottery.
6: In the 9th month, Shō Nei died. Last year, eight-tier crowns were made with colors distinguishing ranks.
7: Shō Hō ascended. From this time forward, it became customary for each generation to ascend only with Satsuma's permission. Shō Sei remained prime minister and the Mige clan became chief justice.

263: 8: Last year, a Benzaiten hall was built in the pond outside Shuri Castle. The following year, a retainer of Lord Gima went to Fujian, learned sugar-making methods, and returned.

Kan'ei 1: The Satsuma domain conveyed an order to Shō Hō saying, "From now on, the king should establish official ranks and punishments himself. Do not use the country name, do not use court dress."
2: Shō Ken was born. Last year, Mō Hōgi died of illness in Jiangnan, China. Shō Hō mourned and sent gifts.
3: Iehisa went to Edo and brought Ryukyu music children. He also accompanied Iemitsu to court in Kyoto. The children also accompanied them, performed music before the emperor, and received gifts.

257: 5: Iehisa exempted Ryukyu from tax arrears. This year, government offices for Satsuma domain officials stationed there were built in Naha.
6: Last year Shō Shitsu was born. Iehisa presented a personal letter to Shō Hō and fixed the assessed rice yield of official lands.
8: Satsuma people brought silver and went to Fuzhou in Ming together with Ryukyu people for trade. The term "silk cargo" began here.
9: This year Iehisa dispatched magistrates to Ōshima and Tokunoshima. He also placed inspectors in Naha. The following year the Naminoue Gongen shrine was destroyed by fire. Previously Shinto was widely practiced.
11: Iehisa presented tax records relating to the southern islands to the shogunate. Shō Hō sent principal and deputy envoys to congratulate Iemitsu's succession in the capital.
12: The Satsuma domain decided to increase Ryukyu's assessed yield beyond the red-seal assessment. Last year Iemitsu granted Iehisa a document saying, "Beyond Satsuma, Ōsumi, and Hyūga, you shall have complete dominion over Ryukyu's 120,000-odd koku."
13: Shimazu Mitsuhisa had Ryukyu's religious laws inspected. Religious registration began here.
15: There were rumors that Tatars would attack Ryukyu. Mitsuhisa had his retainers observe the situation. For the first time, government offices for village headmen were built in Naha's eastern village.

246: 16: Shō Hō presented an oath document to Mitsuhisa. It became established practice for each king's succession to be accompanied by presenting oath documents to the Shimazu clan. This year the Nakagusuku Palace was built.
17: Shō Hō died. The following year Shō Ken ascended. Shō Sei remained prime minister as before. Mō Taiun and Ba Katsuren became chief justices.
20: Last year the stipends of material magistrates and below were revised. This year, for the first time, spokespersons,重人衆, and assistant material magistrates were appointed. Mukō Kokuki and Ba Kami became chief justices.

Shōhō 1: Shō Ken sent envoys to Edo to congratulate the birth of Shogun Iemitsu's heir and give thanks for the favor of succession.