Shōhō 2: Shō Tei was born. The following year, Mitsuhisa consulted with the shogunate regarding Ryukyu-Ming diplomatic relations. The shogunal command said, "Let them do as they will."
4: The Shimazu clan had their retainers guard Yaeyama Island to prepare against foreign invasion. In the 9th month, Shō Ken died. The following year, Shō Shitsu ascended.

Keian 1: This year, the Yaeyama garrison was dismissed. For the first time, a banana fiber magistrate was appointed. The following year, Prince Gushikawa was sent as an envoy to make tribute to Edo.
3: Shō Shōken and others received orders and compiled the Chūzan Seikan.

Jōō 2: Prince Kunigami served as envoy to congratulate Ietsuna's succession. Mitsuhisa had Ryukyu envoys visit Nikko. The following year, Shō Kō became prime minister.

Meireki 1: When Mitsuhisa heard that Qing envoys were coming to Ryukyu, he reported to the shogunate. The senior councilors seemed to pay little attention.
229 [years before 1884] 2: Shō Shitsu sent envoys to Satsuma saying, "The Qing lord intends to dispatch ships to our territory. We cannot guarantee there will be no trouble. Please, we request reliance on the great domain to prepare for contingencies."
3: Inspector positions were established in each magiri. Last year, dove-eye coins were minted.

Manji 1: A great bell was hung at the water-clock gate of Shuri Castle to announce the time. This year, yonin administrators were appointed to the two islands of Miyako and Yaeyama.
225: 3: Shō Shitsu sent his heir Shō Tei to Satsuma for diplomatic purposes. In the 9th month, the royal castle suffered fire disaster. Shō Shitsu took refuge in Ōbi Palace.

Kanbun 1: The Yomochi Bridge was built at Shuri. The following year, a sugar magistrate was appointed for the first time.
3: When Mitsuhisa heard that Qing envoys were coming to Ryukyu, he had his retainers go and inspect the situation. The following year, there was an earthquake on Tori Island and many people died.
5: The system of corvée labor for various magiri was established. The following year, Shō Shōken replaced Shō Kō as prime minister. Shō Kokuyō was executed for crimes.
6: Sons of the samurai class were permitted to wear silver hairpins. The positions of inspector general and goods magistrate were reformed into examination roles. Nakijin was divided to create Motobu magiri, and Goshiku was divided to create Misato magiri.
7: Envoys were sent to the Satsuma officials for congratulatory ceremonies at the five seasonal festivals and year's end. The people were ordered to study writing and mathematics.
8: Shō Shitsu died. The following year, Shō Tei ascended. Shō Shōken remained prime minister as before. For the first time, a land tax magistrate position was established. Last year, chief administrator positions were established.
11: Shō Tei's principal and deputy envoys came to Edo to give thanks for the favor of succession. This year, Nakagusuku, Urasoe, and Chatan were divided to create Ginowan magiri.

213: 12: A Confucian temple was built in Kume village. The following year, four magiri were established: Ōgimi, Oroku, Kushi, and Onna.

Enpō 1: Previously, Ming loyalists had established themselves in Taiwan. Ryukyu ships were seized and both people and cargo confiscated. This matter was reported to the shogunate. Later, Taiwan ships came to Nagasaki. The magistrate collected ransom money and gave it to Ryukyu.
4: Katsuren was divided to create Yonashiro magiri. The stone bridge at Kanagusuku was built.

207: 6: Shō Eki was born. The following year on the 2nd day of the 1st month, the king and his son offered incense at the Confucian temple, making this the established custom. Middle councilor interpreter positions were established.

Tenna 2: Shō Tei's principal and deputy envoys congratulated Shogun Tsunayoshi's succession in Edo. A certain Miyagi from Shuri was sent to learn candle-making methods in Satsuma.

Jōkyō 1: For the first time, a temples and shrines magistrate was appointed. From the following year, all officials were required to wear caps during new moon and full moon congratulatory ceremonies.

Genroku 1: For the first time, a library magistrate was appointed. Last year, a secretary general position was established. The following year, a genealogy administrator position was established.
4: For the first time, the royal family used the Shō surname and adopted the character "Chō" as their given names. The following year, Shō Tei had his grandson Shō Eki conduct diplomatic missions to Satsuma.
6: Chief inspectors, chief scribes, assistant inspectors, and assistant scribes were appointed to Miyako and Yaeyama. Shō Tei requested permission to mint coins from Satsuma but was refused. He also ordered prohibition of exporting Kan'ei coins to Qing.
12: Shō En's father Shō Shoku was posthumously honored with the title of king and enshrined at Engaku-ji. For the first time, east magistrate (kochinchi) and west magistrate (nishinchi) positions were established on Ie Island, and south wind magistrate (hainchi) and west magistrate (nishinchi) positions were established in various magiri.
14: Last year, Shō Kei was born. Sai Taku and others were ordered to revise the Chūzan Seifu. The following year, the Shimazu clan presented a map of Ryukyu to the shogunate.

Hōei 3: Sweet potatoes withered and the people suffered great famine.
176: 6: There were seven great storms and severe famine. The Shimazu clan sent silver to rescue the people. Last year, Shuri Castle suffered fire disaster. They also sent 20,000 pieces of timber. Shō Tei died.
7: Shō Eki ascended. This year, Shogun Ienobu succeeded to power. Shō Eki dispatched envoys to Edo combining congratulations and thanks. Last year, paper and ink production began.

Shōtoku 2: Shō Eki died. The following year, Shō Kei ascended. The chief justice position was divided into three. Last year, Sai On became tutor to the crown prince. Harbor officials were also appointed.
4: Shō Kei sent envoys to Edo to congratulate Shogun Ietsugu's succession and give thanks for succession favors. The shogunate requested information about Ryukyu's history and administrative system from Satsuma.
5: Last year, a naval magistrate was appointed. The following year, Naha harbor was dredged.

167: Kyōhō 3: Shō Kei's principal and deputy envoys congratulated Shogun Yoshimune's succession. This year, a Confucian temple was built at Shuri in the same style as Kume village.
7: Land petition magistrate administrators were appointed. Small inspectors were also appointed to reform customs.
9: Sai On revised the Chūzan Seifu.

158: 13: The Satsuma domain ordered increases to Ryukyu's assessed rice yield. Considering popular sentiment, this was changed to additional assessments. The following year, Sai On became chief justice.
13: Princes, aji, and oyakata were given official appointments and stipends, and Chinese scribes were appointed. The following year, Shimazu Tsugutoyo married the adopted daughter of former Shogun Tsunayoshi. Shō Kei presented congratulatory letters to the shogunate and Satsuma.
14: Shō Boku was born. The following year, Shō Kei sent Prince Onna to Satsuma to congratulate the marriage. This year, metalworker administrators, national academy, and suona musician positions were established.