Kyōhō 17: Shō Kei ordered Sai On and others to create moral teachings and distribute them throughout the kingdom. In the 19th year, Sai On repaired the Hanegi River.

149 [years before 1884] Genbun 1: Shō Kei presented bamboo shoots (mōsōchiku) to the Satsuma domain. Ryukyuans had previously obtained these from Fujian and planted them in the king's garden, then divided and presented them.

Kanpō 2: For the first time, Chinese literary groups were established.

Enkyō 1: Doctors were dispatched to the two islands of Miyako and Yaeyama.
3: Ritual officials and palace attendants were permitted to wear silver hairpins and socks, and assistant ritual officials were appointed with stipends.

Kan'en 1: Shō Kei's principal and deputy envoys congratulated the shogun's succession.

Hōreki 1: Shō Kei died. The following year, Shō Boku ascended. Principal and deputy envoys were sent to Edo to thank for succession favors.

Meiwa 1: Shō Boku sent principal and deputy envoys to Edo to congratulate Shogun Ieharu's succession.
5: Princes' wives were permitted gold hairpins. Two years earlier, chief inspectors for agricultural land were appointed.

An'ei 2: Shō Boku sent crown prince Shō Tetsu to Satsuma for diplomatic purposes. This year, the chief inspector position was abolished.
106: 6: Miyako Island began building ships for the first time.

Tenmei 1: A pier was built at Tokuchi Port in Motobu magiri. The following year, roads were opened at Naha Higashi village riverbank.
4: Shō On was born. Last year, an inner library magistrate was appointed for the first time.

99: 6: Shō Boku ordered Chief Justice Shō Tenteki and others to compile commendation regulations and criminal law books and distribute them throughout the kingdom.
8: Crown Prince Shō Tetsu died. Last year, Shō Kō was born.

Kansei 2: Shō Boku's principal and deputy envoys congratulated Shogun Ienari's succession.
6: Shō To was made prime minister. In the 4th month, Shō Boku died. The following year, his grandson Shō On ascended. In the 8th year, envoys of gratitude were dispatched to Edo.
12: A national academy magistrate was appointed. The following year, a national academy was established in Shuri, and local schools were set up in the three districts and each Shuri village. Shō Sei was born.

Kyōwa 2: In the 7th month, Shō On died at age nineteen. Crown Prince Shō Sei ascended. In the 12th month, he died at age three.

Bunka 1: Shō Kō ascended. Shō Dairetsu was made prime minister, and Shō Bunryū and Mō Kōkoku were made chief justices. In the 3rd year, envoys of gratitude were dispatched to Edo.
9: A forestry magistrate was appointed. Last year, Ba Ōshō was made chief justice. The following year, Shō Iku was born.
12: Shō Shōkun was made chief justice. In the 14th year, Shō Yō was made chief justice.

64: Bunsei 4: The general mountain magistrate was abolished and unpaid tribute from various magiri and islands was forgiven. In the 3rd month, a Dutch ship came. The following year in the 8th month, it came again.
8: There was great famine this year. The following year, Mō Shikkō was made chief justice.
10: In the 4th month, an English ship came. There was again great famine this year.
11: Shō Kō abdicated to the crown prince. The crown prince accepted and ascended, becoming King Shō Iku.

Tenpō 2: Shō Kai was made prime minister. On the 12th day, an English ship came again.
3: Shō Iku sent principal and deputy envoys to Edo to thank for succession favors. An English ship (the third) came. Sago palms were planted in various places.
5: In the 5th month, Shō Kō died. The following year, Shō Genro was made prime minister.
7: The Shuri chief inspector administrator was abolished and chief inspectors were established in Naha and Tomari. The following year in the 6th month, an English ship (the fourth) came.
9: Shō Iku gave goods to those aged eighty and above. In the 11th year, an English ship (the fifth) came.
13: Shō Iku dispatched principal and deputy envoys to Edo to congratulate Shogun Ieyoshi's succession.

Kōka 1: In the 3rd month, a French ship came requesting trade but was not permitted. One French person and one Chinese person were left behind as it departed.
3: In the 4th month, a French ship returned and took the two people previously left behind. This month, an English ship (the sixth) came requesting trade but was not permitted. Doctors and others were left behind as it departed.
4: Last year in the 7th month, a French ship (the third) came and left one person behind. This year, Mō Kōtoku was made chief justice. In the 9th month, Shō Iku died. An instructor was appointed to Miyako Island.

Kaei 1: Crown Prince Shō Tai ascended. Shō Jun was made prime minister, and Mō Zōkō and Shō Kōkun were made chief justices. In the 6th month, a French ship (the fourth) came and took the person left behind.
3: Shō Tai sent envoys of gratitude to Edo. The following year, Tokashiki Pēchin was sent to Satsuma to learn smallpox inoculation methods.

32: 6: Shō Tōseki was made chief justice. This year, American Commodore Perry came requesting trade but was not yet permitted. Negotiations occurred several times. An English ship arrived at the outer islands.

Ansei 1: In the 1st month, an English ship (the seventh) came and left a foreign couple and their child behind. In the 10th month, a French ship (the fifth) came requesting trade.
2: In the 1st month, a French ship (the sixth) came and left three teachers and one Chinese person behind. In the 3rd month, (the seventh) came and built housing in Kume village for the teachers to reside.