【Right margin top】Extremely detailed investigation 【Same, bottom】Relief efforts provided by Osaka townspeople for people in distress in nearby areas were truly enormous and difficult to record in writing

【Upper section】
From mid-April to mid-intercalary April, there were many rainy days. The rainy season began on the 15th day of the intercalary month, and after 7-8 days of continued fair weather, from past the 20th until May 8th it was mostly rainy weather. The 9th and 10th were fair, but from the 11th until dawn of the 15th it rained continuously day and night. Therefore, about 2-3 chō upstream from Yamato Bridge in Sakai, the embankment on the south side of Uryū village broke at approximately the hour of the Monkey (around 3 PM) on the 13th, with a width of over 40 ken. The force of the water created waves about 3 shaku high, swirling and surging, pushing westward. The terror was such that observers felt dizzy. In an instant people were swept away and there were countless deaths. From the middle of that location northward, not to mention Namba and Sumiyoshi, from in front of Sumiyoshi Torii to over 1 chō north, the roads had 4-5 shaku of water, so people went to check by boat. It was truly extremely sorrowful, unbearable to witness. ○ Also on the Yodo River, because Yodo's small bridge fell, its lumber caught on Temma Bridge, and at the seventh hour of the night (around 4 PM) on the 12th, over 30 ken of the middle of Temma Bridge was washed away. Tenjin Bridge and Naniwa Bridge were still intact, but from the 13th, traffic was stopped. Also upstream at a place called Heita there was a breach, so in Nakajima-gō, Eguchi, Sanban, Shinja, Shinjō, Kunijima, Sōzenji, Baba and other villages were completely flooded up to the rooftops. ○ At Nakatsu River, a place called Yokozeki broke, and Sanban village, Jūsan village, Ebie, Hiejima, Urae and other villages up to the Kitano area were all severely flooded. ○ To the east, there was a breach near Tokuānn embankment, so from around Sumidō eastward to the foot of the mountains, not to mention all the rural areas east of Osaka, everything became like a white sea. ○ To the west, at Shimofukushima, Noda village, Dempō and other places, embankments broke at various small river locations, all experiencing major flooding. ○ In Osaka city proper, from the 3rd block of Kita-no-shinchi westward, the roads had water 1 shaku 4-5 sun deep in the deepest places. In Shimohirano, there was 2-3 shaku of water above floor level. Below Dōjima and below Nakanoshima, and elsewhere, depending on the location below the various rivers, there were places where rivers and roads became one flow. Also on the roads, there were places where holes 1 or 2 shaku deep opened up, and there were dead and injured people here and there. Truly an unprecedented great flood in 80-90 years, impossible to fully describe in writing. The water is still high and traffic in all directions remains stopped, so news from other distant places will gradually become known. Ah, truly a great flood for the ages.

【Lower section】
《Title: Great Flood Detailed Map of Keiō 4, Boshin Year》
Besides this: Ōmi, Tanba, Banshū, Ashū, Sanuki, Iyo, Tosa, Kishū, Seshū and other provinces, Yamashiro, Yamato, Mino, Bishū, extending to Kantō - it appears there were great floods throughout all provinces, but it is inconvenient and difficult to record details, so this is abbreviated.