A Message to Those Who Would Purchase This Publication

Alas, though natural disasters are beyond the reach of human power, when fishy winds ravage the sea in the darkness of night, creating furious waves and raging torrents, sweeping away ships and overturning houses, with parents having no time to save their children and husbands finding no way to help their wives, amid rolling and turning and cries of anguish, in an instant more than thirty thousand souls were taken and billions in property were completely destroyed. Famous towns and villages instantly transformed into vast wastelands, and tens of thousands of our compatriots, without homes, clothing, or food, pressed by hunger, wander upon white sands that burn like blazing heat. When one thinks of this, who would not feel a fragment of compassion and pain for their misfortune? Moreover, when one treads upon this ground with one's feet and witnesses it with one's eyes, the tragic and desolate scene would be utterly indescribable. However, what is past cannot be pursued. There is nothing but to appeal broadly to the men of志 and benevolence throughout the realm and plan for the relief of those survivors who barely escaped with their lives. The editor here compiles the circumstances of this series of extraordinary disasters to share widely with sympathetic people, and with the surplus funds from its income, hopes to fulfill, however slightly, this modest intention. I earnestly hope that the benevolent in all directions will not be stingy in purchasing this.
Written by the editor

○ The Causes, Nature, and Geographic Range of the Great Tsunami

There are two types of opinions regarding the causes of the tsunami: namely, the opinion of the geological survey staff and the opinion of the Central Meteorological Observatory staff. According to the opinion of the geological survey staff, on the morning of the 15th after 8 AM, there was a sudden rupture of volcanic veins within the Hawaiian Islands or in their nearby waters, which created a violent seismic source that caused the seawater to surge violently, and its remaining force rushed out in all directions, creating a sudden tsunami. The seawater that surged toward the northwest washed over our northeastern coast. However, according to the opinion of the Central Meteorological Observatory staff, the cause of the tsunami was entirely the collapse of the sea floor, that is, something like a landslide. According to their theory, tsunamis generally occur in two ways: those caused by wind power and those caused by earthquakes. Since no major winds were reported over the Pacific Ocean before and after this tsunami occurred, it is clear that the cause of the tsunami was not wind power but earthquakes. There are two cases where earthquakes generate tsunamis: one is caused by volcanic eruptions, and the other is caused by ground collapse. According to scientific principles and actual examples, earthquakes caused by volcanic eruptions have relatively narrow areas of vibration, while those caused by ground collapse have quite extensive areas of vibration. This earthquake showed somewhat strong intensity from Hokkaido to the eastern coast of the mainland, but with this degree, compared to earthquakes that have occurred in our country's land areas in the past...