Compared to the earthquake mentioned above, the seismic force was extremely weak and not particularly alarming. However, the area affected by this seismic force was extremely vast, crossing the Japanese mainland and reaching as far as Niigata and the nearby Japan Sea coast. Given that seismic activity was confirmed in Niigata and its surrounding coastal areas, it can be imagined that the effects extended even to the eastern part of the Japan Sea. Judging from the extensive nature of the震動 zone, it seems more appropriate to attribute the cause of the earthquake to ground subsidence rather than volcanic eruption.

What is the nature of tsunami? Generally, there are two types of tsunami: those caused by storms and those caused by earthquakes. Those generated by storms are relatively small and weak, while those generated by earthquakes are relatively strong and powerful. According to telegrams received by yesterday, the tsunami appears to have washed over the area from the northeastern coast of Hokkaido to the coastal belt of Fukushima Prefecture on Honshu. If we judge by this proportion, even if the coasts west of Fukushima or north of Tokachi fortunately escaped the tsunami attack, it is clear that tsunami were still observed along those coastlines. If this is indeed the case, this tsunami covered a considerably vast area and was also quite powerful in magnitude, thus confirming that it was not generated by wind force.

What was the extent of the tsunami area? While it is extremely difficult to estimate this today, considering that the seismic vibration felt in Japan was quite weak, yet the area struck by the tsunami was quite extensive, the source of the tsunami must be located far out in the Pacific Ocean, distant from Japan. If the source location was north of the center of the Pacific, the tsunami may have washed over the Hawaiian coast and proceeded further northeast to attack the western coast of North America.

●Casualty Numbers in Motoyoshi District
The total number of deaths from the tsunami was 3,531 people (men and women combined), 780 injured, 1,195 houses destroyed or swept away, and 180 horses died (surveyed on June 23rd).

●The Tragic Situation at Jusanhama
Jusanhama in Motoyoshi District, Miyagi Prefecture, is a collective name for thirteen villages including Oikawa, Tsuki, Yoshi, Shirahama, Komuro, Omuro, Aikawa and others, stretching along the coastline of a peninsula from the mouth of a tributary of the Kitakami River (Oikawa River) to Shizugawa Station, covering approximately 7-8 ri. These were mostly semi-fishing, semi-farming villages with 656 households and a population of 2,531 people. Due to this disaster, 308 houses were swept away, 206 people died (of which 82 bodies have been found to date), 8 people were seriously injured, 66 lightly injured, and 57 houses were destroyed, making Motoyoshi...