●A Bundle of Tragic Tales

●Kuwagasaki: In one household, when the tsunami came, after the entire family had fled, they forgot their beloved three-year-old daughter. The wife, O-nani, returned home frantically like a mad person, grabbed the girl, and ran out. When they reached a somewhat elevated place and she said "Oh, what a relief" and looked at the child's face, she discovered to her horror that in her panic, she had mistakenly taken someone else's child, and her own daughter was nowhere to be found. Alas, what must have been the mother's anguish!

●Saved, Only to Find My Own Child: Another fisherman, unaware of the tsunami, rescued three children floating in the sea. When he looked at them, he was astounded to discover that his own child was among them.

●Kamashi: In the town there was a young man named Hirata. When the tsunami came, with his lively nature, he climbed up a nearby cedar tree. As the water rapidly rose higher, he climbed up one level, then another level to higher branches, finally reaching the thinnest branches at the very top and was saved.

●Kesen County: A strange incident occurred in Tōni village where an eight-year-old boy sat dejectedly on a single tatami mat, drifting for a night and a half on mountain-like raging waves, until he was safely rescued the following afternoon - truly extraordinary.

●A Thirteen-Year-Old Child Left Alone: In Arato Beach, Hiiraiso hamlet, Oshika County, of Watanabe Seidayū's family of nine people, eight family members including parents and siblings died from crushing or drowning, leaving only one thirteen-year-old daughter. Is this heaven's will or not?

●Orphans Isaburo and Umeno: In Shikishimizu Beach, Motoyoshi County, the entire family of cooper Sato Sōsaburō was swept away and perished, leaving only Isaburo (16) and Umeno (14). Since many relatives all died, they became true orphans. They came with unwashed feet and torn clothes to appeal at the police station, crying inconsolably. Even the police officer trying to console them had a trembling voice and ended up crying with them. The village office staff listening nearby also wept, and even those just watching were moved to tears.

●Dead from Other Regions: According to communications from Aomori Prefecture, corpses wash ashore day and night, but many appear to be from villages several ri away, or seem to be people not from nearby areas.

●Watching Death Depart: A teacher named Michimata from Ōtsuchi Town, Iwate, broke through a roof and climbed onto it. On the second floor, both parents were holding their grandchild, submerged in water and panicking. Unable to bear watching this, he reached his hand through the hole in the roof and advised "You should climb up through here." The parents replied, "We will somehow manage to climb up ourselves. First, please save this child," and tried to lift the child up. While he was saying "No, not like that," and they were going back and forth, a second wave came and swept the house away. At that moment, Michimata grabbed onto a tree and was saved, but he had to sit and watch helplessly as the second wave swept away the parents and child - the pain was heart-wrenching beyond description.