...and therefore, as requested, he was allowed to be taken to the care of his relative Funaoka Shūhaku for medical treatment.

1. On July 25th, Bunsei 11 (1828), year of the rat, when Satō Chōtatsu of permanent Edo residence was ordered self-restraint, his six-year-old daughter became ill and proper medical care could not be provided during the restraint period. The relatives requested that she be allowed to receive medical treatment at relatives' homes outside the gate. When this was discussed between Sakai Yosabei and Inspector Tsuda Yataroku, it was noted that there was no precedent and it was difficult to say this would not violate regulations. However, since young children cannot understand anything and there may be unavoidable difficulties depending on circumstances, and such requests may arise in the future, it was decided that out of compassion, if the child is under seven years old, such requests should be granted as requested. This became the established regulation for the future.

1. On April 5th, Bunsei 6 (1823), year of the sheep, Okajima Taki was ordered house confinement. Since this was his third offense, his stipend should have been confiscated, but out of compassion he was ordered house confinement and released after seventy days. At this time, Kawabata Yūsaemon, Mizuno Hikotō, and Nakayama Sen'emon were also ordered house confinement. Since this was their second offense, they were released after fifty days. All cases involved gambling.

1. In the first month of Bunsei 8 (1825), year of the rooster, when Honda Monsaemon was ordered house confinement, since his wife was near childbirth, arrangements were made for town doctor Inoue Ippō and a midwife. Additionally, since duty rotation was involved and if birth occurred, another person would handle passage duties. This had been arranged in advance, and passage officer Katō Mohyōe was notified to acknowledge this, as recorded.

1. On August 8th, Bunsei 12 (1829), year of the ox, during Watanabe Tōdayū's self-restraint, his daughter's marriage arrangement to Kuwashima Matasaemon had been approved, but since she had not yet moved, she remained in restraint at her father Tōdayū's residence.

1. During Susaki Saburōemon's self-restraint, his daughter was the wife of Tanabe Godayū, but since Godayū was absent in Edo, she was kept at Saburōemon's residence and remained in restraint there.

1. In the same year, during Nakarai Chūan's house confinement, the arrangement for his adoptive family's younger brother to become an adopted son in the countryside was approved. Although he had not yet moved, since the arrangement was approved, he went to the other family and was not kept in restraint at Chūan's residence.

1. During Tsutsumi Chōdayū's self-restraint, the arrangement for his second son Takichi to become an adopted son at Masugi Shōsaemon's was approved. Although he had not yet moved, since the arrangement was approved, he went to live with the adoptive family.

1. On July 25th, Bunsei 13 (1830), year of the tiger, when Foot Inspectors Tokuyama Sanzaemon and Yoshikawa Sajūrō were ordered confinement for inadequate inspection of actual saltpeter, there was uncertainty about sending surveillance personnel. After deliberation, it was noted that since Bunka 12 (1815), year of the boar, when minor officials were ordered confinement, sending Inspector groups had ceased because they were under Magistrate supervision, so the Magistrate would assign long-handled weapon bearers. However, this time, since they were subordinates, Foot Inspector chief Seki Tōhyōe and one colleague went to deliver the order. Since both were ill, one surveillance group member each was assigned to ensure proper supervision.

1. On June 16th, Tenpō 4 (1833), year of the snake, when Kuno Sakuemon's stipend was confiscated and he was granted twenty-five koku of rice stipend for five people and ordered self-restraint, since he was ill, Assistant Yashiro Tōjisaemon appeared as his representative. However, Great Guard Captain Mizutani Oribu stated that orders could not be delivered to assistants of different rank, and requested that someone of New Guard rank or above serve as representative. This matter was discussed with colleagues who agreed it was reasonable. Later, Sakai Yosabei privately mentioned that Assistant Tōjisaemon had inquired whether, since previously when he appeared as Sakuemon's representative he was told it was difficult due to rank differences, passage duties might also be impossible due to rank differences. He was told that passage duties had precedent and were acceptable. When asked if there were no issues, Monthly Officer Chūdayū responded that passage matters were approved based on family harmony after consultation, but appearing as a representative involved unpredictable official duties, and having someone of different rank appear might be disrespectful to superiors, and moreover had no precedent, which was reasonable. Regarding passage...