Through internal correspondence, we have received your opinion as follows: As communicated in the previous letter, it was decided as internal policy that when those sentenced to house arrest petition for extraordinary pardons due to illness or unavoidable circumstances, the matter would be subject to deliberation. At this time, regarding Nabaku Habe Hachizaemon and his relative Sama, who has been seriously ill for some time with no recovery to this day, and because of his status under restraint, medical care cannot be adequately provided, causing extreme hardship, Hachizaemon submitted a petition through a written statement requesting compassionate forgiveness of the punishment. The Senior Councilors ordered further deliberation, so after deliberation among colleagues and further consultation with the Foot Inspectors, the Foot Inspectors communicated that Sama's illness was undoubtedly real, and moreover, since five years had passed since house arrest was imposed, would it not be appropriate to grant family meeting permission? Since colleagues agreed with this view, we conveyed this to the Senior Councilors. The Senior Councilors then communicated again: although Sama has served five years since punishment was imposed, since this is his first petition, the deliberation for family meeting permission is quite reasonable. However, in previous internal evaluations, it was discussed that for those sentenced to house arrest, if after three years they petition for punishment forgiveness due to illness or unavoidable circumstances, upon examination, if their restraint behavior is good and there are no other obstacles, family meetings would be permitted; for those who have served five years with similarly no obstacles, complete pardons would be appropriate. Although Sama's is a first petition, five years have passed and his serious illness is undoubtedly real, so would complete pardon not be appropriate? Please deliberate once more and report. Upon further deliberation among colleagues: until now, regarding punishment forgiveness following petitions when pardons are announced, according to regulations, regardless of years served, first petitions would typically result in family meetings. However, since extraordinary petition pardons have been established as internal policy for the first time, henceforth for those who petition for punishment forgiveness due to illness or unavoidable circumstances like Sama, as well as those who petition for punishment forgiveness when pardons are announced - if they have served five years or more with good restraint and no obstacles, even first petitions should receive complete pardons. For extraordinary petitions and petitions following pardon announcements, those under five years making first petitions should receive family meeting permissions. If this internal regulation is now established, since these are originally matters of compassion, we have no particular objections. Naturally, even for those who have served long terms, depending on the nature of their crimes and poor restraint behavior, punishment forgiveness would not be granted after examination, which is a matter of course. The Senior Councilors, after further deliberation, communicated: henceforth, as each has stated, for both petitions following pardon announcements and extraordinary pardon petitions, those with five years or more of good restraint and no other obstacles will receive complete pardons even on first petition; those under five years with good restraint and no obstacles will receive family meeting permissions on first petition as internal policy. This should be understood, with examination and deliberation occurring as needed. Accordingly, on the 29th of last month, Sama's house arrest was pardoned, which was a most grateful matter. This will be acknowledged through official records. Since this will serve as guidance for the Foot Inspectors going forward, only the internal policy regarding house arrest pardon duration has been privately communicated to them. This is conveyed for your information and understanding. The above.

                                        Ozeki Shingoroemon
                                        Suzuki Chudayu
First day of the eighth month             Nishio Goroemon  
                        [Red notation] Monthly duty  Oida Kinai
                                        Nara Gonodayu
To Yokota Sakudayu-sama