1. On the 6th day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 7 (Tiger Year), regarding Toki Sokan who was under house arrest at Shimada Uemon's residence, when he petitioned to visit his temple relatives privately for the upcoming memorial service, permission was granted to visit the petitioned temple privately, but for other matters he should continue to exercise restraint as before, and this was conveyed through Uemon to be understood.

1. On the 23rd day of the 7th month of the 10th year (Snake Year), Ashida Uemon conveyed that light pardons would be granted for the memorial service on the 27th [marginal note: 33rd anniversary of Lord Kenshō], so letters were sent to Mizuno Zenzaemon and Minagawa Sanzaemon to have good people from Kanatsu magistrate and district magistrate offices privately inquire whether there were any prisoners under their jurisdiction with light offenses or banished persons, to be reported by the 25th.

1. In the 11th month of the 12th year (Sheep Year), it was conveyed that Shichisuke, a former retainer (servant) of Ashida Uemon who had been banished in previous years, was now pardoned to enter his home area. This appears in the section on retainer offenses.

1. On the 15th day of the 12th month of the same year, a report came from Edo stating that Katō Gozaemon and his son Heiemon, who had both served in the group of former resident representative Ōseki Shingozaemon, had been barred from the gates, but Heiemon's subsequent service was later pardoned. For the upcoming memorial service for Lord Shōan'in, since his elderly mother lived in the domain, Miyanokita Jūrozaemon petitioned for permission for Heiemon to enter both the domain and Edo residence, which was granted as requested. Since entry to the Edo residence was permitted, entry to the domain castle town was also acceptable. Additionally, the senior retainers conveyed that this permission should also be communicated to the district magistrate, so this was communicated to Mizuno Zenzaemon who supervised the village of Yamatakeda. At that time, the following was also conveyed to Mochizuki Hachirōemon of the Uneme office:
   1. Those permitted to enter the Edo residence have the same status as those permitted to enter the domain castle town, so this should be understood henceforth.

1. On the 26th day of the 11th month of Kyōhō 18 (Ox Year), the contents of official letters and private correspondence from Edo were as follows:
   1. The express messenger of the 6th arrived on the 14th, and the official letter was presented for review on the 15th. His lordship's intention was conveyed regarding the matter of appointing pardoned persons during memorial services: Since Ōmiya Hikoemon and Suzuki Hikodayū from the district magistrate offices had recently submitted offense records for pardoned persons to the senior retainers so close to the memorial service that there was no time for the senior retainers to consult with this office, henceforth when there are memorial services, offense records should be prepared in advance and submitted to the senior retainers, and each of you should discuss this with those officials. Previously, among the offense records, there have been cases of repeat offenders returning multiple times. Since these people believe their lives are pardoned when they return, they return again. For such cases, there may be different forms of judgment when consulting. There may also be other matters to be ordered depending on the circumstances. When there are future occasions to appoint pardoned persons, offense records should be prepared and submitted to the senior retainers there, with sufficient time for the senior retainers to consult with this office in advance. Each of you should discuss this with Hikoemon, Hikodayū, and the district magistrates, as this is his lordship's intention, so you should understand it.
   1. His intention was obtained through private correspondence, etc. Since it was his intention that the draft of the official letter should be presented for review, the draft was prepared and presented, and since there were no discrepancies, it was ordered to be sent. You should understand this. We have heard that the senior retainers here will communicate these details to the senior retainers there, etc.

The senior retainers reviewed the official letter, and I respectfully accepted that we would discuss having the town, Kanatsu, and three district magistrates submit offense records well in advance, but unless specifically ordered by the senior retainers, we have no intention of submitting offense records in advance based on our own judgment. For future offense record matters, unless specifically ordered to each official in advance, if we only discuss among ourselves, it would be incorrect. When this was communicated, the construction office conveyed that we should respectfully accept and discuss with each official, so we respectfully accepted this with our colleagues through the next messenger.

△Should be inserted five pages earlier
1. On the 22nd day of the 6th month of Enpō 5 (Dragon Year), when the Young Lord entered, a great amnesty was declared recently. When the list of pardoned persons was sent to Edo, Edo responded asking how to handle pardoned persons residing in Edo, since there was no such thing as permission to enter and exit the Edo residence. Since those who received permission after being granted leave and who enter and exit the Edo residence have the same status as those permitted in the castle town, their entry into the domain is acceptable. Based on the precedent established by Inaba Uneme in the 12th month of Kyōhō 12 (Snake Year), this matter of pardoned persons entering and exiting the Edo residence should be handled as convenient, and this was communicated to colleagues via tonight's express messenger.

[Below] 1. In the 10th month of Tenpō 6 (Sheep Year), at Edo, retainer Iida Sakuzaemon submitted a verbal report stating that Murao Katsujirō, whom he had brought to this office in the previous Rabbit Year, had absconded, which was duly reported. However, since relatives have repeatedly petitioned for permission for him to enter the residence on this joyous occasion, if there are no objections, permission should be granted for him to enter the gates. When precedents were examined, similar requests were granted for Horie Kanemon requested by Sakai Mondo in Kansei 4 (Rat Year), and for sword-bearer Yamagata Danji requested by Sano Naizen in Bunka 2 (Ox Year). When this was communicated to the senior retainers on the 16th, they said to proceed as requested if there were no other complications, so this was communicated to Sakuzaemon and appropriate instructions were given to the gate offices.

1. On the 25th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 15 (Dog Year), a great amnesty was declared for domain entry. Those permitted to enter the castle town at that time were also permitted to enter the Edo residence, and this should be communicated to the officials. This was communicated to Utsunomiya Kageyu and others in a joint letter. 1. Regarding the capital town and fief territories, those who had been imprisoned, banished, etc. as punishment from before should be pardoned in this amnesty, and matters of severity should naturally be permitted after examination. This was communicated from Koma Ise to Honda Kuranosuke by letter.

1. On the 16th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 2 (Rooster Year), Takase Jindayū was granted leave and placed under restriction by outside domain lords as per regulations. In the 8th year (Rabbit Year), he was permitted to enter the domain, and in the great amnesty of the 25th day of the 6th month of the 15th year (Dog Year) for domain entry, he was permitted to reside throughout the domain including Fukui. However, for the amnesty of the memorial service for Lord Seichi'in in the 2nd month of the 18th year (Ox Year), his relative Shimada Kuhachirō petitioned for the lifting of restrictions in neighboring domains. Since after examination from above, if residence in the domain was permitted, all restrictions should be completely lifted, this should be communicated. This was conveyed to Shimada Kuhachirō and recorded.

[Red ink notation in upper left] Ya