There were matters requiring consideration, and dismissal was granted to the father Kanemon.

【Red notation】△1. Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster), 3rd month, 13th day: When Taki Kanbē was ordered to undergo domain confiscation in Edo 【Red notation】Hereafter, when announcements are made with such written notices, it was ordered that they should always be available for viewing as stated above. The written notices should also be made available for viewing by the ceremonial attendants, heads of personal attendants, and public-facing officials【Red notation】To Masugi Shozaemon: There was an order, and confinement applies to those with 5,000 koku or more {{Marginal note: Your conduct on the 7th day involved going out and heavy drinking, showing repeated misconduct, which is extremely improper. There have long been regulations that one should exercise restraint outside the gate【Red notation】During Lord Seiju's suspension, and given the current circumstances, it is considered that no misconduct occurred, and although strict punishment should be imposed, this consideration was granted and domain confiscation was ordered Above}}

1. Same 13th year (Year of the Monkey), 10th month, 25th day: Anonymous writings were posted at the Nanatsu storehouse guard post, and after investigation, three guard samurai【Insertion】{{Marginal note: Written notice - Kataoka Takebē, Mitera Shōhachi, Matsuo Motoshichi - You have dismissal granted due to certain considerations Above - same text for all three}} One child of a substitute guard was granted dismissal and returned to his parent.
　　【Insertion】Sakabe Sangorōemon's adopted son Kanroku
　　Written notice - Memorandum: Sakabe Sangorōemon's adopted son Kanroku
　　Regarding the aforementioned Kanroku:
　　Due to certain considerations, he is being granted to his adoptive father Sangorōemon, so he should be expelled from the domain. At that time there are matters to be assigned to the inspectors, so arrangements should be made following the inspectors' directions. This should be communicated to Sangorōemon Above
　　　　The above was communicated to Suganuma Yoichirō【End insertion】

1. Tenpō 4 (Year of the Snake), 6th month, 16th day: Urai Gohē's adopted son Nabeshirō was ordered to leave the domain.

1. Bunsei 13 (Year of the Tiger), 5th month, 3rd day: Ueda Gensaku was granted dismissal
　　Gensaku's elder brother from his birth family - exercised restraint after inquiry: Ōhira Shin'nai
　　Elder brother of the woman with whom Gensaku had an affair - confined after inquiry: Sasaki Ichiyū
　　　However, regarding Gensaku's case: He had an affair with the sister of town physician Sasaki, and when both were about to elope, relatives brought them back and kept them confined. The woman involved in the affair was ordered banished from the castle town.

【Red notation】△1. 3rd month, 22nd day: Memorandum communicated to Taki Ryōgi
　Regarding your son of the same name Kanbē: On the 7th day in Edo, he went out, drank heavily to intoxication, assaulted a retainer on the way, and additionally encountered a monk from elsewhere who helped him return home. Even at the gate he behaved improperly ■■. There have long been regulations that even minor matters outside the gate should be severely punished depending on circumstances. Given such behavior, moreover during the mourning period, this is extremely improper. Strict punishment should be imposed, but consideration was granted and domain confiscation was ordered. Since you are from a family line that performed ritual suicide, this was taken into consideration and you are granted a five-person stipend Above 3rd month, 22nd day

1. Those granted dismissal are not supposed to enter the domain territory
　　However, for those of lower status, they may reside directly in the castle town area
　　　Also, depending on the nature of their position, they may be ordered not to leave the domain

1. Kyōhō 15 (Year of the Dog), 7th month, 5th day: Regarding Tanabe Koan who was granted dismissal, town magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon reported that last evening he returned to Kita-machi and gave various instructions. Since this person who was granted dismissal and should not enter the domain had repeatedly returned and been repeatedly expelled, but had returned again, he is an offender and should be imprisoned, which was communicated to Hikoemon.

1. Record of Kyōhō 12 (Year of the Sheep), 9th month, 21st day: Court physician Tanabe Koan, attendant to Princess Tomo in Kyoto, was granted dismissal. Arrangements were sent to Terasawa Kanzaemon in Kyoto, and Kondō Hachiemon communicated to Koan at the official residence and handled all matters. Records exist.

1. Same 19th year (Year of the Tiger), 6th month, 29th day: Inner secretary Ochiai Chōzaemon was granted dismissal due to misconduct. The personnel roster, meal records, and official box keys in Chōzaemon's possession were to be transferred to Takahashi Ban'emon, this was communicated to Chōzaemon, ashigaru inspectors were sent to receive them as communicated by Honda Nuinodono, and monthly duty officer Shin'emon handled the arrangements.

1. Kanpō 2 (Year of the Dog), 12th month, 11th day: Okabe Takahaku was granted dismissal this autumn and ordered to reside within the domain territory exercising restraint in all matters. He was confined here under his uncle, the retired abbot of Shimpo Enkaiji temple, but as it became difficult to support his wife and children and he faced starvation, Enkaiji temple petitioned that he be allowed to practice medicine in the vicinity. As the petition was granted, the district magistrate Hori Kanzaemon was informed by the senior councilors that he should exercise restraint in all matters while practicing medicine.

1. Enkyō 1 (Year of the Rat), 11th month, 9th day: In Edo, regarding Yukifuki Kintayū, when he recently went out, the handling at his destination was improper, he returned to the residence late at night violating regulations, and moreover given the current circumstances, his conduct was repeatedly improper. Therefore his samurai status was stripped and domain confiscation was ordered Above

【Upper left red notation】Ho