Places subject to sanctions 【Red notation】Memorandum - From around the Tenna era
1. Owari, Kii, Mito
1. Kōfu "Minister" 【Red notation】Around Tenna era, like this; Tatebayashi Minister 【Red notation】Around Tenna era, none
1. Kaga, Wakasa, Ōmi Hikone
1. Senior Councilors 【Red notation】From Genroku 4
1. Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami, Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami; 1. Junior Councilors - from around Hōei era; 1. Attendant samurai and those of equivalent rank, and other officials
1. Domain lord family members
As stated above, places subject to sanctions, we humbly understand their intent【Red notation insertion】Needless to say the shogunate, and strictly to light officials as well - they must not appear; for posterity, therefore as per the above
　Enpō 5
　　9th month, 16th day of the Year of the Snake　　　　　　Ōno Rokuzaemon seal
　　　Inspectors【Red notation】Inspectors - from the end of Jōkyō era

○1. Genroku 4 (Year of the Sheep), 6th month, 19th day: Inoue Jingorōemon dismissal, sanctions document, places of sanctions beyond the standard regulations: Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami, Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami, Junior Councilors, personal attendants, Lord Honjō Inaba-no-kami, and anywhere else with 5,000 koku or more, naturally even for others with 5,000 koku or more, service is forbidden. Same day
Shimokawa Yajirōemon, same punishment, sanctions document, places of sanctions beyond standard regulations: Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami, Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami, Junior Councilors, personal attendants, Lord Honjō Inaba-no-kami【Red notation】Upon examination, thereafter standard sanctions documents, following the above Yajirōemon pattern, from around Hōei era, personal attendants and those of equivalent rank, and other officials were added

1. Enpō 5 (Year of the Snake), 12th month, 5th day: Ueno Jirōemon domain confiscation, sanctions document - up to provincial daimyo
1. Same 6th year (Year of the Horse), 4th month, 12th day: Tsuda Jūbē domain confiscation, same punishment
1. Same year, same month, 18th day: Tanaka Hanroku's stipend withdrawn, sanctions same as those with domain confiscation, provincial daimyo included, but this does not set a precedent for the future

1. Genbun 1 (Year of the Dragon), 6th month, 25th day: Nakamura Sadahachi's younger brother Seijirō and entire family permanently expelled from the domain, provincial daimyo also subject to sanctions beyond standard regulations
1. Same year, 11th month, 19th day: Aoyama Sen'emon stripped of samurai status and domain confiscated, head shaved and expelled, sanctions on service to 10,000 koku or more

△1. Kyōhō 15 (Year of the Dog), 8th month, 25th day: Aoyama Sahyōe dismissal, sanctions document, beyond standard regulations adding those with 100,000 koku or more
Same 17th year (Year of the Rat), 7th month, 16th day: On the 100th day memorial of Lady Seishin'in, among those under sanctions: the Three Branch Houses, domain lord families, Lord Shinano-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Ōi-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Aki-no-kami, Lord Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami, Lord Satake Ukyō-no-dayū, Lord Ogasawara Tōtōmi-no-kami, Senior Councilors, Junior Councilors, Lord Ii Kamon-no-kami - all others had sanctions completely lifted

1. Kyōhō 4 (Year of the Boar), 5th month, 18th day: Ban Shingorōemon and his son Yatarō both had domains confiscated, father and son both subject to sanctions on those with 5,000 koku or more beyond standard regulations
1. Same 9th year (Year of the Dragon), 10th month, 29th day: Karasawa U'uchi dismissal
As the above offense was serious, beyond standard sanctions, provincial daimyo were added and official seals were kept
1. Same 17th year (Year of the Rat), 12th month, 11th day: Gold magistrate Samue Kyūzaemon dismissal, regarding sanctions, beyond standard regulations those with 10,000 koku or more

1. Kanpō 1 (Year of the Rooster), 2nd month, 5th day: Sakamaki Jūemon domain confiscation, sanctions same as dismissal
1. Same 2nd year (Year of the Dog), 8th month, 13th day: Domain confiscation, dismissal, banishment, sanctions document as per standard regulations without distinction【Red notation】Upon examination, thereafter the same, presumably from this memorandum the distinction between domain confiscation and dismissal was lost - Jinpei's consideration

1. Genbun 2 (Year of the Snake), 7th month: In Edo, Hashimoto Kiheiji was granted dismissal, no sanctions, may reside anywhere, but entry into the domain and Edo residence is to be refrained from for the time being

1. Kanpō 2 (Year of the Dog), 9th month, 11th day: Great guard Sakabe Masaemon, having been ill for a long time, should have consulted and petitioned regarding family succession, but abandoned this and it was heard that he could not properly fulfill service throughout, so his stipend was confiscated. This should be communicated. The residence should naturally be surrendered, but he may reside anywhere regarding lodging.

1. Genroku 11 (Year of the Tiger), 7th month, 28th day: When Tateiwa Ichirōemon's domain was confiscated, regarding the sanctions document, Koma Takumi communicated this in Edo, so he remains in Edo, and the inspectors there communicated this to colleagues here.
Memorandum
1. Regarding sanctions: Though it need not be specifically announced, if it becomes known that he serves anywhere regardless of rank, strict punishment will be imposed
1. Must not enter the domain territory
【One line unreadable】Genroku 11 (Year of the Tiger), 7th month, 28th day　Inspectors　Tateiwa Ichirōemon

【Lower section】
1. Tenna 3 (Year of the Boar), 7th month, 18th day: Caretaker and money-lending official Nakamura Denbē had his position removed, and while under house confinement went to the inspectors' office, which was considered extremely improper, so domain confiscation was ordered. The inspectors were to determine places of sanctions, adding provincial daimyo as one article stricter than standard sanctions.

1. Enpō 5 (Year of the Snake), intercalary 12th month, 16th day: Saitō Yagotayū, Mizui Yoichirōemon domain confiscation, needless to say the domain, Edo and elsewhere as per standard regulations sanctions
1. Shōtoku 2 (Year of the Dragon), 2nd month, 16th day: Nagai Taketake domain confiscation, same punishment
○1. Shōtoku 3 (Year of the Snake), 2nd month, 14th day: Konno Shichizaemon domain confiscation, same punishment
1. Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster), 3rd month, 13th day: Taki Kanbē domain confiscation, sanctions on 5,000 koku or more△
1. Same 4th year (Year of the Sheep), 3rd month, 2nd day: Egawa Chūzaemon banishment, sanctions on 10,000 koku or more

Regarding sanctions documents
1. Sanctions documents are prepared before dismissal is announced, and since this is a confidential matter, senior councilors' secretaries should prepare them

1. Kyōhō 14 (Year of the Rooster), 9th month: When Abe Uhachi was granted dismissal in Edo, regarding the matter that the sanctions document was prepared by the record keeper【Deletion of "regarding this matter" and red insertion】this was communicated, so sanctions documents announced with inspectors present were previously prepared by secretaries, and this understanding should continue in the future. To confirm whether this is indeed the case, inquiries should be made to Takahashi Ban'emon and Matsuda Yaichirōemon, as communicated by Ashida Uemon, Kōzuki Buzaemon, and Kobayashi Mataemon.

Letters were sent to secretaries Takahashi Ban'emon and Matsuda Yaichirōemon with inquiries, and the following reply was received:
　We have respectfully read your letter. Regarding your inquiry whether we prepare sanctions documents when dismissals and sanctions occur not only for guard group samurai but even for ashigaru, we understand that since such duties assigned to you from above are confidential matters before being announced, we do prepare them. Matters handled exclusively by unit commanders have not been handled by us previously, so please understand accordingly. Above
　　　9th month, 11th day　　　　　　　　Takahashi Ban'emon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsuda Yaichirōemon
　　　　　【Red notation】To Lord Kaifuku Sezaemon
Two ○ marks present
Example of preparing sanctions documents for ashigaru appears two pages later

1. Hōei 2 (Year of the Rooster), 9th month, 5th day【Red correction】8th month, 13th day: When Okajima Tarōbē and his two sons (three people total) were ordered domain confiscation, sanctions document: 10,000 koku or more, personal attendants and those of equivalent rank, and other officials

1. Kyōhō 3 (Year of the Dog): When Ōkōchi Suketarō was banished, the sanctions document included a clause that he must not reside in prosperous areas

1. Shōtoku 3 (Year of the Snake), 2nd month, 18th day: Memorandum to be communicated to Tanaka Hanroku - Regarding your matter, when your father Jōzaemon was granted dismissal last year, you should have been dismissed together, but since you were a hereditary retainer you were retained. However, you showed no consideration for this and committed numerous acts of misconduct, which is considered extremely improper. Although punishment should be imposed, clemency is granted and your stipend is withdrawn. Above. However, since Honda Shuri requested that severe sanctions be applied, sanctions equivalent to those for domain confiscation, including provincial daimyo, were announced to the inspectors.

1. Kyōhō 6 (Year of the Ox), 8th month, 21st day memorandum: Regarding those granted dismissal by【Red correction】from domain lord families residing within the domain territory, how is this【Red correction】considered? Especially those dismissed from Matsuoka should not be allowed to remain, as【Red correction】was announced in previous years【Red correction】. Hereafter, this should be understood even more strictly. Above. 8th month, 21st day. The above was communicated to Kanazu magistrates, town magistrates, district magistrates of administered territories, and the deputy of district magistrate Honda Kuranosuke.
【Red notation】However, regarding this announcement: Those of ashigaru rank and above should not be allowed to remain. For those below of lesser status, if there are sanctions that's different, but for ordinary dismissed persons there are no sanctions. If there are unavoidable circumstances requiring relocation, that should be reported. This was decided, and inspector Yano Uemonnosaku should be informed that everyone should understand this. Ashida Uemon communicated this to Uemonnosaku.

【Upper left red notation】He