1. Hōei 7 (Year of the Tiger): The monk Ichimura ■ga who handled tea service during the journey, due to carelessness with fire and misconduct ■ had his stipend withdrawn and was ordered not to enter the domain territory. Regarding this, he affixed his seal to the official document, and at that time ashigaru inspector Yamashiro Niemon obtained the seal, as recorded in the fire incident section.

1. Kyōhō 15 (Year of the Dog), 6th month, 15th day: Former miscellaneous affairs official Nozawa Kyūtayū was banished from within five ri of the castle town, ordered to remain in rural areas of the domain territory, not to go to other provinces, and not to reside in public lands, other domains, or administered territories.

1. Shōtoku 3 (Year of the Snake): Ishiguro Nasaemon was granted dismissal, stricter than ordinary dismissal, ordered to retire to a temple, and had sanctions documents with official seals imposed. The original document is kept by head falconer Kishi Mozaemon, and this also appears in the dismissal section.

1. Same year 5 (Year of the Sheep): Atsumi Gonbei had his head shaved and was banished. Since this was not handled according to samurai law, there were no sanctions. The captain of new guards communicated this and showed the sanctions document.

1. Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster): When Taki Kanbei had his domain confiscated, the sanctions applied to those with 5,000 koku or more.

1. Regarding censure documents: These appear in the section on various matters related to censure.

○ See the seal two pages prior for reference

1. Kyōwa 3 (Year of the Boar), 2nd month, 29th day: When ashigaru Nagayama Genhachirō's son Matsunosuke was banished from the domain, the sanctions document was written by a scribe.

1. Shōtoku 2 (Year of the Dragon), 5th month, 29th day: When Satō Teijun had his stipend withdrawn in Edo, the sanctions document was to be submitted for review. Upon submission and review, it was ordered that henceforth this format should be used, and the sanctions document was revised. Both the sanctions document and previous sanctions documents were sent with the express courier departing the same day, as follows:

　　　Memorandum
　1. Owari, Kii, Mito
　1. Kaga, Wakasa, Ōmi Hikone  
　1. Senior Councilors: Lord Manabe Echizen-no-kami, Lord Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu
　1. Junior Councilors
　1. Personal attendants and those of equivalent rank, and other officials: Lord Matsudaira Hyōbu-no-taifu【red notation】Sakon-no-shōgen
　1. Domain lord families
　　We humbly understand the intent regarding the above places of sanctions and will not appear. For posterity
　　Therefore as stated
　　　The above is a copy of Satō Teijun's sanctions document

【Red notation】From Kyōhō 1 (Year of the Monkey), 8th month, the 「 section should be excluded hereafter as ordered

　Addition 1: In the Anei 1 (Year of the Dragon) sanctions document, it was communicated by the sword-bearing officials that henceforth the three Tokugawa branch houses should be recorded, and this has been recorded since Hirao Shingorō's dismissal.
【Red notation】According to Jinbei's note, around the Enpō era, after the three Tokugawa houses came Lord Kōfu Saisho and Lord Tatebayashi Saisho

【Lower section】　Memorandum
　1. Owari, Kii, Mito
　1. Kaga, Wakasa, Ōmi Hikone
　1. Senior Councilors: Lord Manabe Echizen-no-kami
　1. Junior Councilors, personal attendants and those of equivalent rank, and other
　　officials
　1. Lord Matsudaira Bungo-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Kai-no-kami
　1. Lord Matsudaira Dewa-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Daigaku-no-kami
　1. Domain lord families, Lord Honda Nakatsukasa-no-taifu
　　We humbly understand the intent regarding the above places of sanctions and will not appear. For posterity, therefore as stated
　　　The above is a copy of sanctions documents that have existed from the earliest times

Two pages prior, seal

○1. Kōka 1 (Year of the Dragon), 5th month, 29th day: Hikima Masayoshi's uncle Tōsen banished from domain, Ishihara Jinjūrō's younger brother Tomonosuke stripped of samurai status and banished from domain, same 6th month, 5th day, Nakamura Senzaemon stripped of samurai status and banished from domain - all had sanctions documents written by scribes.

1. Same year 3 (Year of the Horse), 8th month, 16th day: When Arai Mozaemon and Matsunaga Jirōzaemon's second son Sannosuke were stripped of samurai status and banished from domain, the sanctions document was written by the inner secretary.

1. Tenpō 14 (Year of the Rabbit), 11th month, 25th day: When Hakubu Hachizaemon's adoptive uncle Genzō received the same punishment, the sanctions document was written by a scribe. Monthly duty Tanabe Gotayū, scribe transmission record.

1. Bunka 7 (Year of the Horse), 5th month, 11th day: As the precedent for writing sanctions documents could be understood, the following was established:
　1. When samurai are granted dismissal, the inner secretary writes the sanctions document and the monthly duty inspector verifies the seal. However, if unable to appear due to illness, the ashigaru inspector goes to the residence to verify the seal.
　1. When banishment is ordered, both scribes write the sanctions document and the ashigaru inspector verifies the seal. The draft should be sent from the inner secretary.
　　　　　End

△Two pages prior, seal

1. Genroku 10 (Year of the Ox), 7th month, 11th day: When Nomoto Jirōzaemon was dismissed
　　As I have been granted dismissal, I have been ordered not to go to other provinces and to remain within the domain territory
　　I humbly understand as per the written order and will not go to other provinces. For this purpose, thus stated. The above
　　　Genroku 10　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nomoto Jirōzaemon seal　　　　　　
　　　　7th month, 11th day of the Ox
　　　　　　To the Inspectors

1. Shōtoku 3 (Year of the Snake), 2nd month, 18th day: When caretaker and former Edo residence magistrate Nakamura Yasuemon was dismissed
　　As I have been granted dismissal【red notation】stipend withdrawn, and since I am aware of financial circumstances, I have been ordered not to go to other provinces and to remain within the domain territory. I humbly understand the intent and will strictly not go elsewhere.
　　For posterity, therefore as stated
　　　　Shōtoku 3, Snake year, 2nd month, 18th day　　　　　　Nakamura Yasuemon seal　　　　　　
　　　　　　　　　To the Inspectors
　　　　　　【Red notation】Same day　　　　　Nakayama Ichibei　Head cook
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yoshie Jūjirō　Same　Inspector　

【Upper left red notation】To