Zaemon submitted a petition, and when the new unit captain reported to the senior councilors, Matsudaira Shume's office communicated that since the petition was submitted through the above-mentioned oral statement, it would be granted as requested. Henceforth, when similar cases occur, the inspector should be informed, as communicated to Tanabe Gotayū.

1. Regarding the taking in of wives and children of those granted dismissal by relatives: the senior councilors shall communicate to the monthly duty officer, and they should be taken in according to instructions.
   This matter should be communicated promptly and subsequently reported to higher authority.
   　However, except for samurai, subordinates must inform the inspector through their master or supervisor.

   1. Kan'ei 11 (Year of the Sheep), 8th month: Uchida Sōzaemon took in Tsuda Denshichi's children, and sent one daughter to Maruoka physician ■ya Gensen's place.
   　　　An oral statement was submitted at this time.

1. Kan'en 4 (Year of the Sheep), 3rd month, 22nd day: Unit captain Shimada Seizaemon was instructed by Honda Minbu's office regarding Aoyama Kyūnai's nephew Kanjirō. When his biological father was granted dismissal, he was ordered to remain with Kyūnai until age 15 due to his young age, and this year he turned 13. Since he is ultimately someone who cannot be abandoned, when a petition was made to adopt him directly, it was communicated that this could be done at their discretion.
   　However, Kanjirō's biological father Aoyama Sen'emon had his head shaved and was banished from the domain in previous years.

1. Kansei 2 (Year of the Dog), 8th month, 6th day: Ōi Yajūrō petitioned regarding Ogasawara Magojirō of the same surname, who had been granted permission to enter the domain. When he came to my place during this time, my real nephew named Kikujirō accompanied him. Since Kikujirō is young, weak, and sickly, I petitioned through an oral statement to care for him at my place. When this was reported to the senior councilors, they communicated that he could be cared for at their discretion.

1. Bunka 1 (Year of the Rat), 2nd month, 16th day:
   Hasegawa Gen'noshin petitioned regarding Eigo'rō, the adopted son of his real brother Tsuda Den'emon.
   Having been granted permission to enter the domain upon petition in previous years,
   he petitioned to be granted permission to reside in the castle town. Accordingly, as petitioned,
   permission to reside in the castle town was granted, and this should be communicated to Gen'noshin.

   1. Regarding the matter of wishing to take in household members due to the extinction of retainer family names, this appears in the section on retainer punishments.

1. Kyōhō 15 (Year of the Dog), 2nd month, 29th day: Ihara Jōsuke reported on Hanakeda Shinshichi, son-in-law of Oka Han'emon's daughter, who was granted dismissal in previous years. At that time there was a young son who was taken in by Han'emon's family【red notation】■■■■■ male ■ named Nagaoka Dan'ya. Since he turned 15 this year, he should be sent to other provinces, but after Shinshichi was granted dismissal, he committed misconduct and was ordered permanent separation from above. Therefore, Shinshichi's whereabouts are currently unknown. There is no way to send Dan'ya to other provinces. An oral petition was submitted expressing the desire to make him a physician in the future, and when this was reported to the senior councilors, they communicated that matters of becoming a physician, monk, etc., could be handled at their discretion.
   　However, regarding Dan'ya, in the 6th month of the same year【red notation】25th day, his punishment was pardoned upon petition during the great amnesty for the succession. After this pardon, it was communicated by the duty officer Shūri on the last day of the month that there would be no problem if he became a layperson. Records exist. However, on the 29th day of the 4th month of the same 17th year (Year of the Rat), a Maruoka physician named Takeuchi Gensada, who receives a seven-person stipend from Lord Saemon-no-suke, had a common-law relationship and petitioned to adopt Dan'ya. When Han'emon communicated his desire to send him and inquired with the senior councilors, they communicated that there was no need to submit an oral statement and the inspector should simply take note.

1. Same 20th year (Year of the Rabbit), 12th month, 16th day: Sano Matatarou reported on Kosango, son of Sakai Heinosuke who was granted dismissal on the 16th day of the 11th month and had been placed with Sakai Tōshichi of my guard unit. When I petitioned the other day to send him to Hōseki-in, the head priest of Maruoka Shinmei Shrine, Matsudaira Shōbei's office communicated that Tōshichi should be told to send him temporarily as a ward. However, it was said that this was unnecessary and he should simply be sent. Therefore, I inquired whether it would be unnecessary for Tōshichi to report on sending Kosango to other provinces in the future, and Shōbei's office also communicated that this was unnecessary, so I was told to take note. However, since Hōseki-in is the brother of Heinosuke's wife, on the 29th of last month the wife and three daughters were taken in by Hōseki-in upon Tōshichi's petition. The son Kosango was also petitioned to go to the same temple together, but since Hōseki-in's petition could not be resolved in Maruoka,

【Upper left red notation】To