House Confinement (Hissoku)

1. In the eighth month of Kanpō 2 (1742), Year of the Dog, the court physician Hosoi Gen'yō had his stipend confiscated, was assigned to clerical duties, and placed under house confinement.

1. On the 16th day of the seventh month of Kyōhō 17 (1732), Year of the Rat, magistrates Eguchi Jirōbei and Sakai Rokurōemon were placed under house confinement. At this time, Fukui inspector Tochinya Han'emon sent a letter to the Matsuoka inspector, which is recorded in the Matsuoka official records as follows:

"I write to inform you. Yesterday on the 16th, Lord Inaba Uneme announced at his residence that Eguchi Jirōbei and Sakai Rokurōemon, who had previously been under house restraint, would now have their positions revoked, fifty koku each confiscated from their stipends, be assigned to the ōban guard unit, and placed under house confinement. This was to be announced to both men at the next meeting, and we have done so with fellow officials present. I inform you of this matter. The subordinates of both men will be temporarily supervised by Senbon Tōzaemon.

This handling was announced by Uneme on that day.

House confinement is a punishment lighter than house arrest but heavier than house restraint. Please understand it as such. With deep respect, 17th day of 7th month, To Yokota Jūemon-sama, Tochinya Han'emon, Katayama Yagoemon-sama"

However, because the incident where these two men were ordered to circulate pledge documents caused unrest in the towns and countryside, on the 14th day, these two men along with their colleague Amemori Giemon were all ordered into house restraint. Since Giemon was the monthly duty officer, he was told to continue his audience duties, and Senbon Tōzaemon was given additional duties to ensure financial administration was not disrupted.

1. On the 25th day of the seventh month, Amemori Giemon similarly had his position revoked, fifty koku confiscated from his stipend, was assigned to the ōban guard unit, and placed under house confinement.

This was because successors for both men had been appointed during this period.

1. On the 12th day of the eighth month, all three men were pardoned from house confinement.

1. On the 3rd day of the sixth month of Shōtoku 1 (1711), Year of the Dragon, Tanaka Jōzaemon was placed under house confinement due to suspicious matters while under investigation. However, while there were established protocols for house arrest and house restraint, there was no established protocol for house confinement. Moreover, Jōzaemon had told his superior Menju Magobei that he wished to be treated the same as house arrest.

[Upper left red notation] Wo