Reprimands

1. In the 21st year of Kyōhō, year of the Dragon (1st year of Genbun), Hachibei of Arai-juku in Sanshu passed through the dismounting gate without permission, for which Sakai Rokurōemon received a reprimand.

1. In the 2nd year of Genbun, year of the Snake, Akita Hachirōbei of the yoriai (council) received a reprimand.

1. In the 4th year of Kan'en, year of the Sheep (1st year of Hōreki), on October 28th, Matsubara Tazen of the yoriai received a reprimand.

1. On May 26th of the 2nd year of Kyōhō, year of the Rooster, the following was conveyed through written orders to Town Magistrate Kaifuku Ihei, District Magistrate Takeso Gonzaemon, and Susaki Saburōemon:
   Regarding arsonists, there have been repeated instructions from Edo, and it is heard that arrests can finally be made. Since fire prevention has been previously ordered, there is no need to repeatedly issue orders - suspicious persons should be immediately arrested and interrogated. However, everyone has been negligent. This matter must be firmly communicated. Not limited to this matter, all official duties should be performed with utmost care to avoid delays.
   When the three requested to know about their restraint, they were told it was unnecessary and to refrain from private matters.
   Regarding the reprimand of these three, it was conveyed to all magistrates and inspectors that they should perform all official duties with utmost care to avoid delays, and this was communicated to each member of the repair department.

1. On February 5th of the 7th year, year of the Tiger, Namikawa Ichikurō, Murakami Kinai, and Nishio Chūzaburō cut their hair at the funeral of Lord Shōan'in. This was inappropriate behavior, as the senior retainers had previously instructed against such actions and they had acknowledged this. Particularly Ichikurō, who had been appointed as funeral magistrate, was especially remiss. Sakai Tange and Inaba Uneme were present, and Uneme delivered the reprimand at Uneme's residence.

1. On July 4th of the 3rd year of Genbun, year of the Horse, monthly duty officer Matsudaira Shōbei verbally conveyed to Ashida Zusho that while his inquiry about restraint was reasonable, it was unnecessary.
   Regarding the matter of privately presenting personally granted items to the lord's inspection through Soga Matazaemon's mediation in Edo - this concerned important items. His father Shimotsuke had brought them every time he went to Edo. If so, it should be the same for the heir, so there should have been inquiries at that time, but there were no such items. This time when you went for your return to service, when inquired about, the lord found it suspicious and made further inquiries. When you reported that you didn't bring them because it was for your return to service, the envoys said to send word to Matazaemon's domain to retrieve them. You should have immediately consulted here and sought instructions, but it appears the handling was inadequate.
   However, on the 21st of the same month, regarding what was previously conveyed to Zusho, it reached the lord's attention that he and his retainers were being cautious, but he was told this was unnecessary.

[Upper left red notation] Ka