Punishments in Edo - Regarding Absent Households

○1 On the 19th day of the 2nd month of Kansei 2nd year (Year of the Dog), Mizoguchi Heisaburo was ordered to practice restraint at Edo, and accordingly he practiced restraint as if at his home residence. The details of this are recorded on the reverse side.
　However, among his relatives, Kawasaki Kojuro was permitted passage upon request.
　Since there was no precedent for this, it was decided after deliberation. Henceforth this became the regulation.

1 Regarding those who reside with persons under punishment in Edo in their absence, this is addressed in the section on cohabitation during punishment.

1 On the last day of the 11th month of Bunka 11th year (Year of the Dog), Yoshida Ittei was ordered to practice restraint at Edo. However, since notification did not reach his home residence here, those at his residence did not close the gates and there appeared to be no restraint practiced. Therefore, monthly duty officer Eguchi Genzaemon sent a letter to Ittei's uncle Ueda Manjun instructing that regarding Ittei's absence, the gates should be closed and restraint should be practiced. Regarding this matter, his relative Yano Gorosuke requested and was permitted passage.
　However, he later fled, returned in the 7th month of Bunka 14th year (Year of the Ox) and was placed in a temporary holding facility, after which he was ordered to house confinement.

○1 In the 2nd month of Kansei 2nd year (Year of the Dog), there were three pages under restraint at Edo. Shimoyama Sosaburo's family was entrusted to Takamatsu Shinbee, and Yokoyama Sannojo's family was entrusted to Suo Chobee. Since their residences were vacant, they were kept under restraint by their guardians, so passage was not necessary. Since Mizoguchi Heisaburo's residence remained occupied, Kawasaki Kojuro was permitted passage upon request.

1 On the 7th day of the 8th month of Bunsei 5th year (Year of the Horse), Senior Councilor Nakane Magoemon was ordered to practice restraint at Edo. This was communicated to his home residence by express messenger on the 12th, and from the 18th the gates were closed and restraint was practiced. Therefore, among his relatives, Omiya Toma was permitted passage.
　However, while Magoemon's restraint was supposed to last seven days before pardon, this was not known at his home residence and restraint was practiced for an extended period.

[Upper left red notation] Ta