This became the practice, and whereas until now we waited until express messengers arrived and notification came from Edo regarding pardons before ending restraint, in this case we sent notification from here to Edo. Since the restraint was supposed to last seven days before pardon, the senior councilors gave internal permission to the inspectors. When the express messenger arrived with notification from Edo, on the eighth day from the start of home restraint, [they told] Senior Councilor colleague Nagami Tonomo that regarding Magoemon's home restraint, from today such measures were no longer necessary, the side gate should be opened, and passage was not required. The senior councilors instructed that this should be communicated to his residence, and Tonomo made these arrangements.

△1 On the 20th day of the 5th month of Bunsei 11th year (Year of the Rat), the senior councilors instructed monthly duty officer Nakamura Tarozaemon to communicate the following to each respective party, and this was gradually communicated:
　　When samurai stationed in Edo commit misconduct and are ordered to practice restraint after inquiry, once those at their home residences here are aware, they should naturally practice restraint in all matters, but it is not necessary to lock the gates in restraint.
　　However, when restraint is ordered from above due to serious misconduct, those at the home residence here should conduct themselves in the same manner as at Edo.

1 On the 20th day of the 8th month of Kyowa 1st year (Year of the Rooster), monk Niwase Matsumasu was ordered to house confinement at Edo, and instructions were given for those at his home residence to practice restraint.
　Regarding passage, upon the request of Kuroda Monzo of Yamada Jirotayu's unit, passage was granted, as reported by the magistrate.

1 On the 9th day of the 2nd month of Kansei 2nd year (Year of the Dog), pages Shimoyama Sosaburo, Yokoyama Sannojo, and Mizoguchi Heisaburo were ordered to practice restraint at Edo. On the 17th, page supervisor Isono Tamiya at the domain reported that relatives wished to request passage, asking whether petitions should be submitted and noting that there may be established procedures, but guidance was difficult as he was unsure. Monthly duty officer Sano Monto conducted an investigation, and finding no precedent for such cases, he consulted with duty officer Sasaji Ichigaku. After deliberation, the following regulations were established:

　　　Memorandum

　1 When someone is ordered to practice restraint at Edo, those at their home residence in the domain should close the gates and practice strict restraint as if the person were present. When relatives or close associates request passage, passage should be granted.
　　　However, since the person is absent from home, the handling should follow the same procedures as inquired restraint. When passage persons request permission to visit, they should announce themselves once initially, conduct their business, then announce their departure once, for a total of two announcements. When calling physicians for illness, follow established procedures.

　1 Similarly, when those at domain residences are entrusted to relatives or close associates during absence in Edo, even though the families of those under punishment reside elsewhere, they should practice strict restraint. Since those entrusted with care handle all affairs, separate requests for passage are unnecessary. However, when families of those under punishment fall ill and physicians are needed, the guardians should make the request. Medical treatment should follow established procedures.
　　　　　　End

△1 On the 11th day of the 3rd month of Tenpo 12th year (Year of the Ox), chamberlain Suganuma Ichizaemon, intelligence officer Yamada Tobee, and scribe assistant Yamano Jubee were recently ordered to practice inquiry-restraint at Edo. Regarding the home restraint of Ichizaemon and Jubee, since there have been confusing matters until now, after deliberation as follows and consultation with the senior councilors, this was decided:

　1 When inquiry-restraint is ordered at Edo and there are questions about home restraint procedures here, should we respond that regarding absence, everything should be conducted as if restraint were ordered here at the domain?

[Upper left red notation] Ta