Imprisoned Convicts and Those Under Custody

1. Enkyō 1 (Year of the Rat): Matsunaga Tadaemon of the Great Guard Group horse section had his samurai status stripped and was imprisoned.

1. Same 3rd year (Year of the Tiger), last day of November: Nagano Gentan, elder brother of Tokuemon, was imprisoned.
[Interlinear note]
There were reasons for placing him in the accounting office dormitory for examination. When it was determined that Gentan was the one who posted seditious writing on December 11, he should have been sentenced to death, but since he was first thought to be in a state of madness, by merciful consideration he was ordered to be imprisoned.

1. Same 5th year (Year of the Dragon), May: Matsui Heibei, financial officer of the imperial domain, was imprisoned.

1. Hōreki 12 (Year of the Horse), November (or February) 23: The elder sister of yoriai Lin Oriei, who was the divorced wife of Honda Gorōemon, was stripped of samurai status due to misconduct and ordered to be placed in a detention house. Therefore, she was to be handed over to the inspectors. Since Oriei also had matters to handle during Gorōemon's absence, restraint was ordered for him.
[Red notation above] ○ Final mark
However, on October 11 of the following Year of the Sheep, she was released from the detention house and ordered to be strictly confined at Oriei's residence.

1. Tenmei 3 (Year of the Hare), October 16: Ogura Heizaemon and his assistant Tsubokawa Takuemon were placed in the detention house.
However, on August 26 of the following Year of the Dragon, their lives were spared by gracious pardon and they were banished beyond thirteen ri in all directions.

1. Same 4th year (Year of the Dragon), intercalary January 5: Ogura Tatsujiirō, son of Heizaemon, was placed in the detention house.
However, same as above.

1. Kansei 4 (Year of the Rat), October 25: The adopted younger sister of minor official Fukushima Kiemon was imprisoned.

1. Same year, July: Nambu (or Hayashi) Jinemon, assistant of the construction department, was imprisoned.

1. Same 5th year (Year of the Ox), January: The younger sister of Mizuno Gorokurō of the Great Guard Group was placed in the detention house.

1. The wife of Inaba Oribu was returned to her family at Ōmiya Chūzaemon's residence due to misconduct and imprisoned.

[Red notation] ○ Previous mark
1. Since Oriei also had matters to handle during Gorōemon's absence, restraint was ordered, and [instructions were given] to inspector Ōta Saburōbei by written order...

[Red notation in upper left] B