Punishments for Edo and Kyoto Permanent Residents and Duty Officers

1. When permanent resident samurai in Edo are ordered to observe house confinement, there are often cases where they have no relatives or connections. Therefore, if they request passage for colleagues or trusted persons, considering that one person alone would face heavy duties in busy Edo, from around Meiwa 3-4 (1766-1767), permission has been granted for two people at a time to request passage. Refer to the passage section for details.

1. When those permanently stationed in Kyoto or Edo have their wives and children return here due to punishment, the return date should be inquired of family members, and group members should be sent to the town outskirts for observation. This should also be reported to the Senior Councilors as deemed appropriate.

1. On the 24th day of the 11th month of Kyōhō 16 (1731), Kyoto deputy Terasawa Kanzaemon was summoned here with his sons, had his position stripped, and was ordered into house confinement. He requested to meet with the magistrates on official business, and the magistrates agreed to meet with him. Also, his house confinement in a rented townhouse and the landlord's business were not subject to confinement restrictions. This was at the place of a textile wholesaler named Shōsuke in Honmachi. For passage matters, Sakai Kyūsaku made the request and handled the passage. Terasawa Kanzaemon's successor position was assigned to Kawamura Gengorōemon. Since Gengorōemon would be unfamiliar with Kyoto duties, he was told through the Uneme-gata inspector that he should visit Kanzaemon's rental residence to receive instructions on official duties. When Gengorōemon made his visits, he should report to the inspector each time, and foot inspectors need not accompany him on such occasions. When the magistrate sends a servant on official business, a foot inspector should accompany them, as determined after consultation.

On the 19th day of the 12th month, it was reported through Yosanzaemon that Terasawa Kanzaemon's wife and children, who had remained in Kyoto, would arrive here soon at Sakai Kyūsaku's request, and he wished them to settle immediately at Kanzaemon's rental residence. Kyūsaku made this request through Guard Captain Nakane Yukie, and it was approved as requested. However, when these people arrive, they should first notify the inspector's office and then settle in, as told to Yukie. With this understanding, group members should be sent upon notification, and since it involves a rental residence, proper security should be arranged.

Note that regarding Kanzaemon's wife and children, Kawamura Gengorōemon made arrangements with Lord Karasumaru, and travel permits through Yanagase checkpoint were issued by Lord Karasumaru.

However, on the 25th day of the 12th month, before the wife and children had arrived, Kanzaemon's house confinement was lifted, fifty koku were deducted from his stipend, and he was assigned to the Great Guard unit. Consequently, the Senior Councilors announced that there was no need to send group members for security when his wife and children arrived. Also, since this pardon was announced, Kanzaemon was summoned to Yosanzaemon's residence, and since the rental residence matter was at year's end, it would be appropriate for Sakai Kyūsaku to go and arrange for fire watch and other matters, so this should be communicated to Kyūsaku, and therefore...