The same treatment as house confinement applies.
One: When there is a sudden illness in the house of those under house confinement or house restraint, the liaison person must report directly to the monthly duty Inspector.
One: When someone under house confinement falls ill, the monthly duty Inspector shall summon the liaison person or the physician who was consulted to inquire about the condition of the illness. ▽There is an example two pages later.
However: When the lord is in Edo, the details of this handling must be communicated.
One: When those under punishment become critically ill, they may be pardoned. {{Interlinear note: One: On the 28th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 13, Year of the Monkey - Uchida Yasuemon's son was serving as a foot soldier but was granted leave. Yasuemon became critically ill during his house restraint and was pardoned from restraint. Since Yasuemon had no son, he immediately petitioned for adoption. On the last day of the same month, there was notice of his death from illness.}}
One: When Yamakawa Uzen became critically ill, he was pardoned from house arrest.
One: On the 14th day of the 2nd month of Hōreki 4, Year of the Dog, Akita Hachirōbei, formerly of the council, had been ordered into house arrest, but because his illness became critical, he was pardoned today. He died the following 15th day. However, because there was a precedent with Yamakawa Uzen, he was pardoned in this manner.
One: In the 10th month of Kan'en 3, Year of the Horse, during Deputy Toda Yajibei's house restraint, there was a sick person and liaison Yokoyama Jirōshirō requested to have a town physician and acupuncturist examine them. While calling doctors for those under restraint requires a petition from the liaison person, since this was heard to be a sudden illness, instructions were given based on judgment. Regarding which doctors should be consulted from among the two town physicians, since there would be notification from the doctors, monthly duty Kanie Zen'emon informed that it would be settled if the Town Magistrate reported to this office. Accordingly, town physicians were called for examination. Later, this matter was reported to the Senior Councilors. Furthermore, when Jirōshirō petitioned again requesting continued treatment, it was granted as requested, and there is a record of this.
One: On the 7th day of the 2nd month of Hōreki 12, Year of the Horse, Financial Officer Tsuchida Zenbei was punished yesterday the 6th due to debt, but died of illness today, so Inspector of Foot Soldiers Yamashina Chūdayū was dispatched as examiner. On the 25th of the same month, Zenbei's house was ordered dissolved through the duty officer.
One: In the 6th month of the 14th year of the same era, Year of the Monkey, during Kawasaki Tsuneemon's house confinement, his father Kyūemon died of illness. Liaison Katsuyama Tōgorō consulted with Captain Sakai Jūnosuke, who consulted with Duty Officer Sakai Geki, and was told to follow the Inspector's instructions. When he received instructions from Kanie Zen'emon, he was told that during the funeral, no musical instruments should be used, it should be conducted very quietly, with two palanquin bearers and one lantern with family crest, plus up to two attendants being acceptable. Tōgorō must accompany them. Other relatives may not visit the temple.
However: Minor musical instruments at the temple may be permitted.
One: In the 5th month of Meiwa 2, Year of the Rooster (or possibly 1st year, Year of the Monkey), Tōgō Saburōemon had his fifty-koku stipend confiscated and was ordered into house confinement. On the 2nd day of the 7th month, a maidservant died of illness, and at that time a retainer went mad and was sent outside the gate. There is a record of the handling of this matter.
One: On the 1st day of the 4th month of Kansei 8, Year of the Dragon, during Hasegawa Zenbei's house restraint, his father Kōri Tazaemon's concubine Teishin died of illness and was secretly sent to the petition temple Ishiba Myōkokuji.
One: In the 5th year of the same era, Year of the Ox, during Court Physician Ueda Shuntai's house restraint, his wife gave birth but the infant died, so it was sent to the petition temple Kyōenji. 24th day of the 1st month.
One: On the 11th day of the 5th month of Tenpō 10, Year of the Boar, Misawa Sukejirō was ordered into house confinement, but on the last day of the same month an infant died of illness and was sent to the temple on the 1st day of the 6th month.
One: In Genroku 17, Year of the Monkey, Ideura Gengōemon [corrected in red ink] Shinemon was granted leave and while residing in Tochiizumi village died of illness. This is recorded in the Leave section.