Regarding the handling of Oriei's sister as ordered, it was assigned to Urakami Kango and Tsutsumi Shichitayū from among Oriei's relatives. Foot inspectors Nakamura Kantayū and Oka Jūjibei were sent to Oriei's residence, and town magistrate assistant Yamaoka Yosaemon went out. Kango and Shichitayū conveyed the above matter to Oriei's sister and immediately handed her over to the foot inspectors. A palanquin was brought to the spot for her to board, and Yamaoka Yosaemon received her and sent her to the detention house. On November 11 of the following Year of the Sheep, she was released from the detention house and ordered to be strictly confined at Oriei's residence, as conveyed to duty officer Okabe Mikisuke's monthly duty officer Akita Hachirōbei. At dusk on the same day, foot inspectors Nakamura Kantayū and Takasu Naoemon were sent to Oriei's residence, from where they went to fetch her from the detention house and brought her back. After this, Oriei sent a letter of notification to the monthly duty inspector.

1. Bunka 8 (Year of the Sheep), June 25: Regarding palanquin bearers when those under investigation without having their samurai status stripped are sent to the Daiku-machi detention quarters, it was newly proclaimed that henceforth this duty would be assigned to townsmen porters. The official document reads as follows:
   When samurai under suspicion are placed in the Daiku-machi detention quarters,
   Palanquin porters shall be assigned from among townsmen porters.
   However, the monthly duty officer shall notify the town magistrate regarding official porters.

1. On the 29th of the same month, Itō Kanbei, who had long been under suspicion and kept in the detention quarters, was today ordered to be banished, so he was escorted from Daiku-machi to the Kawaguchi gate checkpoint.

1. For palanquins, requisition papers from the used goods office were given to foot inspectors to obtain them and send them to town assistants. These requisition papers were carried by two official porters from the town office to fetch palanquins from the palanquin shop and immediately sent to Daiku-machi. This procedure shall be followed henceforth.

1. Genroku 14 (Year of the Snake), May 22: A person called Rōya Tazaemon died in prison at Kanazu. When this was reported from Ōmiya Hikoemon's office and the matter was inquired about, the senior councilors said that there was no need to send group members, and since this was after Hikoemon's investigation, the corpse should be disposed of. This article should be included in the section on unusual deaths and diseases, under prison deaths.

1. Bunsei 11 (Year of the Rat), July 22: There was a prison break at Daiku-machi. When town magistrate Kuwayama Jūzō inquired about restraint, he was told that this was unnecessary, to remain in self-restraint, and to handle official duties.

1. Around the same month of the same year: Nakayama Yojūrō's wife committed misconduct, Yojūrō divorced her, after which she was placed in the detention house, and subsequently house arrest was ordered. This is recorded in the house arrest section.

1. Tenpō 15 (Year of the Dragon), as follows - Memorandum of oral statement:
   Ishihara Jinjūrō's {{marginal note: he is head page}} younger brother Tomonosuke has long suffered from nervous fits and his mental state is difficult to ascertain. Therefore, there were matters Jinjūrō informed him of before departure, and while he was kept under restraint, recently there has been a particular relapse. Since Jinjūrō is absent in Edo, relatives should handle supervision, but given this person's nervous condition, it is impossible to predict what kind of misconduct he might commit. Therefore, out of compassion, relatives request that he be placed in the Daiku-machi detention house. Since I am a relative, I make this petition. Please convey these matters properly to Lord Matsudaira Gentarō. Above.
   February 13
   Head of Pages Corps, Lord Murata Tatsūnoshin     Guard officer Morita Denzaemon

   The above petition was granted. Subsequently, on May 29, the aforementioned Tomonosuke committed extremely inappropriate acts, so his samurai status was stripped and he was banished beyond thirteen ri in all directions within the domain. However, since he was ill, he was kept in the detention house as is. {{marginal note: Jinjūrō was dismissed from office, entered the Great Guard with restraint}}
   However, on July 5, Kōka 3 (Year of the Horse), since Tomonosuke's illness had recovered, he was released from prison and ordered into banishment.

[Red notation] On July 2, Jinjūrō reported the recovery from illness to the captain through a written statement.
[Red notation in upper left] B