1. On March 2nd, Hōei 3rd year, regarding the dismissal of foot soldier (o-kachi) Kawai Tarōbee, when this was reported to the heads of foot soldiers, Namami Hakube Koemon conveyed this to his lordship's attention, whereupon the following was announced today:

　　　　　　Memorandum of orders given to Kawai Tarōbee
　Regarding your case, your uncle ■da Heibee has now been subjected to punishment. In such circumstances, knowing well the precedents from the past, your petition for dismissal was conducted in a manner designed to have it denied, which is extremely improper. Therefore, you are granted dismissal. You are banned according to regulations. Above.　March 2nd　The above Koemon recorded this in writing as magistrate and conveyed the orders to foot soldier head Nakamura Yagosaku through Koemon.

　　　　　　Regarding Requests for Discretionary Confinement
1. When someone is ordered to commit seppuku, their relatives and in-laws shall request discretionary confinement, and confinement shall be ordered for fathers, sons, brothers, uncles, nephews, sons-in-law, and fathers-in-law.

1. Relatives of those who have been dismissed or granted leave should personally report to the inspectors, and upon receiving instructions, should promptly go to that person's residence to settle affairs. Depending on the nature of the relationship, matters of discretionary confinement should be consulted with the senior councilors through appropriate intermediaries. Determined in Kanpō 2nd year.

1. When someone has been dismissed, granted leave, or ordered into house confinement or discretionary confinement, relatives' requests for discretionary confinement should be made up to cousins. Determined in Kanpō 2nd year.

1. When the parents, brothers, or sons who have gone to other houses of those granted dismissal request discretionary confinement, confinement should be ordered.
　However, uncles, nephews, cousins, and other relatives who make such requests should be told that confinement is not necessary.

1. In cases of house confinement or reprimand, regarding fathers and sons, if they request discretionary confinement, confinement should be ordered and this should be reported to his lordship.
　However, brothers and below do not need confinement. But if any brothers serve as personal attendants (go-kinshū), this should be consulted and ordered. Other relatives, even if they are personal attendants, should be immediately told that confinement is not necessary. [Red ink notation] However, in cases of house confinement, even brothers living together are ordered to refrain.

1. Regarding relatives of those under discretionary confinement, when they request confinement, they should all be told such measures are unnecessary. However, in father-son cases where they reside together, even if they succeed to different family names, they should be told to refrain.
　However, those serving as personal attendants, even if not residing together, should be ordered to refrain in father-son and brother relationships, and this should be reported to his lordship. Other relatives should be told that refraining is not necessary according to regulations.
　As stated above, regarding personal attendants, since they refrain due to having audiences with the lord, this is how such cases are handled. However, during residence in Edo and absence...

[Upper left red ink notation] Ra