Punishments for yoriki, minor officials, and all subordinate deputies

1. Even for officials of the same rank, when dismissal is granted, the document of banishment must be stamped in the presence of an inspector (metsuke). When orders are given at the magistrate's residence, the inspectors must also attend.

1. For minor officials and below who are ordered to be dismissed and banished, inspectors do not attend 【red ink】○ Therefore, senior councilors do not issue such orders either. However, depending on the case 【red ink】○ there may be instructions, so attendance may sometimes be required.

【Red ink】Record of Kyōhō 16, 2nd month, 9th day, when [official name] Tani-emon and Nishioka Seiuemon engaged in light gambling with townspeople and were granted dismissal

1. In Hōei 6 (Year of the Ox), due to the misconduct of Kaeriyama Sazaemon, a yoriki under town magistrate Atsumi Shinuemon, dismissal and banishment were ordered as Shinuemon requested, and two men from the watch group were sent to escort him to the domain border.
　Note: Although there was no precedent, this time our colleague handled the matter, so watch group members were dispatched as described above.

1. In the same year, regarding the matter of Ōmura Shichirōuemon being stripped of his stipend, when it was communicated that Inspector Ogawa Yoemon should attend:
　In previous years when Saitō Dan'emon of the mounted unit was stripped of his stipend in Edo, no inspector attended. Last year, when officials of the same rank had their small stipends removed due to cost-cutting measures, there was attendance, but we heard that this case was exceptional.
　When this was communicated to Sakai Tenzen's office, he found it reasonable, so the matter of attendance was deemed unnecessary and stopped.

1. In the records of the same year, when foot soldiers were granted dismissal, if there were no special circumstances, it appears that watch group members were not dispatched.

1. Kyōhō 9, 10th month, 22nd day, foot soldier 【insertion】Kyōhō 12, 12th month, 4th day, regarding the Buddhist memorial service, permission for audience with the domain lord's mother was granted, but entry to the Edo residence was forbidden. When Nozawa Shōsuke returned from Edo, the foot soldier commander sent out road escorts,
　immediately summoned him to the foot soldier commander's residence, and announced that due to his father Kyūdayū's misconduct, both Shōsuke would be granted dismissal. A seal was affixed to the standard banishment document, and it was previously ordered that this document be left with the foot soldier commander. He arrived just after the seventh hour, and at foot soldier commander
　Kawai Hikosaku's residence, the announcement was made to Shōsuke, a seal was affixed to the banishment document, and Hikosaku reported the dismissal to the inspectors. Since Shōsuke
　had no residence, he went to Junryū-in, a sub-temple of Kōken-ji. At that time, group members accompanied him, and from there to the domain border, group members also

【Upper left red ink】U