1. When there are persons to be placed under the custody of gun commanders (mono-gashira), the senior councilors call the gun commander and announce: "Regarding so-and-so, there are matters for investigation, therefore he is being placed in your custody." Upon this announcement, the receiving gun commander goes to collect the person, places him in a palanquin, and returns to his private residence. Five men from the group are assigned to duty shifts day and night. At this time, bamboo fencing is erected around the outside of the premises by order from above. While the custody person is present, a five-person stipend is provided.

1. When such custody persons are ordered to commit seppuku or be executed, those off-duty from that rank's monthly rotation and group members are notified by the group leader.

1. Genroku 12 (Year of the Rabbit), intercalary September 18: When foot soldiers Naganuma Gorozaemon, Yamamoto Montayu, and Nakamura Yahei, who were in custody at the residences of advance riders Hikosaka Matahei and Inoue Hantayu and advance gun commander Kumagai Kohei, were ordered to be executed, foot inspectors were ordered to carry out the beheading. When those in custody of gun commanders are to be executed, there are also precedents of ordering the group's petty officers to carry out the execution.

1. When execution is ordered, there is an ancient precedent of relatives and close associates petitioning for leave to be granted.

1. Genroku 5 (Year of the Monkey), October: When Miyazuka Jinbei was ordered to be executed, Hiki Sazaemon made such a petition as described above. However, leave was not granted.

1. Meiwa 8 (Year of the Rabbit), March: When vagrant Yohei broke out of Kaminohashi prison, both prison guards had their stipends revoked.

1. Anei 9 (Year of the Rat), June 25: Vagrant Shoemon broke out and escaped from Daiku-machi prison on the 23rd. Town magistrate Suzuki Tojuro suspended his inquiry, and on the 27th he was captured in Mikuni, with notification from Kanazu.

1. Tenmei 8 (Year of the Monkey), December 3: Vagrant Jinzaemon from Kamido village and vagrant Jobo from Nagahama in Omi Province broke out of Daiku-machi prison and absconded. Kobayashi Matauemon submitted an inquiry regarding restraint.

1. Kansei 5 (Year of the Ox), June 10: Vagrant Hangouemon from Fukasaka village broke Shirono-hashi prison and escaped. District magistrate Oka Hanuemon was suspended and the prison guard's stipend was revoked.
    However, Hanuemon was captured in Fukasaka village on the 23rd of the same month.

1. Same 12th year (Year of the Monkey), February 22: A vagrant named Sakutayu, born in Katsumi as a name-child, broke Shirono-hashi prison and escaped. On March 17, prison guards Kuronuma Rindayu and Masuda Kichizaemon had their stipends revoked.

1. Regarding persons from Honda Kuranosuke's domain, we do not order imprisonment here. We send word to Fuchu to order imprisonment there.

1. Kyoho 5 (Year of the Rat), June 11: Mizuno Sanzaemon reported that regarding a water rights dispute between Yamuro village and Futsuka-ichi village (a Fuchu domain holding), after investigation, due to Futsuka-ichi village's misconduct, one village headman and one senior farmer were ordered to be imprisoned on the 28th of last month by direction of the senior councilors, with word sent to Fuchu officials. Since many days have passed, the senior councilors announced that word should be sent to order their release from prison.

1. Kyoho 10 (Year of the Snake), July 21: A man named Ichibei from Ikejiri village broke Kanazu prison and escaped. Since his whereabouts are unknown, there are handling records.

1. Same 16th year (Year of the Boar), October 21: Blacksmith Kazusa Chosaburo had a parent-child quarrel and struck his son's head with a short sword, breaking it. Upon investigation, while discipline may involve striking, for a townsman to handle short swords is improper, and moreover there are signs of poor conduct, so for future restraint, town magistrate Omiya Hikoemon inquired whether imprisonment should be ordered. Imprisonment was ordered.

1. Kansei 7 (Year of the Rabbit), January 14: While advance gun commander Harada Hikohachiro was attending to deputy's office camp maintenance duties this month, custody of Yokoyama Yatadayu was ordered on the 12th, so he was ordered to take over and continue various duties.

1. Enkyo 5 (Year of the Dragon), New Year's Day: Arakawa Juemon and Ono Ichirozaemon reported that Ono Sanzaemon and Azuma Shingoemon had been ordered into custody. Since we are brothers, we would like to visit when there is business, but we are unfamiliar with the legal procedures, so while we do not intend to make urgent petitions, if it is possible, please handle this favorably. Since there are no matters that would interfere with Sanzaemon and Shingoemon's business, and in such previous cases intermediaries were not needed, and although other visits should be refrained from, since Juemon and Ichirozaemon are brothers with unavoidable business, this was reported to the senior councilors. While those in custody should not have visits from other households, since Juemon and Ichirozaemon have a special relationship, for unavoidable business they may come and go after notifying the inspectors. Honda Minbu conveyed this, and this was communicated to both men.

1. Same year, same month, 11th: Oguri Kuuemon's son Gonoji reported that regarding Oguri Hahei being ordered into custody, since I am a relative, I would like to visit when there is business, please handle this matter favorably. Upon further inquiry to the senior councilors, since they share the same name and are relatives, for business matters they may come and go after notifying the inspectors. Honda Minbu conveyed this, and this was communicated to Gonoji.

1. Same year, February 21: Judgments for custody persons were announced respectively (details omitted).
Regarding Iwasaki Tomoemon who was in custody of Ono Sanzaemon, he is to be permanently placed in custody of Matsui Heibei, who should take him in and keep him strictly confined.
Regarding Nambu Shigetayu who was in custody of Oguri Hahei, he is to be permanently placed in custody of Nomura Jubei, who should take him in and keep him strictly confined.
After being taken in by Heibei and Jubei respectively, both should be ordered to remain in restraint.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kato Takeuemon

[Note below]
1. Same year, May 29:                                    Nishio Gentazaemon
   Matsui Heibei's stipend and family name are revoked, imprisonment is ordered, to be transferred to Iwagami Kajitayu. Note: Heibei was an accounting official at the custody location.

[Red notation in upper left] B