Service was also suspended, as the head reported.
1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), intercalary 8th month, 29th day: Tōgō Kichizō reported that his group member Sugimoto Kisaburō had committed errors in judgment, and had been confined since some time ago.
　As there were further errors in judgment afterward and misconduct, his stipend was revoked. Moreover, his adoptive father Sakuemon had similar conduct, so he was
　confined, but as there was no sign of reform afterward, he was ordered to leave the group quarters. Regarding Sakuemon's wife, entry to the group quarters had been prohibited since some time ago,
　and she was further told not to enter in the future.
1. Bunka 9 (Year of the Monkey), 5th month: The following was communicated, so this matter was reported to the senior councilors, and they said it should be carried out as petitioned, so this was conveyed to Jūbei.
　　My group member Kōno Matasaburō has committed misconduct, so I wish to revoke his stipend and order him to leave the castle town. Please handle this matter appropriately. 
　　Above　　5th month　　To Murata Jūtayū-sama　　　　　　Hori Jūbei
1. Kyōwa 1 (Year of the Rooster), 5th month, 21st day: Imamura Denbei's group member Nakajima Asaemon had family discord issues and was heard to have improper conduct, so confinement was ordered based on the judgment of his adoptive
　mother and Denbei.
1. Same year, 7th month, 15th day: Shimoyama Seizaemon's group member Watanabe Tashirō was on guard duty at the Hachiman gate of the Reiganjima estate in Edo,
　but had negligent conduct and was confined. This matter was conveyed to Seizaemon.
1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), 8th month, 16th day: Yokota Sakutayū's group member Ōkubo Ritayū had improper conduct and was ordered confined, and Enami Mohachirō's divorced
　wife was ordered to be strictly confined. However, Kajikawa Hanbei's group member Ōkubo Yasuke, being the actual father and elder sister, humbly apologized.
　Therefore, they petitioned to remain in confinement, and as they were also cohabitants, they were ordered to remain in confinement as petitioned, as Hanbei reported.

1. When members of various groups are ordered punished, this is declared to the monthly inspector through the duty officer, so their heads are summoned to the monthly officer's residence to be informed.
　When pardoned, it is similarly declared to the monthly officer, so this is conveyed to the heads by letter.
　　However, for castle deputy groups, assistants are summoned before and after to convey the message.
1. After members of various groups have their stipends revoked by their head's judgment, petitions for taking them into private service are listed in the section on various groups.
1. When members of various groups abscond but are brought back and have their stipends revoked, or when stipends are revoked by the head's judgment and petitions for private service follow - these are listed in the same section.
1. Bunpō 3 (Year of the Dragon), 2nd month, 5th day: Atobe Shuke's group member Tsuchida Ichirōbei committed misconduct, this matter was reported to the senior councilors and replacement was ordered. Monthly officer Suzuki Jūzaemon summoned Shuke to his residence
　and conveyed this through explanation. That he would be ordered into private service was also conveyed. This was ordered through transfer from the inspector, so there was no official document. Regarding the head's restraint inquiry, refer to the inquiry section.
1. Bunka 1 (Year of the Rat), 5th month, 13th day:
　　Recently came from Eiheiji to guard ceremonial items,
　　but had dereliction of duty en route - confined　　　　Ōta Saburōbei's group　Morita Kansuke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōtsuka Kinsuke
　　　However, on the 15th of the same 6th month(?), they were to be pardoned from tomorrow.
1. Bunka 5 (Year of the Dragon), 9th month, 13th day: Vanguard unit commander Okabe Ichiemon's group member Tsuchida Kyūzō's elder sister's expulsion from the castle town - refer generally to the section on
　punishment of minor officials and below.
1. Same [Bunka] 9 (Year of the Monkey), 5th month: Kaji Jūbei's group member Kōno Matasaburō's stipend revocation and castle town expulsion by the head's judgment - same as above.
1. Bunka 5 (Year of the Dragon), 10th month, 16th day:　　　Suzaki Saburōemon's group
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hasegawa Bunzaemon's son　Bunji
　　　Recently served at Minagawa Toneri's residence, but with one female colleague
　　　and two other women, total three people, Chōjamachi Rihei

【Upper left red ink】I