Thank you for your continued patronage. Here is this week's program. Please look forward to next week's lineup.

"Musyuku Sataro" (Homeless Sataro)
Utaemon Productions Super Special Period Film
Original story: Misho Kingo
Screenplay: Akama Daisaku
Director: Furuno Eiji

Cast:
Homeless Sataro: Ichikawa Utaemon
Izumiya Zenbei: Takado Kuniteru
Wife Omatsu: Miyako Sakura
Muto Shotaro: Umeda Umezo
Daughter Chie: Utagawa Kinue
Tsurunosuke: Ichikawa Utakichi
Negami Sanpei: Takei Ryuzo
Kodaka-shuku Shinpachi: Amano Jinichi
Bodyguard: Hatahei Hachiro
Bodyguard: Ichikawa Umon

◇Synopsis◇ The vagrant Sataro was banished from the Senju Highway. With his tattoos marking him as an outcast, he could not even get a meal. Sataro was suspected of killing Tsurunosuke's father and was captured, but was saved by the Buddha-like Zenbei. Tsurunosuke's sister Chie went missing. Zenbei, behind the scenes, was a yakuza gambler, and Sataro also became familiar with the yakuza world. This was all a scheme - Zenbei's ploy after recognizing Sataro's skill with a sword. As repayment for Zenbei's kindness, the tattooed Sataro killed Shinpachi and was sent to prison for five years. On the Senju Highway again, he met a young woman - it was Chie. Returning to Zenbei's place, Tsurunosuke had disappeared, and the despairing Sataro sought alcohol. Returning from the gambling den at Kido-shuku with Zenbei, a woman suddenly attacked Zenbei - it was Chie. The enemy who killed her father - Zenbei, Sataro understood. Killing Zenbei, once again to prison. At least just his name, at Chie's request, Sataro from within the cage said, "It's crane."

"Peacock Ship"
Theme song: Polydor Record recording
Lyrics: Noguchi Ujo
Music: Takashina Tetsuo
Shochiku Cinema Kamata Special Production, serialized in Hochi Shimbun
Original story: Kato Takeo
Screenplay: Noda Kogo
Director: Ikeda Yoshinobu

Cast:
Yamaji Mayumi: Kurishima Sumiko
Her child Yuriko: Kojima Teruko
Brother Tatsuro: Yamauchi Hikaru
His wife: Fuji Ryuko
Kawakami Ryuzo: Obinata Tsutae
Okami Kyosuke: Nara Shinyo
Shimada Mitsuko: Sawa Ranko
Matsui Ryuko: Aihatsume Yumeko
Doi Yunosuke: Jo Tajiro
Boarding house landlady: Iida Choko

◇Synopsis◇ Mayumi, who played at a ski resort, lost her virginity to Kyosuke, who had long been in love with her, on a stormy night. Mayumi had a lover named Kenzo, but from that time on, Mayumi's pure feelings toward Kenzo gradually faded and days of anguish continued. Seeing her friends Mitsuko and Sawai's happy marriage made her suffer even more in her position. One day, wanting to hear Kenzo say "I forgive you," she left a note, but Ryuko, who was in love with Kenzo, secretly read it and called Mayumi without Kenzo's knowledge to say "I won't forgive you." Around that time, Mayumi's brother and his wife told her that Kyosuke was proposing to her. Mayumi finally married Kyosuke. Kenzo, who knew nothing and trusted Mayumi, was shocked and trembled with anger when he learned of their marriage. As a result, Kenzo married Ryuko. Several years passed. At the dying wish of Ryuko, who had fallen critically ill, Mayumi visited Kenzo's home, but this aroused Kyosuke's suspicions. Unable to be trusted, Mayumi took her beloved child Yuriko and hid at a hot spring resort. But there too, she was suspected of having relations with Doi, whom she had met. Doi decided to go abroad to avoid suspicion. On the day of his departure, Kenzo told Mayumi of Kyosuke's serious injury. Mayumi rushed to the hospital in shock. Thus all misunderstandings were resolved, and after several days, the lonely but bright rebuilding of life began for the now-blind Kyosuke, Mayumi, and Yuriko.

Coming Soon Movie Guide
Opening Soon
All-Talkie "Ten'ichibo and Iga-ryo"
Hit!! The biggest hit released in the fresh green June movie scene!!
Dobashi-style Shochiku Phone period drama full sound version
Directed by Kinugasa Teinosuke
Production supervision: Okubo Tadamoto
Camera: Sugiyama Kohei
Sound recording: Dobashi Takeo
Musical direction: Nezu Yoshikazu
Performance: Shochiku Shimokamo Japanese-Western Orchestra

Luxurious full cast:
Ten'ichibo: Hayashi Chojiro
Yamauchi Iga-ryo: Ichikawa Utaemon
Ooka Echizen-no-kami: Fujino Hideo
Jorakuin Tenchu: Shiga Yasuro
Akagawa Daizen: Sakamoto Takeshi
Chibi Gyoko: Abe Shozaburo
Hell and Paradise monk: Fuyuki Kyozo
Master of Nichiren tea house: Yamamoto Kaoru
Fujii Sakyo: Kusakabe Ryoma
Harapeko-shi: Takamatsu Kinnosuke
Kamiya Sanjuro: Sawai Saburo
Katayama Ippei: Aoki Hiromitsu
Sakai Sanuki-no-kami: Kobayashi Jushiro
Toda Yamashiro-no-kami: Nakamura Kichimatsu
Matsudaira Sakon: Inoue Haruo
Tarobei-style Shinto priest: Koizumi Kasuke
Sakai Utano-kami: Bando Kotaro
Shogun Yoshimune: Takada Kokichi
Matsudaira Izu-no-kami: Onoe Eigoro
Utano-kami's chief retainer: Seki Misao
Shrine maiden: Kawakami Kimie
Lady-in-waiting Oran: Kinukawa Kyoko
Osan: Katsuragi Fumiko
Omitsu: Iizuka Toshiko