【Right page】
we cannot sustain ourselves, so since ancient times we have engaged in what is called nakauma transport, carrying local products
of various kinds to Edo,
as well as to counties, villages, and post towns in Kai, Owari, and Mikawa provinces, earning pack-horse fees to pay annual taxes and provide daily sustenance,
thus continuing our existence as farmers. If navigation on the aforementioned river were to commence,
naturally the nakauma cargo would decrease and become insufficient,
causing villages to lose their livelihood and making continuation difficult, truly causing us extreme hardship.

1. Regarding the aforementioned river, since ancient times we have paid fishing transport taxes and, between agricultural work,
have made our living by setting up several fish traps. Indeed, the fish traps
are stretched across the full width of the river in some locations, so if navigation
were to commence, we would lose not only the fishing transport taxes but also the villages' livelihood,
causing extreme difficulties.

Based on the aforementioned articles, we respectfully submit this petition. If navigation should

【Left page】
commence, the farmers of our villages would naturally lose not only the irrigation water for the lord's rice fields but also the trades
practiced since ancient times, and these remote impoverished villages would inevitably fall into even greater poverty,
facing extreme difficulties and inevitable collapse and abandonment, which is an immediate concern. Both old
and young live in sorrow, which we find truly lamentable. We have no
choice but to bring this matter to your attention at this time. We humbly beseech your extraordinary mercy
to grant complete exemption from the new navigation on the aforementioned river,
so that our villages may continue as farmers without future worries and in peace,
and we earnestly petition for your favorable consideration. The above.

Bunsei 7th year [1824], 9th month
　　　　　Naitō Yamato-no-kami domain, Shinshū Ina County
　　　　　　Tatsuno Village, Miyaki Village, Hiraide Village, Shimmachi Village
　　　　　　Haneba Village, Higuchi Village, Akabane Village, Kita-Ōide Village