According to the "Zōho Tashikihen" (Expanded Polyglot Dictionary), Arbor Section:

Luan flower (Chinese: 欒花) Japanese name: Mukuroshi
Also called: Tsubu
Flower of the Luan tree (Mukuroji tree flower)

In the "Wamyō Ruijushō" it is called Mamefuji
Mukuroji tree (also called Mamefuji)
In the "Honzō Ruihen" it is called
Mukureji

According to the "Wamyō Ruijushō":
Luan (Mukureniji tree)

According to the "Wakan Sansai Zue" (Japanese-Chinese Illustrated Encyclopedia), Arbor Section:
Soap nut (Tsubu): Huan, Lou, Mu-huan-zi
Fei-zhu-zi, Bodhi seed
Gui-mu-chou, You-zhu-zi

The "Bencao Gangmu" calls it Bodhi seed. Inside its fruit is a single kernel, hard and black, perfectly round like a bead. Buddhists take these to make prayer beads. What is now called the Bodhi tree is not this.
The leaves resemble those of the mukuri tree and also桑 leaves. In the third and fourth months when the flowers bloom abundantly, it separately produces stems and new leaves, opening flowers from the middle to the tip of the stem. It bears fruit which is harvested to make prayer beads. This is the Bodhi tree. The name Mukuroshi for soap nut should refer to the above entry.
The wood luan seed is commonly called Mukuroshi, but it is a different variety of soap nut.

According to the "Wakan Sansai Zue":
It is traditionally said that this wood is made into implements to ward off demons and spirits. It is commonly named "demon-eye-sorrow."
In ancient times, there was a divine shaman named Yaoqu who could exorcise a hundred demons.
When he caught demons, he would make clubs from this wood to kill them.
Consider that soap nut (commonly called Mukuroshi, now commonly called Tsubu) - its kernel is commonly called "mamefuji." The small ones are made into prayer beads, the large ones are used by young girls as money substitutes, or they drill a hole and plant a small feather, striking it with a small paddle so it flies up and down as a game. This is called "hanetsuki" and is played during New Year. Perhaps this derives from the meaning of "demon-eye-sorrow."
Mukuroshi is an abbreviation of "wood luan seed" and may be an error for the name "soap nut."
The wood luan seed illustrated in the "Sansai Zue" does not match this tree.

Second day of the first half of Rinshō (7th month), Year of Mizunoto-Hitsuji
Faithful copy

According to "Honzō Ikka-gen":
Wu-lou-zi: The shell of its fruit is called "life-extending bark." This is called "jahon."