During the reign of Genryūin-sama
1. Anei 2 (Year of the Snake), 2nd month, 7th day: Having no legitimate son, a petition to adopt Genzaemon, a farmer from Kitahara village ≪marginal note: already 30 years old≫ was approved as requested ≪marginal note: under squad leader Miura Danemon≫

During the reign of Honryūin-sama
1. Same 7th year (Year of the Dog), 12th month: Squad leader Odakiri Ichizaemon under Kanba Tōzō's group requested retirement due to illness. Since his legitimate son Shinjirō was young, a term substitute was established for ten years from the previous Year of the Rabbit. However, the said Shinjirō died of illness in the previous Year of the Dragon. At that time, substitute Nakaemon reported and informed of this, and subsequently repeatedly requested that reasons be established to help, but the Odakiri house was abandoned and left to extinction. Having been neglected for several years in a negligent manner, his squad leader position was revoked and confinement with financial penalty was ordered.

≪marginal note: formerly Inagaki≫
Ōta Heiemon
1. Anei 8 (Year of the Snake): From that year until Tenmei 2 (Year of the Tiger), appointed as squad inspector
   Same 7th year (Year of the Sheep): Inspector position dismissed upon request
1. Kansei 3 (Xinhai): Inspector position dismissed upon request
1. Kansei 3 (Xinhai), 11th month, 2nd day: Advance guard squad inspector
1. Same 6th year (Kōin), 4th month, 10th day: Advance guard squad leader with stipend of 5 koku 9 to
1. Same 9th year (Teimi), 10th month, 1st day: Changed original family name to Ōta, previously Inagaki

≪marginal note: formerly Ōta≫
Inagaki Heisaku
During the reign of Lord Yorimoto
1. Kansei 12 (Year of the Monkey), intercalary 4th month, 25th day: As Heiemon's substitute, granted a stipend of 5 koku and provisions for two people
1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), 1st month, 15th day: Assigned to rural group
1. Same 11th year (Year of the Dog), 12th month, 15th day: Appointed as chief clerk scribe with 3 to additional rice allowance

During the reign of Lord Yoriyasu
1. Bunsei 4 (Year of the Snake), 11th month, 28th day: Appointed as rural group scribe with 3 to additional rice allowance
1. Same 5th year (Year of the Horse), 9th month, 28th day: Appointed to serve as court monk
1. Same 8th year (Year of the Rooster), 4th month, 10th day: Due to implications regarding previous duties, monk service and 6 to from his stipend were revoked, assigned to advance guard unit, and ordered to return to the domain immediately ≪location: Edo≫ from garrison duty
1. Same 9th year (Year of the Dog), 6th month, 24th day: Appointed as tea attendant for coordination affairs during garrison duty
1. Same 10th year (Year of the Boar), 1st month, 15th day: Appointed as scribe and tea attendant for coordination affairs with 3 to additional rice allowance ≪location: Edo≫ ordered to relocate under coordination supervision
1. Same year, 4th month, 1st day: Since he would also appear at the castle, granted 3 to of special rice allowance