【Right Page】
There are many such works. One should compare them and savor the differences.
○There is a groundless theory in the world that Murasaki Shikibu fell into hell due to the sin of writing excessively skillful literature, but this is nonsense by Buddhist monks and is utterly unworthy of serious discussion. However, upon careful reflection, it is not that there are no matters that could be considered sinful in writing this tale. Among the old commentaries, many have distorted the true intent of the tale by forcibly connecting it to Confucianism or Buddhism, adding superfluous justifications, but none have discussed such serious matters, which is inadequate. Now one should see my clear distinction on this matter. Is it not an utterly impermissible grave sin to write out directly the imperial names of successive emperors like Suzaku-in and Reizei-in? Originally it was merely borrowing those imperial names, but particularly writing that Reizei-in was the offspring of his mother's secret affair with Genji is

【Left Page】
something that should never have been done. The opening words "In which reign was it..." should have been written throughout with this understanding. Based on this, I think the groundless theory of damnation mentioned above may have arisen from ancient criticisms of this sort, with monks hearing fragments of such criticism and adapting it to their own doctrine to create such arguments. Such forced connections are truly detestable. Yet saying there was sin does seem to have considerable merit. Though it is presumptuous to say, in our imperial land the imperial succession has graciously continued unbroken from the age of the gods to the present human emperors, ruling the heavenly succession together with heaven and earth. Therefore, even ancient emperors must be revered and feared equally with the present sovereign emperor - this is the proper principle. However, from the middle period onward, forgetting this principle, there have been many works in various scholarly writings that have committed sins. Even more so in today's world