【Right Page】
Regarding the increase in fees for pack horses and porters at Sakuyama post station and two other post stations on the Oshu Highway, it is hereby ordered that the following rates be collected:
Oshu Highway: Sakuyama post station, Koshibori post station, Ashino post station
From the 2nd month of the Horse year to the 1st month of the Tiger year, over the course of 5 years, a total increase of 4 bu and 5 rin (45%) in fees was ordered. Furthermore, from the 2nd month of the coming Tiger year to the 1st month of the coming Dog year, over the course of 5 years, there shall continue to be a 45% increase.
The above increased fees are hereby ordered, so take note accordingly. 12th month of the Dog year.

Regarding the post stations of Seki on the Tokaido Highway and Ujiie and Otawara on the Oshu Highway, due to their impoverished conditions, increases in fees for pack horses and porters are ordered as follows:
From the 1st month of the Horse year to the 12th month of the current Dog year, over 5 years, a total increase of 50% in fees for pack horses and porters was ordered. Furthermore, from the 1st month of the coming Tiger year to the 12th month of the coming Rabbit year, over 5 years, there shall continue to be a 50% increase for Seki post station on the Tokaido Highway.

【Left Page】
From the 1st month of the Horse year to the 12th month of the current Dog year, over 5 years, fees for pack horses and porters were also increased by a total of 45%. Furthermore, from the 1st month of the coming Boar year to the 12th month of the coming Rabbit year, over 5 years, there shall continue to be a 45% increase for Ujiie and Otawara post stations on the Oshu Highway.
The above increased fees are hereby ordered, so take note accordingly.
12th month of the Dog year.

Regarding the circulation of the aforementioned gold and silver coins, as announced in the 2nd month of this year, their circulation will be discontinued from the 2nd month of the coming Boar year, so after the discontinuation, their use is strictly forbidden.
1. Regarding the aforementioned 2-shu coins, their circulation will also soon be discontinued by official order, so those possessing 2-shu coins should bring them to the exchange offices during this period for exchange.
1. Even after the discontinuation of old gold and silver coins, for distant provinces and other unavoidable circumstances...