were granted. In the Ōhiroma (Great Hall), various monogashira (unit commanders),御使番 (messenger guards), and members of the Goshoin-ban first and second units, Ōban first through fourth units, Orusuiban first and second units, and Shinban brought chōmoku (monetary gifts) and offered congratulations, received sake cups in the formal style, and were granted long abalone through intermediaries. After this, yoriki (assistants) and various officials received congratulations, and when this was completed, various craftsmen presented gifts, offered congratulations, and were admitted. In the Teppō-no-ma (Gun Room), the court physicians, tea ceremony masters, and court painters offered congratulations, received sake cups in the formal style, and were granted long abalone. In the Dattan-no-ma (Tartar Room), the inner and outer pages offered congratulations, received sake cups in the formal style, and were granted long abalone through intermediaries. After this, Kuwayama Sōan (Masasuke) received the same treatment and was granted long abalone. When this was completed, everyone in the Nagai-irori-no-ma (Long Hearth Room) offered congratulations, and all the retainers sat in rows and offered congratulations.

1. On the same day, Matsubara Saburōbei was sent as a New Year congratulatory messenger to present a ceremonial sword and horse fee.

1. On the second day of the first month, in the Goza-no-ma of the main castle, the eldest sons of the senior retainers brought sword catalogs and offered New Year congratulations, received sake cups, and were granted long abalone. Similarly, the younger sons offered congratulations, received sake cups in the formal style, and were granted long abalone. In the Goshoin, the eldest son of the Kōchi [lord] brought sword catalogs, offered congratulations, received sake cups, and was granted long abalone. After this, the children of yoriai and bangai offered congratulations and received the same treatment. The children of various monogashira, messenger guards, and guard units offered congratulations, received sake cups in the formal style, and were granted long abalone through intermediaries.

1. On the third day of the same month, the second-grade fresh cod that had been presented as tribute in the previous year (on the 14th day) was to be prepared, but problems arose...