【Right Page】
Next, the shrine official on duty proceeds to the shrine precincts to respectfully prepare and offer the daily offerings《This is for the second succession clan member》
　《Upon seeing the notification reaching the divine celebrants, they rise from their seats and proceed to the shrine precincts》
Next, the clan members proceed to the archery range for hand archery《Specifically five newly appointed purification heads. This ceremony was conducted this way in ancient times, but during the Bun'ei era》
　《it became combined with the shrine officials as recorded in old documents. However, now it is restored to the original form》
Next, the newly appointed purification heads complete their archery and take their seats in the office building《In the western upper seats facing south of the negi group's designated area, entering through the north》
　《entrance》
Next, the deputy takes his seat on the southern veranda of the office building and writes the archery match assignment slips
　《Wearing a standing cap, pure white robes, colored under-robes, and an exposed-colored sash. For this ceremony, first stand at the corridor railing of the southwest corner pillar of the sake hall, face north and bow once, then proceed to the office building》
　《Perform the shoe removal bow before the summoning steps, ascend to the veranda, take the seat and bow once to settle. Next, bow once toward the shrine officials, then take the viewing box and place it on the round cushion in front. Next, spread the fan on the round cushion to the left》
【Left Page】
　《side and place it there, take out the assignment slips and place them on top, grind the ink. When taking the assignment slips, raise the left knee. Next, write the names of the officials on duty for inspection, the names of the purification heads, etc. When finished, place them back on the fan as before》
　《put away the inkstone and other items, place the assignment slips in the viewing box and hand them to the arrow keeper. Next, hold the fan, straighten the knees and bow while seated, then bow once toward the shrine officials》
　《descend from the veranda, face north, perform the shoe removal bow and withdraw. Then stop and remain standing at the southeast of the southern board fence》
　《of the office building, take out the assignment slips from the viewing box and read them. At that time》
　《the purification heads prostrate themselves one by one, and when the reading is finished, place the assignment slips back in the viewing box》
　《and hand them to the arrow keeper　　However, the shrine head, celebrants, deputy and others approach before the seats, bow once and withdraw　　Three lanterns are set up together. The assistant official is responsible for this》
Next, the target is hung at the archery range《The shrine attendants are responsible for this. However, in E years it is on the east side of the celebrant's path, in To years on the west side of the negi's path. E refers to》
　《the years of kinoe, hinoe, tsuchinoe, kanoe, mizunoe, and To refers to》
　《the years of kinoto, hinoto, tsuchinoto, kanoto, mizunoto》
Next, each shrine official rises from their seat and performs hand purification《For this ceremony, both the negi group and celebrant group descend from the south, first perform the shoe removal bow as usual, then descend south at Nara Bridge to perform》
　《hand purification》Pass through Nara Bridge《At that time, the administrators and chief administrators pass through the center while facing each other. Both people wind cords to make cords. Now the wound cord is shaped like both》