[Right Page]
[Blank]

[Left Page]
　　　　　The 8th Day of the 9th Month: Uchidori (Inner Taking Ritual)

　Today, the divine offerings for the outer sanctuary (外陣) are to be attended to by the shrine official (社司) on duty, and the divine offerings, both morning and evening, are to be handled directly by the duty official. Of the six cups (盞) remaining from the naorai (直会, post-ritual communal feast), they are to be passed on to tonight's gathering.

　Today, after the Hour of the Horse (午刻, around noon), the exchange of feast rice (饗米) is to be conducted at the deliberation hall (評議所). (Note: four shō of kinbuse rice will arrive.)

Regarding tonight's Uchidori divine ritual, the announcement of attendance is to be made three times. (Shrine officials attend at their own discretion; however, if one is not attending, when the shrine servants [神人] come to announce the ritual, one must inform them that one will not be attending.) Proceed to the shrine after the Hour of the Rooster (酉刻, around 6 p.m.). (Wearing the formal white robe [浄衣] and hakama [指貫], as customary. Put on footwear [沓] from in front of the Second Torii gate.) Proceed directly to take one's original seat in the Tsuchiya (土屋). (Alternatively, when a shrine official is absent due to illness, and when the 所司大夫 or shrine official is conducting an inspection, there is a round cushion [円座] available with the upper seat open — take that seat.) After the shrine officials have assembled, the shrine servants (神人) take torches and proceed to stand in the south garden of the Hosodono (細殿). (They stand facing each other, left and right, in front of the 立砂 [conical sand mounds].) Next, the officiating director (行事) leads the sumo wrestlers into the south garden. Each wrestler circles the top of the 立砂 three times, then separates to left and right and waits. Next, the sumo bouts begin; ten bouts are held. Deep into the night, when the sumo is finished, the 尻居 (ritual sitting ceremony) and the evening offerings (夕御料) and other items are circulated by the shrine servants. Next, the shrine officials rise from the Tsuchiya and conduct a circuit of worship from Iwamoto Shrine (岩本社) to Nara Shrine (奈良社). Next, the shrine officials and 氏人 (clan members/parishioners) take their seats, and at the Chōya (庁屋)… [text continues]