【Standing Signboard】
《Note: Storehouse｜》Opening
Ruidasan Hijō Myōō (King of Extraordinary Circumstances of Tear Mountain)
　Buddhist prayers, invocations, etc.
From the fourth hour of the night on the 2nd of this tenth month until the next morning
All shall suffer hardship
　Earthquake Temple　Fire

The Hijō Myōō (King of Extraordinary Circumstances) of Tear Mountain is a creation of the Great Dharma of Koyasanchō for salvation, and is the principal deity who embodies earthquake, thunder, fire, and fatherly authority. His vow is not only to subdue demons but also to correct people's hearts in this world and stop debauchery and laziness.

When manifesting as an earthquake, he topples the storehouses of the greedy and wicked. When appearing as thunder, he pierces the ears of the deaf and sends souls flying to the heavens, transforming merciless hearts. When manifesting as fire, he releases flames from collapsed houses, and if no one extinguishes them, they burn freely until they naturally die out with the dawn, leaving no trace. Even when reduced to having no chopsticks for tears, if one still has life and tries to deceive by rewriting records, the father-figure will rush out. While extreme villains may steal after people flee, deceived that rain and tsunamis are coming to their outdoor shelters, those with honest wave-hearts will surely be saved. The sword of the Hijō Myōō must be the sword of parental admonition. According to the divine message, he protects the purse strings held in one hand and bestows this upon descendants - thus, you will regret if you die in collapse.

Finally finding peace, when we inquire in detail about the origins of this principal deity, in ancient times there were rumors of the Earthquake King and corner conflagrations. When business could not be settled and lives were at stake, as salvation from Tawarahyōda's fire, he was summoned with two and a half gō of provisions, and swollen bellies pressed forward. At this time, Tear Mountain prayed daily for great inappropriateness, and through the scheming of donated rice, the collapse of gates was also due to the virtue of this sacred image. The poem from that time:
　At the gate again, struck down by the rice god
　　What obstacle did the falling tiles create

Disaster protection
　Kannon
　　Thunder protection
　　　Fire protection
　　Mind protection
　　　Amulets
　　　　Available
　　　　　Here

Kongōri
　Dōji (Boy attendant)

Seitaka
　Dōji (Boy attendant)