【Upper Section】
On the 4th day of the 11th month at the hour of the Snake in the morning (around 8 AM), there was a great earthquake, and at the post stations beyond Fuchu:
Mariko, Okabe, and Utsu-no-ya Pass were devastated,
Fujieda, Shimada post station, the Oi River and
other rivers were blocked, Kanaya and Nissaka Pass were greatly
damaged. Kakegawa castle town was shaken and collapsed,
burned, and the Fukuroi and Mitsuke areas shook violently.
Even Hamamatsu and Maisaka areas suffered
extraordinary damage. At the same time on the same day at half past the Snake hour (around 9 AM),
at the Izu Seven Islands and Shimoda, tsunami waves
about 5 jo high (approximately 15 meters) came crashing down like
a great mountain collapsing, washing away
about a thousand houses, fifty large ships, and small boats
beyond counting.
Uraga, Otsu, Kanazawa,
and also the beaches
of Numazu - all
suffered great tsunami
damage to houses
beyond measure. Since ancient
times, earthquakes
and tsunami have been
heard of in tradition, but
such a great one has
never been heard of. Therefore
I record the details here.

【Upper Left】
○Great Earthquake in Shinano Province
There was a great earthquake in Matsumoto, Shinano Province,
with great collapse and
fires. Iida, Matsushiro,
and around
Zenkoji Temple
all felt its
tremendous impact.
Many people and horses
were injured,
the number
being unknown.

【Lower Section】
On the same 4th day of the month at the morning Snake hour, shaking greatly many times day and night,
Tenman Tenjin shrine collapsed greatly, around Dojima,
Nishi-tera-machi, Konpira shrine collapsed, the Five Hundred Rakan
hall collapsed with the Rakan statues flying out of the hall, Hama
bridge and houses collapsed greatly, Minami-mido temple was greatly
damaged, Tennoji's Rokuji-do hall, the Kotsu hall front, and flower-stand stones
were greatly damaged, the Takatsu area collapsed, at Tamatsukuri-guchi the Niken-chaya area for about one cho
collapsed eastward. In this area, the number of places damaged in all four directions
is beyond counting. The Dotonbori theaters were greatly damaged, Sumiyoshi's stone lanterns
all collapsed without exception, Tenka-chaya's fence surroundings collapsed, east of Nagahori Sanoya Bridge
the long houses collapsed greatly making them uninhabitable, houses in Junkeimachi Donburiike collapsed greatly with
only about two ken remaining and uninhabitable, the great storehouses and pigeon houses in Obiyamachi
collapsed greatly - the sight was too terrible for observers to bear.
The collapse of other towns and the destruction of shrines and temples was countless.
Especially the warehouse residences of various daimyo lords collapsed greatly, and then
at dusk at the Rooster hour (around 6 PM), great tsunami from the southwest hit Izuo-shinden, Kansuke-jima, Chidorisu-shinden, along Kizu River, Aji River mouth, and Tomishima area. The great tsunami, about 5 jo high (approximately 15 meters) like a great mountain collapsing, surged onto the streets, and large and small boats crashed into each other and were destroyed beyond counting.
The number of people who died in the flood was countless tens of thousands. The bridges that fell were:
Kamei Bridge, Aji River Bridge, Kokuzu Bridge, Mizuwake Bridge, Kuro-
kane Bridge, Taka Bridge, Hiyoshi Bridge, Shiomi Bridge,
Kanaya Bridge, stopping at Daikoku Bridge. From there, along the Yamato road, Nara's
towns were greatly damaged, Kasuga shrine's buildings collapsed, torii gates and
gold lanterns collapsed and fell. In Hyogo, seven or
eight houses collapsed. Around Itami and Ikeda there was a great earthquake
but no houses collapsed. Kashiwabara village collapsed greatly
and caught fire. Nishinomiya and other places were the same as
Osaka. Since this was truly an unprecedented extraordinary event, I record this in detail
to inform various places through correspondence.

【Lower Left Section】
○Great Earthquake in Shikoku
Great Tsunami
Same in Banshu region
On the 4th at Snake hour, all of
Shikoku without exception had great
earthquakes and great tsunamis
causing damage.
Especially Awa
Province's Tokushima castle town
was greatly
damaged, and Suma,
Akashi, and Ako
beaches had great
tsunamis.
Himeji castle town
was also damaged, and other
collapsed
places and places
swept away
by tsunami
are countless.