"Record of Locations of Great Wind, Flooding, and Fire Damage within Ten Ri of Edo"

On the night of August 25th, Ansei 3 (1856), at around 5:30 p.m., violent wind and rain severely damaged houses, storehouses, halls, and shrines. In the south, most of the seaside area of Shinagawa-juku was damaged, and large waves from the sea washed ashore, causing countless trees to be swept away. The rear gate of Tōkai-ji temple, Kaian-ji temple, and Shinagawa-ji temple had their practice walls damaged, and countless large trees fell on Mount Goten, though the Odaiba fortifications remained unharmed. From there, teahouses on the Takanawa seaside were blown into the sea, and large temple trees fell onto the roads. Further on, Tamachi and Hon-Shiba areas saw some damage to the Satsuma domain's seaside residence, and a large ship manufactured by the Satsuma domain came ashore near Kanasugi Bridge. From Fuda-no-tsuji through Mita, Azabu, Furukawa, and Hiroo areas, everything was damaged. The Shiba Seaside Palace remained unharmed, while the Owari domain's warehouse residence suffered some damage. A fire broke out from the gate area, with Miyata-gawa-cho on the main street suffering some burning, and both sides of Shinmei-mae on the back street were completely destroyed, with the fire stopping at the corner of Mishima-cho. Zōjō-ji temple grounds remained unharmed, but temple lodgings and practice walls on the right side had trees fallen in various places, and from the same cutting through to Nishi-no-kubo, both townhouses and residences were mostly damaged. The Atago-shita street suffered similarly, while Sakurada Kubo-cho area had nothing particular, and though the main street from Shibaguchi to Owari-cho was unharmed, both side streets suffered damage in various places on both front and back sides. In Ginza 3-chome, the fire watchtower's half-bell fell onto the street while still hanging. On Kyōbashi street, firewood and lumber flowed heavily toward Daikon-gashi. On Nihonbashi street, there was nothing particular up to Imagawa Bridge, but many houses collapsed in various places on Higashi-naka street. Nishi-naka street was similar. Hon-cho and Tenma-cho streets had nothing particular. Ishimachi, Teppō-cho, Ko-tenma-cho, and Bakurō-cho had damage in various places, as did Abura-cho, Shio-cho, and Yokoyama-cho. From there, most of the west side of Tachibana-cho 2nd and 3rd districts collapsed. Yonezawa-cho and Hisamatsu-cho areas suffered some damage, and in Hama-cho, water rose from the Ōkawa river, with a tea boat flowing into the residence of Lord Andō Nagato-no-kami. This entire area was swept away by flooding, and an 800-koku parent ship got caught at the middle of Eitai Bridge from Koami-cho and Kita-Shinbori, causing major damage to the bridge piles. From Minami-Shinbori area north to Kayaba-cho and Hatchōbori areas, there was damage in various places, and south to Reigan-jima, Teppō-zu, Tsukiji, and Odawara-cho areas, many places were mostly damaged. Moreover, flooding was severe, with Nishi Hongan-ji temple's main hall and most of the temple complex collapsing, and the Military Training Institute, Aki-sama, Hitotsubashi-sama, and Etchū-sama residences suffering damage in various places.

To the east, Fukagawa Susaki had major flooding, as did Hachiman-mae Naka-cho. Fifty-six or fifty-seven pleasure quarters' temporary buildings were swept away or damaged, with only the Kuki Manji-ya remaining. From there, the Rokken-bori area and Takabashi suffered similarly, with water reaching three feet above floor level in shallow areas. Honjo Tategawa street, Hayashi-cho, Midori-cho, Matsui-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Otabi, Hitotsume, Benten, and the boat warehouse areas had major flooding with extraordinary damage to houses. The Nanboku water channels and Hōon-ji Bridge had severe flooding, and from there to Kameido Tenjin gate and shrine grounds suffered similarly. The Five Hundred Rakan area and Sasai Hall were mostly damaged. Honjo Ishiwara, Banba, and Tada Yakushi areas were greatly damaged, and the middle of Higashi Bridge's railings were damaged. Asakusa Raimon-mae Hirokōji and the same Kannon temple grounds were damaged in various places, the copper torii of Awashima shrine fell, and the Okuyama sideshow huts and trees were all broken and fallen. Moreover, the large lanterns of Niōmon and Raimon were blown away to unknown locations. Asakusa Monzen Matsuda-ya temporary residence collapsed, Kita-umaya-cho street was mostly damaged, there was fire at Daion-ji-mae Yoshiwara with damage in various places, Minami-umadō was slightly damaged, the west side of Yabu-no-uchi completely collapsed, and from Namiki street to Asakusa Mimitsuke, both front and back had 230-odd collapsed houses.

To the north, Senju-juku was slightly damaged, Kozukahara burned, and from there Sujikai, Kanasugi, Negishi, Sakamoto, Higashi-saka-cho, Tōeizan-shita, Kuromon-mae teahouses and others had some collapsed houses. Most notably, hundreds of large trees in the temple grounds were broken, and temple buildings were damaged in various places. From there, Shinobazu Benzaiten, surrounding teahouses were damaged in various places, and Zenkō-ji hill top and bottom, Shimizu gate, teahouse district, Dango-zaka street had many collapses. Tanrinji temple completely collapsed, trees in Banzuin temple grounds fell, both sides of Miura-zaka-shita riverside hatamoto residences were completely flattened, the Soshi Hall remained unharmed but Kurimoto Hall was completely collapsed. From there, inside Nezu Sōmon, Akatsu group residences were damaged in various places with considerable collapsed houses. Mori-sama and Naitō-sama residences collapsed, Miyanaga-cho and Monzen-cho front and back had over 160 houses collapse, Sōmon had slight roof damage, Gongen shrine had no problems, Kaya-cho Koei Hall completely collapsed, and the back pond area Hakago-cho front and back were damaged in various places with fourteen to fifteen collapsed houses. Also, on Muen-zaka hill, Kaga-sama and Yanagihara-sama long houses were slightly damaged, Karatachi temple blind long houses were slightly damaged, and from Hongō street 1st to 6th districts, front houses had nothing particular. Back street group residences were damaged in various places, and Maruyama and Honmyō-ji areas had collapses in various places. Other areas like Nashi-zaka, Dadon-zaka, Kiku-zaka were slightly damaged, and Morikawa-juku, Honda-sama and two group residences, Oiwake-cho both sides were damaged, with many collapsed houses in Kyūken, mansion districts, and other small residences. From there, Kata-cho was damaged in various places with fallen trees, and Takechō street, Tsurusei-ga-kubo, Maruyama-shin-cho, Jōshin-ji areas were greatly damaged, and below the same hill, Sashigaya-cho small residences and townhouses had many collapses. Also, at Sugamo Sakai Utanokani-sama's lower residence and Doi Ōi-no-kami-sama's lower residence, trees fell greatly, and while Okago-cho street's main street had nothing particular, the back street was damaged in various places, and Dentsū-in had some damage. From there, along Itabashi street, trees around Kōshin-zuka fell but there was no damage to private houses. Itabashi-juku inns on both sides were greatly damaged, and Ōtsuka and Namikiri Fudō areas were damaged in various places, with large trees falling at Matsudaira Daigaku-no-kami-sama's residence and some damage to long houses. The entire Koishikawa area had nothing particular, though there were collapsed houses in various places. Andō-zaka area and Dentsū-in temple complex were damaged in various places, and Ushi Tenjin, Kanasugi, Suidō-cho, Mito-sama gate street, Suidōbashi, Ochanomizu, fire brigade residences were damaged in various places. Sakura-no-baba, Maeda-sama, Uchida-sama, Seidō-mae street residences were damaged in various places. Also, Yushima Tenjin shrine grounds and Bettō office collapsed, and other copper torii and back gate torii fell, while other theater huts, archery ranges, tea shops had many damaged places. The same cutting through and Tenshin-ji front slightly collapsed, and hatamoto residences were damaged in various places. Also from Tenjin gate front, Sangumi-cho, Okado-cho, Oteshiro-cho had collapsed houses in various places. Most were damaged, Tsumakoi-zaka Inari shrine was slightly damaged, Shimada-sama's back gate collapsed, Saegusa Ume was slightly damaged, townhouses collapsed by one ken with most damaged. At the same hill bottom, Kuroda-sama, Sakai-sama, Naitō-sama, Ashino-sama were each slightly damaged. Shōhei Bridge street, Dōbō-cho, Odaidokoro-cho, Kanda Myōjin Ishizaka-shita front long houses were damaged in various places, back long houses mostly collapsed. Hatagoya-cho, Kanazawa-cho, Soto-Kanda entire area had collapsed houses in various places, though not extensively. Myōjin front gate street had two to three collapsed houses. That night at Shōhei Bridge, firewood and lumber flowed down, blocking the waterway. From there, Surugadai, Ogawa-cho street, both sides' residences were mostly damaged, with Tsuchiya-sama, Jūmonji, Naitō-sama, Inaba-sama, Doi-sama, Toda-sama, Honda-sama all completely destroyed, and Mikawa-cho front and back entire area had damage in various places with collapsed houses.

Inside the castle compound, at Kanda Bridge, Sakai Saemon-no-jō-sama's long house of about one hundred ken collapsed, Ogasawara Sakyō-dayū-sama's long house on one side and construction office huts collapsed, inside Tokiwa Bridge gate, Manabe Shimōsa-no-kami-sama completely collapsed, one residence collapsed at Ryū-no-kuchi, at Daimyō-kōji, Matsudaira Naizen-no-kami-sama's back gate street, Oda Hyōbu-shōyū-sama, Ogasawara-sama suffered similarly. Inside Kaji Bridge gate, Matsudaira Awa-no-kami-sama's entrance hall and palace collapsed with all copper tiles falling. Nagai Hizen-no-kami-sama collapsed, Matsudaira Tonomo-no-kami-sama's guard post was half collapsed, inner long houses on both sides fell, Doi Ōi-no-kami-sama's one long house fell, outside Hibiya gate, Matsudaira Daizen-dayū-sama's long house was more than half collapsed, from Abe Harima-no-kami-sama's service gate, left and right long houses all collapsed, Akita-sama and Satsuma-sama costume residences similarly. Inside Tora gate, Kamei-sama's palace second floor was half gone, Nishio-sama's front gate one building collapsed, Sōma-sama's long house, front gate, entrance hall fell, Uesugi-sama's side long house collapsed. From there, at Kasumigaseki, a certain lord's residence was slightly damaged, inside Akasaka gate, Matsudaira Dewa-no-kami-sama's long house on one side was damaged, Watanabe-sama similarly, Sangenya small residences all fell, Kōji-cho Hirakawa Tenjin back gate townhouses mostly collapsed. Generally, from inside Sakurada gate to Babazaki and Wadakura, about sixty large planted trees fell. Also, below Nishi-gumaru, Ikeda-sama's long houses all fell, both of Aizu-sama's residences collapsed. Other mountainous areas including Ichigaya, Ushigome, Yotsuya, Ōkubo area townhouses and other storehouses collapsed countless times. Also, near Akagi Myōjin, Waseda Hitotsubashi-sama's dependent residence, in front of Ana Hachiman, many places suffered damage. From there, Samegahashi, Kishū-sama's residence area townhouses, temples, etc. suffered much damage. Generally, between Aoyama, Hyakunin-chō street, Shibuya, Dōgen-zaka, there was nothing particular, though there were collapsed houses in various places.

Overall, within the capital and nearby areas extending ten ri in all directions along the five highways, collapsed houses, damage, shrines and temples, trees, hills and springs, and the survival of private houses varied by location in degree, but there is no time to count each one. Though this was an extraordinarily rare event of vast scale, the miracle of our divine nation was remarkable, and by dawn of the 26th at 6:30 (around 7 AM), the rain stopped and the violent wind calmed, bringing relief to all people. This rough account is recorded on paper to inform distant relatives and connections across mountains and seas of our safety.