【Upper Document】
Record of the Great Osaka Earthquake and Tsunami　Naniwa Honsei Publisher

On the morning of November 4th, Kaei 7 (1854), at 5:30 (around 9 AM), there was a great earthquake. From 7:30 (around 1 PM) on the 5th until 5:30 at night (around 9 PM), due to great earthquakes and tsunami, the large ships moored along the Aji River and Kizu River were all pushed into the Dōtonbori River by the great tsunami, breaking through Hiyoshi Bridge, Shiomi Bridge, Sachi Bridge, and Sumiyoshi Bridge before stopping at Daikoku Bridge. The river was filled with large ships pushed and piled crosswise in all directions, so the riverside warehouses, townhouses, storehouses, and storage buildings were all smashed by the ship bows. Small boats and tea boats were crushed by the large ships, and large ships entered all the way to Daikoku Bridge in Dōtonbori—truly an unprecedented great disturbance.

The places that collapsed in the great Osaka earthquake were as follows: In the Senba area, the torii and gates of Zama Shrine fell, and there was great collapse at Kita Kutarō-chō and Dombori, with countless dead and injured at Shio-chō Sano-ya Bridge corner and moat. The South Hongan-ji temple hall was damaged to the northwest, the well at Goryō Shrine collapsed, and there was great collapse and fire around Junkei-chō and Dombori, though it was soon extinguished. There was great collapse at Nagahori area and the north end of Itaya Bridge, Awaza, Satsuma-bori area, Gankyō-ji temple, and audience halls collapsed. Three or four houses burned around Eitai Bridge and Kyō-machi-bori area. Around Tenma Shrine grounds, the back gate area, Ikeda-chō, and East Tenma area, there were countless collapsed places. Around Nakanoshima, the corner of Jōan Bridge collapsed greatly, and around West Yokobori, the pleasure quarters in Shinmachi area collapsed greatly. Around Horie, Yotsubashi, Oike street, and the moat of Tosa-sama's residence collapsed, and around Amidagaike there was great collapse. Around Aji River and Kujō area, to the south around Naga-chō and Sachi-chō areas, the west end of Sakae Bridge area collapsed greatly. Namba Shinchi, around Shinkawa, and also Annen-ji temple's bell tower collapsed, all the stone lanterns of Sumiyoshi fell, and other subsidiary shrines collapsed. Around Uemachi area graves, around Kamihonmachi, around Tamatsukuri, Oharae-suji collapsed, around Niken-chaya, Uemachi, and Kiyomizu stage collapsed, around Tennō-ji, and countless other collapsed places throughout the city.

Settsu Province Amagasaki Castle was damaged with about fifty houses in the castle town collapsed. Nishinomiya, Hyōgo, and Nada—all three places were like Osaka. From Nankai, Kishū, Kumano bay to the islands, Tōtōmi, and also to Izu and Ōura, over approximately 105 ri of coastal houses were mostly swept away by tsunami. More places from various provinces will be published subsequently.

【Lower Document】
Record of Great Earthquake and Great Tsunami Locations in Various Provinces

On November 4th, Kaei 7 (1854), past 5:00, due to great earthquake and great tsunami, the Tōkaidō provinces, Kamigata region, Nakasendō, and Shinshū Iwamura-da all completely collapsed, with fires on top of that. Odai-juku was the same, Matsushiro castle town and surrounding villages half collapsed with many people and horses injured. Matsumoto castle town and surrounding areas were the same. Countless other minor collapses occurred. Also, Kōfu was mostly collapsed, as was the Minobu road.

On the 5th at 7:30, Kamigata region, Chūgoku, Kyūshū, and Shikoku experienced great earthquakes and great tsunami on a vast scale, with disturbances in approximately 46 provinces. Countless other minor damages occurred. The distance from Hizen Nagasaki to Edo was 350 ri, and from Izu Shimoda to Kyūshū, the tsunami-affected locations are countless.

First, Edo had minor damages to residences, town areas, nearby villages, and the eight Kantō provinces, but setting those aside: On the Tōkaidō, damage gradually intensified from around Odawara castle town area. Hakone checkpoint was greatly damaged and the post station half collapsed. From there, Izu Mishima Myōjin shrine collapsed and burned from the shrine eastward, with the vicinity greatly damaged. Also, stone mountains collapsed with many people and horses injured. Shimoda port was eight-tenths swept away by tsunami. Ōura, Shirahama, Yanagisaki, Numazu castle town and surrounding areas were mostly collapsed, and there was river tsunami on the coast. Hara post station slightly, Yoshiwara post station half collapsed with fire, Ōmiya collapsed, Fujikawa direction Iwabuchi half collapsed with fire and many injured. Kambara post station half collapsed, burning from the wholesale district upward. Yui and Okitsu slightly, Ejiri post station eight-tenths collapsed, and Shimizu port collapsed with fire and complete loss. Miho town the same. Fuchū castle and towns more than half collapsed, burning from Yokota to the notice board area. Abe River rest stop, starting with the honjin, six buildings collapsed, river tsunami. Mariko post station slightly collapsed, Okabe post station half collapsed, Fujieda four-tenths collapsed and six-tenths burned. Shimada post station slightly, Ōi River flooded greatly, Kanaya post station half collapsed with ground cracks spewing mud. Suzuka mountain greatly damaged, Sayonakayama night-crying stone and candy shop all collapsed. Nisaka slightly, Kakegawa castle damaged with towns collapsed and fire, with injured people. Hara-Kawai post station collapsed, Fukuroi completely collapsed with many burned dead and injured. Mitsuke post station greatly damaged, all houses below the platform there completely collapsed. Near Tenryū River, Nakaizumi magistrate's office, riverside, Ikeda village all collapsed, around Sagara greatly damaged, Yokosuka castle, towns and countryside half collapsed with many injured. Hamamatsu castle greatly damaged with about thirty castle town houses collapsed. Maisaka post station mostly swept away, Arai half collapsed, ferry boats swept away, checkpoint collapsed with only gate pillars remaining. Great tsunami, Shirasuka, Futagawa three-tenths damaged, Yoshida castle town greatly damaged, Yoshida Bridge damaged, Okazaki castle town slightly damaged, bridge pilings on the east side of Yahagi Bridge fell in with east-west ground cracks. Narumi post station was greatly damaged.

Naniwa Honsei Publisher