He served Takeda Shingen and followed Katsuyori, dying in battle at the Battle of Nagakute. His son Genjū was born in Kōshū, followed to Sashū {{Sa refers to Sado}}, married into the Nomoto clan, and gave birth to Shōgen in Sawane of Kamo District in Oshū. After a long time, he went to Shinano {{Shinano}}, arrived at Takatō Castle, and first had an audience with Lord Minamoto Masayuki. At that time he was fifteen years old, received great favor in the spring, and gradually grew up to be entrusted with and informed about household affairs. When the lord increased his domain to Ushū {{U refers to Dewa}} Yamagata and then moved to Ōshū Aizu, Shōgen was made the head of the household, and all administrative matters within the domain, both great and small, were entrusted to him. Shōgen considered this his duty, exclusively maintained fairness, never dared to favor private interests, served tirelessly without weariness, made decisions without delay, the district samurai relied upon him, and the people cherished his benevolence. He established a villa at a favorable location near Aizu Castle, named it with the two characters "Yamai" (Mountain Well), taking from various ancient poems. This expressed the meaning of "though shallow, it suffices for my needs." In this environment, schools of fish swam in the water, birds gathered in the trees, flowers were viewed in the front forest, and medicinal herbs were planted in the rear garden. Whenever he had leisure time, he would rest here and spend time at ease. Sometimes he would gather relatives to enjoy themselves, or invite colleagues for intimate conversations, serving sake and enjoying themselves without becoming intoxicated, savoring tea and meeting with sweet simplicity. He would quietly listen to lectures on books and focus his mind on military strategy. In addition, he would sometimes indulge in the pleasures of reclusive life and conversations beyond worldly affairs when the mood struck him. Perhaps he was using these activities to cultivate thoughts of retirement. In his management, he always maintained frugality and specifically warned against extravagance, and there was no one among the good and humble people in his domain who did not follow his example. The so-called retainer...