From the "Collected Explanations of Ferns" in the Materia Medica:
　　　Purple osmunda　Also called maze-warabi (confused fern)　I say that in Japanese common usage it is called purple fern (from "Sancang," "Erya," "Yuezheng")
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　zenmai (royal fern)

　　　　　　　　　　Separately, there are those with large leaves, named
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Demon dog's spine and hairy fern
　　　　　　　　　　　　　oni-zenmai (demon royal fern)

　　　　　　　　　　"Mao Shi Pin Wu Tu Kao" (Illustrated Study of Objects in the Book of Songs)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Maze-warabi (confused fern)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tenpō 3rd year, Year of the Water Dragon, 24th day of the second month
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One illustration of buds naturally growing from Mount Shiba

From "Wakan Sansai Zue" (Illustrated Sino-Japanese Encyclopedia):
　　　Dog's spine (zenmai)　Strong backbone　Supporting chopsticks
　　　Dog bracken　　　Hundred branches　Dog blue

　　　　The "Ben Gang" (Compendium) does not distinguish between Japanese and Chinese varieties of dog's spine, but the "Yamato Honzō" explains that
　　　　dog's spine is a separate plant. This should be investigated. There is also the name maze-warabi (confused fern), but this is a different plant.
　　　　"Wei" refers to the general name for wild peas. Purple osmunda has two varieties: blue-stemmed and red-stemmed.
　　　　The red-stemmed ones are dried to make vegetables but are very thin. The blue-stemmed ones taste bitter,
　　　　and these are called demon dog purple osmunda. In my consideration, dog's spine has two types, Japanese and Chinese. Those that grow
　　　　naturally in mountain plains are Japanese varieties, with very hard stems and leaves, not
　　　　suitable for eating. The Chinese variety has soft stems and leaves and is not bitter in taste. Local people use it as
　　　　daily food. Purple fern has Echigo Province as its famous production area, and it is sent in all directions. The Chinese
　　　　variety is now cultivated in various places and grows in mountains. Its appearance is no different between Japanese and Chinese varieties.