[Right Page]
varying depths. In one village at the foot of Mount Fuji, the flat ground measured one jō and two shaku deep, while the mountain slopes were too deep to measure by human effort. My temple is located merely three ri from Fuji-fumoto village and nine ri from the burned crater of Mount Fuji, yet the stone and sand accumulated thickly - three shaku and five sun deep on flat ground, and reaching one jō, two jō, five jō, or even seven jō deep in the valleys along the mountain slopes. Ah, how rare and unprecedented was the burning collapse of Mount Fuji! How immense too was the suffering of the people! Though I speak of this as casual conversation and show it to people in cursive script, this is but one hair from nine oxen. Even with all its twists and elaborate details, even if one possessed the eloquent argumentation of Mencius or the literary prowess of Ban Gu, how could one fully record it all? Alas, how great was this fire disaster of Mount Fuji!

At this time, in the second month of spring in the second year of Shōtoku, the monk Ryūun, old man Kansō Meizan, records this again.

[Left Page]
The Record of the Ōkubo House states: On the 23rd day of the 11th month of Hōei 4, year of the Boar (1707), due to the heavenly fire disaster of Mount Fuji, flames rose from the summit, and the burned sand scattered and fell within approximately twenty ri in all directions. It continued falling until early in the 12th month. Also, regarding the inspection of sand accumulation in Odawara domain... {{marginal note: middle portion omitted}}

At Kitakuhara village {{marginal note: about three shaku of sand}}, sand accumulated up to the eaves of houses. From here to Jūri-shinden is about three ri, from Jūrigi to where Fuji erupted is about two ri. The waters of Sano and Segiki rivers, the two bridges of Gotemba, and the irrigation channels of sixty chō in Nishida-naka were buried in sand, leaving no water. At Nisugi village {{marginal note: seven shaku of sand accumulated}}, sand piled up to the eaves of farmers' houses, sand pushed into the houses, and two or three houses collapsed. At Mizutsuchino-shinden {{marginal note: seven shaku of sand}}, only the rooftops of farmers' houses could be seen slightly. Subashiri