Thus, even after three or four days had passed, there were still occasional small aftershocks. Initially there were twenty tremors day and night, but they gradually subsided to about seven or eight times, sometimes only three or four times. However, even now that more than twenty days have passed, the occasional slight tremors have not ceased, causing all people to remain confused and fearful. There is a common saying: "Earthquakes are most severe at the beginning, great winds are strongest in the middle, and thunder is most intense at the end." Based on this, people understood that there would be no more great quakes like those at the beginning, but women, children, and the like continued to worry and ask anxiously about what might happen. Since there was no end to people making such inquiries, I record the following from old documents, citing examples of small earthquakes that continued after great earthquakes, in order to put people's minds at ease.

Regarding earthquakes that have occurred since ancient times, as far as can be seen in the national histories, they are listed in detail in the disaster section of volume 171 of the Ruiju Kokushi.

In the Sandai Jitsuroku: On the night of the second day of the seventh month, third year of Nin'na, year of Mizunoto-Tori, there was an earthquake... [omitted] On the sixth day, Hinoto-Ushi, a rainbow descended upon the Eastern Palace, its tail reaching the heavens, and the rainbow entered the Imperial Treasury... [omitted] That night there was an earthquake... [omitted] On the thirtieth day, Kanoto-Ushi, at the hour of the Monkey, the earth shook violently for several hours and the trembling still did not cease. The Emperor left Jinjuden Hall and proceeded to the southern courtyard of Shishinden Hall, commanding the Ministry of the Treasury to erect a seven-jō tent as his temporary residence. The various government buildings and residences in the eastern and western capitals frequently collapsed, with many people crushed to death, and some lost consciousness and died suddenly. At the hour of the Boar, there were three more tremors. The five provinces around the capital and all provinces of the seven circuits experienced great earthquakes on the same day. Many government buildings were damaged, and sea tides surged onto land, with countless people drowning.