Having various business matters, I was staying at a port called Ogi in Sado Province. On the morning of the 15th of the same month, I went out to a nearby hill with a ship captain whose vessel was moored at the same lodging, intending to observe the weather. The captain said, "Today's weather is truly strange. All around is hazy and misty, with clouds hanging around the base of the mountains, while the peaks above the middle slopes are visible. It doesn't look like rain, nor does it seem like it will become windy. I have never seen such weather in all my years," and he was greatly puzzled. At this time, Hiroshima-shi reflected and said, "This is not clouds hanging down, but rather earth vapors rising upward. When I was young, I heard from my father that the rising of earth vapors is a sign of earthquakes," and saying there should be no delay even for a moment, he hurried back to the inn and told the master, "This place is very dangerous with mountains behind and the sea in front. Let us evacuate to another place for a while." He had people send the luggage ahead, made preparations hastily, and departed. After traveling what seemed like about four ri along the road, a great earthquake indeed occurred while in the mountains. The ground swayed like beating waves, and the branches of large trees all struck the ground. Rolling along, we barely managed to escape and leave. At this time, at Ogi port, mountains collapsed, temple towers fell, the tide surged and all houses entered the sea, and large rocks emerged from the sea. [Note] From then on, small tremors continued daily, gradually ceasing in June of the following year. Later, when I reached the gold mine in the same province, I inquired, "In that earthquake, surely the mine shafts collapsed and people were harmed," but this was not the case. Everyone said, "In this place, we have known about earthquakes since ancient times. Even for that earthquake, we knew the signs three days in advance and everyone prepared without entering the mine shafts."