The back side of the island is steep and has no villages. There is only a single path used by Izumi-tsu village for logging.

First question: In areas somewhat distant from the fiery vapors, are there crops in the fields? Are there wild grasses that could serve as food? Can fishing profits still be obtained? Has the business of gathering firewood been disrupted? Answer: There are no rice fields on the island, only mountain plots that change location yearly. There are five villages in total on the island. The two villages of Niijima and Okada are somewhat distant from the fire's path, so their taro and sweet potatoes have all ripened properly. There are also soft grasses that can supplement food supplies. Ordinarily they profit from mountain and sea industries, but since the eruption began, fish and turtles have fled far away, making fishing futile. Only by logging in the mountains and shipping to the Eastern Capital (Edo) can they barely maintain their livelihood. The three villages of Nomasu, Izumi-tsu, and Sashikiji are not accustomed to sea profits, and their mountain field harvests also do not match those of the former two villages. Logging profits are their specialty, but since the fire disaster began, the taro and sweet potatoes in their fields are so few they can be counted, charred stones block the treacherous paths, and the logging business has become increasingly difficult.

Second question: The areas where fires currently burn fiercely naturally have no human settlements, but what are the distances to the villages? Answer: The eruption site of the crater is about nine ri from the nearest residences and about eighteen ri from the farthest.

Third question: If underground fire were to suddenly erupt in the villages, would that not be frightening? Or are there preparations for emergencies? Answer: The two villages of Niijima and Okada use Yorikoshi mountain as a barrier and are located northwest of Mihara, so they need no preparations for unforeseen circumstances. The three villages of Nomasu, Izumi-tsu, and Sashikiji differ in this regard, being not too distant from the crater. However, while the mountain fire has somewhat subsided, relocating to the two villages at this time would seem like great government benevolence but would actually cause residents to lose their livelihoods. In an emergency, hastily moving to Niijima village would not be too late. Should fire erupt on the roads and cut off passage, relocation by cargo ships or fishing boats from Niijima village would not be difficult. Preparations have already been made. Since ancient times, mountain fires have been called "divine fires" and have never spread to people's houses - this is said to be divine blessing.