The Zōho Tashikihen (Supplemented Collection of Many Identifications) states in the section on tall trees:
　Water willow 《Japanese name: Kawaya (riverside)｜name: Nagi｜》《alternate name》 blue willow 《Kōmoku》 cattail willow 《Kokin-chū》

　《Supplemented alternate names》cattail willow 《Erya》　cattail (Sa) 《Erya phonetic variation》　　willow 《Kokin-chū》
　　　Kanho 《phonetic Gan-ho》

　　　〇Kawaya-nagi (riverside willow) blooms in early spring
　　　　Because it is silver-white in color and has hair,
　　　　it is called Inunoko-yō (puppy willow)
　　　　　《yanagi》

　　　　　My observation:
　　　　　　Also, among trees of the same type, there is one called tei, which is also a variety
　　　　　　of Kawaya-nagi. What is called teiryū (tamarisk willow) in the Yamato Honzō
　　　　　　commentary on willows states "water willow, also called cattail willow," etc.
　　　　　　This is exactly it. Willow catkins (jo) are not willow flowers but
　　　　　　cotton attached to the outside of the fruit. This is the so-called
　　　　　　enoko willow or meharu willow. The cattail willow that appears
　　　　　　in poetry is this. In recent years, foreign doctors favor using
　　　　　　something called kinana, which comes from the Dutch. Its effects are
　　　　　　said to be very good. Kinaen is a salt (en) extracted from kinana resin.
　　　　　　It is said that kinana corresponds to our country's water willow, though
　　　　　　its bark has no medicinal effect. Tamarisk willow is also
　　　　　　　called kawaya-nagi, but tei refers to miharu willow, which is
　　　　　　　a different species. Could kinana perhaps be the bark
　　　　　　　of this tree?

　　　　　　　　　　　　Late spring, year of Masatori
　　　　　　　　　　　　Eighth day, true copy

The Chikin-shō states:
　Ingen willow　　The leaves are large and willow-like with deep green color
　　　　　　　　This is the authentic variety

Same record:
　Midori willow　　This is apparently a willow used in ikebana
　　　　　　　　This is yet another distinct species. It is slightly smaller, the wood appears similar
　　　　　　　　but differs, and it has many flowers. It is used for hedges.
　　　　　　　　This is also a water willow. Tei is a separate species.
　　　　　　　　Tamarisk willow is weeping thread willow. What is simply called "willow"
　　　　　　　　is the weeping willow.