The Jiuhuang Bencao states: Camel's Pouch (Japanese Silverberry, Thick-leaf Berry) Tawara-gumi. The red-flowered variety is one type.
　　　　Elaeagnus (Gumi)

　　　　　　　　　Common farmers
　　　　　　　　　call it Tawara-gumi


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Year of Kinoto-tori, Jiāzhōng (2nd month), 23rd day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One illustration of a broken branch


　　　　　　　　　Jun Wamyōshō, volume 17
　　　　　　　　　　　Nightingale fruit　Japanese name　Uguisu-no-ki

　　　　　　　　　　The diary of Sadaijin Yorinaga also mentions nightingale fruit
　　　　　　　　　　　Usu-no-ki (Mortar tree)　Keiki region
　　　　　　　　　　　Koshiki-gumi　Iga


　　　　　　　　　　The Kirishi tree (Uguisu-no-ki) produces buds ahead of all other trees from the 12th month.
　　　　　　　　　　It blooms at the beginning of spring. The fruit ripens in the third month. According to the Bencao, peach
　　　　　　　　　　is unripe in the third month, and although the Shu Du Fu says "red spring ripening," it
　　　　　　　　　　ripens in the fourth month. Kirishi ripens from early third month. Among tree fruits that bear
　　　　　　　　　　fruit in the third month, it is the leader of all fruits. When nightingales first sing, this flower also blooms,
　　　　　　　　　　so it was perhaps named for this reason, as the venerable Kaibara said.



The Chijin Kōshū states:
　　　Tree　Chinese name
　　　　　Japanese name　Enoki

　　　The Wamyō Ruijushō states:
　　　　　　　Enoki (E)

　　　The Erya commentary states:
　　　　　　　Enoki　Also called　
　　　　　　　Upper pronunciation of ancient elegant
　　　　　　　friend character also
　　　　　　　written as jiǎ, lower pronunciation tán
　　　　　　　Japanese name　E (clothes)


　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same year, Jìgūxǐ (3rd month), 10th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One copy of a broken branch


The Bencao considers small-leaved catalpa to be enoki.
Upon current investigation, the enoki tree is not a type of catalpa.
If so, then calling enoki "E" in our country
is probably an error. Both the Man'yōshū and Jun
Wamyōshō read the character 榎 as "E." The source
is unclear ○ There are two types of enoki trees. One type is called muku-enoki.
It is used for military shield boards in battle formations. It serves as equipment to defend against firearms and arrows.
It is said that enoki is used to make horse saddles.