【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Construction of Imahashi Castle and Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　18
【Main text】
　　　　　　I think not. Therefore, even if Kohaku (古白) was thirty years old in Bunmei 3rd year, he would be sixty-six at the time of his death in battle, but
　　　　　　there are records stating that his eldest son Narimitsu was five years old at that time, and there was also his younger brother Nobushige, which would make Kohaku's
　　　　　　age quite disproportionate. Particularly, this Nobushige later also took the name Kohaku, and
　　　　　　since there was also a second-generation Sōchō, it would not be unreasonable to believe that the name Kohaku was adopted after an earlier person called Kohaku (古伯).
　　　　　　Moreover, at Hanai Temple in Toyokawa there is a memorial tablet reading "Yōrin-in Hōjun Daizen-mon." This person died on July 7th of Bunmei 14th year, and according to records at Mr. Makino Sachi's house in Makino Village,
　　　　　　not only is this said to be Kohaku's posthumous Buddhist name, but the newer memorial tablet actually has the two characters for Kohaku added, reading "Hōjun Ko-
　　　　　　haku." Also, next to Naritomi's grave at Yanagaizu there is an ancient tomb that according to oral tradition is said to be Kohaku's grave.
　　　　　　However, since Kohaku Shigetoki died in Eishō 3rd year as mentioned before, dying in battle at Imahashi Castle, not only does the date differ from this memorial tablet's person, but having a grave in Makino Village doesn't make sense. Therefore, while the legend and oral tradition that this memorial tablet or ancient tomb belongs to someone called "Ko-
　　　　　　haku" cannot be dismissed, it can simultaneously be believed that this "Kohaku" is not the same as the Kohaku Shigetoki who built the castle at Imahashi.
　　　　　　Then, is this memorial tablet's person Kohaku's father Naritomi? No, because Naritomi died in Bunshō 3rd year, before the Bunmei era. That is, this memorial tablet's person is neither Naritomi nor Shigetoki,
　　　　　　but another person who took the name Kohaku (古伯), and was perhaps the petitioner who erected the ridge beam tablet at Zaigaji Temple in Bunmei 3rd year. From these various
　　　　　　points, it seems quite believable that Kohaku (古伯) and Kohaku (古白) were of the same Makino clan but different people.
　　　　　　Regarding Kohaku's background, it is largely as described above, but the "Kansei Chōshū Shokafu" states that on April 8th of Meiō 4th year, Kohaku became the leader of Mikawa Province's warriors by order of Ashikaga Yoshitane.
　　　　　　Since the Ashikaga shogun's power and prestige had considerably declined by that time, even being appointed leader of Mikawa's warriors would not have carried much practical authority.
【Margin】
　Toyohashi Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku has devoted his extensive knowledge and tireless energy to compiling Toyohashi city history for over a year, and now as his manuscript nears completion...

【Left page】
【Main text】
　　　　　　However, it is a fact that Kohaku was beginning to make his mark in Mikawa at that time. Also, Kohaku's construction of the current Naka-ya Shinmei Shrine hall in Toyohashi City was in Meiō 6th year, but Meiō ended in its 9th year and changed to Bunki, and Bunki lasted only
　　　　　　three years before becoming Eishō in the fourth year. Imahashi Castle was completed in the second year of Eishō, but regarding the circumstances when Kohaku first
　　　　　　built this Imahashi Castle, there are various theories. "Futaba-matsu" states it was built by order of Imagawa Ujichika,
　　　　　　and "Ushikubo Mitsudan-ki" also records that "on April 8th when Kohaku was visiting Wakamiya Hachiman shrine at Ushikubo, a messenger arrived from Suruga
　　　　　　with orders to build a castle in the vicinity of Mamizuka in this province," and Kohaku rejoiced saying "what greater honor could there be for me?"
　　　　　　However, since there is no reliable evidence that this castle construction was ordered by Ujichika, and no other trustworthy documents
　　　　　　record this, it remains questionable. But the same Mitsudan-ki describes the situation during castle construction:
　　　　　　　  "Makino Shigetoki gathered the members of the Ushikubo group retainers, inspected the hill at Mamizuka and chose a place called Nyūdōgafuchi as the castle site, assembling several
　　　　　　　thousand laborers to fill half of this deep pool, but the Toyokawa's current washed the banks and the incoming tide made progress very difficult.
　　　　　　　Such deep pools have spiritual masters, and if treated carelessly will bring curses and hindrances, so let us borrow the power of buddhas and gods.
　　　　　　　Fortunately, Kichijō-zan in this province is a sacred place, so soil was requested from this mountain to begin the filling, then hill soil was transported. Additionally, prayers by noble monks
　　　　　　　and high priests, especially at Tennō-gū, Wakamiya, Kumano Daigongen, river shrine festivals were conducted with utmost devotion, and the water flow became calm, completing the work in Eishō
　　　　　　　2nd year of the Ox, and it was named Imahashi Castle."
　　　　　　This appears to record folk legends and seems somewhat contrived, but I think it contains truly significant points. Indeed,
　　　　　　the castle that Kohaku built at this time was at the site of present-day Toyohashi Castle where the 18th Infantry Regiment is located, though of course it was not
　　　　　　as extensive as today's castle. However, it can be believed that at that time this river was still quite wide with swift currents and deep pools.
　　　　　　Regarding the place name Mamizuka, whether this area was actually called Ma-
【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Construction of Imahashi Castle and Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　19