【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　36

【Main text】
-kō was Nobushige, and Sankyūi-kō was Denji Shigetaka. Of course, there seems to be no dissenting opinion regarding Shigetaka's Buddhist name since ancient times, but concerning Shigekazu and Nobushige, there are two theories making it difficult to determine which is which. However, in the testament written by the founder of Ryūnen-ji temple, priest Kyūya Sōkan, there is a memorandum about the temple's ancestral hall stating "5 kan of rice fields, Iten-ju-sei, Makino Tazō." This is from that period and is undoubtedly authentic, but since Iten-ju-sei was originally the Buddhist name, and he is respectfully called Itensei-kō, and considering that the 5 kan of rice fields were donated when this temple was established, I believe this certainly corresponds to Shigekazu. At Ryūnen-ji temple, there is still a memorial tablet carved with:

　　　　　　　　　　　Seigaion-kōji
　　　(Front)　Temple founder　Itensei-kōjōza
　　　　　　　　　　　Sankyūi-kōanji

　　　(Back)　　　　Kyōroku 2, Year of the Metal Ox, 5th month, 28th day

If this memorial tablet were from that time, it would be excellent historical material, but unfortunately, judging from the period, it appears to be a much later creation from a distant later age. However, I think it predates the Shōtoku 2 submission.

⦿Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan

This time I shall discuss Ninrengi Castle and the Toda clan, but for this it is necessary to naturally speak first about the general situation after the fall of Imahashi Castle. As described in the previous chapter, the Makino clan, who were the builders of Imahashi, temporarily fell into a state of extinction due to Matsudaira Kiyoyasu, but afterward Kiyoyasu had a man named Makino Denbei guard Imahashi Castle.

【Left page】
【Margin】
San'yō Newspaper No. 3,728 Supplement　(Published April 11, Meiji 44)

【Main text】
This Denbei, according to certain records, was said to be Kohaku's younger brother, but this must still be considered questionable. However, he was undoubtedly a member of Denzō's clan, and initially lived in a place called Masuoka in Hōi District. Around that time, this person submitted a document to the Hachiman Shrine in Hachiman Village, Hōi District, which also records the name as Taira Nobushige, and I think it still remains today. However, discord arose with the main family, and he had previously submitted to the Matsudaira clan. At that time, Toda Danjō-shōhitsu Yasumitsu was in Tahara, and Makino Shinjirō Sadanari and others were in Ushikubo, but since all sought peace with Kiyoyasu, the Saigō clan of Saigō, the Suganuma clan of Tamine and Noda, and other people of eastern Mikawa generally came to belong under his banner. This Makino Sadanari was the adoptive father of Shinjirō Narisada, ancestor of the Nagaoka-Makino family, and was the son of Makino Shigekatsu, whom I mentioned much earlier. Although the Kansei Revised Genealogies of Various Families lists Sadanari's father as Ujikatsu, I believe this is an alternate name for Shigekatsu. Now, Kiyoyasu's power was quite formidable for these reasons, but on the 5th day of the 12th month of Tenbun 4, at the famous Moriyama camp in Owari Province, he was mistakenly killed by one of his retainers named Abe Yashichi at the mere age of twenty-five. This is the so-called "Moriyama Collapse," and the Matsudaira clan not only lost their lord but also internal strife broke out. So Abe Sadayoshi, Yashichi's father, feeling he had no excuse to his lord's family, took personal responsibility for Kiyoyasu's son Hirotada, who was still ten years old and called Senchiyo, and fled to Ise to depend on Tōjō Mochihiro of Kanbe. This Mochihiro was of the Tōjō-Kira clan and was Hirotada's uncle by marriage, but he wholeheartedly protected Hirotada and sought aid from Imagawa Yoshimoto. Although there is also a different theory that after Mochihiro died and his son was unfavorable to Hirotada, Hirotada moved to Kaketsuka in Tōtōmi and eventually came to depend on the Imagawa clan, Mochihiro's death was actually in the 10th month of Tenbun 8, and Hirotada's dependence on Yoshimoto was in the spring of Tenbun 5, so the former theory seems correct. Indeed, regarding the Imagawa clan as well, Ujichika had already died in the 6th month of Daiei 6, and his son Ujiteru succeeded him, but he also died in the 3rd month of Tenbun 5, so internal strife arose there as well. At that time, Ujiteru's two younger brothers were both monks, but finally the youngest brother

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　37