【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　38

【Main text】
who came to succeed was namely Yoshimoto, who was nineteen years old at the time, and it was in this year that Hirotada came to depend on the Imagawa clan. So Yoshimoto first helped Hirotada by placing him in Muro Castle, and in the sixth month of the following sixth year, finally had him welcomed back to Okazaki. This Muro Castle is generally interpreted by most sources as being the Muro in Atsumi District. However, since I have not yet completed my research, I cannot make a definitive statement, but records suggesting that there might have been some kind of fortress in the Muro area of Atsumi District at that time are occasionally scattered about. Moreover, at Shōmyōin in Moriue, Toyohashi City, there is said to be the grave of a wet nurse who came with Hirotada at this time, and therefore there is a legend that the area came to be called Moriue and Morishita for this reason. This matter is also recorded in works like the Yoshida Meijō Sōroku, but this cannot be relied upon. However, the Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō states that this refers to Moro in Hazu District, which can also be written as Muro, and that it refers to that place. I truly believe this to be the truth. In any case, due to these circumstances, the friendship between the Imagawa and Matsudaira clans became firm, and from then on the Matsudaira house became something like a protectorate of the Imagawa clan.

However, at that time, both the Matsudaira clan and Imagawa Yoshimoto had only recently succeeded to their positions and did not have the leisure to extend their power sufficiently far. It was precisely the Toda clan that took this opportunity to gradually spread their wings in this region.

The Toda clan's base was originally Tahara in Atsumi District, and this Tahara Castle was built by Danjō Saemon Munemitsu, whom I mentioned in the previous chapter. Munemitsu's son was namely Danjō-chū Norimitsu, and Norimitsu's son was Sakon-no-jō Masamitsu. In the genealogy of Zenkyūin, as I briefly mentioned before, Masamitsu is said to actually be Norimitsu's younger brother, but I think this is a theory rarely seen elsewhere. And Masamitsu's son was Danjō-shōhitsu Yasumitsu, and Yasumitsu's son was namely Yoshimitsu, the ancestor of the revival of the Ninrengi-Toda house. Now, if I try to show the outline of their family tree according to the Kansei Revised Genealogies of Various Families, it is as follows:

●Munemitsu　　　　　Norimitsu　　　　　Masamitsu　　　　　Yasumitsu

【Margin】
□Toyohashi Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling the history of Toyohashi City for over a year, and now as his manuscript is nearly complete
□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□

【Left page】
【Main text】
　　　　　Yoshimitsu　　　　　Moriteru　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tadamasa
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yoshikuni　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mitsutada
　　　　　Yoshimitsu　　　　　　　　　　Shigesada
　　　　　Daughter　　　　　　　　　　　Tadashige　　　　　Yasunaga
　　　　　Masanao
　　　　　Shigemasa

Of course, there are dissenting opinions among these, but I plan to discuss them gradually. Now, the place called Ninrengi, as I mentioned before, was anciently called Hajkami, later written as Hashikami, and eventually came to bear the place name Ninrengi. This person Yoshimitsu initially lived in Kaji village in Ushikubo, but in Tenbun 10 came to this Ninrengi and built a castle. This is recorded in various books including the Kansei Revised Genealogies of Various Families, the Toda Family Genealogy, and Futabamatsu, among others. However, there had been a Toda clan castle here for much longer, and sources like the Hankanfu state that a castle was already built in this area during Munemitsu's time. Indeed, since Tahara, the Toda clan's base, is isolated on one side as you know, it was natural from a geographical standpoint to first apply their strength to the present Toyohashi area and establish communications with this place. While various books state that Munemitsu came to live and build his castle in Tahara during the Meiō period, this seems chronologically inconsistent. I think Munemitsu came to live in Tahara much earlier, and the Meiō period might rather be when this Ninrengi Castle was built. Of course, regarding this matter, there are discussions in the Hankanfu and the Toda Family Lineage Correction Records, etc., so there are many quite useful reference points.

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　39