【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　48

【Main text】
"heads should be taken, I am sending separate letters to each and expressing my appreciation. Truly, these repeated military achievements are most excellent. You should continue to demonstrate loyal service as described above.
　　November 25th　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yoshimoto (seal)
　　　Lord Amano Aki-no-kami"

From this document, it appears that the Imagawa forces began attacking Yoshida Castle from dawn on November 15th to breach the outer fortifications. However, since this lacks a year designation, there are various theories. Works like Dr. Yoshida's geographical dictionary treat this as being from Tenbun 14 and claim it is contemporary with another document sent by Sessai, but I think this is completely wrong. I am confident that this document from Yoshimoto is definitely from the time of the Yoshida Castle attack in Tenbun 15, while the other document from Sessai is from the following year, Tenbun 16, during the attack on Tahara Castle. I will explain the Sessai document in detail later, but regarding this Yoshimoto document, the Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō also records under Tenbun 15: "Upon examination, although this document does not record the year, since it concerns the fall of Imahashi, it must be from this year. According to this, the castle fell in the eleventh month." However, when I previously discussed the place name Yoshida, I seem to have stated that both documents were from Tenbun 16, which was insufficient language, so I ask your understanding on this matter.

Then in the following year, Tenbun 16, another incident occurred. This is the famous story of how the Toda of Tahara seized Takechiyo while he was traveling to Suruga Province as a hostage to the Imagawa clan. Takechiyo was six years old at the time, but there are various theories about this as well. The Matsudaira Records state:

"Toda Danjō's younger brother, a man called Toda Gorō who lived in Tahara, seized Lord Takechiyo's palanquin at Shimomi-zaka and went by ship to Owari Province."

But this Gorō refers to Masanao, so he should actually be the son of Danjō Shōhitsu Yasumitsu. The Tokugawa True Records state:

【Left page】
【Margin】
San'yō Shimbun No. 3746 Supplement　　(Published May 2, Meiji 44 [1911])

【Main text】
"When Lord Takechiyo had barely reached six years of age, it was decided that he should go to Suruga as a hostage... (omitted)... altogether 28 people with over 50 foot soldiers, and Abe Jingoro Masanobu's son Tokuchiyo (who became Iyo-no-kami Masakatsu), aged six, was placed in the same palanquin as a playmate. Toda Danjō Shōhitsu Yasumitsu of Tahara was the father of Lord Hirotada's current wife, so using this connection he promised to send them by ship from his own territory since the land route had many enemy territories. When they entered Yoshida from the western district, Yasumitsu and his son Gorō Masanao conspired together, deceived the escort party, put them on a ship and sent them to Atsuta in Owari Province, delivering them to Oda Nobuhide. Nobuhide was extremely pleased and placed them in the care of Katō Tosho Junsei of Atsuta."

This records that Yasumitsu conspired with his son Masanao to seize Takechiyo at Yoshida. However, Hikozaemon's Mikawa Monogatari states:

"Lord Takechiyo. At the age of six years. As a hostage. Went down to Suruga. During this time in the western district. He boarded a ship. And landed at Tahara. The plan was for him to go from Tahara down to Suruga. The Lord Toda Danjō Shōhitsu of Tahara was Hirotada's father-in-law and Takechiyo's step-grandfather. However, Lord Shōhitsu sold Lord Takechiyo to Oda Danjōchū for one thousand kan of Eiraku coins. He put him on a ship and had him land at Atsuta Shrine, where the head priest took custody of him until the following year."

The claim that Takechiyo was sold for one thousand kan of Eiraku coins seems questionable, but otherwise this account appears closest to the truth. Particularly, the theory that Takechiyo was seized at Shiomi-zaka also appears in the Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō, but I think this is completely unbelievable from a geographical standpoint. If one were to speculate about Shiomizaka, there is a place called Shiomichi Kannon in present-day Fukuoka within Takashi Village outside Toyohashi City, and since the sea formerly extended up to that area, one might suppose it could refer to that vicinity. Of course, this is mere conjecture with no evidence whatsoever, but in any case

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　49