【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　　　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　56

【Main text】
but since Imahashi Castle fell in Eishō 2 as previously mentioned, Bunki 1 would be four years before its construction. Therefore, if we date the Yahagi River battle to Bunki 1 as before, when the Imagawa forces withdrew to this point, what condition was it in at that time? This raises yet another new problem for investigation.

However, it is a fact that even at that time, this area was already within Kohaku's sphere of influence, which can be proven by the fact that Kohaku built the Shinmei Shrine in this area in Meiō 6, and the ridge beam inscription from that time still exists today.

The above is a problem requiring considerable research and cannot be hastily concluded, but I think it is necessary to present the results of investigations up to this point on this occasion.

Incidentally, I should mention that the Sōchō Memoir states: "Twenty-some years after the tragic incident during Yoshitada's return to his domain, Ujichika entered the domain and though it became peaceful, violent groups from neighboring provinces did not cease. There were allies at a mountain called Funakata on the Mikawa border. Tahara Danjō-chū, Suwa Shinano-no-kami and other rōnin assembled and attacked and captured Funakata castle. The castle keeper Tasue Matasaburō died in battle. The enemy held this castle, but Yasuyuki immediately crossed the sea at Lake Hamana, captured it, killed several people, and then more than half of the rear districts advanced and returned to Kakegawa castle." This is written in the section for Daiei 2, but recorded as an old tale.

Considering this fact, this place called Funakata is the mountain where Fumon-ji temple in present-day Unno-ya is located, and at that time there was an Imagawa castle there. However, Imagawa Ujichika's father Yoshitada died in battle in an unexpected incident in Bunmei 9, and though the domain was in disorder afterward, his son Ujichika finally entered the domain and gradually restored peace, yet there were still those in neighboring provinces who sought to spy on the borders, and this Funakata castle fell.

This Tahara Danjō-chū mentioned is of course Toda Norimitsu, and Yasuyuki was the uncle of Kakegawa castle lord Asahina Yasuyoshi and a general of the Imagawa clan, but since Yasuyoshi was still young, he was assisting him. Judging from the text of the Sōchō Memoir and the era of the related persons like Norimitsu and Yasuyuki, this fact seems to have occurred around Eishō 12-13, but since the records in the Sōchō Memoir are vague regarding dates, we cannot say for certain. In any case, at that

【Left page】
【Margin】
San'yō Shinpō No. 3,758 Supplement　　　(Published May 16, Meiji 44)

【Main text】
time, Norimitsu had Ninrengi Castle within his sphere of influence, so it is believed he attacked the neighboring Funakata. Therefore, if we accept the Imagawa Ujichika attack theory based on Kohaku's death in battle in Eishō 3 as mentioned before, and attribute its cause to Norimitsu's slander, then the Toda clan's attitude toward the Imagawa must be seen as having been close only in the early years of Eishō, but hostile both before and after.

The above is added here as a supplement because I believe it serves as reference material for the various chapters mentioned previously.

◉Imagawa Yoshimoto and Yoshida

Now, as I mentioned before, Yoshida castle was taken possession of by Imagawa Yoshimoto in Tenbun 15, and then in the following year, Tenbun 16, Tahara castle also came under his occupation. The Tahara Toda clan temporarily scattered, but the Imagawa family newly placed castle deputies in both Yoshida and Tahara castles to suppress eastern Mikawa.

As for what condition the Matsudaira clan of Okazaki was in at that time: on the 6th of the 3rd month of Tenbun 18, the head of the family, Matsudaira Hirotada, died of illness at the young age of twenty-four, while his son Takechiyo was still detained in Owari.

However, Imagawa Yoshimoto frequently sent troops to western Mikawa to assist the Matsudaira and fought battles with the Oda of Owari. In that year, namely the 11th month of Tenbun 18, he attacked Anjō castle and finally captured it. At that time, Oda Nobuhiro was in Anjō castle, but in the Oda clan, Nobuhide had already died that spring and Nobunaga had succeeded him. Since this Nobuhiro was Nobunaga's elder half-brother, at this time the famous Sessei, who was the general commander of the Imagawa side, proposed to the Oda family to exchange Nobuhiro and Takechiyo.

Nobunaga must have had various considerations, but he finally agreed to the proposal and decided to exchange Takechiyo and Nobuhiro. On the 10th of the 11th month of that year, the exchange was completed at a place called Kasadera, and Takechiyo was finally able to return to his hometown of Okazaki

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　　　　(Imagawa Yoshimoto and Yoshida)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　57