[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Situation After the Battle of Okehazama) - 66

[Main Text]
...and fled back to Suruga. There, Ieyasu entered Okazaki's main castle for the first time. However, Yoshimoto's son Ujizane proved to be completely unreliable, so Ieyasu eventually broke with the Imagawa clan and allied with the Oda clan.

From then on, there would be continuous warfare between the Tokugawa and Imagawa clans, with this Toyohashi region becoming almost entirely a battlefield. I would like to discuss these circumstances in detail in later chapters.

⦿ The Situation After the Battle of Okehazama

Now, as I mentioned earlier, Ieyasu was at Odaka Castle when Imagawa Yoshimoto died in battle. After confirming Yoshimoto's death, that night he waited for the moon to rise and withdrew his forces to Daijuji Temple. The castellan of Okazaki Castle fled back to Suruga on the 23rd day, so Ieyasu entered his ancestral castle for the first time. It is unclear who the castellan was at that time, but he was naturally a retainer of the Imagawa clan, likely someone such as Miura Kazusa-no-suke Yoshiyasu or Iio Yajizaemon. Various records show that initially someone like Ishikawa Ukon had been there, but by this time he had apparently already been replaced.

Oda Nobunaga probably assumed that since Yoshimoto was dead, Ieyasu would naturally submit to him. However, Ieyasu was far from compliant. He repeatedly sent messengers to Sunpu, urging Yoshimoto's son Ujizane to wage war to avenge his father. But Ujizane showed no signs of responding to this request. Nevertheless, Ieyasu steadily deployed troops to attack various castles belonging to the Oda clan, including Koromo, Umetsubo, Hirose, and Kariya. In the following year, Eiroku 4, he invaded Chita District in Owari Province and fought Mizuno Nobumoto's forces at Ishise on the 7th day of the 2nd month. However, since Ujizane still would not provide any support, the Tokugawa clan finally resolved to break with the Imagawa and instead make peace with the Oda. According to the Matsudaira Chronicles, this appears to have happened at the beginning of that year, but it certainly occurred after the Battle of Ishise.

[Header note] Mayor of Toyohashi, Oguchi Kiroku, has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling the history of Toyohashi City for over a year, and now as his draft nears completion...

[Left Page]
[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions

[Main Text]
There are various theories about the circumstances leading to this point. The hardships and difficulties faced by the Tokugawa clan while Ieyasu was held as a hostage by the Imagawa were extraordinary. His retainers were repeatedly used as advance guards in battles, enduring bitter struggles without complaint, solely hoping for their lord's growth. Even after Ieyasu matured, Yoshimoto showed no real intention of returning his territories, which greatly increased the Tokugawa clan's suspicions. Given Ujizane's unreliability as demonstrated by the aforementioned circumstances, they felt that after all their loyal service up to that point, even breaking their oath would not dishonor their warrior reputation - this seems to have been one reason for their decision.

Moreover, this Mizuno Nobumoto was, as mentioned in the previous chapter, the brother of Ieyasu's birth mother, later known as Dentsuin, so he apparently took considerable effort to mediate this peace agreement. Nobunaga and Ieyasu exchanged written oaths, but when this became known in Sunpu, Ujizane became furious and sent messengers to demand an explanation. This proved ineffective, and Ieyasu deployed troops to attack the Imagawa forces under Itakura Danjo Shigesada at Nakajima and Oka (in Nukata District). Shigesada eventually abandoned his castle and fled to eastern Mikawa, so Nakajima was granted to Fukouzu Matsudaira Ohino-suke Yoshikage.

The following lords all declared their allegiance to the Tokugawa clan: Matsudaira Matashichi Iehiro of Katanohara, Matsudaira Genba-no-jo Kiyoyoshi of Takeya, Suganuma Shinhachiro Sadamitsu of Noda, Suganuma Kohoshi Sadanao of Danmine, Suganuma Saemon Sadakage of Nagashino, Okuudaira Kuhachiro Sadayoshi of Tsukute, Shitara Etchu-no-kami Sadatsuu of Kawaji, and Saigo Danjo Saemon Masakatsu of Saigo. Because of this, Ujizane ordered Kohara Shigezane to execute the hostages of these lords who were imprisoned in Yoshida Castle.

There are various theories about when this occurred - some say it was in Eiroku 3, others say Eiroku 5, and still others claim Eiroku 7. However, the Choyo Kyubun Hoko cites various records to place it in this year. In any case, it was an extremely cruel act. Those killed at this time were the wives and children of Matsudaira Iehiro, Matsudaira Kiyoyoshi, Suganuma Sadamitsu, Suganuma Sadanao, Suganuma Sadakage, Okuudaira Sadayoshi, Saigo Masakatsu, Shitara Sadatsuu, Okuyama Shuri, Mizuno Tobei, Otake Hyoemon, Asaba Santayu, Otake Mugiemon, and Ryota [surname], totaling thirteen people according to the records.

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Situation After the Battle of Okehazama) - 67