[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Situation After the Battle of Okehazama) - 72

[Main Text]
...had his son Uma-no-jo fight alongside Dewa-no-kami Yasunari, but in this battle Yasunari ultimately died in combat, as is recorded.

There is a legend that perhaps this occurred because Yasunari was obstinate and refused to agree to serve the Tokugawa, so Uma-no-jo was compelled to kill him, and therefore after this battle Uma-no-jo temporarily withdrew to Utsu-yama under Asahina Kii-no-kami in Totomi. However, I believe this is entirely folklore and a story that cannot possibly be believed. This Yasunari appears to have been quite a brave warrior and is believed to have held the greatest power in Ushikubo. A ridge plaque at Daion-ji Amida Hall in Mito Village, Hoi District, still remains with the inscription:

Great Patron: Makino Dewa-no-kami Yasunari, Heir Densaburo Narimoto
Makino Uma-no-jo Narimori
Tembun 22, Year of the Ox, Fifth Month, Thirteenth Day

It is questionable exactly who the Minbu-no-jo Shigetsugu and his son Uma-no-jo mentioned in the earlier secret discussion records refer to, but since the Nagaoka Makino family has traditionally used the names Shinjiro, Uma-no-jo, and Minbu-no-jo generation after generation since their ancestors, this period corresponds precisely to the time of Sadanari and his son Narisada.

There is a theory that Shigetsugu refers to a person called Shigekatsu, also known as Ujikatsu, but if that were true, the dates would not match, meaning the secret discussion records would be in error. The name Narimori on this ridge plaque might correspond to Sadanari according to the Ushikubo Secret Discussion Records, but I believe the theory that this refers to Narisada is correct.

As for what people were prominent in Ushikubo at that time, there is a document issued by Ujizane in the second month of Eiroku 8 regarding provisions for Yoshida Castle, with the following names listed:

Document Regarding Provisions for Yoshida Castle

[Left Page]
[Header] Sanyo Shimbun No. 3782 Supplement (Published June 13, Meiji 44)

[Main Text]
Total: 300 bags
Of these, 200 bags were from Udono Kyuan and Ohara Yazaemon, and the remaining 100 bags were brought into the castle by Oki Echizen-no-kami, showing the utmost loyalty. Therefore, repayment shall be ordered at the desired location.

Eiroku 8, Year of the Ox, Second Month, Second Day
To: Makino Uma-no-jo
    Makino Yamashiro-no-kami
    Nose Tanba-no-kami
    Iwase Izumi-no-kami
    Maki Etchu-no-kami
    Maki Zenbei

All these people lived in Ushikubo and appear to have still been on the Imagawa side at this time. Of course, Yasunari had already died in battle by then, but this Uma-no-jo refers to Narisada mentioned earlier, and Yamashiro-no-kami refers to Sadashige, the ancestor of the Tanabe Makino family mentioned in an earlier chapter. The other people all later became retainers of the Nagaoka Makino family, and it is said their descendants still remain in the Nagaoka household today.

I would also like to mention here that at that time there was a person named Inagaki Heiuemon in Ushikubo. This man was also quite a brave warrior, and when Yasunari died in battle, all sixteen of his subordinates were killed and he himself suffered severe wounds, but fortunately recovered completely. Later, when the Nagaoka Makino family was transferred to Ogo in Joshu Province, he lived out his days there. The commendation letters given to this man by Ujizane at the time number many and are preserved in the Makino Viscount family of Nagaoka, all containing words of high praise.

Also, something called "Ubume Mound" still remains in Ushikubo...

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Situation After the Battle of Okehazama) - 73