[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Decline of the Imagawa Clan and the Invasion of the Takeda Clan) - 106

[Main Text]
serving as deputy and defended against this. Also, at this time Ieyasu had marched out from Hamamatsu and was in Yoshida Castle. As I mentioned briefly before, the Tokugawa Jikki quotes the Gomeiyō Kikigaki and records the manner of battle at this time. The original text is as follows:

Battle of Rengi:
"In the fourth month of Genki 2, hearing that Takeda Shingen had invaded Sanshū, [Ieyasu] took residence in Yoshida Castle from Hamamatsu. Shingen's vanguard, Yamagata Saburōbei Masakage, came attacking with a large force. The lord erected his fan horse standard on the turret of San-no-wa and observed the enemy camp thoroughly. When Sakai Saemon-no-jō Tadatsugu said he would sally forth, [Ieyasu] restrained him, saying: 'Looking at the enemy camp, they do not intend to attack the castle but to lure us out and strike us with ambush troops in that pine grove. Watch carefully - soon they will send out warriors of merit to challenge us to battle. From our side too, send out men worth a thousand each and have them cross spears only.' As he predicted, from the enemy side Hirose Gōemon, Saegusa Den'emon, Haramiishi Gen'emon and others advanced to the earthen bridge. From within the castle, Sakai Saemon-no-jō Tadatsugu, Toda Samon Kazuaki, Ōtsu Dosaemon-no-jō Tokitaka and others sallied forth, exchanged words with each other and engaged, but soon the other side withdrew."

When we examine the account in the Kōyō Gunkan, it also states, as mentioned before:
"In the fourth month of Genki 2, Shingen directed his horse toward Yoshida. At a place called Rengi he constructed a fort, and Ieyasu's forces defended against it. He attacked the main approach with his full army, and moreover sent the mountain clans of three districts, Ogasawara forces, and Yamagata forces to work on the rear approach. Seeing this, they abandoned the castle and withdrew."

There is also a letter that Yamagata Saburōbei Masakage sent to Haramiishi Mondo at that time, and from this too we can understand the situation then, so I will excerpt the necessary parts below:

"Item: Regarding Asuke territory, it was besieged by our advance forces on the 15th, but as castle lord Suzuki Echigo and his son made various earnest appeals, their lives were spared and they departed on the 19th. Since that place is extremely fortified, Ina no Shimojō has been stationed there as garrison forces for our occupation.

Item: The small castles in the vicinity, beginning with Asagakai, Asuri, Yakuwa, Ōnuma, Tashiro and others, surrendered themselves, and since that route became clear and open, [we] advanced to eastern Mikawa