[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Odawara Campaign) - 156

[Main Text]
⦿ The Odawara Campaign

Now, as described in the previous chapter, Toyotomi Hideyoshi not only made peace with Tokugawa Ieyasu, but subsequently conquered the Hokuriku region as well as Shikoku and Kyushu, and his power nearly brought all sixty-odd provinces of Japan under his control. In Tenshō 15, the Jurakudai palace in Kyoto was completed, and in the fourth month of the following year, the Emperor made an imperial visit there. However, the eight provinces of Kantō and the two provinces of Ōu had not yet submitted to Hideyoshi's military authority. Of course, most of these eight Kantō provinces were controlled by the Hōjō clan, with Ujimasa and his son Ujinao stationed at Odawara, maintaining their hegemony in that region. Previously, when Tokugawa Ieyasu made peace with the Hōjō clan in the tenth month of Tenshō 10, they agreed that Ieyasu would take Shinshū while the Hōjō would take the two districts of Tone and Azuma in Kōzuke. At that time, Numata castle in Jōshū belonged to Sanada Masayuki, lord of Ueda castle in Shinshū. This man was quite valiant and would not easily obey Ieyasu's command to surrender the territory to the Hōjō. So Ieyasu and the Hōjō both sent troops to Numata and Ueda to attack Masayuki, but they could not achieve their objective. This matter was left unresolved by necessity. However, when Hideyoshi finally gained the power to dominate all four seas, he wanted by all means to make the Hōjō submit as well. Initially, he had Ieyasu persuade the Hōjō to come to the capital. As you know, Ieyasu's daughter Tokuhime was Hōjō Ujinao's wife, so through this marriage connection, Ieyasu conveyed the benefits of compliance. But since Ujimasa and Ujinao would not respond, in the intercalary fifth month of Tenshō 16, Hideyoshi sent Chancellor Myōjuin Seika to further persuade them. However, Ujinao not only refused to go to the capital but finally sent Hōjō Ujinori westward. But he demanded that Hideyoshi return the Numata territory mentioned earlier, saying he would go to the capital if that land were returned. So Hideyoshi gradually investigated the circumstances, and in the following year, Tenshō 17, he finally ordered Masayuki to give the Numata domain to the Hōjō, keeping only the burial ground called Nakuru

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3911 Supplement (Published November 14, Meiji 44)

[Main Text]
...mi, surrendering the rest to the Hōjō clan. Given this situation, Ujinao had no choice but to go to the capital. However, although he promised in the twelfth month to definitely go to the capital, he not only ignored this promise but also unexpectedly sent troops to seize Nakurumi territory. At this point, he finally incurred Hideyoshi's wrath, and thus the Odawara subjugation campaign began. In reality, Ujimasa and Ujinao had long controlled only the small world of the eight Kantō provinces, surpassing other regional lords but completely ignorant of the greater trends in the realm. Through what could be called the reckless courage of those ignorant of the world, their arrogance unknowingly led them to destroy both their house and themselves - a truly pitiful situation. Initially, when Ieyasu opposed Hideyoshi, he allied with the Hōjō out of necessity to eliminate threats from behind. But as times changed, this relationship also gradually transformed. Eventually becoming Hideyoshi's brother-in-law and then going to the capital, a firm offensive and defensive alliance was formed between the two. However, Ujimasa and Ujinao still could not grasp the trends of the times, believing "we have the natural barriers of Hakone and Usui - what can Hideyoshi possibly do?" Despite repeated warnings from Ieyasu, they paid no heed. But when Hideyoshi finally sent written orders and Ieyasu departed Sunpu on the twenty-ninth day of the eleventh month of Tenshō 17 to head once again to Osaka, the Hōjō finally fell into extreme panic. Even then, they still would not go to the capital themselves, ultimately allowing enemy forces to invade their castle town.

However, looking at it from another perspective, the circumstances at this time inevitably led the Hōjō to have no choice but to fight. In a sense, the Hōjō were compelled by masculine pride and had no alternative. This point deserves sympathy, and I think we must greatly defend the Hōjō for this manly, warrior-like behavior. However, the justification for going to war was truly untenable, and following their ancestors' old wisdom by stubbornly insisting on only castle defense showed reckless and ignorant courage, which I believe was certainly the cause of their failure.

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Odawara Campaign) - 157