[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Odawara Campaign) - 160

[Main Text]
The "Ina" mentioned above must certainly refer to Ina Binzen-no-kami Tadatsugu. However, the Butoku Hennen Shūsei identifies this person as Ina Tadamasa, and one or two other books record the same. But Tadamasa was Tadatsugu's son, and Tadatsugu was exactly forty years old in this year, so I believe it is correct to identify him as Tadatsugu. Indeed, Tadatsugu was called Kumazō at that time, and his appointment as Binzen-no-kami came much later. As you know, this man was talented and served as an official for the Tokugawa clan from the beginning, overseeing tax collection and land reclamation, and was said to be unparalleled in decisiveness. Three or four donation certificates and documents establishing tribute taxes bearing his signature from the sixth year of Keichō following the Battle of Sekigahara remain in this city and its vicinity. Many documents from before and after this period can also be found, all serving as materials concerning civil administration of that time, so I believe they will be cited when discussing that era. This man was later promoted by Ieyasu to a 10,000-koku stipend and died at age fifty-seven in Keichō 12, and is said to be buried at Shōgan-ji temple in Kōnosu, Musashi Province.

Thus Hideyoshi arrived at Sunpu on the nineteenth day. Ieyasu was then at Kōkoku-ji castle in Nagakubo, but returned to Sunpu himself to meet and entertain Hideyoshi. From there, Hideyoshi entered Mimaibashi castle in Numazu on the twenty-seventh day, gradually inspected the geography, and consulted with his generals to establish deployments. At this time, the Hōjō clan adopted a completely defensive policy as mentioned earlier, so the castle at Hakone Yamanaka immediately fell, and while only Nirayama castle in Izu maintained itself to the end, it was completely isolated, and Odawara castle, the Hōjō clan's stronghold, quickly fell under heavy siege. This siege continued until the seventh month of that year as you know, but Hideyoshi adopted a thoroughly patient strategy, establishing his main camp at Ishigakiyama. To relieve the tedium of the long siege, he set up a tea house at Nebukawa to enjoy tea ceremonies, had his generals invite wives and concubines to their camps, and even sent letters to his own wife having Lady Yodo come, thus conducting quite a leisurely siege. Meanwhile, as the siege of Odawara

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3917 Supplement (Published November 21, Meiji 44)

[Main Text]
...began, forces from Hokuetsu and Shinshū simultaneously invaded from Kōzuke and attacked the subsidiary castles within Hōjō territory. The Tokugawa clan also dispatched generals to that area to support these various armies. According to the Hankanfu, Sakai Ienao at this time led troops from Nagasawa and Nirengi as the first of the vanguard and attacked Usui castle in Shimotsuke Province, forcing its surrender. Of course, Ienao served as the Tokugawa vanguard in this campaign as mentioned earlier, with Matsudaira Yasunao of Nagasawa and Matsudaira (Toda) Yasunaga of Nirengi under his command. They advanced to Odawara and in the fourth month further entered Jōshū together with Honda Tadakatsu and others. Unfortunately, no detailed records of this battle at Usui can be found elsewhere. According to the Ietada Diary, Ienao was among the Odawara siege forces on the second day of the fifth month, and on the eighteenth day it records "Sakai Kunai took a local castle," but we have not yet been able to fully investigate what military achievement this refers to. In any case, I would like to mention this here for reference. However, on the sixth day of the seventh month, Odawara castle finally surrendered. Ujimasa and his brother Ujiteru committed suicide on the eleventh day at the residence of Odawara physician Tamura Chōden, and Ujinao was exiled to Mount Kōya on the twelfth day, bringing the matter to a close. There is much more to be said about these related matters, but since it would become too lengthy and is not directly necessary for our city's history, I will abbreviate here. However, I believe the "Sengoku Period Historical Essays" published by the Historical Geography Society in recent years contains much that would be useful for reference, so examining it would not be entirely without benefit.

⦿The Tokugawa Clan's Transfer to Kantō

As described in the previous chapter, the Hōjō clan, which had dominated Kantō for nearly a hundred years since Sōun, finally met with the tragic fate of destruction under the fifth generation leader Ujinao. Originally, strategies like castle sieges are passive tactics, and if there is no relief force

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Tokugawa Clan's Transfer to Kantō) - 161