[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Ikeda Terumasa and Yoshida) - 168

[Main Text]
⦿ Ikeda Terumasa and Yoshida

As mentioned in the previous chapter, the Tokugawa clan was transferred to Kantō, and all their generals who had long established their base in Eastern Mikawa also moved entirely to Kantō. Subsequently, Ikeda Terumasa was enfeoffed at Yoshida Castle in place of the Sakai clan, moving from Gifu in Mino Province. His stipend at that time was 152,000 koku. Yoshida Castle was naturally his headquarters, and the castles of Tahara and Ushikubo were also within his domain. At Tahara Castle he stationed a retainer named Igi Seibei, and at Ushikubo Castle he placed another retainer named Arao Heizaemon. A copy of the land grant catalog that Terumasa gave to Arao Heizaemon at this time is recorded in the "Ushikubo Secret Discussions" and reads as follows:

Land Grant Catalog
One: 684 koku, 7 to, 5 shō - Ushikubo
One: 1,102 koku, 8 to, 4 shō - Nagayama
One: 636 koku, 7 to, 2 shō - Takome
One: 67 koku, 1 to, 9 shō - Akaiwa
One: 437 koku, 1 to, 9 shō - Ōkusa
One: 78 koku, 1 to, 3 shō - Tearai
Total: Over 3,000 koku
Tenshō 18, 10th month, 28th day - Terumasa
To Lord Arao Heizaemon

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3928 Supplement (Published December 5, Meiji 44 [1911])

[Main Text]
From this, it appears that Heizaemon held the above villages as his fief. Since there is no indication that anyone was separately stationed at Nirengi Castle, which you are familiar with, it is believed that its abandonment dates from this time. Now, I would like to briefly discuss the matter of koku assessment. As you can see, the document that Terumasa gave to Arao Heizaemon records koku amounts. However, this koku system began to be used from around the middle of the Tenshō period onward. Before that, as you know, the kan system was used, expressed as "so many kan-mon." The differences between the kan and koku systems have long been a matter of considerable debate. Various theories about this matter have been recorded in books published to date, but there is no need for someone of such shallow learning as myself to discuss this in detail here. Should it become necessary in the future, that will be another matter, but for now I mention the timing of the transition from kan to koku assessment merely for your reference.

Now, when Terumasa came to Yoshida, he undertook urban reforms and greatly planned the expansion of the castle grounds. The most notable of these was first the relocation of the Toyokawa bridge. As I have mentioned repeatedly regarding this bridge, it had previously been built from the present Sekiya area to the opposite bank as an earthen bridge, but it seems to have been rather flimsy, washing away immediately whenever there was even a slight flood. However, since Terumasa recognized the necessity of relocating this bridge as part of his plan to expand the castle grounds, he moved it to Funamachi for the first time and made it into a proper wooden bridge. Its position was approximately forty ken downstream from where the present bridge stands, and its remains can still be identified today. The current bridge was first built in its present location in March of Meiji 12 (1879), and until then it had continuously remained in the same position where Terumasa had constructed it.

Next, regarding urban reorganization, this also appears to have been quite an ambitious plan. Specifically, he determined that having Gōshin Temple in its current location was inconvenient for urban planning, so he gave it land with the intention of relocating it to the Hada area, but this was not yet...

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Ikeda Terumasa and Yoshida) - 169