[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Character of Ikeda Terumasa) - 174

[Main Text]
Now, there is one more matter that Terumasa left behind in Yoshida that I must introduce to you all - the establishment of Myōenji Temple. Myōenji is a Nichiren sect temple that still exists today in the Shimizu district of our city. This temple was initially called Myōryūji and was established in Bunroku 2, but it originally split off from Myōryūji Temple in Yoshimi, Tōtōmi Province. At that time there was a monk at that Myōryūji named Nichien who was quite a renowned priest, and when Terumasa was in Yoshida, he deeply believed in Nichien and frequently invited him to listen to his teachings, according to records remaining at Myōenji Temple. He established a temple at the present location for this person and initially called it Myōryūji as well. Later, when Terumasa was transferred to Himeji, he summoned Nichien there too and built a temple called Myōryūji in Himeji as well. Therefore, the one in our city was renamed Myōenji, which continues to this day. When I recently visited Himeji, I made a point of seeking out that Myōryūji temple, but unfortunately all the monks were absent and I gained nothing from the visit. However, it is not a very large temple in scale but rather a neat, compact establishment. Terumasa died in Himeji and was buried at a temple there called Ryūhōji, and later was reburied according to Confucian rites at Tsurudo-yama in Wake District, Bizen Province. Therefore, this Myōryūji was never the Ikeda family temple, but rather was built specifically for Nichien due to Terumasa's deep faith in him. The Myōenji in our city has the same background, but it is regrettable that no documents relating to Nichien and Terumasa from that time remain today.

⦿The Character of Ikeda Terumasa

Besides what I described in the previous chapter, I think there is much to be said about Terumasa's character. The "Record of Famous Generals' Words and Deeds" describes his character as follows: "Terumasa was bold and unconventional in his youth, and grew to become a heroic figure. He was upright and strict yet lenient with his subordinates. He recruited many distinguished men, honored filial piety and brotherly respect, served his lord diligently day and night without slacking. When he died, there was none among high and low who was not shocked and saddened." I believe this was truly the case.

[Left Page]
[Header] This Toyohashi City Historical Discussion is published once weekly (Tuesdays) and presented to readers of the San'yō Newspaper

[Main Text]
Originally, Terumasa had been strong-willed since childhood - here is a story from when he was ten years old. His father Shōnyū was roasting chestnuts in the hearth when Terumasa came to sit beside him. Shōnyū asked if he wanted some chestnuts. When Terumasa said yes, perhaps wanting to test his courage, Shōnyū used chopsticks to pick up a chestnut straight from the fire and placed it in Terumasa's hand. Normally even an adult would cry out that it was hot and be startled, but Terumasa showed no surprise at all. He calmly received it respectfully and ate it. This story appears in something called "Tales of Old Men of Bizen" and has been quoted in various books. Of course, this type of story commonly appears in hero legends from East and West, but in any case, we can see that Terumasa had extraordinary courage from his early childhood.

However, even after gaining power, Terumasa remained truly frugal. In a work called "Recollections" there is an account of Terumasa: "When he resided in Himeji Castle, the bamboo water containers in his living quarters frequently broke, so his officials said, 'These days it is fashionable to make water containers from copper. If we have one made, it will never break and would be economical.' He replied, 'As you say, investing once would benefit the future, but the current expense would be very different from bamboo. It is not good to change old ways just to follow the times,' and the matter was dropped." Yet despite his personal frugality, he treated his retainers very generously and made efforts to recruit distinguished men. He truly practiced the principle of "being sparing with oneself but generous with others." Once when his senior retainers, concerned about his excessive frugality, suggested he might be a bit more lenient with himself, Terumasa replied: "I certainly know that I am perhaps too frugal, but I cannot help it - without this I could not support many retainers. Though the world is peaceful now, one never knows when it might be disturbed again. What I desire most is warriors, so I save on unnecessary expenses to support many men. This is my

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Character of Ikeda Terumasa) - 175