[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Battle of Sekigahara) - 182

[Main Text]
[The Fall of Hidetsugu] Hideyoshi was completely misled by this and immediately regarded Hidetsugu as a rebel plotting against him, taking truly cruel measures. As you all know, Hidetsugu committed suicide at Mount Kōya in the 7th month of Bunroku 4 (1595), and all his wives and concubines were paraded through the streets of Kyoto and beheaded at Sanjō Riverbank. Not only that, but his retainers were gradually executed here and there, and those who had close relationships with Hidetsugu were exiled or severely reprimanded. It was Mitsunari and others who carried out these actions on Hideyoshi's orders, and at that time anonymous placards like the following appeared at street corners throughout Kyoto:

"The realm belongs to all under Heaven. The crimes of the Kampaku house should be dealt with according to precedents for the Kampaku house - this would be most reasonable and just. Yet today they are treated as freely as the wives and children of commoners, with great violence. This is not governance that will lead to a fortunate future. Alas, beware of the workings of karma! The world is like a small cart of inexorable karma - both good and evil inevitably come full circle."

When one considers such matters carefully, even the later years of the great hero Hideyoshi present a truly alarming fate. At this time, what was the situation with the overseas campaign? As you know, immediately after the expedition began, our land forces achieved victory after victory and advanced as far as Pyongyang, with commanders like Kiyomasa even attacking into Hamgyŏng Province. However, peace negotiations were initiated by Ming China, and while we won the battles, we seemed to lose in diplomacy, so that the expeditionary generals ended up idly passing their days. Bunroku 5 became Keichō 1 (1596) with the change of era name. In this year, peace negotiations were finally concluded and the generals returned to Japan once, but Hideyoshi was angered by the investiture documents sent by Ming China, so in the 9th month of that year he again launched an overseas expedition. Those involved in this eventually grew weary of the prolonged campaign and warfare.

During this period, Hideyoshi himself gradually developed thoughts of ease and lost his spirit of vigorous effort, increasingly indulging in luxury and pleasure.

[Header note] Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku of Toyohashi has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling the Toyohashi City History for over a year, and now as his manuscript nears completion...

[Left Page]
[Header] This Toyohashi City Historical Discussion is published once weekly (on Tuesdays) and presented to readers of the San'yō Newspaper.

[Main Text]
The famous cherry blossom viewing at Yoshino and pilgrimage to Mount Kōya from the 2nd to 3rd months of Bunroku 3 (1594) are well-known examples, and the construction of the famous Fushimi-Momoyama Castle also took place around this time. Construction began in the 1st month of Bunroku 3 and was completed in the 3rd month of Bunroku 4. Its scale and construction were truly magnificent, displaying a remarkably bold character while also being extremely refined in taste. Today the exact location and other details are no longer clearly known, but present-day Fushimi town corresponds almost entirely to what was within the castle grounds. Located between Kyoto and Uji and commanding the Yodo River, one can imagine its scenic beauty and views. The Karamon gate, Hiunkaku pavilion, Nami-no-ma room, and guest hall of present-day Nishi Hongan-ji temple, the Karamon gate of Toyokuni Shrine, the Kannon Hall of Chikubu Island in Ōmi Province, the worship hall of Tsukubusuma Shrine, and the Karamon gate of Daitoku-ji temple in Murasakino are said to be parts that were relocated from there, so even from these one can understand how the aesthetic of that time displayed such distinctive characteristics.

[The Daigo Cherry Blossom Viewing] Later, in the 3rd month of Keichō 3 (1598), Hideyoshi held another cherry blossom viewing at Sanpō-in temple in Daigo, which was quite a magnificent affair and was essentially his final celebration.

[Hideyoshi's Death] Just two months after this flower viewing, he suddenly fell ill, and on the 18th day of the 8th month of that year he finally passed away. The overseas expedition forces were then recalled and began withdrawing in stages, all returning to Japan and arriving at Fushimi by the end of that year, thus bringing this matter to a close.

However, Hideyoshi's final period was truly tragic. As mentioned before, he fell ill from the 5th month of Keichō 3 and was convalescing at Momoyama Castle in Fushimi, but his heir Hideyori was only six years old, making his future quite worrisome. Moreover, due to the circumstances described earlier, the faction of Ishida Mitsunari and others relied heavily on Lady Yodo's influence and could be called the civil administration faction. Meanwhile, people like Katō Kiyomasa, Fukushima Masanori, and Asano Nagamasa represented the so-called military faction, and there was serious antagonism between these groups. With his retainers in such circumstances, I think Hideyoshi's greatest concern was his relationship with Ieyasu. Thus, while ill, on the 14th day of the 6th month, he summoned the Five Commissioners of the time: Maeda Gen'i, Asano Nagamasa...

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Battle of Sekigahara) - 183