【Right Page】
Illustration of Sun Bin mastering military arts and capturing bandits
Illustration of Sun Bin serving Wei and praying for rain
Illustration of Sun Bin using strategy to have ten thousand crossbows shoot Pang Juan at Maling Road
Illustration of Lin Xiangru serving as envoy to Qin
　Also including the matter of Bian He's luminous jade disc
Illustration of the King of Qin meeting with the King of Zhao at Mianchi
Illustration of Lin Xiangru avoiding his carriage upon seeing Lian Po approaching

【Left Page】
Illustrated Treasure Bag Volume Six
　　The Matter of Yan Pingzhong Serving as Envoy to Chu Without Bringing Shame to the State of Qi

Yan Ying of Qi went as an envoy to the state of Chu to apologize for the matter of Doubao. Having already arrived in Chu and observing the scenery throughout the country, he found it truly to be a beautiful land south of the Yangtze River, blessed with spiritual earth and outstanding people. Proceeding forward, he encountered a great gate that was closed, with a small gate beside it that was very narrow and low. The Chu guide came out to greet him and tried to have him enter through the small gate. Yan Zi, knowing in his heart that they were showing contempt for him, said, "This is a dog hole. Wait for an envoy from a dog country to enter through it," whereupon they finally allowed him to enter through the great gate. When he reached the court, dozens of Confucian ministers and strategists lined up on both sides and took turns coming forward to criticize him, but since Yan Zi responded to each and every point, they all fell silent and withdrew. Wu She, a high-ranking military officer of Chu, said, "Yan Zi is a worthy scholar of Qi. Why do we treat him with contempt?" and brought him before King Ling. When the king bestowed an orange, Yan Zi ate it with the peel. When the Chu king laughed heartily, Yan Zi said, "I have heard that when a sovereign bestows fruit, oranges and citrus fruits are not to be peeled." The Chu people could not bring themselves to humiliate him further, and finally accepted the diplomatic gifts, entertained Yan Zi, and sent him home.