[Left page, upper section]
Okinawa
　Oral Literature

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakahara Zenchū

　　　1　Ancient songs…………………………………175
　　　2　Ancient chanters…………………………………183
　　　3　Ryūka………………………………………188

　　1　Ancient songs

1　Omoro
Introduction　The representative works of Okinawan oral literature would be Omoro and Kuina. Both were sung with fixed melodies and are so-called sung narratives. Teruko-bushi of Iheya Island and Amae-da of the Shimajiri region are also sung narratives similar to Kuina.
Written characters are thought to have been introduced to Okinawa around the 13th century. Although there is no direct evidence, the fact that a monk named Zenkan (a Japanese monk?) came over during the Bun'ei era (1264-1275) and built Gokuraku Temple serves as a clue for estimating

[Left page, lower section]
the period when written characters were introduced.
The diplomatic document when Okinawa first sent an envoy to Ming China (Bunchū 1 = 1372) is said to have been written in katō script. It is thought that this was probably kana script. The oldest stone inscription, the Ankokuzan Hanaki Memorial Stele in Shuri, was written in Chinese characters in Ōei 29 (1422), while the Madama Harbor Stele inscription was written in Ryukyuan using hiragana in Daiei 2 (1522). The proclamation in the "Tana Documents" was also written in similar hiragana in the first half, with the oldest dating to Daiei 3 (1523). The Madama Harbor Stele inscription has magnificent calligraphy with proper style and is included in the "Complete Collection of Famous Japanese Calligraphy." The characters in the "Tana Documents" also show equally excellent calligraphy. To master writing such characters, considerable time must have passed since written characters were first introduced. Some have written that "since ancient times, Ryukyu had pictographic characters called Kaidā script," but this refers to symbols used on Yonaguni Island at the western end of the Yaeyama Islands, with a population of over six thousand, and these are not true written characters. As mentioned above, written characters were transmitted from Japan to Okinawa around the 13th-14th centuries, and among these, texts mixing kana with Chinese characters appear to have been quickly put to practical use.
Oral literature developed independently of written characters and the culture that written characters carried, growing through its own creative power. However, Okinawa and Japan originally shared the same ancestral language