180

[Right page, upper section]
Both are boat songs: "walking Eto" are mainly songs for rowing with oars and poles, while "dancing Eto" are sailing songs.

Previously, Ariki-eto (walking Eto) had been classified as marching songs based on the literal meaning of the characters. However, 33 of the 45 songs in volume 10 are boat songs, with lyrics like "Summon the boat around the bay, walk eastward" (10-4) and "Walking eastward, walking beyond the sun (teda)" (10-14, 42, 43), referring to rowing boats. Sailing ships are also sung about, but most involve rowing.

Volume 13 includes not only sailing songs but also many launching ceremony songs. In the 15th-16th centuries, Eto seems to have taken the song world by storm. It is said that even the folk saying "Not doing Eto is like a pig king's piglet" became popular.

King Shō Shin (1477-1526) was a wise ruler. In Eishō 12 (1515), when sending the ship Seji-ara-tomi to Manan-ban (True Nanban = Thailand), he personally sang Eto, praying for safe voyage - this is recorded in volume 13, section 17. Under the next king, Shō Sei (1526-1553), a fortress called Yaraza-mori-gusuku was built at Naha harbor entrance. The king and priestesses from the Kikoe-ōgimi down attended and were granted Miseseru. At that time, the king ordered four officials to compose "Eto." This

[Right page, lower section]
is clearly volume 13, section 18, as evident from its preface. Both the Eto sung by King Shō Shin and the Eto commissioned by King Shō Sei are called "Shuri Eto melody."

Let me give one example of Eto Omoro - a scene when a trading ship returning from Nanban arrived at Naha harbor entrance.

　　　　　Shuri Eto melody (Volume 13, Section 5)
　1. Brother Suzabe, Ōzato's
　　　　helmsman's caution,
　　　　Pray to the great lord for true south wind,
　　　　Won't you sail forth?
　Again, Good Ōzato,
　Again, Long-awaited Kawachi ship,
　　　　With sleeves trailing, it crosses.

　　　　　(Translation) Brother, Ōzato's
　　　　　　　helmsman's prudence,
　　　　　　　Pray to the great lord for south wind,
　　　　　　　Won't you sail forth?
　　　　　Again, Good Ōzato,
　　　　　　　　　　(repetition follows)
　　　　　Again, Long-awaited Kawachi ship,
　　　　　　　With sleeves trailing, it crosses.

[Left page, upper section]
The long-awaited Kawachi-maru has finally returned. People gathering to welcome it form crowds like black mountains at the wharf. Since the wind is not from the true south, the ship runs east and west at the harbor entrance, unable to enter easily. Just as they call out with prayerful hearts, "Brother from Ōzato!" "The helmsman is too cautious!" "Pray to the great god for a true south wind and sail forth!" - the ship fills its sails with the true south wind and comes sailing in.

1 Suzabe, Ōzato - Suza means brother, be expresses respect, meaning "honored brother." Ōzato is a name derived from the helmsman's home island.

Omoro vocabulary consists of about 3,500 words, but among them there are no words for "uta" (song) or "utau" (to sing) - instead it is expressed as "doing Omoro." The meaning of Omoro must also be seen as having changed over time.

When Eto based on ship rhythms was sung in the 16th century, it immediately became popular, and contemporary songs became entirely Eto-colored. It appears that Omoro became associated with rituals while Eto became general songs. There are also Koneri Omoro (volume 9) and Asobi Omoro (volume 12). The former records dance movements with Omoro, the latter covers play, banquet and other Omoro - since their classification perspective differs, they are omitted here.

[Left page, lower section]
While the origin of Omoro in divine festivals is acknowledged, Esa and Eto clearly are not divine festival songs based on their content. The theory that Omoro means songs sung at sacred groves is not valid from this perspective either.

Appendix: Ōshima Omoro - Most Ōshima Omoro are included in volume 13, "Fune Eto no Omoro Sōshi" (Ship Eto Omoro Collection). The 29 songs in sections 13-112-116, 183-204, and 212-213 are from the Ōshima island group. Other Ōshima Omoro are also scattered throughout. Even Iha Fuyū, the pioneer of Omoro research, did not point this out. The late Nobori Shomu's "History of Greater Amami" merely quoted Iha's theory without touching on Ōshima Omoro.

Ōshima's ancient culture formed a unity with that of Okinawa and was even more closely connected than the relationship between Okinawa and the Sakishima Islands (Yaeyama and Miyako archipelagos). The same conclusion applies not only to language, customs, and beliefs, but also from the perspective of literature.

2 Koina

Koina was also a type of Omoro but gradually developed as songs with their own unique form and content. Koina is the name of a musical accompaniment. It is a progressive narrative song consisting of continuous couplets centered on five-five meter,

Okinawa Oral Literature

181