182

[Right page, upper section - Photo caption]
Koina　　　　From Iha Fuyū's "Ryūkyū Kokon-ki" (Records of Ryukyu Past and Present)
In Shuri and Naha, on the third night after someone's daughter married out, female relatives and connections would gather to perform Koina praying for the newlyweds' peace. This custom has now died out and remains only in the memories of elderly women.

[Right page, lower section]
[Koina] forms simple group dances. While Esa is a lively non-religious group dance by men, Koina belongs to women and is connected to celebrations and prayers. Some contain content about conquest and triumphant return, but even these sing about priestesses subduing enemies through magical arts. They were sung at all kinds of rituals: house-building, ship launching, departures, rain prayers, rice ear festivals.

In medieval rituals, priestesses first performed Otakabe (or Nodategoto), then sang Omoro, and finally chorused Koina. At this time, not only priestesses but all other women participated as well.

If we examine a Koina for great rain prayer, the character of ancient-form Koina becomes fairly clear.

1. In this shrine, in this true shrine, from ancient times, from this morning, playing shrine, dancing shrine, because it truly exists, because it greatly exists, praying for rain, let us dance, praying for ibu, let us dance.
　　　(Translation) In this courtyard, in this true courtyard, from ancient times, from this morning, playing courtyard, dancing courtyard, because it truly exists, because it greatly exists, praying for rain, let us dance, praying for ibu (rain), let us dance.

If we dance, if we play, three days is too long to wait, four days is too long to wait,

[Left page, upper section]
Within the evening wind, within the evening sparrows, let rain fall down, let ibu fall down, we do not pray for abasu wind, we do not eat shikiyoto wind, pray for beautiful rain, pray for full rain, gently, grant it, peacefully, grant it.

　　　(Translation) If we dance, if we play, three days is too long to wait, four days is too long to wait. Within evening time, within evening stillness, let rain fall, let ibu (rain) fall. We do not pray for abasu wind. Pray for beautiful rain, pray for full rain, gently grant it, peacefully grant it.

1-2 Abasu-kaze, Shikiyoto-kaze - meanings unclear. Probably refers to winds with no fixed direction.
3 Kiyora-yonu - beautiful rain, such rain.

This Koina is one of the oldest recorded examples. Even so, it is recorded in the "Nakazato Kyūki" (Old Records of Nakazato), estimated to be from 1703. Having undergone several centuries of oral transmission before that, it must have suffered various omissions and alterations.

The netori (song leader) beats a drum and leads the singing. The congregation marches in a circle formation, stamping their feet or keeping foot rhythm, clapping hands for rhythm while singing "In this shrine, Koina, in this true shrine, Koina..." as they march.

[Left page, lower section]
Generally known examples include: (1) Ōshiro Koina, (2) Kanegusuku Koina, (3) Urizumu Koina, (4) Yarashi Koina, (5) Tabi Koina, (6) Agari-yu (Eastern World), etc. Each has distinctive singing and accompaniment styles. However, these Koina (written as "kwainya," "kauinya," etc.) are not from the ancient Omoro period but probably from the 17th century onward.

Notes: (1) Refers to Tana Oyakatsu's "Collection of Royal Decrees"
　　　(2) "Complete Collection of Japanese Calligraphy" (Inscriptions Section) (Shōwa 6/1931)
　　　(3) "Topographical Records of Japan: Kyushu-Okinawa Volume" (Shōwa 32/1957) p.304
　　　(4) See my work "New Interpretation of Omoro" (Shōwa 32/1957) p.45

II. Ancient Chants

Miseseru: Miseseru means divine words or divine language. These are phrases chanted by priestesses when possessed by gods, with the honorific "mi" prefixed to "seseru." "Seseru" originally was "seru," meaning for a superior to "tell" or "say" to an inferior. The "se" was doubled as in "sasayaku" (whisper), and "miseru" would be synonymous colloquial speech.

In Tenbun 22 (1553), fortifications were built at Naha harbor entrance to defend against Japanese pirates (wakō). On May 4th, the king and various officials lined up

Okinawa Oral Literature

183