[The lord] returned from the Eastern Capital (Edo). On the eighth day, a messenger was dispatched to convey thanks to Komatsubara Mitsuyoshi, presenting him with a gift of one set of padded clothing. On the ninth day, the retainers were assembled at the citadel (honmaru) and commended for their service; Shigeyoshi received one quiver of campaign arrows, Kawada Katsutoyo (known as Kinzaemon) received a pair of bracer/armguards (yugote), and the other retainers, down to the lower-ranking samurai and foot soldiers, received monetary rewards, each according to their rank. On the tenth day, rejoicing in the peace and stability restored throughout the domain, wine money was distributed to each household (roughly 200 coins for service households and 100 coins for farming households, totaling 100 gold pieces in all). Furthermore, those among the village headmen and household chiefs who had performed meritorious service were rewarded with several tens of koku of chestnuts and a considerable amount of gold and silver, each graded accordingly. [The lord] brought out treasures from the storehouse to use as collateral, or converted them into rice and barley to distribute to both samurai and commoners. (In former times, the previous lord had sought treasures for the ancestral shrine, amassing items worth several hundred gold pieces. The lord [our lord's father/predecessor] remonstrated with him, saying: "Whenever gold and silver fill the treasury, arrogant lords arise, and once an arrogant lord goes astray, one need not wait long before the treasury is emptied. If precious objects are kept in the storehouse, they can be preserved for a long time. In future years, should the domain face floods, droughts, or the upheaval of armed conflict, these items will surely serve as necessary resources. The wealth of the domain should be engraved upon one's bones through the generations, kept in hope for posterity." At this time, the lord sighed over this wise saying of the former lord, and once remarked to Shigeyoshi: "Alas, the foresight of the former lord was made precisely for this day.") Having received this counsel, [the lord] promptly put it into practice. The following year, Kinoto-Tatsu (Tenmei 4, 1784), in the fifth month of summer, [the lord and his retainers] were rewarded for having managed the great famine of the previous year, suppressed the peasant uprisings, and restored peace and stability to the domain. The lord was awarded a long sword (tachi, made by Kashu Ietsugu), and Shigeyoshi received a medium-length sword (katana, made by Soshu Tsunahiro).