【Right page】
weapons, but exclusively employ cannons and artillery. Therefore, within military camps and fortifications, there are many cases of bullet wounds and burns from gunpowder. The prescriptions for treating these conditions are not fully covered in Chinese medical texts; only Western books provide detailed information about them. Moreover, Chen Ruoxu stated: "To cling to ancient prescriptions while treating modern ailments is like wearing Zhou dynasty caps and Yin dynasty hats to match the cropped hair of the Yue people." Based on this, medical practitioners fundamentally cannot adhere to a single approach in their treatments. This is why it cannot be helped. Bai Zhengmeng also said: "All treatment methods, when adapted to the times and circumstances, will not fail even once in a hundred cases." The prescriptions in this book, having also been compiled in accordance with the times and circumstances, can be known to not fail even once in a hundred cases. Generally, all things cannot help but follow the trends of the times. Why should this be limited to medical treatment alone? The way of governing a nation is also the same.
Although the arrival of foreign envoys is most detestable, if we wish to follow the trends of the times, then what

【Left page】
they say must necessarily contain things that cannot but be adopted. If we indeed follow the trends of the times and adopt their words, then cannons will become like straw dogs (useless objects), and this book will also merely become like the useless skill of dragon-slaying. If we go against the trends of the times and forcibly reject their words, then foreign invaders may well attack. At such a time, this book, even if it represents only a brief compilation, cannot be dispensed with. Alas! A book written in accordance with the trends of the times becomes completely useless if one follows those trends, but becomes extremely useful if one goes against them. Is this not also strange? I believe that if we broadly extend the reasoning behind why this book follows the trends of the times, we will not only understand medical treatment, but also gain knowledge about the way of governing a nation. The ancients said: "The highest physician heals the nation." If this is so, then the way of medicine can fundamentally be connected to governing a nation. I was deeply moved by this and therefore wrote this preface.