【Right page】
On the Alternative Names of Divine Silkworms and the Existence of Several Types of Silkworms

According to the Eika-ki (Record of Eternal Joy), there are eight types of silkworms in Eika:
○Kōchin-san: These make cocoons in the third month
○Sha-san (Chinese hackberry silkworms): Make cocoons in early fourth month (presumably mountain mulberry silkworms)
○Kō-san: Make cocoons in early fourth month
○Aichin-san: Make cocoons in the fifth month
○Ai-san: Make cocoons at the end of the sixth month (presumably summer silkworms)
○Kanchin-san: Make cocoons at the end of the seventh month
○Shishutsu-san: Make cocoons in early ninth month
○Kan-san: Make cocoons in the tenth month

○Kōchin-san make cocoons in the third month, and moths emerge very early. It is said that they lay eggs and silkworms are born on the seventh day.
○For Aichin-san, eggs of Kōchin-san are deposited on paper, placed in a vessel with the top covered to prevent water from entering, then submerged in water to delay the emergence of silkworms.
○Moths emerge from Aichin-san cocoons and lay eggs; these are called Ai-san.

According to the Zatsu-gogyō-sho (Miscellaneous Five Elements Book), in the present world there are silkworms that molt three times and live once, and also silkworms that molt four times and are reborn. There are also silkworms with white heads, and Kitsu-seki-san, So-san,

【Left page】
Koku-san (black silkworms), Kaiji-san, Shūho-san (autumn mother silkworms), Shūchū-san (mid-autumn silkworms), Rōshūji-san (old autumn child silkworms), Shūmatsu-rōkai-san (late autumn old silkworms), Kinji-san (brocade child silkworms), and several other varieties. Generally, silkworms have different varieties of large and small types. Large silkworms are raised on thorny mulberry (Kei-sō) and Lu mulberry (Ro-sō), while small silkworms are raised on thin Japanese mulberry (Wa-sō). If one mistakenly feeds thorny mulberry to small silkworms, there is danger of bursting their bellies.

According to the Toyō-hen, the country of Meiri in Eishin-chū pays tribute with blue-gold silk. In that country there are mulberry trees whose branches spread and cover the ground. Large mulberry trees are over ten jō tall, smaller ones are five to six jō, and silkworms live on their branches.

【Illustration on left page】
Shape of eggs

Shape when first born

Shape on the third day

Shape on the sixth day

Shape on the tenth day