【Right page】
Regarding the Planting of Mulberry Seeds

In any country, if one intends to raise silkworms, it is essential to first cultivate mulberry trees. The best mulberry trees have large, round leaves that grow luxuriantly, with glossy leaf surfaces and white-colored wood with good growth. This mulberry is called rosō (Lu sang) in China. Also, mulberry with small leaves that have lobes and produce many fruits is called keisō (Jing sang), as mentioned in the Complete Book of Agriculture. According to another theory, mulberry is written together with shōsha (mulberry-like tree), and there is a type with fruit similar to mulberry but with larger leaves. This is commonly called wild mulberry. It belongs to the same family as mulberry but is a different species. Reading the mountain variety as "tsuge" (boxwood) would be incorrect. Also, there are different names for mulberry in various regions. In China, rosō is called true mulberry. The small-leafed keisō is also called sanshō mulberry because it resembles sanshō (Japanese pepper) leaves. In the eastern provinces, there are various alternative names such as Niita-wase and Yanagida-wase. Even when using seeds from superior mulberry, many mulberry trees with poor leaves will grow. The method for cultivating the finest rosō is to identify good mulberry trees and select well-ripened black mulberry fruits before mid-May to use as seeds. The funabe (mulberry fruits)

【Left page】
from the base of the tree are poor quality; those from the branch tips should be used as seeds. Both ends of the funabe should be cut off little by little, and the exact center should be used as seed. The tip and base parts of the fruit will become poor mulberry - this is oral tradition. Fill a hand bucket with water and wash well, discarding the cloudy matter and taking what sinks to the bottom. Immediately mix with ash, dig up the soil in well-drained, good paddy fields, create ridges like when sowing wheat, and sow thinly. Immediately sprinkle a little soil over them and apply fertilizer. After about thirty days, sprouts will emerge.

【Left page illustration】
Diagram of harvesting funabe