【Right page】
At this time, pull out and discard all the first sprouts that emerge, and leave an appropriate number of those that grow later. Apply fertilizer to these repeatedly. By around October of that year, they should grow to about three feet. Also, those that sprout early or have reddish root bark will likely be poor mulberry. Those that grow much more slowly with white-colored roots - recognize these as the finest rosō (Lu sang). In the spring of the following year, around the equinox, cut these superior mulberry seedlings about five to six sun above the ground and plant them appropriately in good paddy fields. When buds appear, cultivate one young shoot per plant. As they gradually grow, many young shoots will emerge from where the leaves attach to the seedling. Remove all of these and cultivate only the main trunk. Also, small blue insects sometimes attach to the leaves and roll up the new mulberry leaves. These should be carefully and completely removed, otherwise the mulberry will be damaged.

On the Benefits of Cultivating Mulberry Trees
In the world there are what are called "four trees and three grasses" and "five trees and eight grasses." Mulberry is one of the four trees and is a renowned tree. The method of cultivating mulberry is to plant it around residential compounds, on embankments, or in fields - generally in land where cultivation is difficult.

【Left page】
It is a tree that grows well in such places. Also, when planted at riverbanks and water's edge, it serves as flood control embankments. Sandy soil or true soil is good. If planted in humus-rich soil with moisture, growth is rapid in a short time. Countries that have learned the secrets of sericulture often open wasteland and wilderness, planting along riverbanks and in mountain depths, and even in remote valley wastelands, they frequently obtain enormous profits by raising silkworms. The Shangshu Dazhuan states: "The Son of Heaven, the feudal lords..."

【Left page illustration】
Diagram of planting mulberry seedlings