【Right page】
Running to get mulberry leaves, or neglecting the preparation of mulberry, or having irregularities in feeding mulberry - if one raises silkworms carelessly in such ways and experiences crop failure, attributing it to bad yearly cycles or one's own bad luck is truly the height of foolishness. Such matters are not limited to silkworms alone, and should be well understood.

On being careful of mice with silkworm eggs and silkworms (Appendix: On preventing mice)

Silkworm eggs are extremely favored by mice. They should be hung in high places where mice cannot reach. From June-July until the beginning of the cold season, they should especially be exposed to wind. In some regions, there are countries where seeds are hung under the eaves for thirty days during the cold season to be exposed to wind. If many mice come inside the house, it is said that mice will not come if konjac bulbs are rubbed and placed on their pathways. Also, in summer, it is said that if many fireflies are wrapped in paper and placed where mice pass, they will be afraid and not come. Also, in the mountains there is a tree called "muro no ki" with needles on its leaves (the name of this tree may differ by region). Placing this on pathways is also good. If mice still do not stop even after doing this, one should place mice's favorite foods in the corners where mice pass.

【Left page】
The Qimin Yaoshu states:
In the twelfth month of winter, cut a mouse's tail and keep it alive. In the following year's first month on New Year's morning, before sunrise, the head of the household should cut that mouse's tail and chant this incantation "By imperial decree, send to the officials, suppress mice and vermin" while going around the house, and mice will not come (it is said that if you cut three times and recite this, mice will never dare to come).

The Huainan Wanbi Shu states:
If you rub together a fox's eyes and a raccoon dog's scrotum and block mouse holes with this, it is said that mice will go elsewhere and not return.

On things that are poisonous taboos for silkworms

First: tobacco and similar substances, mulberry with sparrow droppings on it, the scent of Japanese pepper, oil, salt, lacquer trees, walnut trees, mulberry near cedar trees, mulberry with cattle or horse manure on it, grilling eels, and generally burning anything with bad odors should not be done. Or if fish, meat, or manure with bad odors are carried past the front gate