【Right page】
One should quickly close the doors. Also, silkworms sometimes turn red due to what is called "impurity affliction," or their bodies become half red, or they suddenly shrivel and die. At such times, it is good to quickly burn peach leaves and fumigate with the smoke. Also, in the Kai Province area, they pick the leaves of Orixa japonica, extract this juice, and sprinkle it lightly on mulberry for the silkworms to eat. There are also regions where they spray the finest sake on mulberry for the silkworms to eat. One should follow what is most suitable.

It is also said that when silkworms are young black larvae, insects about two bu long and one bu wide appear in large numbers and suck the silkworms to death (these are called wing insects or black insects). When these insects multiply greatly, one should put river fish or sea fish fins in straw bundles and hang them in high places near the silkworms. Those black insects will gather around the foul smell and swarm on the bundles. At that time, quietly take the bundles, carry them to distant fields, brush off the insects, hang them back in their original place, and repeat this many times. Originally, these insects are few in cold years but many in warm years. They multiply greatly when there is negligence in tasks like turning the silkworms. Every year before the silkworms emerge, one should thoroughly clean the house interior. These insects appear to arise from dirt under the verandas and such places.

【Left page】
On the construction specifications of silkworm houses (Appendix: On the good and bad aspects of building sites)

House construction should first be built high to avoid heat and humidity. Many ventilation holes or windows should be opened in the roof, and doors should face east and north. Small windows should be opened on the south side, and all doors should be freely openable and closable. Sunlight shining in is extremely bad. Originally, at night the warmth from all directions cools, and it remains extremely cool until past the hour of the Hare in the morning (around 7 AM). It becomes warm from before the hour of the Horse at noon (before 11 AM), and from around the hour of the Monkey (around 3 PM) it becomes steamy and sultry. Houses facing west especially damage silkworms with the fire energy of the evening sun, often causing great harm. For such house sites, trees should be planted on the western side to block the fire energy of the evening sun. Also, it is bad to surround silkworms with folding screens because of cold, or to hang paper curtains and such, specially blocking the entry of wind and making it stuffy and sultry. Since the atmospheric conditions change with day and night and from time to time, sericulture should be practiced keeping the house interior always the same. Generally, not limited to silkworms, to make any practice one's profession requires wholehearted effort