【Right page】
Since these are the divine teachings, even in the weaving halls, impure matters are strongly avoided and detested.

The Dragon Thunder Divine Person Fortune Person Secret Records state:
The ancient site of Ukemochi-no-kami is said to be in Hyuga Province. Originally being the spirit deity of the five grains, Miketsu-no-kami, she would be present in any country, but the most evident manifestation is Yabu Daimyojin enshrined in Tajima Province 《initially called Mizutani Daimyojin》. First manifesting at a place called Yabu-saki, the place where agricultural tools were made is called Kanaya, the newly cultivated land is called Hani-taira 《now called Handa》. The place where grains were produced is called Meiji, and the place where silkworm thread was extracted is called Itoi-no-go. It is said that cattle and horses were born from this deity's head, and perhaps for this reason, Tajima produces Japan's finest cattle. Also, regarding this shrine as the deity of sericulture, it is quite natural that people throughout the country offer thread and cotton as first fruits and pray. They also take small stones from the shrine precincts home and place them beside the silkworms as protection to ward off rats.

【Left page】
This is called "cat stone." The place where this deity first descended is called Oyabu, the place where she stayed for three months is called Mitsuki-no, and the place where the deity departed is called Otsuka.

《Incidentally, this deity uses wolves as messengers, so when wild boars and deer emerge to damage crops, people visit this shrine to receive protective talismans for crop protection and place them beside their fields. Wolves come to guard them, so the wild boars and deer do not damage the crops. When the matter is resolved and the talisman is returned, the wolves also depart. Also, when visiting the shrine, if one wishes to take a wolf home, it will follow behind that person—this is widely known. The divine efficacy in protecting agriculture is thus. Also, in the same district at a place called Takino-ya, there is Itsuki Daimyojin, who is Ama-no-kumando-no-shin. Its subsidiary shrines include Ama-no-murakimi Shrine, Okitsu-hiko-no-mikoto, and Okitsu-hime-no-mikoto. Since these deities taught cooking, it is natural to worship them. Also, Komori-no-sato in Tango Province was originally the place of Taijingu's divine manifestation, and Tanba and Tajima were originally one country, later divided into three provinces. The people engage in sericulture and weave silk as their product. Also, Ohara Shrine in Tanba Province worships Izanami-no-mikoto. Here too, as a deity of sericulture, many people visit and take small stones called rat-repelling cat stones. An old verse goes: "Going down to Ohara, each carrying a cat"》

The Kujihongi states: Ichichi-tama-hime-no-mikoto, sister of Ama-tsu-koyane-no-mikoto, was designated as Ama-no-kai-hime, and Ama-no-toyooka was opened to raise silkworms with mulberry trees, and so forth.