【Right page】
Since there were relatives and family members [in that area], in order to inform these people of such important matters, a peasant from Yushima named Shōzaburō and another man named Kinsaku crossed the sea to Sugawa within Arieke in that locality, and told their relatives that Lord Shirō had declared that each of them would perish. Now there was originally a man named Jinzō who was willful and did not believe in the slightest, but rather mocked [the message]. This made Kinsaku very angry and he tried to board his boat. At that time, a man named Kichibei was greatly alarmed and went to Jinzō saying, "It is not proper to mock someone who has come with such important news." Then Jinzō was also surprised and believed, saying, "I never dreamed of such a thing, and my negligence in this matter is entirely due to my lack of awareness." He made various apologies to Kinsaku as he was about to board his boat, got him to come down from the boat, and listened carefully to what Shirō had said.

【Left page】
[Jinzō] was deeply moved by what he heard. However, the people of Sugawa harbor also all gathered to listen and became increasingly convinced. Thus Kinsaku and Shōzaburō consulted together and returned to the island called Yushima. Soon they informed two men - Kakuzō, the younger brother of village headman Jiemon of Minami-Arima village, and Sankichi, a peasant of Kita-Arima village - about the above matter. They too became increasingly convinced and everyone began practicing Christian religious activities.

The Shimabara Record states that "all people were made to convert back to Christianity." Although there had been some rumors since around July of this year, the serious nature of the situation was not understood. Moreover, Matsukura Nagato-no-kami and his son Ukon were in Edo, and the senior retainers left in charge of Shimabara did not conduct strict investigations but spent their days making inquiries here and there.

Another version of the Shimabara Record states: "From around the eighth month of Kan'ei 14 (1637), year of the Metal Ox, according to rumors among the common people..."