[Right page]
spears and rope, thinking they were dealing with ordinary Christians, they had no military equipment prepared and set sail competing to be first. Kuwano Magobei, Kosaki Ihei, and Wakabayashi Goroemon each in one vessel, along with the aforementioned ships, all departed together. From Shimabara harbor to Arima is five ri both by land and sea, following the coastline. The rebels set fire to temples and halls in the coastal areas of Antoku village, Fukae village, Fuzu village, Arie village, and Arima village, raising battle cries so numerous that the sea surface looked like a full moon. When they approached near Arima village harbor, Arima village deputy Hachishima Kyudayu, accompanied by one village headman, secretly went out in a small boat to the rebels and said to Okamoto Shinbei and Taga Mondo: "There is no way we can land at all. Hundreds of men with guns are lined up and waiting at the rocky shore. The rebels' power appears strong enough to even capture Shimabara castle. We should quickly return and put on military

[Left page]
equipment, then give orders accordingly." This opinion being quite reasonable, Shinbei and Mondo turned back from there and returned to Shimabara at the early tiger hour. Tomioka Yazaemon and Okamura Gentaro, trying to catch up to the lead ships in a following boat, came to the offshore area between Arie and Arima, and hearing battle cries from land, thought "So the men from the lead ships have already landed here," and pushed their boat toward the rocky shore. While Tomioka was about to jump up alone to reconnoiter, the lead ships returned from the Arima direction. Tomioka was on the rocky shore, Okamura put his boat out to sea, and together with the lead ships they all retreated to Shimabara. Since Tomioka was held back by enemies and the boat went out to sea, he evaded enemies along the beach and came to Fukae village, went to village headman Gorobei's place and said "This rebellion's situation is hard to understand. You surely would not join the rebellion