[Right page]
"Would you?" he said. Gorobei replied: "At this point, it is difficult to say anything either way. You should hurry back. The rebels will certainly not let you return. Since you say you are an envoy, I will assign someone to escort you." He added a person. Though he declined this arrangement, the rebel scoundrels shouted "Kill that messenger, men!" and attacked. He cut down one person, wounded many others, and showed his skill in fighting, but they surrounded him and killed him with guns.

This Tomioka's wife and children lived in a town residence. Her husband was killed, and though they should have taken refuge in the castle, they could not do so because enemies were near. The servant was from Sankai village in Uto, so it was a familiar place for him. When he said he would take them to his hometown, contrary to expectations, they ended up joining the rebellion. Together with the wives and children of rebels from Senbongi, they were caught up in the situation and took refuge in Shimabara castle. In the second month of the following year,

[Left page]
two days before the castle fell, on the 25th day, they went down to the beach pretending to gather seaweed from the rocky shore, and eight people including parents and children broke through to Lord Hosokawa's beachside siege works, escaped certain death, and safely returned - this is that story.

Memorandum by Sano Yahichizaemon: On the 25th day of the 10th month, at a place called Sara?o in Arima village as well, a large number of Christians gathered, and Kakunai Sankichi, who was captured yesterday, saying he would worship becoming a free and unrestrained being in heaven, raised a flag and carried out religious practices. When deputy Hayashi Hyozaemon heard of this and rushed there without delay, they blocked the road and came out, cut down all the common people, and furthermore sent messengers to the villages with proclamations saying to kill all deputies, guards, monks, shrine personnel, etc. Therefore, on the same day they attacked and fought them. In Kuchinotsu town, Yasui Saburozaemon...