【Right page】
...such circumstances. Moreover, due to the great earthquake, approximately 21 chō of Mount Kokūzō in the area called Kokūzō within Hirabayashi Village, which is in the domain of Sanada Shinano-no-kami, about two and a half ri upstream from the ferry crossing at Tanbajima Village on the Hokkoku Highway, collapsed and pushed into the Sai River, burying the river and blocking the waterway. This has dammed up the flowing water, causing it to accumulate, and in the upstream villages of our area, water is overflowing from the flatlands. However, if this accumulated water should break through, the naturally buried blockage site would be washed away by water pressure, and we are concerned about what kind of flood might result. Regarding this matter, there has been correspondence with retainers of Shinano-no-kami about precautions for villages along the Chikuma River in my jurisdiction. Due to this situation, the Chikuma River has currently receded seven to eight shaku below normal water level.

【Left page】
The villages along the river are worried and have evacuated to higher ground along the mountains. They are concerned about what would happen if the dam breaks—if the water that has been accumulating for several days should suddenly rush out, another water disaster would certainly occur. The people are extremely unsettled and anxious about this matter. Please give careful consideration to the circumstances of how the disaster I described above has led to such dire straits, and urgently grant a loan of 2,500 ryō to the villages mentioned in this document for restoration methods and for the major repairs needed to irrigation channels at self-maintained construction sites. Without this assistance, there would be absolutely no means of recovery, and if hardship should intensify further and the people should become agitated due to desperation, I am deeply concerned and fearful of such a development. Regarding the people of the villages in my jurisdiction, since last year they have been in the same...