"Inexhaustible Intent, if someone were to uphold the names of sixty-two billion Ganges sand bodhisattvas and moreover make offerings of food, clothing, bedding, and medicine throughout their entire life, what do you think? Would the merit of such good men and good women be great or not?" Inexhaustible Intent replied: "It would be very great, World-Honored One." The Buddha said: "If someone else were to uphold the name of Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva and worship and make offerings even for just one moment, the merit of these two people would be exactly equal, with no difference. It would be inexhaustible for hundreds of thousands of millions of billions of kalpas. Inexhaustible Intent, by upholding the name of Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, one obtains such immeasurable and boundless benefits of merit and virtue."

Inexhaustible Intent Bodhisattva addressed the Buddha: "World-Honored One, how does Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva travel through this saha world? How does he teach the Dharma for sentient beings? What are his skillful means and powers?"

The Buddha told Inexhaustible Intent Bodhisattva: "Good son, if there are sentient beings in any land who should be saved by a Buddha-body, Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva immediately manifests a Buddha-body and teaches the Dharma for them. For those who should be saved by a pratyekabuddha-body, he immediately manifests a pratyekabuddha-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a śrāvaka-body, he immediately manifests a śrāvaka-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a Brahmā-king-body, he immediately manifests a Brahmā-king-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by an Indra-body, he immediately manifests an Indra-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by an Īśvara-deva-body, he immediately manifests an Īśvara-deva-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a Maheśvara-deva-body, he immediately manifests a Maheśvara-deva-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a heavenly general-body, he immediately manifests a heavenly general-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a Vaiśravaṇa-body, he immediately manifests a Vaiśravaṇa-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a minor king-body, he immediately manifests a minor king-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by an elder-body, he immediately manifests an elder-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a householder-body, he immediately manifests a householder-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a minister-body, he immediately manifests a minister-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a brahman-body, he immediately manifests a brahman-body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by bhikṣu, bhikṣuṇī, upāsaka, or upāsikā bodies, he immediately manifests bhikṣu, bhikṣuṇī, upāsaka, or upāsikā bodies and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by the bodies of women of elders, householders, ministers, or brahmans, he immediately manifests a woman's body and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by boy or girl bodies, he immediately manifests boy or girl bodies and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by the bodies of devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras, garuḍas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, humans, non-humans, etc., he manifests all of these and teaches the Dharma. For those who should be saved by a vajra-bearing spirit, he immediately manifests a vajra-bearing spirit and teaches the Dharma.

Inexhaustible Intent, this Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva accomplishes such merit and virtue, traveling through all lands in various forms to save and liberate sentient beings. Therefore, you should all wholeheartedly make offerings to Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva. This Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva-mahāsattva can bestow fearlessness in the midst of fear and urgent difficulties. Therefore, in this saha world, all call him the Bestower of Fearlessness."

【Illustration】
【Square seal, intaglio, red】《Kikuchi｜Takeyasu》【Square seal, relief, red】《Teikyō｜Fu》