On Sea Bream (Tai)

According to the "Yamato Honzō," sea bream have male and female varieties. Males are pale blackish in color with horns on their backs. Females are reddish in color, beautiful in form, and have the best nature and flavor, superior to males.

Sea Bream: At Kujūkuri, they are caught in March using rope boats. The bait used is sardines.

According to the "Sancai Tuhui" and "Shijing," sea bream are sweet and cool in nature, resembling yellowtail but with red fins. The Japanese name is "tahi." According to "Minshu Nanchan," the spiny-finned fish resembles yellowtail but is larger, with fins of red-purple color. It is sometimes called "ki," "kichi," or "aka," all having fins different from other fish.

Upon consideration, what is commonly called flat is termed "hira" (flat). Since it is not recorded in works like "Honmō" and "Sancai Tuhui," it can be understood that this is a rare item in China. In recent times, it exists in the seas of Ningbo, Zhejiang Province. When Chinese ships frequently come to Japan in spring and summer, dolphin fish (shiira) attach to the vessels and arrive. During autumn and winter return voyages, local sea bream attach to ships and frequently cross to China.

Sea bream resemble yellowtail in form but are flattened. Their scales and fins are pale reddish-white, but when removed from the tide they change to red, with fins becoming particularly crimson. Their flesh is white and delicious, considered the finest quality in Japan. They are abundant throughout the four seasons, found in all provinces with many red varieties. They are generally one to two feet long, with smaller ones of one to two inches called "kasugodai." Those caught in the inland seas of Settsu and Izumi are collectively praised as "mae no uo" (fish of the front). The products of Akashi Bay in Harima Province are also excellent. In northern regions around Niigata, large specimens of three to four feet exist. Those from the western seas around Tsushima are short in form with large eyes. Their taste does not match that of Settsu and Harima sea bream. Popular tradition says that western sea bream that cross over Awa Naruto in spring and summer to enter the lands of Harima and Settsu develop large bones.