【Menuke-dai (Deep-sea Rockfish)】
From Sendai. Menuke-dai resembles Himeharu but has extremely large, protruding eyes. The color is red like sea bream, about one shaku (30cm) in length. The taste is mild, with a large head and short, thick tail. It resembles the kasago (scorpionfish) from Odawara, with large eyes and mouth. The color is red without spots. When blown by wind, it immediately turns white.

【Kinme-dai (Golden-eye Snapper)】
A type of golden-headed sea bream. The dorsal fin is in one place, and the flesh is soft like horse mackerel. The scales are transparent-like.

(Written in light characters)
Kinme-dai - crimson color
Mumanusibito - Yamato Honzo (Japanese pharmacopoeia)
Ebisu-dai - Nitto Gyofu (Eastern Fish Records)

Kinme has large eyes with red eye sockets and a long, forked tail. Those with short tails are called kinme. In Edo, they are called Kintaro.

Kintaro (Edo commercial name)
Kuruma-dai
Taruma-dai (from Seikai Hyakuzu)

【Kenhachi-dai】
【Kitoji】
Like a small sea bream grown large, elongated with a yellowish tinge. Caught by fishing around Izu.

【Kinkuwazashi】
From Odawara. Resembles sea bream but is smaller, with red color surpassing that of sea bream. Eyes are sunken, similar to kaizu. The head has a dignified shape like kaizu, also called Tetsukauchi.

Golden sea bream photograph, or this white fish is also called mermaid fish or jisanpo fish.
(Eye area in diagram) Yellow
(Lip area in diagram) Red

According to Tadashi from Ise, Kinmeharu is a small fish that is extremely delicious. The taste resembles itoyori (golden threadfin bream).

【Akasagi】
A type of sea bream. Has two long whisker-like appendages at the head and tail of the fins. Long tail.

【Itokasago (Thread Scorpionfish)】
Called Genpachi-dai in Edo. The shape resembles chidai (crimson sea bream) but is shorter with broad shoulders. Its mouth is flat and its shape is quite round. Its color resembles chidai and is vivid. Its taste also resembles this and is delicious. Probably a type of chidai. However, the part of the dorsal fin near the head has something very long like sinew thread, and when pulled out, it reaches the tail. This is what differs from regular sea bream.

【Akame-dai (Red-eye Sea Bream)】
More crimson than kinme-dai, with a flattened shape, red eyes, about three sun (9cm) in length. Large mouth with pointed scales. Found at Yaizu Port near Suruga Castle.