[No newspaper company name printed]　　Konobu, now Sadanobu II
　　　　　　　　　　　　Painted by Sadanobu
　　　　　　　　　　　　Published by Fujimasa
　　　　　　　　　　　　Published by Nishichō
　　　　　　　　　　　　Carved by Jū

In this world, people often grieve over a bodily deformity, or shun those stricken with an incurable illness, and so lose their natural affection — such cases are far from rare. Yet to be born a human being and to fulfil the way of humanity is, from the beginning, a natural endowment bestowed by Heaven.

Now, here is a tale. There was a girl who from birth was extraordinarily white of skin, as though powdered with white face-paint, and whose hair had grown out evenly in a red hue. Her parents thought this strange and worried over it as the years passed, but in time they sent her out to serve as a sake-pouring maid at a nearby restaurant.

One day a certain foreigner came to this establishment seeking food and drink. Just as he had drained a cup, he caught sight of this young woman and exclaimed, "Why, she is a beauty of my own country!" For a good while he gazed enraptured at her appearance, and then straightaway asked her parents to let him take her as his concubine. Though the parents had long been troubled at heart that their child was of such unusual birth, in the end they yielded to the foreigner's wish and agreed to the arrangement. Thereby their immediate livelihood was eased, and the girl too obtained a life of peace and security.

Ah — when one looks broadly upon the world, is there anything at all that ought to be cast aside? On the contrary, even a deformity may prove a blessing. The people of this world, without ever reflecting upon themselves, slander and laugh at others, ruin themselves with idle talk that serves no purpose, and end up, as the saying goes, "letting the fool make the money" (being outdone by the very person they despised). One must take this well to heart — and thus we set forth, in some small measure, a lesson of encouraging virtue and chastising vice.