【Upper section】
The Three Medicines of the Rakuzendō

○ Chin-ryūin ("Calming the Rising Fluid")
A marvellous remedy for *ryūin* (acid reflux / heartburn). Excellent when taken for such complaints as congestion in the chest, bloating of the belly, pain in the lower back, depression of spirits, loss of appetite, or constant queasiness and nausea.

○ On-tsū-gan ("Gentle Purging Pills")
A medicine for the bowels. It has the virtue of drawing down "rising heat" (*nobose*) and of purging poisons from the body. Most efficacious when taken for headache, dizziness, ringing in the ears, toothache, bloating of the belly, oppression of the chest, and the like.

○ Hoyō-gan ("Nourishing Pills")
A fine remedy that replenishes vital strength and nourishes one's energy. Taken by those weakened after illness or childbirth, or by those born of a frail constitution and lacking in vital spirit, it has the virtue of improving the circulation of the blood and making the body robust.

　　Respectfully announced by Kishida Ginkō, Ginza, Tokyo

【Right】
For every one of these medicines, the method of use and the effects are set down in detail on the wrapping paper of each. Besides these, we also sell at our shop various health-giving foodstuffs, water-clarifying preparations, and so forth.

【Left】
Eye Medicine — SEIKISUI 《Manufactured by Kishida Ginkō, Ginza, Tokyo》

This eye-lotion is compounded by an excellent formula transmitted directly from a great Western physician; being a marvellous medicine without parallel in past or present, the remarkable nature of its effects is known to all. 
○ bloodshot eyes ○ inflamed/festering eyelids ○ eyes affected by "rising heat" ○ dimmed, diseased eyes ○ "worm eye" ○ *meboshi* (white spots on the cornea) ○ and all other eye ailments — for all of these it is efficacious.

Of late, many confusingly similar imitation medicines have appeared in various quarters; please therefore examine our trademark most carefully before making your purchase.

【Lower section】
Should any person wish to act as an agent and sell either the Three Medicines or the Seikisui, upon application to us we shall promptly forward documents setting out the terms of wholesale supply, the quantity ratios (discount rates), and so on. Let it be noted that, since these Three Medicines are truly wondrous remedies fit to be of help to all people, it is our wish to spread their sale far and wide; we therefore intend to supply them to agents at low wholesale prices so that they may gain ample profit. We humbly beg you to place orders, be they large or small. That is all.

　　No. 1, Ginza Nichōme
　　Kishida Ginkō, Tokyo, respectfully

　　　　　　Sensai Eitaku [artist]