Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun, No. 978

At a place called Kyōdomari in Kotsuki village in Chōshū (Nagato Province), the wife of a man named Hasegawa Kumakichi — a woman called Osue — was said, from about the tenth month of last year, to have been possessed by a fox calling itself "Abe no Seimei." She babbled out all sorts of strange things, spreading it abroad that "in the first month of this year a rain of fire will fall and a wind of fire will blow, and the whole world will be reduced to black scorched earth." People even from the neighbouring villages heard the rumour and, praying "May we somehow be spared from fire," they built an Inari shrine at Kyōdomari, made offerings of red-bean rice and fried bean curd, and made a great commotion with oil-fried mice and consecrated washed rice and the like. This became the talk of the whole province, and the stream of worshippers never let up. They said that if one had her apply moxa points, any illness whatsoever would be cured, and that if one had her read one's palm, one's good or ill fortune could be known; and thus they made much of her, gathering like ants.

Then one day someone raised the suggestion that "since this Inari has as yet no court rank, it would be well to go up to Kyoto to receive a rank for it." The merchants of the neighbourhood got together a certain sum of money, and in the middle of the first month of this year Osue set out by ship, taking with her her husband Kumakichi and Omisu, the wife of her neighbour Kinroku. But they went ashore at Onomichi in Bingo, and at a certain drinking house they drank up the whole of their travelling funds, so that they could not go up to the capital. Having no recourse, they finally decided to return home; and all three of them, chanting "Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō, Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō" as they went, stood begging at people's gates along the road, until at last they got back as far as Hiroshima in Geishū (Aki Province). There they lodged for a while, sending the husband Kumakichi back to their home province to raise travelling money, and so at length returned home.

Even so, the "Osue Inari" flourishes just as before. But it seems that this same Osue, on leaving Hiroshima, travelled in company with an actor of that province named Segawa Hyakumaru, and the two of them dallied together aboard the ship until she was utterly besotted with him. On returning home she told her husband, "I must abstain from men and keep my body pure, or divine punishment will fall upon me," and rented a separate house to live in — where every night she secretly laid her pillow beside Hyakumaru's and enjoyed herself.

So this Osue Inari, who prattled forth all manner of pronouncements about people's fortunes and misfortunes and quite bewitched the public, herself proved that "love is beyond all reckoning," for gods and humans alike; that she should have been bewitched by Hyakumaru — shall we call it a marvellous tale or a foolish tale? It is simply astonishing.

Keisai Yoshiiku (artist)
Ningyō-chō, Gusokuya (publisher); Watanabe Horiei (engraver)