(52) Nii: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains. A few houses on the mountain slopes survived.

(53) Usa: Completely destroyed. The tide reached as far as the interior of Hashida and the foot of Usa-zaka slope. One house on the mountaintop survived. Over 400 people drowned.

(54) I-no-hama: The entire settlement was submerged beneath the sea, reaching depths of five to six fathoms (approximately 9–11 meters); there is therefore nothing further to record. (First of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(55) Fukushima: Same as above. Over 100 dead. (Second of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(56) Ryū: Completely destroyed. Only the guest hall of Seiryū-ji temple survived. Kani-ga-ike pond was submerged in the sea. (Third of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(57) Urauchi: The tide reached as far as the mountains. Not a single house remained; all were swept away. The salt fields became sea. (Fourth of the sunken land areas ○○○) (Note: "Shioda" [潮田] refers to salt fields [塩田].)

(58) Tōzai Okuura: The tide reached the mountains. The salt fields became sea. (Fifth of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(59) Oshioka: The tide reached halfway into the settlement.

(60) Agoi-gō: The tide reached the foot of Nagoshi-dori and the upper reaches of the Matsugase River.

(61) Tsuchizaki: Completely destroyed. Residences, fields, and gardens were submerged in the sea. A few houses on the mountaintop survived. (Sixth of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(62) Tanoshō: The area from Ōma to the foot of Nagoshi became entirely sea.

(63) Ikeuchi: The tide reached the mid-point of the fields. The pond in this area now connects to the sea from a place in the settlement called "Futatsushi." (Seventh of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(64) Susaki: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains. Over 300 people drowned.

(65) Shimobun: The tide reached the mountains. Trees, bamboo, and rocks were all swept away, leaving an unbroken expanse of open sea as far as the eye can see.

(67) Nomi, Ōtani, Awa: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains.

(68) Kure: Completely destroyed. The tide reached as far as the valley of Ōsaka-tōge to the south and the foot of Yakisaka slope to the north. Two-thirds of the town was submerged in the sea. Over 200 dead. (Eighth of the sunken land areas ○○○)

(69) Kaminokae, Shiwa: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains.

(70) Daishō Yuzu: The tide came in but caused no damage.

(71) Yotsu: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains.

(Kō) Hata District:

(72) Saga: Completely destroyed. The tide reached as far as the white rocks at Iyoki Beach.

(73) Ida, Shirahama: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains.

(74) Ariigawa: Half destroyed. The tide reached the mountains. Many historical sites associated with Ichinomiya-shinnō were buried.

(75) Kamikawaguchi: Half destroyed. The tide reached the mountains.

(76) Ninagawa: The tide reached the lower part of the fields.

(77) Ukitsu: Completely destroyed.

(78) Muchi, Kuchimitogawa: The tide reached the mountains.

(79) Irino: Completely destroyed. The tide reached the mountains. In the middle of the pine grove at Kitahama, there has been since ancient times an inlet approximately 20 ken (about 36 meters) wide that fills at high tide, and... [continues on next page]