If that is the case, it would mean that the immense gravitational force of the Sun draws in the Earth and the other planets, causing them to revolve through the sky day and night without irregularity. Alas, is this not the very pinnacle of the cunning and presumptuous speculation of those Western barbarians? The reason I say this is as follows: the two poles—north and south—of the Earth remain stationary, like the worn hub of a wheel or the axle of a cart, while only the region of the equator rotates laterally, just like a spinning top. What reason could there be for this? If one were to thread a great axle through the Earth from north to south, attach long cables to both ends of that axle, connect the roots of these cables to the Sun, and add to this a great gravitational force and so forth, then perhaps the Earth could rotate in its daily cycle and undergo the heat and cold of the four seasons without disturbing their regularity. However, without such a mechanism, relying solely on the Sun's gravitational force to make the Earth revolve through the void—given that the Earth is separated from the Sun by as much as thirty-three million, two-hundred and fifty thousand ri—how could it possibly maintain the fixed regularity of the four seasons and rotate through the sky day and night? These Westerners, who day by day and month by month freely revise their theories and fabricate new ones about all things under heaven and earth, why have they not devised such a mechanism? In the *Tantan* [*Treatise on the Heavens*], it is said: "It is as if a rope is tied to the center of gravity and the object dances through the air," and in the *Sōdan* [*Collected Discussions*], it is written: "It is as if a long rope is tied to an object and made to revolve—the Sun is the hand." Yet, if one tries to attach a handball to the end of a thread and make it revolve through the air, the ball will sometimes spin to the right, and sometimes...

【Diagram】
A diagram showing that, if the Earth were to rotate with a central axle and long cables [connecting it to the Sun], there would initially need to be a fixed regularity.

　　　　　　　Sun
　　Great gravitational force
Long cable　　　　　　Long cable

　　　　North Pole　　South Pole
　　　　　　　Earth
　　　　Great central axle