If, as he claims, Venus is at a height of 43,628 ri from the moon, how could there be any reason for that star to enter into the moon? I too have been paying attention to this matter, and indeed on the dawn of the 28th day of the 3rd month of Keio 3 (1867), I was able to observe Venus entering the moon. The appearance was as shown in the diagram. My father-in-law also observed it together with me. The evidence is right before our eyes. Even if Westerners wish to deceive people's eyes with clever intentions, what can they do about the stern reality witnessed by many eyes?

In the "Rikugō Sōdan" it says regarding this: "All those who enter the observatory are diligent, measuring the diameters of the sun, moon, planets, and fixed stars day and night without a single day's interruption, creating each year a large volume called the planetary calendar. If the director has business and leaves the observatory, his deputy takes his place." How could Westerners, who establish such star observatories and use telescopes to observe the heavens day and night in shifts, not know of this matter? Though they know this, if they were to speak of it, the hundreds of years of theory that fabricated the heliocentric system and multiple orbital layers of planets, determining the distances of various stars and confusing the world's people, would be shattered in an instant. For this reason, they pretend not to know. However, when applying the theory described above, their fabrications would immediately crumble like flour.

Fifth Objection: The Moon Has No Light. Western theory states that the moon is a clod of earth with originally no light, receiving illumination from the sun's rays to produce brilliance, which then reflects back to earth. "Daniten" states: "When observed with the most precise telescope, no seas are visible on the moon, but there are great plains, and the soil is all similar to sandy earth. If there were human eyes on the lunar surface, their view of earth would be like earth's