Should this be regarded as a foolish and delusional false doctrine? Alas, is this not a deceptive teaching that harms the three paths of Shinto, Confucianism, and Buddhism, and should no longer be tolerated between heaven and earth? The merit and demerit of what the Westerners call "rational investigation" becomes clear here.

Second, "raising and refuting Western theories" means that when we read their explanation of lunar eclipses, they say that even during the greatest eclipse within the dark void of Earth's shadow, the faint light of the lunar body can still be seen dimly. Namely, the "Discourse on Astronomy" Volume 7 (8th page) states: "When the moon first enters the outer void, looking at it is like seeing through smoke, the color being very dim and black." Looking at the subsequent text, this is said to be because the moon is in the outer void outside the dark void. Next, when it enters the dark void, "When it first enters, although it is already waning, the light is still abundant. The eye cannot perceive it. Only by using a telescope can one perceive it, appearing ash-colored. As it enters gradually deeper, the light gradually diminishes, becoming unpenetrable. Its eclipse boundary first becomes easy to observe. Even when in the dark void, the lunar body is not completely black. It seems to have a faint light." It states that "the faint light seen during each lunar eclipse is not the same."

Here, the "dark void" refers to the long shadow of light produced behind the Earth, which is the place of dark night where the earth's surface turns away from the sun. When the moon enters this dark night, it is called a lunar eclipse. And they say that during the greatest eclipse, the lunar body still has faint light and is not completely black. This too is an extremely false statement. The reason is that "Discourse on Astronomy" Volume 7 (5th page) states "half black and half white... that half is illuminated by sunlight and bright (this is daytime). The half that turns away from the sun is dark (this is nighttime)." It also states "No seas are visible on the moon, but there are great plains. The soil is all similar to sandy earth (one should see that the moon originally has no light)." It says that the lunar body is a clump of earth without light, and the places that receive sunlight are what shine. If so, when it enters the dark void, the entire surface of the moon would not receive sunlight.

[Diagram: Shows the relationship between the moon's orbit, outer void, dark void, Earth, sun, and the position during greatest eclipse]