He built a castle and called it Eda Castle, where he resided. [He was under the banner of Saito Yamashiro-no-kami, but in the third year of Eiroku he followed the Oda family, and was eventually destroyed by Nobunaga.] Later, he became a monk and went to Suruga Province, where he established a hermitage in a place called Nakajima, calling it Tarauan, changed his name to Unseki, and practiced Pure Land Buddhism. [Tarauan is now called Ryozen-in.] Around the time of the Kanto campaign in the 18th year of Tensho, due to his reputation for exceptional virtue, he was summoned to Edo and granted temple grounds in Shinagawa. [There is still a Hozen-ji temple in Shinagawa today.] Later, in the second year of Bunroku, he was moved to Dozo-gashi, then relocated again to Yanagihara, but finally moved to the present location in the third year of Tenwa. [In the old days, when the temple was near the castle, they refrained from striking bells and gongs during the first three days of the New Year. Following this old custom, they still do not ring bells and gongs during the first three days of the New Year.]

Ryutokusan Unkoin, called Kogan-kyoji, is adjacent to the west of the same location. It is one of the four Jodo sect temples of Edo, and the statue of Amida Nyorai, the principal Buddha, is said to be the work of Priest Nincho from Shishigaya, Higashiyama, Kyoto. The founding priest was Priest Kanrensha Oyo, called Choton. [He was a dharma heir of National Master Kanchi and died at Seishin-an in Kurotani.] The patron was Acha-no-tsubone. [She was the granddaughter of Iida Chikugo-no-kami, a retainer of the Takeda family of Kai Province, daughter of the same Kyuzaemon, and later became the wife of Kamio Magobei Hisamune, a retainer of Imagawa Yoshimoto of Suruga Province. She was the mother of the same Gyobu-shoyu Moriyo.] The court lady was an attendant close to the Shogun family, and in the sixth year of Genwa, she was granted the rank of Senior First Rank for her service during the imperial consort's entrance to court. At the time of founding this temple, she also bestowed two thousand gold pieces and building materials. [Unkoin is the court lady's dharma name. She was called Unkoin-den Senior First Rank Nun松誉周栄大姉. In the old days, when it was south of Yanagihara embankment, this temple was called Kogan-ji. It was affected by the fire of the second year of Tenwa, so it likewise moved to the present location in the third year.] The plaque with the three large characters "Unkoin" is said to have been written by Prince Ryosho following an imperial edict from Emperor Gomizuno-o. [It used to hang in the main hall but is now kept in the founder's hall.]

Gohonmatsu (Five Pines): Located in Onagigawa-dori Oshima in the same area. [Some say the old name was Onagi-sanya. In old maps of Edo it's also written as "Unagi-sawa." The Edo Suzume writes it as Onagigawa. Also, since there were pot-makers' houses in this area, people colloquially called it Nabetani-bori.] This refers to old pine trees that extend from within the Kuki family compound across the road to cover the water surface. [In the past, there were up to five old pine trees of similar size along this river, but the others have withered, and only this pine tree still remains lush and green.] Also, the land on the south bank across this river is the former site of the secluded retreat of Prince Sonku of Chion-in. [See the section on Ryosen-ji in Honjo in the same volume.]

Tennozan Reiun-in: Located at Kiyosumi-cho on the bank of the Okawa River, at the south end of Mannen Bridge. It belongs to the Zen sect under Ryuon-ji in Ogose, Musashi Province. The principal deity is Sho-Kanzeon, and the founding priest was called Hokokumyo Tomei. This temple was founded in the seventh year of Horeki following an imperial command. [Since the founding is not of long standing, it is commonly called the new temple of Fukagawa.]