[Holding plum branches, twenty-eight sacred poems about plum blossoms are recited. Also, at night, the chief priest and shrine attendants light torches, using sakaki branches and sacred streamers as the divine body, circling the heart-shaped pond from the main shrine, crossing the bridge and entering through the tower gate, piling torches in front of the shrine and lighting them]
[This festival ritual is said to replicate the form of Dazaifu]

Thunder God Festival [Performed from the first to the seventh day of the fourth month]
Sacred Vestments [Vestments are offered on the nights of the last day of the fourth month and the last day of the ninth month]
Nagoshi Purification [June 25th - performed on boats at the mouth of the western great river of Tatekawa]
Tanabata Poetry and Renga Meeting [Held on July 7th]

Festival [Performed every other year on August 24th. On that day, the divine procession goes to the temporary shrine at Kita-Matsushiro-cho on Tatekawa Street, with the return procession on the same day. By imperial permission of Emperor Go-Mizunoo, all the ceremonial dress of the divine palanquin procession follows the ritual style of Dazaifu and is most magnificent. The head priest of the Otorii family rides in a carriage. The parishioner neighborhoods also produce parade floats, musical performances, etc., making it extremely festive. On the following 25th day, sacred poem recitations are performed at the shrine grounds]

Moon-viewing Renga Meeting [Held on September 13th]
Fire Lighting Ritual [Performed on November 25th]
Year-end Ritual [Performed all night on the last day of December]
Demon Expulsion Ritual [Performed on the night of Setsubun. Although there are many other seasonal rituals, they are omitted here. All the ritual styles of this shrine follow the precedent of Dazaifu, so there are unique ceremonial forms, which are most ancient and elegant and differ greatly from others]

According to the shrine records, the founder Shinsuke [descendant of Sugawara Zengo] was originally at Dazaifu in Chikuzen Province when, in the third year of Shoho (1646), Hinoe-Inu, one night he received a divine revelation from Kan-shin (Tenjin). In that dream, he composed the haiku "Ten tatsu te sakau ru ume no wakae kana" (The young plum branches that stand ten and flourish). Therefore, he later created a new divine image using the "flying plum" and, protecting it, came down to Edo and established that Tenmangu shrine in present-day Kameido village. [The original site of enshrinement was in the southeast direction from the present shrine location, in the middle of cultivated fields, called Moto-miya, where there is still a small shrine to Kan-shin]

Later, in the first year of Kanbun (1661), Kanoto-Ushi, he received imperial command, and in the same year Mizunoe-Tora, he was first granted the present land. In the third year, Mizunoto-U, he built the shrine buildings, and the heart-shaped pond, tower gate, and all the shrine scenery modeled the appearance of Dazaifu. Therefore, in the eleventh year, Kanoto-I, Emperor Go-Mizunoo bestowed his imperial calligraphy and granted the honorific title of Kan-shin. Also, in the tenth year of Genroku (1697), Hinoto-Ushi, he received imperial permission from the same emperor that all shrine rituals and ceremonies should follow the precedent of Dazaifu main shrine. Since then, the divine authority has been manifest and the miraculous signs have been evident. What is called the supreme treasure of this shrine is the heavenly sword worn by Kan-shin.

Fukushuzan Fumon-in - Called Zenno-ji temple. Located about one cho to the east of the same place. It belongs to the Shingon sect and now has Dainichi Nyorai as its principal deity. [In the second year of Keian (1649), Tsuchinoto-Ushi, because the head priest monk Eiken had the honor of extensive learning, he received official command and was granted some temple property to permanently provide for incense and candles]

Imperial Rest Pine [Located in front of the hall. Long ago, when the Shogun went hawking, he rested against it. Hence this name]
Jigen Water [Located at the same place. Used as blessed water for prayers. Named after the concept of Fumon Jigen (Universal Compassionate Eye)]