[Illustration]
Fumon-in Temple

[In the illustration]
Imperial Rest Pine
Jigen Water
Main Gate

[Main text]
Migawari Kanzeon Bodhisattva [Enshrined in this temple. Created by Dengyo Daishi, it is a Sho-Kannon (Sacred Avalokitesvara)]

According to the origin story, in the second year of Taiei (1522), Mizunoto-Ushi, Chiba-no-suke [Nakatsukasa Tayu] Yoritane [grandson of Kanetane and second son of Suetane] established a temple in Mitsumata Castle and enshrined this sacred image, making the priest Choken the founder. [This is the present Fumon-in. Mitsumata refers to the place where the Sumida River, Ayase River, and Ara River converge and split into three branches. It was formerly the site of Chiba family's castle. At that time it was called the enclosure of Fumon-in]

[However, it was later caught in warfare and all the halls and pagodas were reduced to ashes. At this time, a large temple bell sank into the Sumida River. That place is called Kane-ga-fuchi (Bell Abyss). In the second year of Genna [some say the sixth year], the head priest Eishin Hoin, by official command, moved from the land of Mitsumata and relocated the temple to the present village of Kameido. This is detailed in the temple's origin records and in the inscription of the temple's new bell]

Long ago, Sata Zenji Morimitsu [who later became a monk and took the name Kanne], a retainer of Chiba Yoritane, was to be executed for the crime of seeking false fame. At that time, through the protection of this sacred image that he had been devoutly praying to, the blade gradually broke and he escaped the danger. [Due to this miracle, Yoritane established this temple in Mitsumata Castle, making the priest Choken both the spiritual guide and founder]

Also, in the third year of Tenbun (1534), a great epidemic spread throughout the country and many people died, but all those who prayed to this sacred image were completely cured of their illness, and those who did not fall ill had no fear of contagion even when sharing beds with the sick. Later, while the head priest Choei was sleeping, an old man appeared and said, "I am the Bodhisattva Abhayamkara (Giver of Fearlessness). Because I take on the epidemic diseases in place of many people, I suffer..."