Overview of the Great Osaka Earthquake
All Safe

On June 14th, Kaei 7 (1854) at the Hour of the Rat (around 11 PM), a great earthquake occurred and the city was alarmed, but as there were no particular incidents, everyone performed thousand-fold prayers at their tutelary shrines in gratitude and were rejoicing. However, on November 4th of the same year at the Hour of the Snake (around 10 AM), there was another great earthquake, and again on the 5th at the Hour of the Cock (around 6 PM), making three great earthquakes in total. The city was greatly alarmed, most people were forced to find lodging elsewhere, houses collapsed in various places throughout the city, and the number of damaged locations was countless - truly unprecedented events. The outline is recorded below.

[Collapsed Buildings by Location]
Kita Kutaro-cho Dobu-ike North: 2 houses
Kyo-cho Hori 3rd district: 6 houses, Okura Bridge: 5 houses
Awaza Yabu Yokocho: 6 houses, Inusaibashi North: 1 house
Kadoya-cho Ryogoku Bridge: 18 houses, Nagahori Gotoshin: 6 houses
Saiwai-cho Higashi-hi: 3 houses, Takahara Prison Front: 1 house
Koei Bridge West End: 3 houses, Horie Kame Bridge West Crossroads: 20 houses
Jonan-cho South Corner: 3 houses, Junkei-cho I-ike: 2 houses
Doshomachi Naka Bridge: 1 house, Kita Edobori 3rd district
Sanoya Bridge Shio-cho, Tenma Tenjin, Goryo Shrine
Marugame Konpira Shrine, Fukushima Upper-Middle-Lower Tenjin
Tennoji Pagoda slightly tilted

Besides these, there were many other damaged places, but they are too numerous to describe in writing, so they are omitted.

[Great Tsunami at Osaka Kawaguchi]
On November 5th, Kaei 7, at the Hour of the Monkey (around 3 PM), there was a thunder-like sound from the west that seemed suspicious. That night at the 5th hour (around 8 PM), a great tsunami came from offshore. All the large ships offshore were swept away with the force of flying arrows, washing away bridges over rivers. The houses on the waterfront had no earthquake damage, but many people who borrowed boats to evacuate all drowned. The number of deaths among ship captains and sailors on large ships is unknown. Ships from 2,000 to over 1,000 koku capacity were all lost, small boats were crushed under large ships, and everything became greatly devastated.

[Washed Away Bridges]
Ajikawa Bridge, Kamei Bridge, Kunitsu Bridge, Taka Bridge, Kurokane Bridge, Hiyoshi Bridge, Shiomi Bridge, Sachi Bridge, Sumiyoshi Bridge, Kanaya Bridge - 10 bridges total

[Great Earthquake and Fire on the Tokaido]
The great earthquake on November 4th caused houses in post stations to collapse, finally leading to fires and great confusion. The situation was indescribable, with injuries occurring - it was terrible.

[Damage by Location along Tokaido and other regions - extensive list of locations with percentages of destruction, fires, and casualties]

[Other Regional Damage]
The document continues with detailed reports from various provinces including Echizen, Wakasa, Edo, Mino, Kyoto, Ise, Owari Nagoya, Nakasendo Kiso Road, Shishu Toba, Senshu Sakai, Kishu, Nanbu, Amagasaki, and Goshu Road, describing earthquakes, fires, tsunamis, collapsed buildings, and casualties.

The document concludes noting that omitted information and details about western provinces will be thoroughly investigated and published in the next edition.