[Right Upper Section]
Answer: What Never Disparaging proclaimed was simply the meaning of the Lotus Sutra preached by the previous Buddha. Since Buddha's preaching already had no problematic aspects and taught "all achieve the Buddha path," like the general prediction in the Dharma Teacher chapter, for both types of Dharma teachers - those facing Buddha directly and those not facing Buddha directly - if they hear one verse or one phrase and generate one moment of faith and understanding, all are given the prediction of becoming Buddha. How does Never Disparaging's complete cause prediction differ from that? Though knowing the five natures are distinct, if one is of bodhisattva seed-nature, one truly should achieve Buddhahood. If one is of the solitary-seeking type, one should have the benefit of exclusive dharmas. Or again, because his impartial compassion was profound and heavy, he didn't wish for the presence or absence of nature but desired to cause all to achieve Buddhahood. Or again, because of his permanently abiding, signless mind, he didn't discriminate between differences in seed-nature but always reverently respected Buddha-nature, not wishing for differences among provisional beings, suspending his mind on Buddha-nature and granting predictions. Therefore there is probably no fault.

The Comprehensive Commentary, Volume 1 states: Also, there are two types of bodhisattvas. First, beginners; second, long-time practitioners. Long-time practitioners who have reached the vessel stage give predictions according to nature. Like in the Śrīmālā Sutra, bodhisattvas capable of bearing the four grave [precepts], those seeking to be bodhisattvas are granted the bodhisattva vehicle, etc. Beginners don't discern spiritual capacity but simply arouse vows to enable attainment of Buddhahood. This is like the Prajñāpāramitā Sutra's "I cause all to enter remainderless nirvāṇa." Never Disparaging is the same as this.

It also states: Regarding the commentary's statement that "bodhisattvas grant predictions to those possessing the cause of principle-nature." Question: Examining the Yogācāra treatise, only when both principle and wisdom are present can it be called "complete cause." Now there is only principle - how can it be called complete? Answer: This sutra-commentary states it demonstrates that all sentient beings have Buddha-nature. If it weren't principle, how could all be said to have it? The commentary master, following this, calls it complete regarding principle. Complete means comprehensive. Because sentient beings universally possess it, the name "complete" is established. There are additional explanations, as should be fully [understood] below.

Jingxing's Commentary, Volume 8 states: One explanation says ○ this is respecting the reward-body tathāgatagarbha. This is probably not so, because it contradicts the treatise's statement about

[Right Lower Section]
"complete cause prediction." That is, if following the manifestation of reward-Buddha seed-nature, since it doesn't discern Dharma-Buddha nature, it definitely cannot be called complete cause prediction. Also, reward-Buddha nature is not necessarily present in all. How could Never Disparaging say all practice the bodhisattva path, since he couldn't know about having reward-Buddha nature? My present explanation: "I deeply respect you" means respecting Dharma-body tathāgatagarbha. Because all possess it. "If practicing the bodhisattva path" means respecting reward-body tathāgatagarbha. [Though] arousing intention and cultivating, it doesn't pervade all. Since it cannot be definitively known, it says "if."

A private record states: Question: Master Jingxing challenges Cien saying "One explanation ○" Question: This challenge is reasonable. How should it be explained and reconciled? Answer: Since Dharma-Buddha seed-nature exists in all, it's not mentioned further. He only discusses reward-nature, saying it doesn't violate the treatise's explanation of the complete cause prediction name. (This addresses the first challenge.) Also, bodhisattvas' aspirations are vast and unrestricted, universally granting Buddha predictions. However, in reality, only those with inherent nature and habitual seed-nature will definitely achieve Buddhahood. Therefore this states "all practice the bodhisattva path." (This addresses the latter challenge.) Question: If so, what difference is there between the two explanations? Answer: The first explanation implicitly discusses principle-nature and explicitly discusses active-nature. The latter explanation explicitly discusses both principle-nature and active-nature.

The same text states above: ○ The meaning of these two explanations - the first explanation only clarifies bowing to active Buddha-nature; the latter explanation additionally clarifies bowing to both principle and active natures. It doesn't explain the natureless. Question: Bodhisattva Never Disparaging's position was at the pre-ground stage. He didn't discern whether sentient beings had nature or not. All whom he saw, he bowed to and gave predictions of achieving Buddhahood. Yet one class of

[Left Upper Section]
sentient beings, though receiving predictions, having no seed-nature, should not achieve Buddhahood. One class of sentient beings, like those predictions, should definitely achieve Buddhahood. Why give false teachings to one class of natureless sentient beings? Answer: This discusses the bodhisattva's vast aspirations and arousing great vows, universally bowing and universally stating they should attain Buddhahood. The Brahmā Net Sutra states: "If a Buddha-child again makes this vow: 'May all sentient beings achieve Buddhahood.' If one doesn't arouse this vow, one commits a light offense." However, since sentient beings have distinctions between having and lacking nature as vessels, those with nature achieve Buddhahood, those without nature don't achieve it. This is not the bodhisattva's fault.

The Essential Decisions on One Vehicle, Volume 1 states: Question: The Profound Praise, Volume 10 states: "I deeply respect you and don't disparage ○ tathāgatagarbha, then one shall attain Buddhahood" (above). What does this meaning [entail]? Answer: These two explanations have unsettled textual meaning. Since it already says "all whom he saw," why take only those with nature? This is a separate interpretation and should not be the present intention. Also, "you all practice" describes the intention of bowing. Why does the upper [text] bow to all while the lower [mentions] only those with nature? If so, "what is the reason" should be deleted. Also, one cannot say "if you practice the path, you shall attain Buddhahood." Since it already says "all practice," why arbitrarily say "if"? Even with successive remedies, it ultimately doesn't accord with the sutra. Withered wood and dung-soil cannot be carved and plastered. Phoenix, oh phoenix, what decline of virtue is this?

Question: The sutra text states "whether bhikṣu or bhikṣuṇī, upāsaka or upāsikā, all were bowed to and praised." What does this reveal? Answer: (As in the text.) Regarding this, if bowing to bhikṣus and lay practitioners, wouldn't this violate precepts? Next, why bow only to the four assemblies and not to the eight groups?

Reconciling explanation: Seeing the Profound Praise's intention, bodhisattva bhikṣus may bow to lay people. How does this violate monastic rules?

[Left Lower Section]
The Profound Praise has multiple explanations. First, contrasting natural transgressions with regulatory transgressions. Though bodhisattvas definitely don't commit natural transgressions, regarding regulatory transgressions, they may sometimes commit them. When benefits are vast during times of encouragement and transformation, they don't consider this. Next, regulatory transgressions are still indefinite. Contrasting universal bowing with individual bowing. Universally bowing to the four assemblies doesn't violate precepts. Next, regarding individual bowing, if respecting Buddha-nature, even bowing to one nun or woman, there's still no fault. Because one doesn't bow to the ordinary body. Therefore the Profound Praise states that bodhisattvas definitely uphold [precepts regarding] natural transgressions; regulatory transgressions may be committed because encouragement and benefit are great. If merely a bhikṣu who is not a bodhisattva bows, there is immediate violation; not bowing has no violation. Also, bowing to the four assemblies incurs no violation, while bowing to individuals causes deficiency. Also, respecting Buddha-nature is not bowing to the body.

The Profound Praise states: Question: These first four assemblies - whenever encountered, all are bowed to. Bowing to bhikṣuṇīs and lay people - how is this not a violation? Answer: If a bodhisattva bhikṣu doesn't perform this bowing, then bowing would incur violation. Now performing this bowing, therefore there's no violation. Bodhisattvas definitely uphold [precepts regarding] natural transgressions; regulatory transgressions may be committed because encouragement and benefit are great. If merely a bhikṣu who is not a bodhisattva, bowing incurs immediate violation, not bowing has no violation. Also, bowing to the four assemblies incurs no violation, while bowing to individuals causes deficiency. Also, respecting Buddha-nature is not bowing to the body. The Mirror Water Commentary states:

The New Commentary states: Regarding the commentary's answer about "bodhisattva bhikṣu," superficially observing this text, it seems one should bow to the four assemblies. Not bowing immediately incurs violation. However, the meaning is that bodhisattvas make benefiting others their primary task. If seeing that bowing will definitely accomplish great benefit, yet not bowing, then there is immediate violation and loss of benefit and joy. Bowing then doesn't