【Outside Right Page Frame】
Lotus Sutra Volume 7, Kaiji-shō Part 1, Divine Powers Chapter, 436

【Upper Right Section】
[The commentary] explains this. Moreover, these three kinds are precisely used for entrustment. Therefore they are explained exclusively. The other [five] are common and not proper. Therefore they are not explained.

The Sui-shō states: "The treatise only explains three" means that among the eight kinds of divine transformations, five kinds exist commonly in other sutras. Because they are not superior, they are not commented upon. Moreover, these three kinds are entirely absent from other sutras. The treatise authors exclusively explain them. Moreover, these three kinds are precisely for entrustment. Therefore they are explained exclusively. The latter interpretation is superior. It also states: "The others are common and not proper" means that the other five kinds exist in other sutras. Light is as in the Ascending to Heaven Sutra and Nirvana Sutra. Earth shaking is as in the Prajñāpāramitā Sutra. Covering is as in the Vimalakīrti Sutra. Land transformation is also as in the Vimalakīrti Sutra. They are not the essential points of the entrustment section in this sutra. Therefore they are not explained.

One version makes this equal with the following upper discussion as the end of Commentary Volume 21.
Thus the copying of one version is completed.

Kasuga Shrine New Building Kaiji-shō, Number 23 of 28 fascicles
Paper [supervised by] Enzen-bō (Jōshin-in) Provisional Great Monk Director
Eiroku 3rd year (kanoe-saru) 2nd month 24th day, completed writing at Matsuy
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kiyotane, respectfully submitted
Kansei 7th (kinoto-u) year 2nd month 21st day, completed one copy from manuscript
　　　　　　　　　Scribe Tamate Kuneda, respectfully copied

【Lower Right Section: No text】

【Left Page】
Printed November 20th, Taishō 5th year　　　　(Not for sale)
Published November 25th, Taishō 5th year
　　　　　　　　　　　Compiled by Buddhist Publication Society
　　　　　　　　　Representative (President, Doctor of Literature) Nanjō Bunyū
　　　　　　　　　Publisher　　　　Kojima Munekichi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tokyo City, Koishikawa Ward, Hayashi-chō 20)
　　　　　　　　　Printer　　　　Saitō Shōtatsu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tokyo City, Nihonbashi Ward, Kabuto-chō 2)
　　　　　　　　　Printing House　　　　Tokyo Printing Company
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tokyo City, Nihonbashi Ward, Kabuto-chō 2)
　　　　　　　　　Publisher　　　　Buddhist Publication Society
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Tokyo City, Koishikawa Ward, Hayashi-chō 20)

【Outside Left Page Frame】
(Bound by Ueki Bookbinding)