Both Lord Kii-no-kami and I expressed our gratitude for this honor, and Lord Kii-no-kami immediately placed the official document in his breast and we withdrew.
　　However, since the document was returned to me, I handed it to my deputy in the middle room.

1. After this concluded, three people took their seats: Lord Honjō Ōmi-no-kami (representing Lord Nagai Shinano-no-kami), Niwa Shikibu-shōyū, and Lord Yonekura Tango-no-kami, and were appointed as festival magistrates and their deputies for the Nikkō festival on the 17th.

1. With the rōjū seated in rows, one official document handed over by Lord Izu-no-kami was as follows:

　　　　Nikkō 20th day　　　　Naitō Yamato-no-kami
　　　　Representative　　　　Deputy
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Kii-no-kami
　　　　Appointed as above

A copy of this official document was handed over, and I was told that I should also inform those present at the same meeting.

　　　　Volume 1-1
　　　　7th day of 10th month of Monkey year, from Lord Bitchū-no-kami
　　　　　Copy of official note　　　One document

When returning from Nikkō, there have been instances of arriving early at the monthly duty rōjū's residence due to hurrying on the road, but there is no need to hurry in the future. Representatives and festival magistrates for the 17th should report to the monthly duty official by the 19th, and representatives for the 20th should report by the 23rd.

As stated above, this should be communicated when appointed as representative or festival magistrate.

A copy of the above was also sent to deputy Matsudaira Kii-no-kami.

1. For expressing gratitude, I attended Nishinomaru castle and had an audience with Sōshaban Toba Tamba-no-kami in the Kari-no-ma.

1. I made courtesy visits to the rōjū and wakadoshiyori to express gratitude, properly announcing myself at their entrance halls.

　　However, in previous years, courtesy visits were not made to rōjū and wakadoshiyori who were in mourning, but in recent years no mention of purification has been made in official letters, so [I] attended while still in ritual impurity