Everyone entered inside the cedar doors and sat in order with the left side elevated. Izu-no-kami announced to the group that they would be granted gifts, and after Toda Bingo-no-kami expressed gratitude, under Izumo-no-kami's guidance we turned south in the corridor, removed our short swords and fans, and placed them to the left. Toda Bingo-no-kami, myself, and all the festival ceremony officials entered inside the White Heron cedar doors.

We positioned ourselves near the inner sliding doors and waited in order. After Bingo-no-kami's audience was completed, there was an exchange of courtesies between Izu-no-kami and Izumo-no-kami. I positioned myself near the sliding doors, sat at the threshold edge of the inner chamber, then slid forward and prostrated myself. Only Izu-no-kami's name was announced, the shogun responded to this, and he advanced before His Lordship, sliding up to the upper platform and prostrating himself. There was an imperial command appointing him as representative for Nikkō on the 20th. He immediately slid down from the upper platform, turned right, placed his hands on the second tatami mat from below and prostrated himself. When he turned his face toward the duty officer, there was an acknowledgment, and he turned right and withdrew. Then, as initially, he came out, put on his short sword, passed through the corridor and exited from the guard gate. He went through the veranda of the Seiko room, and waited behind the sliding doors facing the Mandarin Duck cedar doors in the narrow corridor leading to the Yamabuki room. Izu-no-kami appeared in the Hame room, and after Toda Bingo-no-kami's presentation of the ceremonial sword and the granting of gifts were completed, inspector Watanabe Kyūzō provided guidance. I went from the Yamabuki room to the Hame room, came to where the gifts were, and received them. There was an exchange with chamberlain Suwa Inaba-no-kami, and I withdrew and waited in my seat. Senior inspector Itō Ashū handed over the following document, saying that Izu-no-kami had conveyed this message:

　　　　　　Inside sleeve　　　　　To Naitō Yamato-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Naitō Yamato-no-kami
　　　　An official letter will be delivered, so you should attend the castle at 5:30 on the coming 15th. End
　　　　　April

I received this and immediately withdrew.

1. For expressing gratitude, I attended Nishinomaru castle and had an audience with chamberlain Kuchiki Tosa-no-kami.
1. Those with ritual defilement, regardless of age, performed their duties in rotation and left word at the entrance about gratitude for the Nikkō leave and the granted gifts.
1. Today, due to purification for departure, I sent messengers from beside my palanquin to those I encountered on the way, informing them that formal greetings were not appropriate. Of course, I also did not accept any gestures of deference.