The name "Uhyōe" was changed to "Sanemon." In the 19th year of Keichō (1614), during the Siege of Osaka, when
　　　an uprising occurred in that region and the local peasants became enemies, Katagiri Tōichinosho
　　　reported this from his castle in Ibaraki. Since Sanemon was serving as a magistrate for the Kamigata region and was residing in Kyoto at that time, he promptly
　　　dispatched to Ibaraki, gradually awaited reinforcements, and was present in that region before and after both Their Lordships' (Hidetada and Ieyasu) arrival at Fushimi. When both Their Lordships heard of this matter, they issued a
　　　commendation saying it was admirable. Later, during the reign of Lord Taitokuin (Hidetada), he became an attendant to Lord Suruga Dainagon (Tadanaga) and
　　　was appointed as the general district magistrate of Kai and Suruga provinces. At this time he received an additional grant of 3,500 koku,
　　　bringing his total to 5,000 koku with a vermillion seal certificate. After Lord Suruga's downfall,
　　　he was placed under the custody of Lord Sōma Daizen-no-suke and died there. His son, Murakami Jirō-
　　　zaemon Mitamasa, in the 2nd year of Kan'ei (1625) during Lord Taitokuin's reign, received his father Yoshimasa's original fief.
　　　Mitamasa's eldest son, Sanemon Masanao, succeeded to the family headship, and his descendants remain in Edo to this day.
　　　Santadayū Masamine was Mitamasa's second son.
He was summoned to service in the 2nd year of Kan'ei, Year of the Wood Rooster (1665) during Lord Yoshishina's reign. He was granted succession in the 2nd year of Kyōhō, Year of the Fire Rooster (1717) during Lord Yoshikuni's reign.
　Current generation　Murakami Kinai Masamoto《marginal note: native province Echizen》

　　　　　　　△　

In the 5th year of Kanbun, Year of the Wood Snake (1665) during Lord Mitsumichi's reign,
he was summoned to service
　●Hori Shinzaemon Naonari《marginal note: original province Mino, native province Hitachi | family name Fujiwara》
　　　His ancestor was a descendant of Hori Gondayū Hidetaka, great-grandson of General Toshihito eight generations back, and the family resided in Mino province for generations.
　　　By the time of Hori Kambe-no-dayū Hidenobu, he held Akanabe within Atsumi district. He served
　　　Saitō Yamashiro-no-kami Dōsan, and later also held 10,000 koku within Ikeda district. Hidenobu's eldest son, Hori
　　　Tarōzaemon Hideshige, had numerous military achievements.
　　　《marginal note: At this time, a masterless samurai from Owari named Okuda Sanemon
　　　came seeking to serve Hideshige, so he was retained and later granted the title Hori Kenmotsu Naomasa}}
　　　Hideshige's son, Hori Kyūtarō Hidemasa, served Lord Nobunaga in his youth, and when he distinguished himself
　　　on the battlefield, he was personally granted red-threaded armor with marsh irises added by hand, with praise that he would have good
　　　fortune in battle. {{marginal note: Therefore, the Hori family uses red armor and also uses iris
　　　as their crest}}
　　　{{marginal note: Also, bamboo from Fuwa village in Mino province is used as an auspicious
　　　symbol on banners}}
　　　He was entrusted with Sawayama Castle in Ōmi province, and later in the 8th month of the 13th year of Tenshō, Year of the Wood Rooster (1585), he replaced Niwa Go-
　　　rōzaemon-no-jō Nagashige and ruled Echizen. In the 18th year, Year of the Metal Tiger (1590), during the campaign against the Hōjō family,
　　　he died of illness at the military camp at Yamanaka Castle in Sagami province. Hidemasa's son, Hori Kyūtarō Hide-
　　　haru {{marginal note: later appointed as Saemon-no-kami}} moved from Echizen to Takada in Echigo province in the 2nd year of Keichō, Year of the Fire Rooster (1597). Hideharu's son