Hori Echigo-no-kami Tadatoshi served under Lord Gongen (Tokugawa Ieyasu). During the Battle of Sekigahara in the 5th year of Keichō (1600, Year of the Metal Rat), when an uprising occurred in Echigo Province, it was completely pacified through the efforts of the Hori clan. At this time, Tadatoshi's retainer Hori Kenmotsu Naomasa, along with his eldest son Utanokami Naokiyo and second son Tango-no-kami Naoyori, demonstrated exceptional dedication, and therefore Lord Gongen granted them special domains by his decree. However, after Kenmotsu Naomasa's death, his sons Naokiyo and Naoyori quarreled over power, and Naoyori went to Suruga to file complaints against his master Echigo-no-kami Tadatoshi and his elder brother Kenmotsu Naokiyo. When Lord Gongen heard of this and was angered by the discord in that province, in the 15th year of Keichō (1610, Year of the Metal Dog), in the intercalary second month, he placed Hori Echigo-no-kami Tadatoshi under the custody of Torii Sakyō-no-suke Tadamasa, lord of Iwaki in Ōshū, and confiscated his domain. Chief retainer Hori Kenmotsu Naokiyo was exiled to Mogami in Ushū. Thus the main Hori family line was extinguished. Shinzaemon Naoshige was the son of Echigo-no-kami Tadatoshi by a concubine. When Tadatoshi died in exile, his concubine of the Kushima family had relatives near Tsuchiura in Hitachi Province, so she moved there and gave birth the following year.

It is said that a protective short sword that Hidemasa received from Lord Nobunaga was given by Tadatoshi to this concubine, and this tradition continues to this day.

However, since he was the son of an exile, he was secretly cared for, and after reaching adulthood he came to Edo. Since there was a maternal connection to the hatamoto Kitami Kyūdayū, a petition was made to Lord Mitsumichi, and Shinzaemon Naoshige was summoned into service.

In the 4th year of Jōkyō (1687, Year of the Fire Rabbit) during Lord Yoshishina's reign, he was granted succession rights:
　Current generation: Hori Shinzaemon Naomasa《Birthplace: Echizen Province》