The Ikkō-ikki uprising, the Battle of Anegawa in Ōmi Province in the 1st year of Genki, the Battle of Mimatagahara in Tōtōmi Province in the 3rd year of the same era,
the Battle of Nagakute in the 3rd year of Tenshō, the fall of Takatenjin Castle in the 9th year of the same era, and the
Battle of Odawara in Sagami Province in the 18th year - he gradually accumulated military achievements and distinguished himself, receiving commendations multiple times.
Regarding the above, he possesses a copy of documents that the main family's Atsumi Kurōbei, who was formerly in the shogun's direct retainers (hatamoto), 
submitted to the government. The second son of the aforementioned Tarōbei Tomoyoshi, called Atsumi Han-
emon, served during Lord Hideyasu's reign but died of illness, so
the third son, called Tarōbei, served in Kishū. His son, Rokurō-
emon Tomomasa, was made Han-emon's adopted son, but being young,
returned to Kishū during Lord Tadanao's reign to inherit his biological father's family headship. Shinemon
Tomonobu is the son of the aforementioned Rokurōemon Tomomasa. Tomomasa's uncle, Atsumi Kyūbei,
served Lord Echigo-no-Chūjō (Matsudaira Tadateru). Through this connection, Lord Mitsumichi's intentions were
conveyed, and furthermore, through Lord Ishitani Nagato-no-Kami's recommendation, Tomonobu was summoned.
Granted succession in the 1st year of Shōtoku (1711), year of the Metal Rabbit, during Lord Yoshikuni's reign
　Current　Atsumi Shinemon Masatake (born in Echizen)

△　Imadate
Summoned in the 1st year of Enpō (1673), year of the Water Ox, during Lord Mitsumichi's reign
　Current　Imadate Sukezaemon Toyohide (both original and birth provinces: Echizen | surname Fujiwara)
　　Minister of the Left Kawabe Uona, due to certain circumstances, was exiled to Azukashima Bay in Sakai District of this province,
　　and held domain over the Azukashima vicinity and Imadate District. After Minister Uona's death, he was buried at Azukashima,
　　which is said to be the Miho Myōjin shrine. His descendants are said to have taken Yasoshima as their title
　　according to tradition. Toyohide's great-grandfather, Yasoshima Dōsen, lived in Azukashima Bay for generations,
　　holding domain over the Azukashima vicinity and Imadate District, and belonged to the Asakura family. After the Asakura family's
　　downfall, Dōsen's eldest son Yasoshima Dōjo (Buddhist name), whose secular name was Sukezaemon Torayori,
　　served Lord Hideyoshi and also participated in the Korean campaigns. He was also
　　known to Gongen-sama (Tokugawa Ieyasu) and Taitokuin (Hidetada), occasionally receiving imperial favor. After the fall of Osaka
　　Castle, Lord Tōdō Izumi-no-Kami took him in and cared for him. Dōjo's eldest son, Yasoshima
　　Kaga-emon Nobushige, is Toyohide's father. He was summoned by Izumi-no-Kami Takatora to serve,
　　and also had an audience with Lord Taitokuin. Later, due to unexpected circumstances