He was summoned separately during Lord Tsunamasa's reign in the 7th year of Enpō, year of the Earth Boar (1679).
He was granted succession during Lord Yoshishina's reign in the 3rd year of Jōkyō, year of the Fire Tiger (1686).
　Adopted son
　Current Matsunami Jinzaemon Masao <<Born in Echizen province, initially called Sakurai, later changed his original name to Matsunami. He was actually the son of Iikawa Hikoshirō, who was the second son of Iikawa Saki-Hyōbee Masanari>>
　Iikawa Ko-Hyōbee Masanari's father was called Iikawa Hachirōzaemon. During Lord Tadamasa's reign, he was summoned in Shinshū province and temporarily appointed as magistrate, serving in Fukui since his time in Echigo.

He was summoned during Lord Yoshikuni's reign in the 1st year of Shōtoku, year of the Metal Rabbit (1711).
　Adopted son
　Current Matsunami Denzō Masaari <<Born in Echizen province. Actual father: Mori Yagozaemon Sadatsugu>>
　His actual father Sadatsugu's original name was Sagitani. Sadatsugu's grandfather, Sagitani Yogoemon, accompanied Lord Tadamasa during the Siege of Osaka.

　　　　　△　Horie
During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, in the 1st year of Meireki, year of the Wood Sheep (1655), he came from Echigo
as an attendant to Lady Seichiin, temporarily serving as intermediary.
●Horie Genzaemon Motomasa <<Originally from Mino province, born in Echigo province. Surname Fujiwara, original name Hori, Buddhist name Jōtei>>
　Motomasa's father was called Hori Yahyōbee. He was a member of Hori Kyūdayū Hidemasa's clan and served that house, but when the house was abolished during the Keichō years, he became a rōnin and went to Kaga to serve Hizen-no-kami Toshinaga. He died in battle at the base of Sanadamaru during the Winter Siege of Osaka.
　Regarding the name Horie, since Motomasa's mother was the daughter of Horie Saemon-Saburō Toshishige of the Asakura family, he inherited his maternal grandfather's family name.

During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, in the 11th year of Kanbun, year of the Metal Boar (1671),
he was granted succession.
　　Horie Genzaemon Mototada　Born in Echigo province