renowned [for his skill], so he was appointed to instruct the lord's sumo wrestlers and served in that capacity.
In the reign of Lord Tsunamasa, in the second year of Jōkyō, Kinoto-Ushi year (1685), he was granted succession to the domain.
　Yokoyama Tōhachirō Norifumi《Note: Birth province Musashi》
In the reign of Lord Yoshishina, in the seventh year of Hōei, Kanoe-Tora year (1710), he was granted succession to the domain.
Actual [heir]　Yokoyama Genjirō Tokifumi《Note: Birth province Echizen｜》
In the reign of Lord Yoshishina, in the sixteenth year of Genroku, Mizunoto-Hitsuji year (1703), he was summoned to service.
　Current generation　Yokoyama Yasaburō Tokinaga《Note: Birth province Echizen｜》

　　　　△　Takada
In the reign of Lord Mitsumichi, in the first year of Kanbun, Kanoto-Ushi year (1661), he was summoned to service.
　Current generation　Takada Saburōzaemon Tomoyoshi《Note: Home province Hitachi, birth province Shimōsa｜Family name Minamoto, originally called Miyata》
　　The ancestor, Takada Saburōzaemon-no-jō《Note: Shurinojō｜suke》Tomotsugu, grandson of Oda Chikuzennokami Tomoya, served as the lord of Takada village in Hitachi Province for five generations. The sixth generation, Yamatonokami Tomoyuki, was skilled in archery and was summoned by Lord Yūki Naomitsu, who granted him Yana territory in Shimotsuke Province. Before that, there had been three generations. During the reign of Lord [Yūki] Ujitomo, Takada Magosaburō Yoshitane was appointed to the position of musha-dokoro, and during the Battle of Yūki, he and his eldest son Samanosuke, along with the entire clan, died loyal deaths. During the reign of Lord [Yūki] Ujihiro, Samanosuke's younger brother Hyōgonosuke《Note: Yamato｜nokami》Tomonao was summoned and granted the Yana territory, the ancestral estate of his forefathers. His descendants served the Yūki household loyally in military affairs through successive generations until Yamatonokami Yoshimichi. The aforementioned Yoshimichi's grandson, Ryūshin Tomoyo, was blind but had received the transmission of the Tale of Genji, so he was summoned by Lord Mitsumichi in the second year of Jōō, Mizunoto-Mi year (1653). The son of Takada Magobei Tomoyoshi, who was Ryūshin's son-in-law, the current Saburōzaemon Tomoyoshi, was summoned upon Ryūshin's petition and came from Yūki.