In Lord Yoshishina's reign, granted succession of territory at Yoshie in the 12th year of Kanbun, year of the Water Rat (1672)
　Adopted son
　　Wanibuchi Saburōbei Yukiyori《Birth province: Echizen　Buddhist name: Kaishin｜Biological father: Daikuhara Kuemon Hidetsugu》
　　　Regarding the biological father's Daikuhara family ancestry, they served the Hōjō family, but after the fall of the Hōjō, they served under Sanada
　　　Awa-no-kami and distinguished themselves during a castle siege. During Lord Hideyasu's reign, they were among those
　　　selected and summoned from masterless samurai with military achievements from the Sanada family. During the Siege of Osaka,
　　　he also took one head in battle.
In Lord Yoshikuni's reign, granted succession of territory in the 1st year of Shōtoku, year of the Metal Ox (1711)
　Adopted heir
　Current　Wanibuchi Saburōbei Yukiaki《Birth province: Echizen｜Biological father: Uchida Iemon, retainer of Sakai Tange》　
　　　The biological father's Uchida family ancestry includes an ancestor who served the Ogasawara family as Uchida Bizen-no-kami and was entrusted with
　　　a small castle in Iho village in Shinano Province. Later he served the Takeda family and then the Sanada family.
　　　During Lord Hideyasu's reign, he was among those selected and summoned from Sanada family masterless samurai. Iemon
　　　entered the Uchida family as an adopted son and was actually Yukiyori's younger brother.

　　　　　△　Yokoi
　
In Lord Yoshishina's reign, summoned at Yoshie in the 2nd year of Keian, year of the Earth Ox (1649)
　●Yokoi Gensetsu Maezumi《Original province: Owari　Birth province: Echizen｜Surname unknown》
　　　The stipend of great-grandfather Yokoi Iori is not precisely known, but he served as castle
　　　lord of Akame in Owari Province for generations. Among his descendants, even today there is a Yokoi Iori who serves
　　　as a retainer of Lord Owari with a stipend of 10,000 koku. Great-grandfather Iori's second son, Yokoi Hanbei
　　　Maeshiba, was summoned during Lord Matsudaira Hizen-no-kami's time, granted a stipend of 800 koku, and served in Kaga
　　　Province until his death. His son Yokoi Hanbei Muneyoshi had certain views regarding his father's succession
　　　and requested leave, withdrew from Kaga Province, came to this province, and died as a masterless samurai.
　　　His son Gensetsu Maezumi became a physician from childhood and was
　　　summoned at Yoshie through his medical practice.