After serving Lord Hideyori from Hideyoshi, he died in battle at Osaka in the first year of Genna, year of the Wood Rabbit (1615). His son Kuwayama Jūbei withdrew to Yamashiro Province after the fall of Osaka Castle, where he received a stipend of 600 koku of rice from Lord Mori Chūjō. After Chūjō's death, he returned this stipend. His son Kuwayama Jūemon Masasuke was in Kyoto serving the Mori Naiki, from whom he received a stipend of 300 koku of rice. This too was later returned, but due to growing favor, during the reign of Mimasaka-no-kami he commuted from Kyoto to serve. After Mimasaka-no-kami's death, since Lord Yoshishina had long-standing connections with the Mori family and had frequent audiences, out of favor he came to Echizen in the third year of Enpō, year of the Wood Rabbit (1675) to pay his respects. When returning, Lord Yoshishina sent a letter to Lord Mori Hōki-no-kami stating: "Since there was a promise made during Mimasaka-no-kami's lifetime, please send Jūemon to Echizen in the coming Dragon year (Enpō 4, 1676)." He brought this direct letter to Mimasaku Province. At that time, by Lord Yoshishina's intention that he should take the tonsure, he shaved his head at Daitokuji Temple in Kyoto and changed his name to Sōan. Thereafter, when he came to the domain, he was summoned to service.

Summoned in the sixth year of Enpō, year of the Earth Horse (1678) during Lord Tsunamasa's reign, he served at the Torigoe residence during the lord's retirement
Granted succession in the first year of Shōtoku, year of the Metal Rabbit (1711) during Lord Yoshikuni's reign
　　　Kuwayama Gonbei Shigeyoshi 《margin note: birth province Yamashiro》
Summoned in the first year of Shōtoku, year of the Metal Rabbit (1711) during Lord Yoshikuni's reign
Granted succession in the fifth year of Shōtoku, year of the Wood Sheep (1715) in the same reign
　Adopted son
　●　Kuwayama Jūbei Shigemoto 《margin note: birth province Yamashiro｜biological father Kuwayama Tōemon Shigaharu, retainer of the Mori family》