This shrine serves as the bettō (temple administrator) of Gyōtoku Hachimangū and conducts worship there.

Portrait of Great Master Enkō with Mirror - Enshrined at Jōdo sect temple Ryōrakuji in Takaya village on the eastern seashore of Gyōtoku. It is said to be a portrait that Great Master Enkō painted by looking at his own reflection in a mirror. (Locally it is also called the Brocade Portrait.) At this temple there is a wooden memorial tablet (tōba) written in the true hand of Great Priest Yūten. (People revere it, saying it has miraculous powers.)

Nagashima Port - This is a paired location with Kasai Nagashima. (Long ago there was a lord called Nagashima-dono who lived in this area.) (There are ruins of a Kannon sacred site called Bon'onji temple.) It is handed down that in Ōta Dōkan's time, ships moored at Kōnodai port. Later, when the convenience of takasebune (riverboats) from Yashū, Ōshū, Jōshū, Sōshū and other provinces came to be utilized, transportation shifted to Gyōtoku.

In the second year of Eiroku (1561), the Odawara Hōjō family's property register lists "Kasai Nagashima Takaki" among Ōta Shinrokurō's domains.

New Tone River (written as "tone" in the Man'yōshū, and as "tone" in the movable-type edition of Genpei Seisuiki) - Its old name was Futoi River. (This name appears in books such as the Sarashina Diary and Azuma Kagami.) Also, Kiyosuke's Ōgishō states that there is a great river in Katsushika District of Shimōsa Province, and the area east of the Futoi River is called Katō District, while the area west of the river is called Kasai District. This should serve as evidence. Personally speaking, the area west of this river is called Kasai and now belongs to Musashi Province. Also, in the Hōjō Godaiki's section on the Battle of Kōnodai, it appears under the name "Karameki River."

Commonly it is called Bandō Tarō, or alternatively Fumimaki River, or also Katsushika River.

Because it flows through Gyōtoku, it is also called Gyōtoku River. Its source springs from the deep valley of Mount Monjudake in Tone District of Kōzuke Province, and the various streams from Takashina River, Agatsuma River, Karasu River, Usui River, and from Shinshū's provinces and districts converge, reaching Hara District in Bushū where they become one river. Also, the Watarase River from Jōshū joins the Tone, and from Kurihashi it divides - one stream enters northern Sōshū, flowing eastward along areas like Sekiyado and Kioroshi, reaching Chōshi and returning to the sea. This is called the Tone River (also written as Bandō Tarō). One stream flows south between Musashi and Shimōsa, curves from below Kōnodai toward Gyōtoku, and returns to the sea. (This is called the New Tone River.)

Upon examination, in the Jichū Gun'yō, "san'i" (scattered rank) is read as "tone." In the Seikyū-shō it states that on formal occasions, "taifu" is called "tone." The Kuji Kongen says that when it is commanded to summon "tone" on formal occasions, "tone" refers to the sixth rank, but in ancient times "tone" was a designation that extended to the fifth rank and above. Also, in the Chōya Gunsai it appears as "Kebiishichō-ka tone shokiji" and mentions matters of appointment. The Rihō Ōki states that all officials from "shuten" (chief clerk) and above are called "tone." This refers to various superior officials, and all those of "shuten" rank and above are superior officials.

In the Engi Shukushi-shiki, the phrase "extending to the tone men and women of the six imperial counties of Yamato province" probably refers to commoners and such. In general, there were ama no tone, sato tone, and also in the Teikin Ōrai it mentions "tone of Yodo Kawashiri," and the fact that village heads and defense commanders were also called "tone" can be seen in the Kokon Chōmonshū. At Hinooka Myōjin in Banshū, every year on the first Horse Day of the first month, they perform a ritual called "taitō." Called "sato no tone," this is performed by members selected from among thirty-six old families. Each holds the sixth rank and serves as attendants to the bright deity. On that day there is archery, and also Five Festivals ceremonies, all of which are the role of the "tone." In addition, the shrine priests of Kamo in Yamashiro, Kurama's Yuki Tenjin, and others are also called "tone." In the kotobagaki (headnote) of Fujiwara no Nakayoshi's poem in the Goshūishū Zō Shingi section, it also mentions village...