It states that festivals should be conducted according to the "tone" imperial decree. "Tone" is a word that praises those who stand at the pinnacle of all things. From these examples, this should be understood as clear. If so, since this river is also the greatest river in the Kantō region, it was probably named "tone" with the meaning of being the pinnacle of Kantō rivers. Commonly, the Chikugo River is called "Saikoku Tarō" and this river is called "Bandō Tarō," and calling them the imperial court's pair of great rivers probably has the same meaning. Someone says that because the Tone River originates from Mount Monjudake in Tone District of Kōzuke Province, it takes the meaning of Monju's wisdom and "tone" (cleverness). This would be a greatly contrived theory. Since the imperial court often has examples of borrowing characters, it should not be considered strange to write "tone" as "tone" (利根).

Man'yōshū
To-ne-ga-ha no ka-ha-se mo shi-ra-zu ta-ta wa-ta-ri na-mi ni a-fu no su a-he-ru ki-mi ka-mo

Kagura Chū Hishō
Shino-moto
These bamboo grasses - from where do these bamboo grasses come, even if the toneri's waist becomes separated, the bamboo grasses of the hill
Sue
In parting the bamboo grasses, sleeves may tear, but even treading on the stones of Tone River, come from the riverbank

This waka "Shino wake wa" is included in the Shinchokusen, ninth volume, among the kagura songs as composed by Tachibana no Nakatachi [correctly Tachibana no Nakatō]. Upon examination, in the beginning it says "toneri" and at the end it connects with "Tone River." This seems to have basis in the previous consideration of "tone."

Fubokushō
The lower part of Tone River is muddy, the upper part clear - such as it was, how regrettable indeed   Anonymous

Tone River Returning Sails
Hōunshū
Clouds part over Tone River - in that moment of viewing, here the boat people moor and return   Jitsuinkyō
Hokkoku
Does the light of accumulated snow invite? Dawn breaks over the heavenly Tone River through the waves   Gyōe

These poems were all composed about the Tone River flowing to Hitachi Province, but since the river here is the same water flow, I add them here as I encounter them.

Sarashina Diary: At the border between Shimōsa Province and Musashi, it is called Futoi River
At Kagami-no-se, moored at Matsusato harbor, etc.

The Azuma Kagami states: Jishō 4, year of the metal rat, 9th month, 29th day, day of the earth tiger [abbreviated]
Because Edo Tarō Shigenaga has not obeyed Kagechika's orders and has not come even now, although an imperial letter was sent yesterday, there was discussion that he should still be pursued and attacked, so Naka Shirō Koreshige was sent to Kasai Saburō Kiyoshige's place, pretending to inspect the Ōi fortification to lure out Shigenaga and attack him [abbreviated below]

Also states: Same year, 10th month, 2nd day, day of the metal snake, the military guard (Minamoto no Yoritomo) boarded boats with Tsunemochi, Hiromasa and others, crossed both the Ōi and Sumida rivers, and headed to Musashi Province with elite troops of over 30,000 horsemen [etc.]

Karameki-no-se: Although it is said to be the water flow of the New Tone River, its location is not certain today. Local people say it is in the vicinity of Shimamata. In the Hōjō Godaiki, in the section about the battle between Ujiyasu and Satomi Yoshihiro, it states that from Edo in Bushū toward Odawara, Tōyama Tanba-no-kami and Tominaga Saburō Zaemon-no-jō rushed to participate and set up formation with Karameki River in front as a barrier. The same book also calls it Karameki-no-se.

Upon examination, the "Kagami-no-se" mentioned in the Sarashina Diary might refer to this river. Probably in later times...