【Right page】
　Examples are also seen in the seventh year of the Turtle era, the first year of Ninna, and in the Azuma Kagami and other records. Mount Ishiyama in Ōmi Province is the yangqishi mentioned in pharmacological texts and is a remarkable rock formation of the realm. Also in the Nihon-ki, when Emperor Yūryaku's imperial daughter served at the Ise Shrine, due to suspicions of impropriety, her abdomen was opened and something like water was found with stones within the water. This would likely be what medical texts call "stone tumors" (sekka). Thus, the principle of things solidifying and condensing is the same.

　In terms of varieties, there are stalactites, magnetite, arsenopyrite, talc, alum stone, saltpeter, calcite, cold water stone, pumice stone, and other rare stones, strange stones, and fossilized animals, but since these have all been covered in the "Unkon-shi" compiled earlier by a person from Ōmi, there is no need to explain them all in detail.

　○The Japanese reading "ishi" originally comes from "hashi," meaning the solidification and settling of things, like "shimari" (tightening), "shizumu" (sinking), or colloquially "shikkari" (firmly). ○"Iwa" refers to stone teeth (iwa), written with the character for "ban" (rock foundation). It necessarily refers to large stones that are sharp and keen like teeth. ○"Iwaho" uses the character for "gan" (crag) and corresponds to the phrase from the Book of Songs "these stones are craggy," meaning something sharp and standing upright. In the Man'yōshū it is written as "iwaho" meaning "protruding." It is also called "iwahoro." Gradually these terms became interchangeable, being called "ishi," "iwa," or "iwaho."

　○In Japan there are many things skillfully crafted. Among those produced in the five home provinces and western provinces,

【Left page】
　Mikage stone, Tateyama stone, Teshima stone, etc. are used as materials beneficial for human use and are not merely ornamental objects. Therefore, I will list three or four items below and omit the rest. ○Izumi stone is necessarily blue in color with fine grain, used for carving inscriptions and the like. Items recently produced from Awa Province are similar to this. That stone resembles Nebu River stone, is green in color, and appears stratified in form. The stone quality is not hard. Also in Yamashiro Province there are Kurama stone, Kamogawa stone, Seikanji stone, etc. These are placed as stepping stones and decorative stones in gardens to retain moisture and appreciate their wet coloring, serving as ornamental objects for nobles and tea ceremony practitioners.

　　　　○Teshima Stone
　Fifty ri from Osaka, near Shōdoshima in Sanuki Province, it is an island mountain with a circumference of three ri. There are three villages: Ie-no-ura, Karato village, and Gō village. Ie-no-ura has about 300 houses, while Karato village and Gō village each have about 170-180 houses. Among these, the stone from Karato is somewhat harder and is used to construct torii gates and foundations.

　This mountain differs from other mountains in that stone is not cut and extracted from the mountain's surface. Instead, holes are made in the mountain similar to gold mine shafts. Tunnel entrances are opened, digging deep inside with shafts running vertically and horizontally.