○Whetstones (Toshi) 《Fine ones are called "to" and coarse ones are called "rei"》

The proverb says "whetstones are never found more than five ri from the imperial capital, being produced in accordance with the imperial seat," which is not an empty saying. In ancient times, white stones from the depths of Mount Kasuga in Yamato Province were used as finishing stones (awaseto) for swords, but now they are no longer quarried and only traces remain. Currently, those from Narutaki and Takao in the Saga area of Yamashiro Province are the finest in the realm, with few others comparable. These are produced in the border mountains between Yamashiro and Tamba provinces, called uchikumori or asagi. They are also found in Shiratani in Tamba. All of these are used as finishing stones for swords and razors, as well as by carpenters and other craftsmen.

Also, Tosawa whetstones from Kozuke Province are of superior quality that can be used for sharpening without water. Nagura whetstones from Mikawa have pale color with spots. Echizen whetstones, commonly called Jokenji stones, are inferior to uchikumori. These are all varieties of finishing stones, which in herbalism are called etsushi. 《All have stone skin, and when extracted from mountains are cut long on all sides to a standard size for horses to carry four pieces each》

○Blue whetstones (aoto) come from Hirao, Somata, Minamimura, Monzen, Nakamura, Ide-no-kuro, Yufune, etc. Among these, Minamimura and Monzen are about seven ri northeast of Kyoto, forming a mountain range seven ri in circumference. In Tamba there are Inokura, Saeki, Ashinoyama, Ogitani, Nagatani, Obuchi, Iwatani, Miyagawa, and many other varieties. In Hizen there is Amakusa, in Iyo Province white and red varieties, etc. All are called medium whetstones (nakato). There is no time to fully distinguish the quality grades of each.

Both finishing stones and medium whetstones are found mixed with mountain earth and stone, so they dig shafts at mountain entrances, excavating deeply and opening windows here and there, carrying turban shell oil lamps to follow stone veins, exactly like mining gold deposits. When stones are exhausted, they remove the supporting timber and collapse the mountain. Therefore the tunnels always appear ready to collapse, frightening those who are not miners when they peer inside.

○Stones suitable for various uses according to their quality are listed separately below. Among these, for mirror polishing and smoothing lacquerware joints, Tsushima mushikui-to (insect-eaten whetstone) is used. This breaks when put in water so is not used for sword polishing, but is suitable for silverwork molds. However, for casting molds for net weights and such, white whetstones from Iyo are used. This white whetstone is another rare variety - stone fragments scattered and gathered in valleys, if left long enough, bond together and again become a single complete stone mass. Therefore, occasionally trapping tree leaves during this bonding process, many curious leaf-impression stones are obtained from this mountain.

○Coarse whetstones (arato)　In Hizen: Karatsu and Monguchi; in Kishu: Kaya-ga-naka and Miko-ga-hama; or in Iyo Province