They place a bag beneath the swarm of bees and sweep it down as if brushing the underside of the branch with a feather broom, causing the entire cluster to fall into the bag. The sound is extremely heavy. (In modern times, if this bag is made of bamboo and does not allow the bees' air to escape, many bees will die.) Moving this to a prepared box for keeping is called "nest division," which is like humans establishing a branch family.

If some bees quickly fly away when the cluster falls into the bag, missing the great king's procession and their destination becoming unknown, or when they fly back to the original nest, the other bees absolutely refuse to let them enter the holes. Fighting breaks out and they sting them to death, seemingly correcting their disloyalty. People who witness this feel ashamed and shed tears of admiration.

There is also something called "eight o'clock commotion" - at the eighth hour of the day, all the bees without exception appear outside the container and flutter their wings somewhat. Around March when the bees disperse, there is always one king in each group. When there are three kings in the nest, the swarm also divides into three. At this time, if the beekeeper sprinkles water to moisten their wings, the bees do not disperse elsewhere but all return to the original container, which is why they can be kept year after year.

○Cutting the comb to extract honey: To harvest this, the time when buckwheat flowers wither is considered the peak of sweet fragrance maturation. When wanting to harvest, first tap the lid repeatedly, and all the bees move to the back of the comb. At that time, cut and take two-thirds of the comb, leaving one-third, and they will again repair that comb as before. This harvesting can be done countless times. When winter comes, both comb and honey are boiled together to make pressed honey.

○There is one type called ground bee, about five bu in size, that digs deep into the earth and builds nests inside. These also contain honey. In Nanbu, this is called "Decchi-sugari." However, "sugari" is the ancient reading for bee. In the Kokin-shū, in the section on partings: "When will I again meet the traveler who departs in the morning from the autumn bush clover fields where sugari cry?"

Also, on deep mountain cliff rocks, there are natural ones that have matured over several years, and local people use long poles to pierce them and collect the flowing honey. Some also harvest those that have not aged for years. Generally, from those kept in boxes, about twenty kin of pressed honey (160 monme per kin) and two kin of beeswax can be obtained. The value of these two kin is sufficient to cover the cost of repairing the containers and boxes.

○Beeswax (also called yellow wax)
This is what is called yellow wax, which is the bee's comb itself - the residue after the comb has been pressed. To extract wax from honey, the bee's comb after harvesting raw honey is put in a pot and boiled with water...