[Right page]
Quoting Chomei's "Mumyosho," these are the well frogs. They croak at dusk and are different from ordinary frogs.
Their color is blackish and they are not particularly large. It is doubtful to equate them with salamanders.

○Ebi-tsuru-no-mushi (Wild grape insect) <<Also called boke tree / wild grape>>
Those from Takagamine in Yamashiro Province are considered of the highest quality. The vines, leaves, flowers, and fruit are no different from grapes.
The phrase "eating iku" in the June chapter of the Book of Songs refers to this. It sprouts in spring and produces small yellowish-white flower clusters in the third month. It bears fruit in the seventh and eighth months. The fruit is small and round, pale purple in color. When you blow on its stem, air comes out, and the sap is like that of akebi. The vine has swollen places here and there that resemble the roots of wild rice. Inside these are white insects.
These are said to cure childhood malnutrition and are sold at markets, cut together with branches. However, the presence of insects in these stems is not mentioned in Japanese or Chinese texts. Although insects from willows and clerodendron are also used as medicine for childhood ailments, this one is said to be superior. There are no true grapes in Nara. They harvest this fruit, remove the seeds, boil it down until it becomes like oil, and use it as food. Also, the undersides of the leaves have hair that, when dried and well rubbed, becomes like moxa. This is used to treat warts, hence the name "wart remover." In China, they ferment it into wine

[Left page]
to make fine grape wine, which appears in Tang poetry as "turmeric fragrance."
<<The Japanese name "ebi-tsuru" has long been mistaken. Ebi-tsuru refers to grapes, while ebi-tsuru means wild grape or mountain grape. However, they have probably been confused since ancient times.>>

Hunting game
○Hawks
Those caught in the mountains of Kai, Hyuga, Tango, Iyo, etc. are all small hawks, while large hawks are caught in Kurokawa, Kamikurokawa, Osawa, Tomisawa, Aburata, Totsukai, Otsume, Yamata, etc. in Oshu Province. Those caught in Shinobu District are generally called Shinobu hawks. White hawks come from Korea and are used to hunt cranes and wild geese. Hawk keeping originated in Korea, and there is a book called "Takakotsubo." Therefore, in our country, during the reign of Emperor Nintoku, Ahiko of Yosami Miyake presented a hawk, but even its name was unknown. Prince Sake of Baekje said, "This is a bird called kuchi in Korea," and attached leather straps and small bells, trained it, hunted at Mozu-no, and caught pheasants. Therefore, people of that time called the place where hawk keeping was practiced Takai-no-yu, which is present-day Takaai Village in Sumiyoshi District. Thus, this was the beginning of hawk keeping in our country.