[Right page]
Doves (Red Sashiba, Blue, Bottom, Lower, Susogo, etc.) ○Eagles (entirely black, with white parts changing in various ways over the years. As the song says, the feathers are black, eyes are blue, beak is blue, and having feathers on the shins identifies it as an eagle)
Golden Eagle (entirely black, with tail parts changing in various ways over the years. As the song says, the beak is black, blue beak is blue, feet are blue, and having feathers on the shins identifies it as a golden eagle). There are many other varieties. ○Tsuburi (also called Makusotsukami, Kusotsukami), and Nightjars are also species.

According to the Yamato Honzō, examining the Takakotsu-hō (treatise on hawks and falcons), there are three types of hawks: Kotsu (falcons), Taka (hawks), and Washi (eagles). Upon current examination:
Goshawks, Sparrowhawks, and Golden Eagles are hawks. ○Peregrine falcons and Sashiha are falcons. ○Eagles, Kites, etc. are eagles. The two categories of hawks and falcons can be trained to catch birds. Eagles cannot be trained to catch birds. Also, among all birds, males are larger, but only among hawks are females larger. This fact also appears in Chinese texts. For more details, refer to the original text. Here it is abbreviated.
　○Ducks

○Ducks caught near Osaka in Settsu Province are extremely delicious. Those from Kitanakashima are considered top quality. Kawachi is next best. To catch these, while other provinces call it "duck nets," in Tsu Province it's called "Shikiden" - fine thread nets about 5-6 ken wide and 1 ken tall attached to bamboo poles on both sides. They are also set up in three or four layers with about 3 ken spacing between them. This is also called "kasumi" (mist nets). ○Another method at pond edges involves coating bamboo with

[Left page]
bird lime and placing many horizontally. When ducks dive under the bamboo while foraging for water parsley and other plants at the water's edge, they touch and get caught in the bird lime. This is called "Hago." ○Another method for catching birds in water uses "flowing lime" - coating straw stems with bird lime and floating them from upstream to entangle in the birds' wings and capture them. ○Another method called "takanawa" (high rope) is for catching birds in ponds, marshes, and rice fields. First, oil is added to prevent the bird lime from freezing in cold weather, then it's boiled once and applied to thread, wound onto frames. Fine bamboo poles about 1 ken long are set up along both banks at 1.5 ken intervals, with the thread wound and stretched as shown in the diagram. The bamboo poles facing one direction have oil applied to notched tips where thread ends are hooked. When birds get caught, the notches release and they become entangled for capture. This is called "the shelf falling." For east-west winds, nets are extended north-south; for north-south winds, east-west, always waiting for birds flying into the wind.
When flocks of ducks fly and all the threads fall, it's called "sō-makuri" (total haul). Hunters wear "mizu-tabi" (water socks) made of leather, and also wear something called "nanba" underneath for convenience when walking on muddy pond bottoms and rice field mud. Whether birds landed in the morning or evening can be determined by water turbidity, and also