【Right page】
If left to its own devices, the bear will still place its paws here and there on branches, so hunters watch for this opportunity and strike off both paws with axes from both sides. Since bears have great strength in their paws, this weakens them and they are finally captured. In this way, the gallbladder is extracted and the hide is processed, which is common in Ōshū. In Tsugaru, the leg meat is eaten and even added to the meals of nobles. ○The bear's usual food consists of mountain ants, bamboo shoots, crabs, and generally it prefers sweet tree nuts. It does not refuse to eat animal meat either. In Ezo, it is said they are sometimes raised on human milk.

○Extracting the gallbladder
Bear gallbladders from Kaga are considered the finest quality. Those from Echigo, Etchū, and Dewa are second to these. Others are also produced in Shikoku, Inaba, Higo, Shinano, Mino, Kishū, and various other places. Those from Matsumae and Ezo are mostly of inferior quality. However, Kaga products are not necessarily always superior, nor are Matsumae products necessarily always inferior. This depends on the nature of the bear, the season, and the skill and craftsmanship of the hunter, so it cannot be generalized. There are three types considered superior in Kaga: black type, bean-powder type, and amber type. Among these, the amber type is the most excellent. These are called summer gallbladders and winter gallbladders, with names differing according to the season of harvest.

【Left page】
Summer ones have thick skin and little bile. These are considered inferior. Those taken from August onward are called winter gallbladders. These have thin skin and are full of bile, and are considered superior. However, the amber type, even though it is a summer gallbladder, surpasses winter gallbladders. It is yellow-red in color and transparent. The black type is not like this - the black-colored ones with luster are common in the world.

○Method for testing authenticity
Both in Japan and China there appear to be many counterfeits, as the Honzō Kōmoku (Compendium of Materia Medica) also records testing methods. When a rice grain-sized piece of gallbladder is dropped on the water surface, it avoids dust and rotates, drawing a thread-like line straight down to the bottom - this is said to be genuine. Upon consideration, this seems to be an old-fashioned method that appears incomplete. Generally, the gallbladders of any animal will rotate on the water surface, not just bear gallbladders. Even soot from houses where animal meat has been butchered or boiled will also rotate on the water surface, as I have tested and confirmed. However, for amateurs to test, there is no method other than this. If one must unavoidably test by dropping it in water and observing the thread drawn to the bottom, those that rotate as fast as flying, with very fine threads and the swiftest momentum, are considered good. Those that rotate slowly, or those that move leisurely and stop, are all unsatisfactory. Also, even those that rotate quickly but do not completely dissolve...