1. After the above notification was completed, when the group commanders reported to the senior retainers, there was a second communication stating that they wished to have the senior retainers directly convey today's announced matters to the members of the guard units. Therefore, on the following 17th day, at the Finance Office, the senior retainers made announcements to the members of the guard units with their respective commanders present.
　　　　　　End
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Omiya Hikoemon

○Whereas cormorant fishing had been suspended since the previous Year of the Ox, from this year the number of cormorants is to be reduced, and regarding other matters as well, various economies are to be announced to the magistrates regardless of previous customs. Tsutsui Niemon should consult with the magistrates and arrange accordingly.
1. Regarding the number of cormorants, it shall be limited to nine birds
1. For feeding and cormorant basket carrying, provisions for two people shall be distributed according to previous regulations
1. Regarding river guards for the restricted rivers, cormorant masters shall be appointed as during the term period
　　　　　　1st month, 25th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Kanazu Magistrate

○Regarding Mikuni port control methods, in accordance with ancient regulations and furthermore the matters announced in the 1st month of Kansei 7, Year of the Rabbit, there should be no misunderstanding. Also, since new policies have been implemented since last year, as it has not been long, from the port community down to the smallest merchants, there may be matters related to their trades that they cannot settle and wish to communicate. Matters that are reasonable should be subject to discussion, and occasionally observing the timing, you yourself

should proceed to Shochiin as has been the custom when going out unexpectedly, and handle the matter.
　　However, regarding subordinates attending and giving instructions at the meeting place, this should be handled without negligence.
　　　　　　1st month, 27th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrative Head
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector

○Previously, when the seven-year term expired and there was deliberation, His Lordship heard the details of financial management and formed his thoughts, but finally there was a decision to implement eight-bu rice loans, as was announced to everyone earlier. The future fortune is not a matter of recent concern, and His Lordship has long been concerned about this. Last spring, he directly inquired about intentions for financial recovery, and subsequently investigations were gradually conducted. Regarding profit-making through various products, immediately concerning Mikuni and silk cocoons, etc., new handling methods were announced. While these new arrangements made discussions difficult to settle, profits were achieved and even contributed to covering part of last year's enormous expenditures, greatly satisfying His Lordship. The dedicated efforts of everyone from each individual to their subordinates are considered exemplary even among peers. Even small matters contribute to permanent financial recovery, so regarding matters that remain from previous investigations, it was announced from Edo that they should continue to be investigated without negligence. Detailed matters will be heard when His Lordship arrives this summer. This should be understood accordingly.
　　However, depending on the items, there are matters of timing, so implementation may occur before His Lordship's arrival this summer, and should be done promptly.