Regarding the inspection method for rapeseed oil and cottonseed oil when shipped offshore from Mikuni, Tomita Inozaemon shall be appointed as supervisor, and he shall conduct examinations in cooperation with all the oil merchants of Mikuni and oversee the ship loading.

1. Regarding rapeseed oil and other various oils, strict port controls continue to be enforced as before at Yoshizaki-ura, Hamasaka-ura, Kōno-ura, Imaizumi-ura, and all other ports, so if there are any questionable matters, they will be subject to punishment.

1. For both rapeseed oil and cottonseed oil shipped offshore from Mikuni, one monme of silver per barrel (containing two to of oil) shall be provided for various expenses of the inspection office, and regarding export taxes, two bu per silver value based on the ten-year average price shall be paid.

1. Regarding soybeans, in the 12th month of Kansei 4, Year of the Rat, after examination, it was announced that export to other domains would be permitted in years of good harvest, but this was again prohibited from the 7th month of the Year of the Tiger. However, since prices are not particularly high at present, after examination, soybean exports to other domains by sea route are permitted from Mikuni port as well as Yoshizaki-ura, Hamasaka-ura, Kōno-ura, and Imaizumi-ura.

However, regarding the Year of the Rat, since port export was newly permitted, an export tax of two monme per bale of soybeans was imposed as provision for port dredging construction, but from this year, for offshore shipments, one monme of silver per bale of soybeans shall be provided for various expenses of the inspection office, and regarding export taxes, two fun of silver per bale shall be paid.

These matters have been announced, so each should handle them accordingly.

　7th month, 29th day

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Administrator
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate　Also to Fuchū

○Regarding the transfer and acquisition of sake brewing licenses, within the domain territory, both transfer and acquisition remain acceptable as before. Transfer and acquisition from public estates, other domains, shogunal territories, etc., shall be discontinued henceforth. This should be announced accordingly.

　12th month, 5th day