February 9th
　　However, regarding the above, various officials in charge are appointed, beginning with the magistrates and inspectors.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To all monthly duty officers
○ Last spring, when the upper Edo mansion was destroyed by fire, using financial arrangements including borrowed rice from retainers, official funds from towns and rural areas, and procured funds, the residential quarters and other buildings have been gradually completed to His Lordship's satisfaction. Furthermore, since the grounds of the upper mansion are narrow and there are impediments to the residences of various lords, and since the young lord will also be relocating in the near future, the Middle Captain (Chūjō-sama) has taken up residence at the Reiganjima mansion. Construction work has accordingly begun this spring.

1. Regarding financial affairs, unavoidable emergency expenses have accumulated, and transportation costs in particular have increased considerably, causing His Lordship great concern. If there are further impediments beyond this point, the situation will become unmanageable. Therefore, further economizing measures are to be implemented as announced. Regarding these economy measures, there may be areas where work performance becomes strained. First, the number of those stationed in Edo will be reduced, which will inevitably lead to increased hardship for those remaining on Edo duty.

1. Reports of financial difficulties among the retainers have reached His Lordship's ears, causing him great distress. Although deliberations have been held regarding relief measures, the accumulation of expenses prevents acting as desired. Therefore, although the amount is small, lending of silver has been announced.

　　　　　　February 29th
　　　　Silver lending allocations
1. 20,000 koku stipend: 4 kan monme of silver　1. 4,500 koku stipend: 2 kan 500 monme of silver
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1. 1,000 koku stipend: 1 kan 25 monme of silver
1. 100 koku stipend: 150 monme of silver　　　1. 25 koku stipend: 110 monme of silver
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1. 9 koku stipend: 25 monme of silver
1. 7 koku stipend: 19 monme of silver
　　　　Total: The remainder is abbreviated

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrative heads
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrates
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspectors
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Records office inspectors
○ Regarding the collectively guaranteed loans to all ranks below ittō-kaku and various groups, as well as the policy lending of silver to towns and rural areas from the sixth month of the previous mi year, it was stipulated that principal and interest be paid in the third year after deferment until the spring of the saru year. However, as a relief measure, a three-year extension from the sixth month of the saru year was ordered. Again, as a relief measure, with the principal silver remaining as is, a three-year extension from this sixth month is granted, with interest to be paid annually by the end of the eleventh month as before. This matter should be handled accordingly.