shall be completed as ordered; accordingly, the number of birds hunted shall also be proportionally reduced.

　　　　　　　　　One person from among these
　　　　　　　　　　Sakai Gonzaemon
　　　　　　　　　　Takeda Tarōzaemon
○Construction and repair department expenses, using half the previous silver amounts, shall only cover unavoidable repair locations as ordered.
1. Those who previously served as advance carpenter crews at the construction office, per the lord's intention, shall henceforth receive midday rice rations to handle light repair work on castle walls and fences, as has been ordered.
　　　　　　　　Summary
　　　　　　　　　　　　One person from among these
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sanada Gorobyōe
　　　　Separate document　　　　Okabe Ichizaemon
　　　Same as the separate document delivered to the Construction Magistrate
　　　　　April 8th

In Edo　　　　　　　　　Ōmiya Hikoemon
1. On both lords' birthdays, one silver piece each was offered to Sannō Shrine, but henceforth 200 mon of gold each shall be offered.

1. On Lady Hiro's birthday, 200 mon of gold each shall be offered to Sannō Shrine, while Fukagawa Hachiman Shrine shall receive 100 mon of gold as before.
1. Haruki Dayū and Fujinami Shrine priest present sacred charms to both lords twice yearly, for which gifts have been given; however, for five years, this shall be reduced to once yearly.
1. For the first Snake Day at Bentengū Shrine on Reiganjima estate, 100 mon of gold was given as first offering to Ryūsen-in temple, but henceforth 2 shu of silver shall be given.
1. When visiting Sannō Shrine, one silver piece each was offered, but henceforth 200 mon of gold each shall be offered.
1. During Sannō Festival, both lords offered one silver piece each through proxy worship, but henceforth 200 mon of gold each shall be offered.
1. During Kanda Myōjin Festival, Shibasaki Mimasukake presented sacred charms, for which 2 bu of gold was given, but henceforth 100 mon of gold shall be given.
1. For autumn festival prayers at Takada Ryūsen-in temple, 100 mon of gold was given, but henceforth 2 shu of silver shall be given.
1. To Ogawa Saigu during summer, 200 mon of gold was given, but henceforth 100 mon of gold each shall be given.
1. At Enpuku-ji temple, prayers were ordered for the 1st, 5th, and 9th months, with 3 silver pieces in the 1st month and 2 silver pieces each in the 5th and 9th months offered; however, for five years, only the 1st month shall be ordered, and the 5th and 9th month portions are discontinued.