1. Regular funds for kitchen office ironing duties shall be reduced by one-sixth starting from the coming Year of the Ox
1. Regarding stipends for servants, for five years starting from the current Year of the Rat's period of residence duty: those on escort duty shall have their payments reduced by 2.5 bu, while those on residence duty and those traveling outside of escort duties shall have their payments reduced by 5 bu

Excluding duplicate entries　　　　　　　Chamberlain
1. Among the regular funds for the armory office, a one-sixth reduction shall be imposed from the coming spring of the Ox year onward
1. When the two lords meet with bannermen who bring ceremonial swords and horse gifts, two pieces of silver each were given as courtesy gifts, but hereafter sword and horse gifts shall be declined even during meetings
1. When physicians from the shogunate and Hitotsubashi visit, meals of one soup and three dishes were provided, but hereafter one soup and two dishes shall be provided
1. Regarding incense offerings at immediate memorial services for related families, if there is no mourning obligation, offerings shall be declined. However, for related families equivalent to those with mourning obligations, deliberation shall be held at that time
1. The allowance for white mandarin ducks received at Reigenji Island shall continue to be provided without reduction
1. For Reigenji Island escort duty served by four Hitotsubashi attendants, five pieces of silver each were given, but hereafter this shall be reduced by two pieces to three pieces each
1. Among the pages of both lords, stipend rice recipients, assistance silver recipients, clothing silver, and preparation funds shall be reduced by 5 bu from the monetary amount
1. All allowances for retainers shall be reduced by one-sixth from October of the current Year of the Rat onward

　　However, amounts given for public boundary escort duty shall be provided without reduction, and the same applies to amounts given for performing escort duties during envoy visits
1. Regarding payments to scribes for genealogy compilation work, hereafter one person shall be assigned from among the scribes for intake duties
1. Assistance silver given to physicians shall be reduced by 10% of the monetary amount
1. Various allowances for physicians and acupuncturists shall be reduced by one-sixth
　　However, regarding payments for submitting medicines, depending on the medicine, there have been previous regulations, but temporary examinations shall be conducted again
1. There shall be no reduction in payments for interest-free employees and deputy actors
1. For foot soldiers and employees alike, when guests visit and escort duties are performed, previously 100 mon per service was given, but hereafter 2 shu each shall be given
1. Payments given as increased compensation for actors shall be reduced by 5 bu from the monetary amount
1. Clothing allowances given to employed foot soldiers of the inner palace shall be reduced by 5 bu
1. When both lords go to the palace, Buddhist monks performed advance guard duties and received payments, but hereafter advance guard duty shall be discontinued. However, depending on duties, there may be occasions to go ahead, but not as advance guard duty
1. Old clothing and other items given to Buddhist monks shall be reduced by 5 bu from the silver amount

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Intelligence Officer