Ensure there are no misunderstandings in conduct as instructed, consult with the minor chiefs (kogashira) and make them understand the proper conduct
　　　November 15th
As ordered above, instructed the group minor chiefs and communicated accordingly to each

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Administrator
○The御内用達 (go-naiyō-tatsu, interior procurement agents) have been appointed to interior duties since previous years, gradually showing diligence to the satisfaction of the lord. This time, as the financial administration system has been reformed and ordered, all procurement agents have been dismissed. Regarding this, the following separate document has been ordered, which should be communicated:
　Separate Document
1. Although dismissed as interior procurement agents, due to their past meritorious service, their title shall remain as "former procurement agents"
2. New Year's ceremonies and attendance during trips to Edo shall remain as before
1. Two bundles of first cotton shall be granted to each
　This matter should be communicated
　　　November 28th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate

　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
○Rice merchant Zenshirō, Yamagataya Shichibei, Takaraya Sōemon, Yamadaya Gorōbei, and Takaraya Heizaemon: as the financial administration system has been reformed and ordered this time, each shall be granted a stipend of five-person rations. Also, as ordered in the separate document, this should be communicated to each respectively
　Separate Document
1. Their title should be understood as "Interior Procurement Agent Role"
2. For New Year's ceremonies, place offerings in front within the threshold of the Clock Room and all shall pay respects together
　　However, wearing short swords is permitted
1. New Year's pine decorations are permitted at their discretion
1. Taking family names is permitted at their discretion
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
1. As evaluated, separate documents have been distributed, each should handle accordingly
　　　　Separate Document
1. Ten thousand ryō　　　　Interest: eight shu per month
　Of which five thousand ryō　　　　To Kiya Tōzaemon
　　However, up to two thousand ryō shall continue as before under the name of rice payment代, and when more than three thousand ryō is ordered, matching rice shall be delivered from the Mikuni storehouse
　　Five thousand ryō　　　　To five interior procurement agents