However, up to 2,000 ryō shall be procured without collateral. When ordered to procure 3,000 ryō or more, negotiable promissory notes shall be provided as collateral.

Added by the Chief Administrator and Magistrate
Five Interior Financial Agents

○ This time, as financial system reforms have been announced, following the precedent of the 5th year of Kansei (Ox year), Kiya Tōzaemon of Awagasaki in Kaga Province has also been requested. You and your consortium are hereby assigned procurement duties. Further details will be communicated by the Chief Administrator and Magistrates.

Kiya Tōzaemon
Agent: Etchūya Jizaemon

○ As you are roughly aware, the financial situation has long been unsatisfactory, and particularly in recent years, unexpected expenses have accumulated one after another, debts have mounted, and obstacles have increased. Unavoidably, this time all debts are being requested for extension and will be newly regulated. Therefore, details were previously communicated through Ono Seibei, and further negotiations were conducted regarding revolving funds and confidential matters. Exceptionally sincere written agreements were submitted, and everyone was delighted. When this was reported, there was great satisfaction and relief, and we were earnestly requested to work diligently as promised in the agreements. Details will be discussed by the magistrates. Accordingly, the following separate document is granted:

Separate Document:
1. 500 bales of old rice to be delivered annually - Kiya Tōzaemon
1. Granted stipend for ten persons - Etchūya Jizaemon  
1. Granted stipend for five persons - Kiya Tōzaemon's deputy Sajizaemon

November 29th

The above separate document should be understood. The above matters are to be communicated, and the Chamberlain and Inspector shall announce this to appropriate parties.

In Edo:
1. In the event of a major disaster within the mansion grounds, entry and exit at the gate shall follow previous regulations. However, when officials from the Shogunate arrive, they must be allowed passage without delay. Generally, regarding firefighting personnel, if it is a small fire or one that is mostly extinguished, this should be reported to the officials, and firefighting personnel should be politely declined entry.

1. In case of nearby fires with unfavorable wind direction, officials will arrive and firefighting personnel should be deployed. In such cases, passage must be allowed without delay.

1. Regarding personnel sent as assistance from branch families and other outside parties, they shall be allowed passage without delay as before.

December 10th