If the head guards (ban-gashira) and supervising heads (shihai-gashira) submit requests after deliberation, loans will certainly be granted within the year.

1. Regarding rice loans granted per person upon request by those recently in financial difficulty - for rice borrowed by the end of the previous Year of the Rat (Bunka 9) that is due for repayment this year-end: regardless of how many portions there are, whether one hyō or more, or portions of one hyō repayment, all shall repay one hyō each regardless of the hyō amount, and the remaining portions shall have their year-end repayment postponed.
   However, fractional rice amounts less than one hyō must be repaid.

1. Rice borrowed per person upon request before the Bon festival of this Year of the Ox (Bunka 10) shall be repaid at year-end as stipulated.

1. Rice borrowed in hyō amounts granted upon request for Edo duty this Year of the Ox shall be repaid as stipulated, since annual installment repayment has already been determined upon earlier request for repayment arrangements.

In addition to the above, for those who were assigned Edo duty but then exempted from duty, regarding the portion of returned rice that should be repaid upon request, since there are also exemptions from the domain, repayment shall be made at this year-end as stipulated.

The above is hereby ordered.
   November 16th
                     To the Head of Great Guards

○Among the Great Guard units, those in extreme financial hardship have requested hyō loans, but while difficult to approve, loans are granted as shown in the separate document with special consideration. This matter shall be communicated to each person accordingly.

   However, those with 100-koku stipends receive 3 hyō, those with rice allowances receive 2.5 hyō, totaling 92 people (names omitted)
[The above two articles are transcribed from the next page]
                     Residence Keeper

○Among the residence guard units, same as above
   However, same as above, totaling 3 people (names omitted)
                     Foot Soldier Supervisor

○Among the foot soldiers, same as above
   However, 2 hyō of rice each, totaling 18 people
                     New Guard Head

○Among the new guards, same as above
   However, 2 hyō of rice each, totaling 13 people. The status of all is the same as above.

The above loans are granted for repayment at the end of the coming Year of the Rat.
   December 27th

                     Sano Naizen

○Regarding your departure for duty in the coming Year of the Rat, you were ordered to depart by early February, but since Eguchi Genzaemon has been ordered to travel to Edo for private domain business, you are ordered to delay your departure a little longer.