○This time, financial assistance measures have been announced for those facing severe financial difficulties. For those with stipends of 150 koku or less, including the lowest ranks, if they submit a request, they may be granted loans at a rate of 300 monme of silver per 100 koku through special handling by the official money exchange, with monthly interest of 6 shu. Further details regarding the allocation method will be announced later.
　　　　　Separate document

○For those with basic stipends of 200 koku or less without role allowances, as well as those receiving relief rice allowances, stipend recipients of 30 persons' rations or less, fixed rice allowance recipients, and rice bag allowance recipients down to the lowest ranks, the following financial assistance is announced for the year-end receipt and tribute payments of the current Year of the Tiger.
　　However, the articles regarding tribute payments are omitted
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Six Great Guard Captains

○As each guard unit faces financial difficulties, petitions were submitted last winter, which were viewed with great sympathy, and instructions were to be given upon the lord's return to the domain. However, due to the fire damage, circumstances do not permit acting as intended. Nevertheless, assistance will be provided as outlined in the separate document. The petition statements submitted since last winter will also be returned. This matter is to be communicated to each respective party. Furthermore, it should be conveyed down to the lowest subordinates.
　　　　　Separate document
1. Deferred payment will be granted for annual installment payments of borrowed silver for those with 200 koku or less
1. For those with 150 koku or less, upon petition, loans will be granted from official exchange silver
1. Rice bag allowances that were granted successively until last winter of the Year of the Ox will be forgiven

　　However, future petitions for rice bag allowances will not be handled as regular matters
【The above two articles are transcribed from the next page】
　　Details of the above will be communicated by the magistrates

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Two New Guard Captains
○The New Guard units similarly face financial difficulties and submitted petitions last winter, etc. [same as above]
　　　Separate document same as above

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Castle Deputy and others
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Those with 200 koku or less
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Those with subordinates
○Three-article written notice delivered, same as above　Down to all subordinates
　　　　　June 11th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three Districts Magistrate
○There is a matter of the lord's intention
　　However, it is not recorded in the general records