The same person as above

○ As just declared by your lordship, the construction work in Edo must be substantially completed by the time of next year's sanpu (official visit to Edo) in the Year of the Rabbit, or it will not be acceptable. Although we have been ordered to procure funds from other domains, this has proven quite difficult to arrange. Previously, during such times of extraordinary expenses, we have imposed goyōkin (forced loans) on towns and rural areas, but since goyōkin was imposed not long ago during the great fire in the Year of the Dog, we will not impose goyōkin this time. However, as this is an unavoidable expense with no alternative means available, we have no choice but to order ontanokō (voluntary contributions) from each jurisdiction and Fuchū as detailed in the attached document. This is a time when everyone is in financial difficulty, and his lordship feels great concern and sympathy, but given the unavoidable circumstances, this order is issued. You should make arrangements to raise funds diligently. The accounting ledger should be discussed with the magistrates.

Attachment
Item: 15,000 ryō of gold - Ontanokō as per the attached accounting ledger
15 large portions - 1,000 ryō each
300 small portions - 50 ryō each
Breakdown:
5,000 ryō - 100 small portions - Fukui townspeople
2,300 ryō - 46 small portions - Kawakita territory
2,300 ryō - 46 small portions - Upper territory
1,800 ryō - 36 small portions - Middle territory
[The following two items transcribed from next page]
1,800 ryō - 36 small portions - Lower territory
1,800 ryō - 36 small portions - Fuchū town and countryside

To the Inspector:
○ The Edo construction work must be substantially completed by the sanpu in the Year of the Rabbit, etc., and this order is given due to unavoidable circumstances. The matter of the amounts in the accounting ledger should be discussed with the magistrates. This matter should be communicated to the caretaker at Honma Kuranosuke's residence.
Note: This communication should be made known when orders are given to the local jurisdictions.

To the Magistrates:
○ The orders to the jurisdiction heads and Fuchū are as in the attached document. With this understanding, each should discuss the accounting ledger matter. For Fuchū, the monetary amounts should also be communicated.
Attachment: Same as what was given to the jurisdiction heads

June 27th
Although the above orders were issued, no public announcements were made to the jurisdictions for the time being, and announcements were eventually made to each party on August 9th as per the following article.