The above three-year period is to be deferred and declined. However, there is a question as to whether one-third of the three-year period should be provided as disbursement money.

Town Magistrate
○With the same intent as above, regarding the requested loan disbursement to your own subordinates in Kansei 11 (1799, Year of the Sheep), it has been announced that one-third of the previous monetary amount shall be disbursed over the three-year period from this Year of the Dragon to the coming Year of the Horse.
Chief Administrator of Entrusted Territories
○Same as above
Inspector of Sacred Sites
○Same as above
Magistrate of Upper Territory Districts
Oguri Jiemon
○With the same intent, regarding the procurement funds under your own office jurisdiction and interest disbursement to Zenkuemon of Tsukahara Village, the same applies.
Magistrate
○With the same intent, regarding the annual installment disbursements for procurement funds secured by labor silver handled by the deputy magistrate, the same applies.

1. With the same intent as above, regarding the requested loan disbursements from Kansei 11 (Year of the Sheep), the same applies. The unavoidable nature of this matter should be thoroughly communicated to the Policy Office, Savings Office, and Fujisaemon Kitani of Awagasaki, and appropriate measures should be taken.

1. With the same intent as above, regarding the annual installment disbursements for rice loan procurement funds handled through Ihei Inoue and Yashiro Gokiya, and the same handled through Hyōbei the rice merchant and Jiemon the fish merchant, both accounts are to be extended for three years from this Year of the Dragon to the coming Year of the Horse.

1. With the same intent as above, regarding the various annual installment disbursements, interest payments, requested loan disbursements, etc., it has been announced to the department heads that one-third of the previous monetary amounts should be disbursed within the three-year period. This matter should be thoroughly discussed with all relevant parties and appropriate measures taken.

Annual installment disbursements for procurement funds secured by rice contributions from the four district jurisdictions
The same for funds secured by river maintenance silver
Annual installment disbursements for procurement funds secured by labor silver handled by deputy magistrates
Interest on procurement funds by Zenkuemon of Tsukahara Village under Upper Territory District jurisdiction
Requested loan disbursements from Kansei 11 (Year of the Sheep)
One-third disbursements within the above three-year period

Annual installment disbursements for rice loans handled through Ihei Inoue and Yashiro Gokiya
The same handled through Hyōbei the rice merchant and Jiemon the fish merchant
For the above two accounts, a three-year deferral and decline has been ordered from this Year of the Dragon to the coming Year of the Horse.

December 5th
In Edo
1. Regarding Tayu Haruki and Shinto Priest Fujinami presenting sacred amulets twice yearly to both lords, disbursements have been provided, but...