○Regarding family elder: Concerning the matter of proxy representation, as it has been simplified in recent years, the retainer was serving as proxy in place of the right proxy, but henceforth the matter of proxy representation shall be discontinued as before.
September 20th

Edo
○Regarding frugality: It has been ordered that we should consult thoroughly and ensure that no wasteful expenses occur, even in the smallest matters. Moreover, due to strict financial constraints, there are no mansion residences, so inter-departmental consultations are discontinued and all affairs are reduced. Accordingly, both documents and equipment should be reduced, so investigate and report on this matter. As the magistrates have also been ordered to consult on this matter successively, please consult thoroughly. This directive should also be conveyed to each administrator and departmental personnel.
To: Hiroshiki retainers, inspectors, magistrates

○Investigate and report on the same matter as above. This is to be conveyed respectively to retainers and other officials. The matter of each chief official should be consulted upon with particular care. Ensure that departmental heads and various officials do not handle this carelessly, and communicate this with careful attention.
September 19th

To: Kanazu Magistrate, Magistrates
○Permission is granted for rice and grain ships to depart from Mikuni Port. However, regarding incoming ships, understand that they should continue as before. Also, regarding the export of soybeans to other domains, while it has been suspended since October 5th of Bunka 1, this year there has been a surplus harvest in our domain, so permission is granted for ships to other domains, and this should be handled as before.
October 11th

To: Asano Michiari
○Regarding the land for the medical school, as there have been informal requests about this matter, it is granted as official land adjacent to Kaifu Kansuke's residence. Please understand this and make arrangements accordingly.
October 20th