Inspector (Metsuke)

○ Regarding those appointed to the role of ashigaru inspector (okachi-metsuke): Previously they received an increase of three koku, totaling eighteen koku and support for three retainers, but henceforth only three koku supplementary stipend will be provided during their term of office, and nothing will be provided upon transfer to other positions.

Magistrate (Bugyō)
Inspector (Metsuke)

○ There is a directive, which is announced as per the attached document. Handle accordingly. Those with group supervision responsibilities shall communicate this through their respective channels.

Attached Document:
1. Current deputy officials (shiro-dai) are to be assigned as additional personnel to various groups, but their duties shall continue as before with the current personnel.
2. Henceforth, deputy service shall be assigned through personnel selection from within the various groups.
The above is hereby ordered. Serve with utmost diligence. Promotion will be granted according to performance.

Copy of Official Document
Kajikawa Hanbei
Hasebe Koemon

Direct retainer group (go-mochi-gumi): Nine koku, support for two retainers
Stock fee: Fifty ryō (including ten ryō house silver)
Various groups: Seven koku, support for two retainers  
Stock fee: Forty-five ryō (including ten ryō house silver)

As stipulated above, stock fees are hereby fixed. When stock sales occur, coordinate among yourselves for official purchase. All borrowed amounts shall be forgiven.

October 20th

Following the order for increased assignments as above, the allocation method was completed as per the attached document. On the 27th, the respective leaders were invited to the residence of monthly duty officer Hasebe Koemon to communicate the handover. Additionally, the deputy officials were informed through magistrate monthly duty officer Kajikawa Hanbei that they should report to their respective leaders on the 28th.

Assignment of deputy officials to various groups as follows:

[Red ink] Inspector　　　　[Red ink] Inspector
To Eguchi Genzaemon's group:　To Imamura Denbei's group:
Junior calculator rank: Mizumoto Tarobei　Junior calculator rank: Yasukawa Shōdayū
Junior assembly rank: Ema Senbei　Junior assembly rank: Masuda Sukeemon
　　　　Akizuki Shichibei　　　　　Kizawa Bunjirō  
　　　　Moro Kichibei　　　　　　Fujii Rinzō

[Red ink] Inspector
To Hasebe Koemon's group:
Junior assembly rank: Takeuchi Takebei
Same rank: Saitō Chōshirō
　　　　Matsumura Shōsuke
　　　　Ōkoshi Yosuke

[Red ink] Inspector　　　　[Red ink] Inspector
To Mitera Yoemon's group:　　To Nakane Shinzaemon's group:

[Red ink] Inspector
To Suzuki Jūzaemon's group: