○ Regarding the distribution of summer uniform allowances to foot inspectors and foot soldiers when the return to the domain is delayed due to postponement of departure from Edo, the following shall be observed henceforth, and each should handle accordingly:
1. If departure from Edo occurs between May 6th and the 15th, thirty monme of silver per person shall be given as compensation for loss
1. If between the 16th and the end of the month, summer uniform allowance of forty-nine monme shall be distributed with reduction
1. If from June 1st to the end of the month, full amount shall be distributed without reduction
　　　　　November 25th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate

○ Inform the rotating guards at Nishi kakari-sho as per the separate document
　　　　　Separate Document
○ Regarding the subsidiary temples in the territories under custody and domain lands, inform them that rotating duties should be completed promptly at the post. For other territories, negotiations with respective domain lords should be conducted first, then personnel should be dispatched for handling.
　　　　　December 9th

　　　　　　　　　In addition to Murata Jūtayū
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kitajima Chūtayū
○ Due to diligent service, he is promoted and appointed to the rank of New Guard Captain [Note in red ink] According to Happyakuri, this is the first instance of New Guard Captain rank

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
○ Financial officer Kitajima Chūtayū is promoted and appointed to New Guard Captain rank. Administrative authority remains under magistrate supervision as before. Ceremonial protocols and all matters should be understood to follow the previous New Guard standards.
　　December 11th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
○ The guard duty at Nishi kakari-sho shall be withdrawn from tomorrow the 28th, and the opening of gates is ordered
1. Regarding the above, post-patrol duties are ordered as follows, and each should handle accordingly:
　Two foot inspectors, four inspector unit members
　Daily patrols shall be conducted as above
1. Emergency deployment of three senior ashigaru commanders to the post should be understood as before, and guard duties should be conducted in the manner of regular fortress guard duties
　　　　　December 27th
The above instructions were communicated to respective parties on the same day
　However, on March 27th of the following year of the Rooster, due to concerns about the religious sect matter since last autumn, starting with Kanazu Magistrate and others respectively