○Regarding the stock certificates issued to cocoon merchants the year before last (year of the dog), and the regulations communicated to cocoon brokers, silk-drawing houses, silk merchants, etc.: Recently things have become extremely disorderly, with brokers and wholesale houses not caring and even unlicensed persons entering into buying and selling, which is heard to be extremely improper. Therefore, both in the castle town and in rural areas, group members shall be designated to investigate the presence or absence of stock certificates and ensure that no disorderly conduct occurs.
March 20th

Magistrate
Construction Magistrate　　　Kanazu Magistrate
Senior Officer　　　　　　　Sea vessel headmen, vessel owners, Kiya Jinzaemon
Ship supervisors　　　　　　River vessel headmen, vessel owners

Naval Commander　　　　　　Upper Territory District Magistrate
Mikuni river vessel headmen, vessel owners　　Shirakijo vessel owners
Shirakijo boatmen

Middle Territory District Magistrate　　　Assistant foremen
Boatmen and vessel owners　　　　　　　Stevedore foremen
Rice pounders and stevedores

○Regarding the rice from Akesato granary transported down to Mikuni granary: Previously there were ship supervisors, but in medieval times the supervisors were discontinued, and in recent years ship supervisors from the arquebus unit were again appointed. However, as granary rice control has been ordered to be increasingly strict, this has generally been quite beneficial internally. But during rice transport, there may be improper handling among the river vessel captains, as reports indicate weight loss during storage at Mikuni granary and excessive compensation rice. If such matters occur, first the ship supervisors' negligent service, and of course the captains' conduct, would be extremely improper, and severe punishment might be ordered. However, past matters have been pardoned, so henceforth such careless matters must be strictly avoided and handled with great care. Also, until now when receiving cargo by comparing each bale with weight certificates, if the weight was inadequate, compensation rice was ordered so there would be no loss, which is reasonable. However, accepting loaded rice and then adding compensation rice due to insufficient weight is improper conduct. Henceforth, if such matters occur, river vessel trading shall be suspended after unloading the vessels.

1. Henceforth, regarding weighing and rice grading as before: during water-level inspections, ship supervisors and captains shall be present for each vessel, carefully inspecting measurements before loading and departure. At Mikuni granary as well, during high water periods, water-level inspection supervisors and captains shall be present to inspect before delivery.

1. Regarding rice pounders and stevedores: there may be both those who hull and those who don't, but even if the hanging work takes time, if the handling is not proper first and foremost, it will not result in proper control. Therefore, strict instructions shall be given, and to ensure no complaints afterward, the supervising group members shall conduct inspections with sincerity.