○Similar to the above, special duties have been assigned. The same applies to some of the chief retainers and magistrates.
　Same day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate of the Four Districts
○This time, strict frugality has been ordered for the household retainers, so regarding rural matters as well, there should be no extravagant activities whatsoever, and orders should be given to maintain simplicity and diligence in one's primary duties.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
○Same as above, regarding town matters as well, orders should be given to maintain simplicity and diligence in one's occupation.
　Same day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Castle Deputy
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Honda Shuri
○By his lordship's intention, the four yoriki who had been assigned to the temple and town magistrate are now assigned to him personally, and they have been ordered to serve at the temple and town offices. Please be aware of this arrangement.
　However, today Town Magistrate Yokota Sakutayū has been ordered to retire, and Ōmiya Chūzaemon has been appointed as town magistrate. This directive has naturally been communicated to Chūzaemon as well.
　　　　　January 21st

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Elder Councilor
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Retainer
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
　　　　　Address
○Due to longstanding financial difficulties, frugality and reduction have been ordered repeatedly, but currently there seem to be some among the upper ranks who believe that frugality is not favored. This is not the case. Regarding frugality, using crude items for various needs is not what is preferred. For all newly made crude items, if their quality is assessed before use, there will be no contradiction with his lordship's intentions. The understanding that crude items are not preferred and that only the finest items are favored is greatly mistaken. The tightening of expenses should be done with consideration, maintaining what is appropriate to one's usual station and status according to his lordship's private intentions. Each of you should understand this directive and promptly inform all quarters to prevent misunderstandings.
　January 28th　However, in Edo as well, first to the intelligence officers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate of the Four Districts
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Head of Bird Watchers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Head Falconer
○The falcon hunting roads and the small paths connecting villages under district administration, along with construction sites, have become increasingly congested in recent years.