The previous contracted silver amount should be reduced by 20% for fixed contracts, so arrangements should be made to accomplish construction work within this silver amount through careful consideration.
As this has been communicated to the inspectors as well, further consultation should be made and this should also be communicated to the water supply magistrate.

To the Front Treasury Office
○Since examination and reduction of various prices for official purchases has been ordered this time, expenses should also be reduced at the office. Of course, since tightening has been ordered in all sectors, expenditures should be reduced, so procurement matters should also be carefully inquired about.

To the District Deputies
○Regarding requests for silver and rice loans and assistance in rural areas, until now unavoidable villages have been reluctantly approved, but further regardless of previous practices, even among impoverished villages, efforts should be made to explain well so that such requests do not arise.

To the Irrigation Magistrate
○Regarding irrigation channel construction, until now construction has been ordered only for unavoidable locations, but from this Ox year forward, with extraordinary economies, even truly unavoidable locations should have construction postponed as much as possible. Of course, construction site expenses, bamboo and timber, etc., should also be specially reduced to enable estimate book preparation.

To the Kitchen Head and Inspector
1. 170 ryō gold - Annual expenses for absence years, however, amounts for Buddhist ceremony use should be distributed separately

Since it has been announced that various gifts to different parties should be reduced from previous expenses, other expenses should be managed so as not to exceed this gold amount annually. Of course, this is not a fixed lump sum payment, so monthly accounting should be handled as before. Also, the matter of expenses during residence years will be ordered separately.

To the Trading Post Custodian
○Same as the Front Treasury Office

To the River Flood Control Magistrate and Examination Official
1. Regarding river flood control construction, etc.
1. Regarding rural road and bridge repairs, etc. - Same as communicated to the district magistrate

To the Cotton and Hemp Magistrate, Timber Magistrate, Charcoal and Firewood Magistrate, General Affairs Tile Section
○Same as the Trading Post Custodian
These matters should be communicated with instructions to handle with careful consideration.

○Regarding Shibahara construction matters, same as the magistrate
Since this has been communicated to the magistrate as well, etc., same as above

To the Foot Soldier Inspector
1. Regarding Edo travel, etc.