1. Regarding post horse expenses
1. Regarding allowances given to retainers
1. Regarding Edo and the domain, etc. - These four articles are the same as communicated to the chamberlains
These matters should be communicated with instructions to handle with careful consideration

Should also be communicated to the Minor Construction Section - Construction Magistrate
1. 30 ryō gold - Annual expense amount
Construction sites should be completed as much as possible within this amount of gold. Of course, this is not a fixed lump sum payment, so monthly accounting should be handled as before. Even if expenses exceed this gold amount, there will be no additional disbursement, so this should be understood and managed accordingly
These matters should be handled with careful consideration

Chief of Bird Keepers
Chief of Falconers
○Regarding the recent impoverishment in rural areas, etc. - Same as communicated to the district magistrate
However, same as above
These matters should be handled with careful consideration

Chief of Sailors
○Ship repairs and other various expenses should be reduced as much as possible
1. Regarding expenses for river crossings during Edo travel should be reduced after examination
These matters should be handled with careful consideration

Should also be communicated to the Construction Section Inspector - Construction Magistrate
1. 260 ryō gold - Annual various expense amount
However, within this gold amount, fixed contract portions should be reduced by 20% from the silver amount
The previous fixed payments are discontinued and monthly accounting is ordered. For both previous fixed payment locations and non-fixed payment distant temple sections, tatami sections, and foundation monthly accounting locations, all expenses should be completed within this gold amount. Even if expenses exceed this gold amount, there will be no additional disbursement, so understand this as covering only roof, wall, and veranda repairs, etc.
These matters should be handled with careful consideration

One person from among these:
Atsube Shunsuke
Hishikawa Zensaemon
○This time, etc., as per the separate document, understand and work diligently so that the intentions are fulfilled through careful consideration. Further instructions should be received from the magistrates
Separate document - To be returned in the Horse and Sheep years - Separate document