○After Princess Asa's relocation, her residence should be called "Goshuden" (Guardian Palace) according to precedent, but with this designation, it would naturally affect all matters and might cause complications with ceremonial duties. Since this was generally ordered with the light consideration that the residential arrangements should remain as before with retainers being employed as usual, this time the designation "Goshuden" will not be used, and it shall be called "Gojukyo" (Residence). This matter should be communicated in advance, according to the lord's directive.
April 5th
To the Ashigaru Administrator

Separate Document
Ashigaru Captain
1. Hereafter to be appointed to one person
1. To attend duty about six times per month for inspecting the guard posts
1. To be appointed to the regular entourage for both local and field pilgrimages
1. When there are problems or obstacles in handling ashigaru captain duties, consult with the entourage captain
However, during the lord's absence years, the monthly duty etiquette officer should participate in consultations
1. The ashigaru shall be organized into one unit
However, the unit captains shall continue to serve as two people as before
June 24th
However, today Kozuki Kyuemon was granted temporary exemption from ashigaru captain duties according to the lord's intention
Announcement　Monthly Duty Officer　To the Senior Guard Captain

○It has been announced that positions previously filled by those receiving 100-koku stipends may hereafter be filled by those receiving 100 koku or more. Also, when assigned to the caretaker guard unit depending on the role, the seating order shall be placed after the accounting and loan magistrate. This has been communicated for reference. This matter should also be communicated to the caretaker.
October 2nd
In Edo　　　　Takada Hamon

○During the lord's absence when personnel are few, and at this time of confusion with official duties before Princess Asa's relocation, extraordinary measures for overall control require that many be ordered to stay overnight. Nagami Kohachiro and Namikawa Juemon should consult, and from the first of next month, one person each should attend the third watch, reporting every evening from 7 o'clock to perform overnight duty. Also, regarding fire prevention control measures, instructions should be given to each according to the separate document, and careful measures should be taken.
Separate Document