1. For portions that use han-hōsho paper, jō-tsukinarishi-hōsho paper shall be provided
1. For portions that use jō-tsukinarashi-hōsho paper, tsukinarashi-hōsho paper shall be provided
1. For portions that use tsukinarashi-hōsho paper, nami-hōsho paper shall be provided
1. For portions that use nami-hōsho paper, shin-chōshi paper shall be provided
　　However, for courtesy inquiry letters, nami-hōsho paper shall continue to be provided as before
1. For portions that use chōshi or shin-chōshi paper, kogami paper shall be provided
　　However, there will be no reduction in number of sheets - one booklet of kogami shall be provided in place of one volume of chōshi
1. Official records, ledgers, and various certificates should be written on kogami paper, and of course this applies to other documents as well
1. For portions that use kogami paper, o-kura-hanshi paper shall be provided
　　However, it shall be provided at a rate of forty sheets per booklet
1. For portions that use double-thickness hodōmura paper, regular hodōmura paper shall be provided
△
1. For portions that use jō-mino paper, nami-mino paper shall be provided
1. For portions that use nami-mino paper, shōji paper shall be provided
1. Hiro-nezumi-hangiri paper shall be discontinued
1. For portions that use shuin-washi paper, nobu-washi paper shall be provided
△1. For portions that use hodōmura paper, chōshi paper shall be provided

　　　　March 15th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Various Monthly Officials
○The reason for the financial difficulties announced this spring is that since the great fire in the Year of the Tiger, enormous expenses have been incurred. Although various measures have been taken to manage the situation, this year has resulted in massive debt with no alternative solution. Therefore, unavoidably, with half-reduction, we request borrowing of rice stipends: three years for those with 200 koku or more, and one year for those with less than 200 koku. The retainer households are also in a state of long-standing hardship, which causes great concern for their suffering. However, this is announced due to truly unavoidable circumstances. It is hoped that everyone will exercise patience and continue their duties. This matter is to be announced as ordered.
　　However, regarding stipend payments, half will be borrowed for three years
1. For those with 200 koku or more, small allowances will be provided proportionally according to their stipend amounts during the coming years of the Rooster and Dog (two years). Details of the allocation method will be communicated later from the accounting office.
　　　June 29th　　Down to all subordinates under administration