Page 6

Traveling day after day, when will it end? / Winds from several provinces escort us / Horses pass over morning frost
Dragons lie across the road / Rivers flow day and night / People and things exist east and west
One pillow brings dreams of returning home / Letters from home haven't come for a long time

Toyohashi Four Seasons Miscellaneous Poems (recording three) - Sekine Chidō
Slender waist, low-arranged hair learning from river cities / Children and women's elegant bearing even more refined
There are neighboring mountains and waters / Charming mist and bright greenery resembling the western capital

Flowers don't invite people, yet people come naturally / Present spring colors surpass those of the past
Who takes up the colored brush to turn over old songs? / Singing out new bamboo branch songs of Toyohashi

My lover lives at the river source, I at the port / Looking for my lover daily fills me with sorrow
Wanting to send mutual longing with double-flowing tears / But helpless that the Toyokawa doesn't flow backwards

Toyohashi Bamboo Branch Songs (two poems) - Mori Shuntō
Ancient songs of inviting guests praised Yoshida / Beautiful courtesans in towers, their skills long renowned
Leaning on railings with long sleeves like spotted deer silk / Exposed fingers graceful and most pitiful

Wanting to worship a hundred aspects for my lover / There are paths to climb but painfully no go-between
The spiritual source, one belt of Toyokawa water / Flows directly down from beneath the white fox shrine

○18th Infantry Regiment Barracks: Enter through the main gate from the boundary road between Nishi-Hatchō and Naka-Hatchō. It has gates on both east (leading to the parade ground) and west (connecting to Sekiya-machi), and faces the clear stream of the Toyokawa River to the north.

○17th Brigade Headquarters: Turn north from the end of Higashi-Hatchō and enter the main gate after about two chō. It supervises the 18th Infantry Regiment and the 34th Regiment from Shizuoka.

○Government Offices and Schools: Besides the military, government offices include the Atsumi County Office and Toyohashi Military Police Station in Nishi-Hatchō, the Toyohashi District Court and Toyohashi Tax Office in Naka-Hatchō, and the Toyohashi Postal and Telegraph Office in Fudaki-machi. Schools include Aichi Prefecture Fourth Middle School, higher elementary school, three ordinary elementary schools, a private school for the blind and deaf, Tōkai Nursery, Soshū School, etc. Plans are underway for establishing a higher girls' school and commercial school, which should open soon.

○Newspapers: Besides Sanyō Shinpō, Tōkai Nippō, and Shakō Shinpō, there are two newspapers reporting commercial conditions.

○Restaurants: In Fudaki-machi, Chitose-rō is distinguished by its elegance, in Funa-machi, Suiō-tei by its honesty, and Hyakkaen Sarashina by its scenery - they compete with each other.

○Inns: Masuya in Fudaki-machi is the oldest, and Kojimaya in the same district is widely known. Near the station, Okadaya, Tsuboya, Yamada-kan, etc. are most prominent - it's difficult to rank them.

○Hospitals: Toyohashi Hospital is the most prosperous, with two medical doctors and several other medical staff divided into internal medicine, surgery, ophthalmology, etc. Kawai Hospital, Awaya Medical Clinic, and Tsujimura Medical Clinic are renowned for surgical treatment. The Suganuma, Okada, and Yamada clinics specialize in ophthalmology, with patients constantly filling their gates. For internal medicine treatment, Shindō, Suzuki, Kuno, etc. have good reputations.

○Entertainment Districts: Due to the folk song "When passing through Yoshida, they beckon from the second floor," Yoshida's pleasure quarters have been famous since ancient times. The current licensed quarters are in Fudaki-machi and Kami-Temma-machi - Fudaki is refined while Kami-Temma is convenient, neither yielding to the other. There are also three theaters: Shinonome-za in Gofuku-machi is a joint-stock company, newly grand and occupying first place. Yayoi-za in Kami-Temma and Toyohashi-za in Kōshin-zuka follow. The only other entertainment venue worth mentioning is Yorite Asahi-za in Kami-Temma.

○Tomb of Seki Koman (with brief biography)
The tomb of Seki Koman, who was sung about in folk songs - "Seki no Koman goes to Kameyama, twenty-five pairs of wooden clogs per month" and "The horse has returned but where is Yosaku-san? Seki no Koman is just briefly detaining him, Shōgaina" - is said to be the five-story stone pagoda in the northern corner of the cemetery grounds of Kenyō-in in Kami-Temma-machi, Toyohashi. However, to the south there are stone monuments of successive generations of Yamada Heihachi, and among them

Page 7