Page 14

More than one ri from town, only five chō from Futakawa Station, it can be viewed from the window of Tōkaidō trains. The scenery is absolutely beautiful in all four seasons, and especially when climbing up the rock, one can see Kinugatira and Enshū-nada in the distance. Since it is also famous for cherry blossoms, azaleas, mushroom hunting, etc., people come from far and near for sightseeing during the warm spring and cool autumn seasons.

Cave Kannon - Sekine Chidō
Stone mirror peak with hundred-foot steps / Dawn flowers and evening moon, good for climbing
Golden immortal stands on dangerous rock / Guiding visitors so they won't lose their way

●Futakawa Station - Now belongs to Ōkawa-machi. In ancient times, Futakawa Station was most famous by name, and recently it has become renowned for silk manufacturing.

Gosen I-ten Collection - Kobori Sōho
The country is Mikawa, the village is Futakawa, combined
When will I return to the capital?

Fuboku Collection - Priest Saigyō
Flowing away, in which world will it stop?
Tears separated by Futakawa barrier

Meireki Road Record - Shōtei
Even the full moon clears between the waves of Futakawa

Haiku Collection - Bashō
Hydrangeas - the thicket becomes a small garden's separate room

○Futago-zuka (Twin Mounds) - There is a place for viewing Mt. Fuji to the left of the eastern tree-lined road at Futakawa Station, which probably refers to this place.

Record of Viewing Fuji - Lord Ashikaga Yoshinori
Today we arrived at Shiomizaka in Tōtōmi Province... 
It was said that at a place called Futago-zuka, 
you first began to view Mt. Fuji

What shall we call this road's name
Where we first see the incomparable Fuji as Futago-zuka?

Responding to this - Priest Gyōkō
Is it fate? Today's destination Futago-zuka
From here we first see Fuji together

○Suenoharuno - Refers to the plains of Shimohosoya located southeast of Futakawa Station.

Man'yōshū
Catalpa bow at Suenoharuno where hawks hunt
Do not think your catalpa bow will break

Zoku Gosen-shū - Former Middle Counselor Lord Teika
Unpromised, at the base oak of Suenoharuno
You wouldn't know it from other frost-withered trees

Zoku Kokin-shū - Priest Kōji of Mineji
Getting wet, forcefully hunting with catalpa bow
Hail seems to be falling on Suenoharuno

Fuboku-shū - Priest Zenshō
Quails cry on Suenoharuno's clover plains
Evening light with autumn colors

○Minono Plain - Probably near Futakawa Station. Details still unclear.

Jōō Road Record - Minamoto no Ason Mitsuyuki
On the tenth day, leaving Toyokawa, as dusk fell over fields and villages, traveling far and wide, there was a place called Minono Plain... Clouds cleared with the pine wind of the peaks, and the mountain colors merged as one with the sky. The emotion of distant views is inexhaustible.

Mountain edges buried deeper than dew
Dawn breaking over grasses at field's end

Nayose - Kamo no Chōmei
Walking in the morning over Minono Plain where quails rest
Cranes cry across Irako Point

●Takashi Village (Plain and Mountain) - The oldest village settlement in the district, listed as Takashi in the Wamyōshō, and in ancient times it appears to have been imperial shrine land of the Grand Shrine, as it is listed as Takashi Mikuriya in the Kamikaze-shō.

Page 15