Page 18

Hōrai ya mikuni no kazari hinoki-yama
(Hōrai, the decoration of our land, cypress mountain)

When the lord heard this verse, he was so moved that he reduced the sentence by one degree and exiled him to Irago Point, where he died not long after.

When Echijin reported that Tokoku at Irago had fallen ill as usual, the master (Bashō) was close to him and thinking of the past when "finding one hawk brought joy in their meeting":

Featherless bird, only its cry remains at Irago Point - Kikaku

Visiting Tokoku's hermitage:
Indeed, as expected, a frost-covered hut left in ruin - Bashō

At Tokoku's retirement in Hata Village:
Wheat has grown tall, what a good hiding place, Hata Village - Bashō

Camellias bloom in the height of winter - Echijin
In the daytime sky, a flea-bitten dog lies sprawled - Tokoku

If travelers didn't hurry, they wouldn't get wet
Horses are wet, cattle in the evening sun's northern shower - Tokoku

October flies motionless at the window - Echijin

The fragrance of ten thousand chrysanthemums never fades, Hata Village - Shunko
New wheat harvest is abundant, Hata Village - Hōu

●Waji Daiyama - Belonging to Waji Village, this is the highest mountain in the district. Since medieval times it has been in litigation with Okido Village, so it is commonly also called Okido Daiyama. It serves as a landmark for navigators. With this mountain as center, the mountain ranges of the district divide east and west. Its name has been most famous since ancient times.

Song by Sakakibara Minbu Shōyu, Lord of Mikkaichi Castle:
When I compose, monkeys in rocky caves, boars in castle
The oak tree peaks of Waji Daiyama

Song by Sakai, Lord of Himeji Castle:
How terrible, the sound of Naminaga rocks and high peaks
The high grass peaks of Waji Daiyama

●Jōkō-ji Temple - Located in Horikiri, Horikiri Village, it belongs to the Sōtō sect and was built in the second year of Ōnin by the Second Generation Assistant Minister Karasumaru Suketō. The halls are magnificent and it is one of the leading temples in the district. It houses a large nirvana painting by Chōdenshiji, eight shaku tall and five shaku five sun wide, a standing Kannon statue by Kōbō Daishi, and many other treasures.

●Nakayama Artillery Testing Ground - An artillery testing ground established on the coast extending from Konakayama in Nakayama Village to Irago Village, currently with two cannons and buildings under construction but not yet completed. This coastal area is Kinugaura, directly connected to the Ise Sea, passing through the gateway between Irago Point and Shima Province to reach the Pacific Ocean.

●Hinode Stone Gate - Located in Hinode, Irago Village, with one on land and one at sea, forming a magnificent stone gate like a roaring tiger and coiling dragon. One can walk through and pole across it, and its strange scenery and superb views cannot be easily sought. It is also suitable for sea bathing in summer. However, the location is remote, eleven ri from Toyohashi, and it is regrettable that this magnificent scenery is not known to the world.

●Irago Point - At the end of Atsumi District, it faces Hazusaki in Chita District of Bishū across the distance, embracing Kinugaura. Going north from the tip of the small mountain at the cape leads to the inland sea Kinugaura, where the sea is shallow with clean white sand, most suitable for swimming in summer. In just over twenty chō one can reach the Nakayama Artillery Testing Ground, and walking the southern shore, strange rocks and bizarre stones coil in the sea, and in less than one ri one can reach Hinode Stone Gate. One can fish along the coast and hunt on Kaiba Island - truly such a place of exquisite scenic beauty cannot be found anywhere along the Tōkaidō.

Page 19