Page 20

○Ancient Irago　In ancient times, this place was an isolated island and seemed to belong to Ise Province. The Man'yōshū states:

When Prince Oshino (son of Emperor Tenmu) was exiled to Irago Island in Ise Province, people felt pity and composed songs

Uchiso wo Oshino no Ōkimi ama nare ya Irago ga shima no tamamo karimasu
(Prince Oshino, are you a fisherman? You gather seaweed on Irago Island)

Utsusemi no inochi wo oshimi nami ni nure Irago ga shima no tamamo kari osu
(Cherishing this fleeting life, getting wet in the waves, gathering and eating seaweed on Irago Island)

Zoku Goshūi　Former Middle Counselor Masafusa
The seaweed gatherers harvest at Irago Point, their calling voices, and the cuckoo whose song never ends

Fuboku-shū　Tadatada Asomi  
When I pick them for consolation, my sleeves become even wetter - the love-forgetting shells of Irago Point

Same collection　Monk Saigyō

Seeing the fishing boats returning because of bad winds from the offshore, saying they had been fishing for bonito

At Irago Point, boats fishing for bonito float in rows, drifting and approaching on the waves of the sea route

Nayose　Kamo no Asomi Chōmei
Parting the waves of clouds at Irago Island, the autumn night's moon crosses peacefully

Irago Point is said to be at the end of the southern sea, where hawks first cross over. Thinking that "Irago hawks" have also been composed in songs makes this season even more moving

Finding one hawk brings joy, Irago Point - Bashō

Visiting the same place again

At Irago Point, nothing is old but the hawk's cry - Same person

Jutting out into the great offshore winter, Irago Point - Hōu

○Irago Shrine　Located on the middle slope of Myōjin Mountain, overlooking Ise Bay and Kinugaura with particularly beautiful scenery. The enshrined deity is Amaterasu Ōmikami, and the annual festival is held on the 13th, 14th, and 15th days of the fourth lunar month, drawing crowds of men and women, young and old, from far and near. Considering that the Jinmyōchō-kō records "Senior Third Rank Iraku Daimyōjin seated in Atsumi District," and the Azuma Kagami mentions "Irago Mikuriya," and the Jinpō-shō Gekū Shinryō catalog also lists Irago's mikuriya as divine territory, this must be a shrine belonging to Ise.

○Yana District

●Origin (Topography)　This district is bordered by the Toyo River flow to the west, and from upstream to downstream, the shape receiving the river's flow resembles a yana (fish weir) used to catch river fish. Perhaps this is why the district is called Yana (Eight Names).

The district office is in Tomioka Village, and only Ōno Town bears the title of town. Originally this district is at the easternmost end of Mikawa, bordered by Shiki and Inasa districts of Enshū to the east, Kita-Shitara to the north, Minami-Shitara and Hōi to the west, and Atsumi district to the south. The lack of prosperous urban areas is due to the geographical situation.

●Former Imperial Residence Site　In Shōraku-in at Nakayashiki, Higashi-Shimojō, Shimojō Village, there is a round five-ring stone pagoda (eight shaku five sun tall) in the grounds. It is said to be the mausoleum of Prince Takeuchi, son of Emperor Monmu. Old records state that Emperor Monmu intended to attack the eastern barbarians in Sanshū

Page 21