Page 24

houses many famous paintings. It is almost two and a half ri from Toyohashi.

●Tobisu-yama (Castle Ruins)　Located in Norimoto Village, facing the castle ruins of Nagashino in Minami-Shitara District across the Toyo River to the west. This place is the site of an ancient castle where, in the third year of Tenshō, when Takeda Katsuyori led a great army of fifteen thousand to attack Nagashino Castle, he had his uncle Takeda Nobuzane guard this mountain fortress, but they were defeated by Sakai Tadatsugu's assault.

●Adera Seven Waterfalls　Located in character Adera, Ōaza Shimoyoshida, Yamayoshida Village. The cascading water strikes the rocky cliffs from above the precipice, forming seven-tiered flying springs that hang like white cloth - a scene beyond description and truly a rare magnificent view. However, the roads are treacherous and difficult, so few people appreciate it, and it is regrettably not widely known to the world. Recently, local people have consulted together to establish a preservation society, improving the roads and planning conveniences for visitors. Also in this

vicinity is a curious stone called "child-embracing stone" (ko-daki-ishi), which childless people possess believing it to be effective, and many come from distant places seeking it. Measuring directly below the seven waterfalls now: the first waterfall is three ken three shaku high and two ken wide, the second waterfall is seven ken high and one ken wide, the third waterfall is five ken high and three shaku wide, the fourth waterfall is sixteen ken high and one ken wide, the fifth waterfall is one ken three shaku high and five shaku wide, the sixth waterfall is three shaku high and three shaku wide, the seventh waterfall is one ken high and one ken wide, with a total height of thirty-four ken three shaku. The route from Toyohashi for waterfall viewing is to take the Toyokawa Railway to Shinshiro Station, go out to Ōno Town, reach Suzuyama in Takaoka Village, find a guide and enter the mountains. The distance is three ri from Shinshiro Town, which is somewhat far.

●Other Waterfalls　There is Fudō Waterfall in Ōno Town, and many others in Takaoka Village including Hyakken Waterfall, Fuji Waterfall, and Ōkubo Waterfall - too numerous to record individually.

●Honeycomb Rock　Located in Ōaza Niwano, Osabe Village, along the Toyo River shore facing Sakura-ga-fuchi in Shinshiro Town, Minami-Shitara District. It is a large limestone rock with countless small holes on its surface resembling a honeycomb, hence its name. The scenery is quite beautiful, suitable for flower viewing, cooling off, fishing, moon viewing, etc., and visitors in all four seasons take boats from Sakura-ga-fuchi in Shinshiro Town.

●Myōgō Pond and Biwa Abyss　The vicinity from Ōno Town to the Seven Waterfalls of Adera has beautiful scenery with countless places worthy of appreciation. Particularly, the rectangular rock standing upright within Myōgō Pond in Myōgō Village has a curious form and serves as excellent material for geologists. The depth of the pond bottom is unknown, and it is said to become clear or turbid along with the field water. Also, Biwa Abyss is located in Kurose Village on the way from Ōno Town to Kawai Village in Kita-Shitara District. Although few people know of it due to its remote location, the emerald clear and profound scenery is a place that even the phrase "purple mountains and clear waters" cannot adequately describe.

○Minami-Shitara District

●Origin　This district was separated from what originally belonged to Hōi District. Taking its auspicious meaning, "hō" (treasure) means rice ears, and "shitadaru gun" means "dripping ears district." When "shitadaru" is abbreviated and transformed, it becomes "shitara," hence it came to be called Shitara District. Until before the Meiji Restoration, it was simply called Shitara District, but then it was divided into north and south.

●Shinshiro Town　In ancient times it was called Ōnoda, but during the Tenbun era, Suganuma Daizen-no-suke Sadahiro, the castle lord of Tamine in this district, built a castle at Gō-ga-hara and named it Shinshiro (New Castle). During the time of his son Kodaizen Sadanori, this castle was razed and two castles were built in Sugiyama Village. Later, due to merits at Nagashino in the third year of Tenshō, Okudaira Nobumasa was granted this place and again built here

Page 25