Page 26

rebuilt Shinshiro Castle, restoring the ancient name of Shinshiro. It is now a famous town that ranks second only to Toyohashi in the Tōsan region. It has a district office, district court, police station, tax office, postal and telegraph office, etc. The ayu (sweetfish) caught in the Toyo River is a specialty of this area.

○Tominaga Shrine (Noh Theater) Enshrines Susanoo-no-Mikoto and holds its annual festival on August 15th, featuring Noh performances, fireworks, floats, etc., with the town bustling greatly for three consecutive days. The Noh theater here is also famous and is said to be one of few along the Tōkaidō. In ancient times, there was a master drummer named Kamaya Kizaemon who was known even in the three capitals. He traveled to Kyoto and died while traveling during the Tenpō era.

○Former Residence of Hakusetsu Located at the entrance of Tamachi slope. He was a disciple of Master Bashō and mastered the profound secrets of haikai poetry.
On the first day of the fourth month, heading for Hōraiji Temple, in the field of great trees, mounting a young horse so spirited it would bleed from the feet

Taking off one layer and spreading it in the saddle hollow, this sleepiness unbearable, not knowing the way, wondering whose house to enter and sleep
Riding into Hakusetsu's gate
    The buttocks become a cushion for the buttocks, changing clothes - Tesshi
        This morning the buds begin to show in the ivy's new leaves - Hakusetsu
    At sunset, how many moon shadows fall on the door - Tansui
        At Ōta Hakusetsu's place - Bashō
    That fragrance whiter than peach blossoms, narcissus flowers

○Okina Mound Located at the Kōshin Hall in the same town, with the following verse carved:
        At Suganuma Kōgetsu's residence
    Tired of Kyoto, this winter wind, winter dwelling - Bashō

○Sakura-ga-fuchi (Cherry Blossoms) Located along the Toyo River in the southern part of Shinshiro Town. The opposite bank has Honeycomb Rock (see Yana District) and is famous for its cherry trees. Recently, a preservation society was established to plant even more cherry trees, creating a park. The Toyo River water is clear, and the magnificent scenery of both banks is indescribable.

●Noda Castle Ruins (Record of the Sniper Attack on Shingen)
Located in Ōaza Noda, Senshu Village, about thirty chō southwest of Shinshiro Town. It is thought to be called Noda Castle or Negoya Castle, and while its origins are unclear, it is evident that the Tominaga clan were castle lords around the sixth year of Shōhei (second year of Kannō in the Northern Court). After more than 150 years, during the Eishō era, Suga Oribe Sadanori (lay priest Fushun) built and resided in this castle. After two generations came the famous era of Shin'hachirō Sadomitsu, who faced Shingen's attack. At that time, on the eleventh day of the first month of the first year of Tenshō, Takeda Shingen led a great army of 35,000 toward the inner districts and attacked Noda along the way. Castle lord Suganuma Shin'hachirō Sadomitsu, along with supporting generals - Matsui Yoichirō Tadamasa of Sakurai and Shitara Jinzaburō Sadamichi of Kawaji - defended to the death with just over 400 men. Shingen's attack was fierce. When provisions ran out and water dried up in the castle, they finally sent word of their dire situation to Hamamatsu. Ieyasu, facing such fierce enemy forces, dared not advance and requested reinforcements from Nobunaga through Oguri Dairoku Shigemichi, but this was ultimately not fulfilled. Unable to continue the siege, on the eleventh day of the second month they sent word to the enemy camp that castle commander Sadomitsu and supporting general Tadamasa would commit seppuku in place of their soldiers' lives. Shingen, moved by their loyalty and courage, granted their request. At that time, there was a man named Muramatsu Hōrin in the castle who played the flute every night. His music was so exquisite that both enemy and ally listened with deep emotion. One night, when Shingen heard this music, it was in the ōshiki mode - not the flute sound of a castle about to fall the next day. Suspicious, he moved his camp stool closer to the castle and listened more carefully. It was in the hyōjō mode mixed with banshiki mode, with occasional shinsen mode. As Shingen increasingly tormented his soul while observing the castle's condition, Sadomitsu thought "now is the time" and had Torii Sanemon shoot Shingen from the moonlight. The shot was accurate, penetrating from the left cheek through to the back of the neck bone. The enemy forces were greatly alarmed and administered medical treatment.

Page 27