Page 30

"I will raise signal fires." Nobumasa was greatly pleased and immediately had preparations made. Katsutaka rejoiced and took advantage of a great flood one night, diving underwater and cutting through the warning nets to escape the siege. He reported the emergency to Tokugawa Ieyasu and Oda Nobunaga, and having safely fulfilled his mission, raised signal fires as promised. This greatly boosted the morale of the castle defenders, who continued to defend the isolated castle to the death. When Katsutaka tried to return to the castle again, he was captured by enemy soldiers. Katsuyori saw Katsutaka and said, "I will spare your life if you serve me." Katsutaka's loyalty was like gold and iron - how could he agree to this? He pretended to consent. Katsuyori said further, "If you tell the castle defenders that no reinforcements are coming and they should surrender quickly, I will give you a great reward." Katsutaka thought he must not miss this opportunity, so following those words, he approached near the castle, called to the castle defenders, and shouted loudly: "Tokugawa and Oda reinforcements will come within three days. Gentlemen, be at ease!" When Katsuyori heard this, he was greatly enraged and immediately had him executed by crucifixion at Arikai Plain. Katsutaka's brave loyalty truly serves as a model for all retainers.

●Ushi Falls Located at the border between Ōaza Kawata in Chiaki Village and Ōaza Tōjō in Honshige Village, Hōi District. Since it is only five or six chō from Tōjō Station on the Toyokawa Railway, it is called Tōjō Ushi Falls. The direct drop is five jō with a width of three ken. It is not only famous for wisteria, but in recent years tea pavilions have been set up for the convenience of bathers, and especially in spring and summer the Toyokawa Railway runs special trains with discounts, so many people with walking sticks visit, making it one of the famous scenic spots of eastern pilgrimage.

●Ayu Falls (Monkey Bridge) Located between Ōaza Yokogawa in Nagakute Village and Ōaza Ōmi in Shiraku Village, five chō from Ōmi Station on the Toyokawa Railway. There are three falls: First Falls, Second Falls, and Ayu Falls, with Ayu Falls being considered the best. Though the height is about three jō, the surrounding area consists of strange rocks and bizarre stones, and it is particularly rapid. Below this waterfall, on rock faces that people cannot easily reach, many characters can be seen written. There is a monkey bridge in this vicinity. It is said that long ago an imperial messenger came here and tried to cross but there was no bridge. At that time a group of monkeys appeared and linked their arms and legs to form a bridge for crossing, hence the name. Now it consists of two log bridges, perhaps over one jō long. Above this waterfall there are no sweetfish, presumably because they cannot swim upstream. The enjoyment of catching sweetfish attempting to climb the falls with "sade" nets is incomparable to swimming and bathing. It is an excellent summer retreat.

●Other Waterfalls Narizawa Falls is located at the southern foot of Dando Mountain, in Aza Kodaki, Ōaza Moriyoshi, Suganuma Village, eight ri from Shinshiro Town in such a remote location that no one appreciates it, but with a direct drop of six jō and luxuriant pine and cedar, it is truly another world. Among others, Ishida Falls is in Ōaza Ishida, Chiaki Village, and Myōhō Falls is in Hōraiji Mountain, all spectacular sights.

●Hōraiji Temple (Engan Mountain) This temple has been widely known throughout the world since ancient times. During the reign of the 34th sovereign, Empress Suiko, the provincial governor of this province reported: "In Kiryū, Mikawa Province, there is a paulownia tree, and a phoenix has come here. This is an auspicious sign." Based on this, imperial permission was granted and the temple was named Hōraiji. Later, when Emperor Monmu fell ill (see the imperial residence site in Yana District), Kusakado Kōsen was sent as an imperial messenger to summon the hermit Rishū, who performed prayers. With imperial permission for the hermit's wishes, temple buildings were constructed in Taihō 3, and later a temple plaque was bestowed, said to be written by Empress Kōmyō. Called Engan Mountain, it practiced both Tendai and Shingon sects and was Mikawa's premier sacred site, though it has now greatly deteriorated. There are many famous sites in the mountains: the inner sanctuary, Hakusan Gongen, Fudō-son, Six Cedars, Hidden Water, High Seat Rock, Shrine Maiden Rock, Nun's Walkway, Ascetic's Return, Monkey Bridge, Bamboo Valley, Horse Back, Bull Nose, and others too numerous to count.

Page 31