Page 44

(where we go) Yōshin'ya Tahasau no kodan (mulberry and hemp seeds) Ne wo hirome (spread the roots) Yōshin'ya
Mai mo mai (cocoons and hemp) Mai mo kinu unna (hemp and cocoons can both be woven) Yōshin'ya Ta-goromo ni kisu (wear as field clothing) Unna (can be woven) Yōshin'ya Shirokane no tsubo wo narabe (arrange silver pots) Yōshin'ya Mizu ku umeba (when drawing water) Mizu mo tsutō mo ni (water together with) Yōshin'ya Tomi zo aru n'ya (there is wealth!) "There are various other ritual actions, and then" Haru ta ni oriru nara (if descending to the spring fields) Tō myōsa no ha wo (the leaves of rice seedlings) Myō te ni tsumi rete no (picking with both hands) Miya e mairu yo no (going to worship at the shrine) Rusu moto yori mo (from atop the ridges) Ura wo miya reba no (looking at the back fields) Tō myō katsura no na (the rice seedlings on that side) Ne sasu tokoro wo no (where the roots flourish)

There are various other celebratory ritual actions, and this festival is also performed at Toga Shrine (3rd day of the 1st month) and Usashi Shrine (7th day of the 1st month).

●Motono-hara Located two and a half ri northwest of Toyohashi, east of Goyu Town. From east of Shiratori Village to the vicinity of Toyokawa Town was formerly wilderness called Motono-hara, connected to Hikuma Plain via the Kamakura Highway. Now houses stand close together and there is no trace of the former wilderness.

Shinsen Rokujō, Right Senior Secretary Mitsutoshi
Do you long for Motono Plain where you once lived—
The insects lament in the temporary huts where they've been moved

Gessei-shū, Posterior Kyōgoku Yoshitsune
The dewdrops on the small bush clover transplanted to the garden—
Do you yearn for autumn on Motono Plain?

Near Hachiman, Makino Shirōzaemon cleared and cultivated a field called Nojuku Honjohara. One day for linked verse [?]:
Going sleeves through grass blade heights of summer fields - Sōchō

●Toyokawa Town In the Azuma Kagami, Kajō 4, 1st month, regarding Shogun Yoritsune's journey to Kyoto: "7th day, arrived at Toyokawa lodging." Also in the same work, 10th month, regarding the same lord's return journey: "18th day entered Ya lodging, 19th day arrived at Toyokawa station, 20th day departed Motono-hara," etc. Also in the Jōō Kaidō-ki: "We stayed at the Toyokawa lodging. Rising in the deep of night to look, this river flows wide with deep water..." Also in the Ninji Kikō: "passing in front of the lodging called Toyokawa," etc. I believe that Toyokawa was formerly a post station, extending from east of present-day Furujuku to Sakaguchi in the same village, and north to around present-day Toyokawa Town. Moreover, considering the account of "rising in the deep of night" mentioned earlier, it is clear that the Toyokawa River at that time flowed along the banks around Ushikubo, Shinotsuka, and Toyokawa. Therefore it was called Toyokawa Station because it encompassed the Toyokawa River.

Currently, the Toyokawa Railway has established Toyokawa Station there.

Nayose, Kamo no Chōmei
Wind crosses the floating bridge of dreams
The village of Toyokawa with deep sleeves

Jōō Kaidō-ki, Minamoto no Ason Mitsuyuki
Only waves approach the shore where no one knows—
The familiar moon's shadow still comes

Ninji Kikō, Minamoto no Ason Mitsuyuki
What an uncertain village—who first
Crossed these changing rapids of the river?

●Toyokawa-kaku (Dakiniten) Located in Toyokawa, Toyokawa Town. Though a temple, it imitates a shrine. Enpuku-zan Myōgon-ji was founded in Kakitsu 1 by the monk Giei as its founder and belongs to the Sōtō Zen sect. The temple buildings are vast and magnificent, and the Toyokawa Dakiniten enshrined within the precincts is famous far and wide, with worshippers never ceasing to come.

Page 45