Page 46

It is truly one of the foremost temples in all of Japan. It is commonly called Toyokawa Inari.

○Sanmyō-ji (Benzaiten) Ryūun-zan Sanmyō-ji is located just a few blocks from Toyokawa-kaku. Founded by Ōe no Sadamoto, the Benzaiten goddess enshrined within the precincts has a distinguished history and never lacks for worshippers. I believe that the biwa (lute) held by this Benzaiten was a famous instrument owned by Ōe no Sadamoto Ason, so when the temple was founded, a statue of Sadamoto Ason's beloved concubine Rikaju-hime was likely carved and enshrined there. This is particularly suggested by the fact that she wears Japanese clothing and her appearance is not that of a Buddhist statue. The annual festivals on the 16th day of the 1st and 7th months are lively celebrations.

Visiting the Benzaiten of Sanmyō-ji - Sōchō
The heart of this miraculous pond in autumn moonlight

Sekiryō Zuihitsu - Priest Dōkō
High towers the ancient temple of Sanmyō / The whale's voice moves in the evening wind
Though not enlightened seekers of the Way / They cannot avoid witnessing emptiness for a time

●Mt. Hongū (Toga Shrine) Located in Ichinomiya, Kuwatomi Village, it is most easily accessed from Nagayama Station on the Toyokawa Railway. This mountain rises 2,512 feet above sea level, and the scenery from its peak offers not only the finest view in eastern Mikawa but an incomparable vista in all the nation. The mountain ranges undulate like ocean waves, the distant Inland Sea approaches at one's feet, and the Toyokawa River winds through the rice paddies—truly indescribable. The mountain interior is densely covered with ancient trees that block out the sky, and the cliff path descending to Shinshiro has strange rocks and peculiar stones that provide much material for scholarly study. Toga Shrine, which sits atop the mountain, has long been called the first shrine of this province. What ancient records refer to as "Senior First Rank Toga Daimyōjin" is this shrine. It was built by imperial order through the envoy Kōsen during Emperor Monmu's reign, who granted the Kusakato surname to Lord Kōsen to serve as head priest, and his descendants have continued in this role. The enshrined deity is Ōnamuchi no Mikoto, and it is now ranked as a National Shrine of lesser grade.

●Brief Biography of Yamamoto Kansuke Haruyuki (Former Residence) The unofficial history states: "Harunobu promoted Yamamoto Kansuke, a man from Mikawa who was blind in one eye and lame, who had once studied military arts under a certain Ogata," etc. I believe that Yamamoto Kansuke Haruyuki was born on August 15th, Meiō 9, in Kamo-gō, Yana District, with the childhood name Gensuke. At age fifteen in spring, he came to Ushikubo as the adopted son of Ōbayashi Kanzaemon Masatsugi, a retainer of the Makino family, changing his name to Ōbayashi Kansuke Sadayuki. At twenty-six he set out on warrior training, and at thirty-five in winter he severed ties with his adoptive family to become Yamamoto Kansuke, going to his maternal cousin Ihara Awa no Kami and staying in Sunpu for nine years. At forty-five he was recruited by Takeda Daizen no Tayū Harunobu (Shingen) of Kōshū. He was well-versed in astronomy and geography and skilled in military science, serving Harunobu as is well known. At fifty he became a monk with the Buddhist name Dōki, and at fifty-seven he had his first son. Kansuke's former residence was in Ushikubo, and though the house site has now become rice fields, recently people of good will erected a stone monument there. It is just three blocks from Ushikubo Station on the Toyokawa Railway. Also, at Chōkoku-ji in the same area, a small statue of Marishi-ten, Kansuke's protective Buddhist deity, is enshrined.

Hakutō-shū - Ōta Kinshiro
Passing the Former Residence of Yamamoto Dōki at Ushikubo
The hero hid beside a country village / Once emerged, he made Kōfu strong
Today I pass by his old residence / Cold mist and cool grass bear autumn sun

●Imperial Hollyhock Crest (Hana-ga-ike) About twenty blocks from Ushikubo Station, in Ina Village, there is a small pond called Hana-ga-ike. Long ago, the lord of Ina Castle, Honda, took hollyhock leaves from this pond to serve as plates for delicacies presented to Lord Tokugawa Ieyasu. This became an auspicious custom, leading to the Tokugawa family's adoption of the hollyhock crest through the generations. Few people know of this, and it is most regrettable that this famous site is on the verge of being forgotten. The unofficial history states: "In Kyōroku 2, Yoshida Castle lord Makino Denzō... (omitted)... Lord Okazaki led troops to attack. Ina Castle lord Honda Masatada came out to surrender. Masatada's ancestor was called Sukehide, who later lived in Toyo-

Page 47