Until not long ago, this area consisted of the Kasai Thirty-Three Villages, and even now in the local people's grass-cutting songs and the mortar-pulling songs of women of low status, "Kasai Thirty-Three Villages" is still sung. Now it has become one hundred and eighteen villages in total, east and west, and is prospering. From this, one can understand the extent of this development. The geographical advantages that will gradually increase the number of villages can be observed.

Aoto Village <<Note: Now divided into two villages: Omote-Aoto Village and Nishi-Aoto Village>>
In this village, there are historical traces of Aoto Saemon Fujitsuna, and the site of his former residence remains. The local people call it the ruins of an old castle, and also refer to it as the site of a palace. Fujitsuna's famous incident at Namerikawa, where he dropped a small amount of money and paid several coins to hire someone to retrieve the dropped money, is widely known to people of the world, and regarding worldly profit and loss,

he should indeed be called a wise man. The construction of his residence was probably also modest. Moreover, nearby there remains a place called Kuruwa (enclosure), and there is also a place called Jinya (administrative office), which are now farmhouse residential plots, referred to as "So-and-so Hyōe of Kuruwa" and "So-and-so Uemon of Jinya." When I inquired whether they might be descendants of retainers, they said that was not the case. At the edge of the village, there is a small vacant lot called the execution ground, said to be the execution ground from Saemon's time, and nearby live several dozen households of eta. These are also said to be eta lineages from that period. Since there is a discrepancy in the characters for Aoto, I also inquired about this matter. They said that the character "to" (砥, whetstone) is difficult to write, and with poor handwriting it becomes hard to read, so they write the easier character "to" (戸, door). This is indeed quite reasonable. In the house of a farmer named Mozaemon in this village, there are [traces of] Aoto Saemon...