From the Hōei era to the sixth year of Kansei (Year of the Tiger), ninety-one years have passed - not so distant in time, yet eight out of ten village headmen do not know this story. What I record here is the tale told by the headman of Sarumata. The farmers of Nigōhan who wore the three lions to frighten the farmers of Kasai and cut the embankment to escape the flood damage in Nigōhan resembles how Tian Dan of Qi used the fire-ox stratagem to drive away enemies and save the state of Qi from disaster - it was both amusing and a clever scheme. However, if we judge by moral principles, it would be difficult to say it was without sin. It should be considered different from Tian Dan's wisdom.

[Illustration contains:]
Source: Emerges from Tone District in Kōzuke Province
Tone River
Diagram of Ancient Times
North
Sumida River
Ayase River
Ara River
Asakusa Area
Sea

[Below illustration:]
Considering the geographical features as told by the local people, in ancient times it was as shown in the diagram. Over the several hundred years since then, bays and marshes have been filled in, and the topography has changed with each era. Since it was flat plains and fields, the river's flow divided into a thousand branches and changed from time to time. When new rice fields were developed, embankments were built here and dikes were constructed there. Places traditionally called "embankment breaks" unexpectedly retain the form of ponds and marshes. Considering this, the river's course has been altered many times. Looking at why these two districts of Kasai have suffered repeated flood damage in recent years: while the river width remains the same as in the past, the riverbed has filled up and sandbars have grown higher year by year, so water that did not overflow in the past now overflows. If things are left as they are now, there will be increasingly serious concerns about flood damage in future years. However, this is merely a limited perspective and should not be taken as reliable.