The above was presented to Princess-sama

　　Princess Koto
　　Princess Kan
　　Kengorō-sama　　　　100 hiki in gold each
　　Princess Tsutsushimi
　　Teishōin-sama
The above fish money was presented for the first correspondence
　　200 hiki in gold　　　For the wet nurse's services
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Katayama Heishichi's mother
　　Same 200 hiki　　　　　　　　　　Midwife Natsu who assisted in delivery
The above was bestowed for making courtesy inquiries and gifts, to be sent to the great interior

1. June 14th, there were Matsumoto Tennō and Kida Tennō festival celebrations and a great Gion festival, with eleven town groups putting out ten thousand lanterns, parade floats and dancing children, plus one group of dancers from Seigan-ji village. From past four o'clock, his lordship entered the corner turret to observe. The attendants on duty took turns watching from the next-floor platform. The great interior watched from the southern platform.

1. June 15th, at five o'clock with full retinue, he moved to the main castle, and to celebrate his succession as heir, suddenly received New Year's formal ceremonial respects, returning to the palace past half past eight. Today there were chief retainers and all current officials without exception, as well as various craftsmen.
【Red notation】
1. 16th, going down to the river, recorded at the beginning of the scroll

16th　1. Fish money 200 hiki in gold　　《note: messenger》Sakakibara Magosaku
　　The above was privately献上 for being appointed to an excellent position this time
18th
1. Takada Chōzaemon's aunt, Kobē's cousin's daughter in mourning for three days, but excused after two days, came to work today　Kumagai Kobē
19th
1. Tea, one jar　　Itō Yūnoshin
1. Tea utensils　from two boxes　　Hattori Zaemon
The above was requested and献上 upon Kiyota Tanzō's arrival　

1. June 19th, after arriving, he engaged in reading for the first time, and Kiyota Tanzō appeared. However, soup and sake were ordered and bestowed by the officials. Tanzō arrived on the 11th of last month.
　　《note: whispered soup for 20 people, 5 shō of sake, 3 blocks of tofu》　20 horsemen
　　《note: 1 to 5 shō of sake, 10 blocks of tofu》　About 60 servants in total
The above was bestowed for their efforts during repeated kemari games
1. June 20th, for moxibustion treatment before the summer solstice period, the following was bestowed in his presence:
　　One inkstone lid
　　Bowl of fish　　　　　　Together with the physicians
　　5 shō of sake
　　　　　　　　　The same to be bestowed at future moxibustion sessions
【Red notation】
Body pillar, lung transport points, 7th, 9th, 10th vertebrae, obstruction root points《note: 15 moxa cones each》
Capital gate point《note: 21 moxa cones each》　Celestial pivot point《note: 30 moxa cones each》
　　　Total of 347 moxa cones
One Wang circle device　　Delivered to Ogino Nabehachirō for moxibustion treatment use