The remaining items were received by all retinue members. However, Takumi stayed inconspicuously within the lower residence, but due to the fire, he hurriedly came to the teahouse to inquire about his lordship's condition. The audience that had been arranged beforehand was already completed. Five each (Senior Councilor, Chief Retainer, Chamberlains, Escort Captain, Shell Officer), about three each (Inner Priests, Kitchen Staff).

One　8th month, 1st day　Today rice cakes for Hassaku were bestowed directly to the chief retainers. In the great hall, beginning with the Kochi officials, they were distributed through intermediaries. As usual, townspeople representatives and group leaders presented cotton-winged dried squid.
The chamberlain head did not attend the main castle ceremonial seat as per monthly five seasonal festivals custom, so received the rice cakes in his room. The chamberlain staff did likewise. However, today the retinue assembled at 5:30.
　　　Pressed hanging, three frights, two hanging　　　　　　　　　Koma Takumi
The above was bestowed because he had frequently entered the lower residence recently. Although it was intended to be bestowed directly, unexpectedly yesterday's audience at the teahouse was completed, so today it was delivered via the Senior Councilor at the main castle.

One　The Hassaku celebration for the noble personages was postponed due to it being a purification day, to be celebrated the day after tomorrow, the 3rd. The exchange of gift lists in the great interior was likewise. However, the ceremonial envoy for the princess's first celebration was received by the senior retainers at the main castle this morning before the formal ceremony.

One　8th month, 2nd day　Maeda Hikojiro was ordered to attend occasionally during reading sessions, and when Tanzo is unwell, his son Shinshiro should attend, as arranged by the Senior Councilor. Fifty salted sweetfish from fishing were bestowed to Tauchi Kuranosuke and submitted to the secretary's room.

One　8th month, 3rd day　For the Hassaku celebration, the noble ladies were to exchange gift lists in the great interior, but due to the senior lady's illness, the gift list was viewed in the outer area. However, when entering, formal court dress was worn.

One　8th month, 4th day　For kemari (kickball), gifts were bestowed as in previous months. However, last month there were no gifts.
Besides the above gifts:
　　　One sho of sake
　　　One block of tofu
The above were requested by the rear court staff. Two people attend each kemari session.

One　8th month, 5th day　With retinue assembled at 4:30 for river hunting, visited Shioden Matabei's place.
Utsunomiya Katsutaro's remaining fireworks from the previous day were performed at Funabashi lower riverbank and viewed. After five pieces, the daytime portion was completed, but the wooden tube was damaged, making it difficult to continue. Katsutaro reported this and requested postponement, which was granted as unavoidable, with the remainder to be viewed later.

Courier arrived
One　Letter　One　Fireworks logbook, one box　One　Pressed morning glory flowers　Presented by the Princess
One　Reply letter　One　Spanish mackerel roe, one box　Presented as thanks by Lord Matsudaira Kunai Daizen　
One　Sweets, one box　One　Eggs presented　Shioden Matabei
One　Catfish　Turtle　From the same person　Caught by his second and third sons, presented alive for amusement