Those involved had purification examinations from the previous night. The procedures at Daichō-in were that [the lord] settled in the study from the entrance, and soon ordered worship. His attire was noshime long kamishimo. The domain official led the way through the corridor to worship before the main hall altar. He received offerings and sacred sake, handed the earthenware vessel to the domain official, then returned through the original corridor to enter the study where he changed clothes. After finishing his meal, the retinue was ordered to assemble and he returned to the palace. It was evening.

One　After worship was completed, he was seated in the study and ordered an audience with Daichō-in. On that occasion kelp was presented, and the outer page should have served, but as there was currently no resident [priest], this ceremony did not take place. The representative Shōgen-in came out beyond the usual protocol and presented sacred sake and other items during worship.

【Written in red】
29th day courier arrived
One　Confections in through-box　Presented by Princess【End of red writing】

One　October 1st　Takamura Shingobei had been ill for a long time but was gradually recovering and requested to walk, so he came out for a courtesy call.

One　October 2nd　Nakazawa Hayato had been ill for a long time but was gradually recovering and requested to walk in the neighborhood. His request was granted as requested. When this matter was conveyed to Hayato, he came out for a courtesy call in the evening.

【Written in red】
2nd day　One　Two ryō gold　Iijima Shiroemon
　　The above was payment delivered openly for four bows that had been purchased, at 200 hiki each【End of red writing】

One　October 3rd
　　　One mallard from hawking　　　　　　　　　　　　To Honda Kuranosuke
　The above was bestowed to Fuchū district by foot messenger　However, this was from hawking on the 28th of last month

One　In the evening at half past seven assembled for the Boar Day celebration. Seated in the enclosed room, from senior councilors, domain officials, Kanazu magistrates, attendant chiefs, magistrates, ceremonial officials, domain officials Yamashina Yasojirō, Maeda Hikojirō, Ōi Chōjūrō, inspectors, attendant commanders, retinue heads, to physicians, rice cakes were directly bestowed. Afterward, personal attendants and secretaries received them, and by gracious consideration Kiyota Tanzō, tea ceremony officials, and outer pages served as intermediaries for bestowing the rice cakes. Page chiefs and pages received the rice cakes personally. This year being the first such celebration, all were on duty. The recent custom is only those on duty and present. Attire was hemp kamishimo.

One　October 8th　At half past five with retinue assembled, pilgrimage was made to Matsuoka Tenryū-ji Temple. The procedure was to enter from the veranda of the rest area and order worship. At the same location he changed clothes, wearing noshime long kamishimo《Note: This year was the first entry》《Note: therefore long kamishimo. In normal years, half kamishimo》and entered the memorial tablet hall. He worshipped the image of Kenshō-in and immediately performed one worship of the memorial tablet at that incense burner. Of course there was hand washing before and after, then at this place he adjusted his hakama and entered the mausoleum from the veranda. He worshipped the mausoleum of Kenshō-in, then performed one worship at the mausoleum of Jissō-in, then returned via the original path to be seated in the rest area. Here he ordered an audience with the abbot. The domain official announced and there were greetings【Insertion】from the second time the greetings were after a long while【End insertion】《Note: Today was the first time》. At this time the sliding doors between rooms were opened left and right. Afterward Hōgan-ji and Hakuryū-ji came out for audience, and after that Honryō-in came out and the audience was completed. He changed clothes, put on hakama, and was seated on the upper platform. At this time the abbot presented kelp