[Written in red ink above]
16th day
1. Kamo Festival painting, 1 fan box containing five fans - Hattori Saemon and his son Sakon. The above presented for their return to Fukui. The audience will be held on the 20th in the gun room, however standing audience.
1. This morning, visited shrines, mausoleums, and temples
1. During this morning's meal, Naikai Genkō read the lord's teachings [Up to here in red ink]

1. January 17th, after 7 o'clock, received ceremonial sake cups in the gun room 《Side note: Also present were Genseiin, Daichōin, Shōgenin, Fukansōji temples》
　　However, ceremonial officials wore hemp formal dress　　　　　　　　
　　　　Side attendants in plain clothes　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
　　　　Ceremonial half formal dress　　　　　　　　　　　

1. January 18th, duty officer Nakazawa Hayato handling
　　　　Due to foot pain, tomorrow the 19th　　　　　　　　Middle Elder Utsunomiya Kageyu
　　　　requested exemption from attending hawking
　　　　When this was reported, exemption from attendance was granted　　
　　　　However, due to on-duty/off-duty arrangements, Nakane Magonoemon did not appear separately for this reason
 　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Note: Record the first moxibustion on the 23rd

[Written in red ink above]
19th day, courier arrives
1. Direct letter
1. Sweets in presentation box
1. Red and white rice cakes
　The above sent from Princess
1. Two obi fabric strips
　The above sent from Princess Koto [Up to here in red ink]

[Written in red ink middle]
26th day 《Side note: 1 hakama fabric, 1 tan
1 hundred sheets of uchigumori paper》　　　to Hattori Saemon
　The above bestowed through Kiyota Tanzō's handling [Up to here in red ink]

1. January 28th, due to hawking activities, the second meal was abbreviated and taken at the gate beside the seven-man guard post

1. February 7th, after Young Lord's hakama ceremony celebration was completed, regarding the gifts from the envoys, received envoys from various ladies in the audience chamber of the main seat, wearing only ceremonial hakama [Two lines in red ink] 1. Previously, two cormorants from Shimazu that appeared at Nagahashi-ura and Ayukawa-ura were observed at the training ground, with Sakai Hanjūrō in attendance

[Written in red ink above]
8th day
1. One blue heron from hawking to Shimazu Jūdayū, head bird keeper. As there were several and no opportunity to bestow, this was given. To be bestowed tomorrow, sent by the head side attendant [Up to here in red ink]

1. February 11th
　　　　10 gold ryō　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　to Kumagai Kobei
　The above: last spring when he came to the capital for escort duty, he requested various allowances to be bestowed. After deliberation, it was decided to bestow gold, which was given by the Middle Elder to Nakazawa Hayato and delivered today

1. February 12th, from after 9:30, observed manzai performances, with assistant props handler Wada Harusaemon managing, bestowed as follows:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　200 mon each　　　　　　　to nine manzai performers
　　　　　　　For special requests　200 mon　　　21 regular performances
　　For presenting sweets　300 mon　　　plus 5 special performances
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Total: 5 ryō 3 bu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　5 momme silver　　　　　　　　　　to manzai inn Komeya
　The above bestowed for the trouble taken in the manzai viewing

[Red ink]
Courier departs
1. Sweets to Princess　　　　　　　　　　　
1. One wild goose from hawking to residential middle-aged retainer　　　　　　
1. Direct letter, 1 box of sweets　　　　　　　　　　　
　The above from Lord Hyūga-no-kami
　Sent via Osaka to the Middle Elder
14th day　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
1. One duck from hawking 《Side note: Kaifuku Sezaemon
Kawasaki Saburōsuke
Imadate Gorōdayū》　　　　　
　The above bestowed　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　
《Side note: 1 Kasuga Shrine purification
1 box of lamp-soot ink》　　Nanto Fujitani Mokukō
　The above presented as usual
《Side note: 1 first offering gold 100 mon
Separately 1 gold 100 mon》　　　to Fujitani Mokukō
　The above offered, sent to Mori Jiemon's place
14th day
　《Side note: Due to illness
Exempt from Edo service this year》　　　　　　　　Page Takeda Katsunosuke [Up to here in red ink]

February 15th, after receiving congratulations and returning to the palace, the senior retainers paid respects in the gun room for the lord's birthday felicitations

[Red ink]
15th day
1. One box of sweets, 1 container of fresh sea bream - privately presented by Honda Kuranosuke's household, received from Middle Elder and presented. The sea bream was consumed immediately
1. □□ mallard ducks, one each 《Side note: Head bird keeper Shimazu Jūdayū
Head falconer Kishi Gorozaemon》
　The above bestowed according to precedent [Up to here in red ink]