5 monme of silver each　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To 9 sons of the cormorant masters
　　　1 monme 5 bu each　　　　　　　　　　　　　To 2 bait handlers
　　　　Both of the above were bestowed because they served as beaters during cormorant fishing
　Same as above was bestowed
　　　200 hiki gold each　　　　　　　Spear sparring partner　　Uesaka Renkichi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sword sparring partner　Yoshikura Tetsugorō
1. March 4th: Tonight there were congratulations for the departure, all matters as usual for year-end forgetting, retired past 6 o'clock at dawn【Red ink】5th day　1. 100 hiki gold each for fish offerings　Presented by　《side note: Ōtani Ichiemon, Kuwayama Jūzō》【Up to here in red ink】
1. March 5th: Awoke at 9 o'clock in the afternoon. Slept well during the night
1. Today it was heard that caretaker duties were assigned at the quarter-hour assembly
1. March 6th: General shrine visit, upon return to the palace the garden shrine worship was completed, then worshipped at the embankment Buddha hall. Takamura Shingoibei served as advance guard wearing a wakizashi, the garden staff offered the hand-washing platform
【Red ink】
6th day: Express messenger dispatched
1. One tier of sweets in a stacked box　Presented to the princess【Up to here in red ink】
1. March 7th: Retired before 7:30 at dawn the next day
【Red ink】7th day 1. Paulownia plain wood tea box stand　　Son of Niemon　Mori Chōkichi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Privately presented on the occasion of coming to Fukui【Up to here in red ink】　　　　　
1. March 8th: In good spirits during the day, awoke past 9 o'clock in the afternoon. Slept well during the night
1. Before 8 o'clock, audience in the formal sitting room as follows. However, wore formal crested clothing and hakama

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Senior retainers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Middle-ranking elders  
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlains
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Honda Roseki
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Retired members
　　　《side note: 1 sake cup, 200 hiki for fish》　　　　　　　　　　　　Maeda Hikojirō
　The above was bestowed personally
　　　《side note: 1 inkstone screen, 1 branch-breaking tool, 1 toothpick holder》　　　　Great-grandson of Benzaemon　Asai Takichi
　The above was bestowed for diligent study at the academy. Hikojirō reported this
　　　3 kin of sake　However, the献上 barrels were also bestowed　　　　　　Sakai Hanjūrō
　The above was bestowed for diligent service in □-taking duties at the second compound during this period