Ten monme of silver　in place of goods
　The above was likewise presented to Teishoin-sama, circulated to the inner quarters where the senior ladies arranged for it to be sent to the garden estate.
　　　Portion from his lordship's meal
　The above was likewise presented to Kengoro-sama, arranged by the meal attendants.

1. Following precedent, about half of the usual number were summoned, including the tutor and senior retainers. However, while previously even outer Buddhist monks who knew small dances were summoned, from this year such types are no longer summoned. The numbers were quite small otherwise. 《marginal note: Inner Buddhist monks were also summoned, but》

　《marginal note: From tool officials to night guards ○
Matter of clockkeeper deliberation》【red ink】17th day, arrived yesterday evening, audience in small sitting room, attendant inner guard Ofuji Sukezō

1. The room arrangement had the western entrance side of the formal sitting room, where senior retainers, chamberlains, chief attendants, ceremonial officials, chamberlain Takano Sozaemon 【insertion】retired officials also attended【end insertion】, physicians, close attendant guards, and tea ceremony official Hanaki Sakae sat in a curved line. The pages sat facing west in front of the staggered shelves inside the room, while assistants and Buddhist monks received gifts on the entrance side of the Tartar room. The room enclosure had the entrance side cedar doors removed, four sliding doors at the study boundary opened in a curve, and the Tartar room boundary cedar doors removed. Sliding screens were placed on the entrance side of the Tartar room, offset folding screens were set up in the brazier room, and sliding screens were placed on the entrance side of the Peacock room. Gift preparations were made through the Peacock room passage. In the study, Confucian scholars and physicians were ordered to compose poetry, while Buddhist monks were ordered to perform Noh chanting and small dances. The beginning was past 6:30, finishing past 4:30.

1. Kengoro-sama's attendants were also granted gifts from his lordship for the moon viewing, and Nakane Shinroku came to offer thanks the following day.

1. On the 19th day of the 8th month at 5 o'clock assembly, soup and sake were bestowed upon the sons and retired officials of various retainers in celebration of the young lord's birth. His lordship took his seat in the formal sitting room, Honda Rojiyūkata took his seat in the same room, senior retainer sons to castle deputy sons took their seats in the firearms room, Takachi sons took their seats in the same room, Ogino Tōzan and Akashi Uchu took their seats in the same room, Utsunomiya Kageyu and all retired officials in the great hall, from Yamakawa Kanjirō to long hakama attendants in the same room, from various unit commander sons to new guard attendants in the great guard station, and various officials entered and took positions, with audiences granted from all ranks to various craftsmen in the banner room. However, for each of these seating arrangements, he entered the small sitting room to receive reports before entering. After this concluded, he took his seat in the formal sitting room, Honda Rojiyūkata likewise took his seat, senior retainer sons to castle deputy sons took their seats in the Tartar room, and Takachi sons were granted audiences for the purpose of receiving ceremonial cups.
　　　Sweets　one box　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Unsho-ji Temple
　The above was sent due to arrival from Hyuga-no-kami.

1. 20th day of 8th month, courier arrived
　　　Glassware　one box