Proceeding along the original path through the corridor to the study, after remaining there briefly, preparations for the mountain pavilion were ordered. He put on his hakama and entered the mountain pavilion. The chamberlain led the way. At the mountain pavilion there was an offering of persimmons on one stand, which was presented by the chamberlain of the attendant guard duty and completed. The chief priest and the physician from Koshoji Temple attended, and fine confections and sake were served, with table service for the companions provided by the front page attendants. Here, upon inquiry from the side attendant head, a retinue assembly was ordered. Confucian scholar Takano Sozaemon, who was brought along today by special consideration, was summoned 《marginal note: However, his being brought along was communicated in advance from the chamberlain to Sozaemon》 and ordered to compose poetry.
[Insertion] In the year of the dragon, Tanzo composed it in the next room and brought it out to present [end insertion]
　He composed it before his lordship and presented it, then it was immediately given to the chief priest. Tea was served and also offered to the companions, and there was conversation for a while. Judging the appropriate time, the three-tiered confection stands were cleared away, and when finished, the chief priest withdrew. Then he immediately entered the inner study, and later partook of wheat gluten soup. The chief priest and physician 【physician is enclosed in a box】 served as companions, and the physician also attended, but the Koshoji priest did not attend. When finished, he entered the front study, the retinue assembly was announced, and he departed from the entrance. There was a farewell message to the chief priest.

1. During worship at the mausoleum, the middle elder and side attendant head did not proceed to the mausoleum site, and one chamberlain remained behind.

1. More than ninety pine mushrooms were gathered for the side attendants at the rocky mountain, which were carried back and presented to Teisho-in-sama and Kengoro-sama, with the remainder bestowed upon the accompanying middle elder, chamberlain, side attendant head, both chambers, and physicians.

[Red ink notation]
7th day
1. One hawk-caught duck - presented to Kengoro-sama
Same 1. Same - one small duck - bestowed upon Sodeno [end red ink notation]

[Two lines below]
　　　　　　　　7th day　Persimmons　one basket　　bestowed upon side attendants　　献上　　Ichinami　Honkoji Temple
　　　　　　　　7th day　《marginal note: Persimmons　　　bestowed upon side attendants, Chestnuts　　　ordered to be consumed》one basket　　　Offering　Senzo-in Temple

1. 7th day - Atsumi Shin'emon returned to duty today after mourning leave ended, paid respects at the secretaries' office and also offered thanks before his lordship.

1. 8th day of 9th month - Previously, when Izubuchi Heibei inquired privately about wanting to grant licenses and teach written traditions, he was told of the declination, but he conveyed that he earnestly wished to present them and requested another inquiry. When this matter was inquired about again, if he so earnestly wished to present them, they would be accepted. Regarding timing, it was ordered that instruction be given after the disciples' preparations are completed at year's end. When this was conveyed to Heibei, he expressed gratitude for the deep consideration.

1. 9th day of 9th month - Before 4 o'clock - Attended the duty office - Met with Sazen's group - No particular issues

[One line in red ink] 1. One hawk-caught duck - bestowed upon Honda Kuranosuke
　　　Appointed to full middle elder position　　　　　　Middle elder trainee　Amagata Magohachi
　　《marginal note: Fifty koku stipend supplement, total of one hundred koku stipend supplement bestowed, seat follows after Nagami Tonomo》　　　　　　　　　　Same person

1. 10th day - Kozuki Kyuemon arrived on the 25th of last month, and through him the young lord's diary and official correspondence were conveyed and reviewed.

1. 10th day of 9th month - Courier arrived
　　　Sake cup　　with stand　in box　
　The above was presented by the princess as a moon-viewing celebration.

[Below]
11th day
1. Two yams　　　Offering　Hondo village　Okuzaemon
　The above were reportedly sent to the kitchen.

1. Two baskets of imperial persimmons　Offering　Honda Rojiyugata　One basket presented to Kengoro-sama
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One basket bestowed upon the great interior

[Red ink notation]
1. 11th day - Tour of the castle town
　One box of dried confections　Rest stop　Nishi Honganji branch office　
　The above were offered [end red ink notation]

1. [Insertion] After 4 o'clock attended the duty office and met with the stable master [end insertion] 13th day of 9th month - Reading of Records of the Grand Historian 《marginal note: Hanaki Sakae, Takano Sozaemon》 Court reader

[Red ink notation]
1. 13th day - Due to the death by illness of Ariga Gokujin in Edo, activities were suspended for today and tomorrow, so tonight's moon viewing was postponed. There was horse riding, middle elder audience, and archery practice.

1. 13th day - The duty inner priest who lost the tobacco tray ash receptacle lid on the last day of last month was confined by order from the inner guard after inquiry due to his carelessness.

1. Fish money, one hundred hiki - presented by the young lord
　The above was brought by Tsuda Yataroku who arrived last night.
　Yataroku was granted audience in the living quarters [end red ink notation]

1. 14th day of 9th month - Courier arrived yesterday - The following were bestowed by Koto-hime-sama:
　　Short cloth　two packages　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sakai Yosaburo
　　Incense container　one