1. 21st day of 9th month - The newborn prince's birth confinement period concluded ○The newborn prince specifically ordered that sake, ceremonial bowls, and side dishes be bestowed upon the chief aide and both office chambers, issued from the great interior. However, the same will be bestowed tomorrow evening as well

1. 23rd day of 9th month - For the newborn prince's seventh-night celebration, his lordship sent the senior councilor as messenger to bestow the name Matsudaira Kuninosuke-sama ○The residence wore formal hemp dress until 9 o'clock

1. This morning at 5 o'clock assembly in the main chamber, wearing formal silk garments {{marginal note: however cotton clothes}} and formal dress, Sakai Yozaemon presented the formal response of gratitude for the name bestowed by the newborn prince {{marginal note: striped long formal dress}}. When this concluded he entered the small sitting room, then again took his seat in the main chamber to receive messengers from the princess and other ladies. This concluded, Honda Kuranosuke and other senior councilors expressed congratulations and ceremonial cloths were bestowed. The middle councilors and chamberlains all appeared and expressed congratulations ○In the rifle chamber there was an audience for congratulations with the senior councilors

1. From Kuninosuke-sama, for today's celebration, soup and sake were presented to his lordship, Kengoro-sama, and Teisho-in-sama

1. 24th day of 9th month - At 5:30 the retinue assembled for worship at Tenryuji Temple, returning to the residence at 6:02. The procedures up to the audience with Honryo-in were the same as in the year of the boar. When this concluded, he changed to hakama and took his seat on the upper level of the study. The abbot presented kelp and there were seasonal greetings {{marginal note: seasonal remarks}}, the abbot withdrew, the front pages removed the kelp, and he removed his hakama. At this time persimmons were presented as an offering, announced by the chamberlain, and in sequence there was a request for permission to remove formal jackets

Everyone wore plain clothes for the meal. After finishing, he entered the garden and mountain area with a temple monk as guide, entering leisurely, then re-entering the study to partake of confections and fine sake. The retinue assembly was ordered, the abbot saw him off to the rest area with seasonal greetings {{marginal note: today leisurely}}, and he returned to the residence. Throughout the journey he wore hakama front and back ○Shin'emon was excused from overnight duty as advance guard and returned home directly from Tenryuji

1. 25th day of 9th month - Since Teisho-in-sama had a headache, Komiyama Shuzo of the close attendant guard was sent to inquire about her condition
　　　Assorted fish　one tray　{{marginal note: sea bream 1, small sea bream 2, sweet sea bream 3, small fish 15, flatfish 1, small octopus 7}}
　The above were presented to his lordship from Kuninosuke-sama, issued from the great interior. However, these should have been presented on the 23rd, but since the fish could not be prepared in time, they were presented today

[Above section]
　　　{{marginal note: small sea bream 2, small fish 3}} to Takano Sozaemon
　　　{{marginal note: sweet sea bream 3, small fish 2}} to Hanaki Sakae
　　　{{marginal note: flatfish 1, small fish 10, small octopus 7}} {{marginal note: Kojima Chisaku, Tamamura Keisai, Ohashi Sakei}}
　The above were privately bestowed according to his wishes
　The chief aide sent them with an accompanying letter

[Following two lines below]
26th day
1. Three Chinese brushes - presented as gifts arrived　　Takano Sozaemon

1. 27th day of 9th month - In the main chamber the following appointments were made:
　　　Appointed to apprentice senior councilor position, seat next to Okabe Sazen　　　　Kochi Ogino Sakon
　　　Since he serves monthly duty, fifty bags of rice are bestowed annually　　　　　　Same person

1. After 4 o'clock spear practice was performed, bringing along Ichizaemon's son Fusataro, conducting one complete entry and one complete execution for viewing. When practice concluded, the following were bestowed before his presence: