In the wrapping　fan　1　　　　　　　　　　　Nakamura Fusataro　10 years old
　　　　　　　　　　toothpicks　3
　　　　　　　　　　sweat cloth　1
　　　　　　　　　　　　　{{marginal note: ○However, according to Ichizaemon house custom, sons appear once before their formal audience to receive gifts
　This matter, 3rd year of Koka, 6th month, 20th day
　Heard from Ido Jihei about Happyakuri}}
　The above were delivered through the mediation of the chief aide. However, since Fusataro appeared for the first time today, he wore formal hemp dress, and when ordered to perform duties, he removed his formal jacket. The matter of bringing along this Fusataro was communicated from the chamberlain to Ichizaemon the previous day

1. At 8 o'clock with retinue assembled, he made rounds of the castle town and took a short rest at Kitayamatani village Sagoemon's {{marginal note: [in red ink: inner guard arrangements] 100 mon bestowed
　　　　　　　　　　　　　private disbursement}} place
　He removed his hakama and passed through the mountain path in plain robes to enter Kanaya mountain pavilion {{marginal note: [in red ink: same as above] 100 mon bestowed
　　　　　　　　　private disbursement}}
　At the mountain pavilion he put on hakama and returned to the residence　Steamed confections　1 box　献上 from Kanaya

[In red ink]
27th day
1. Buckwheat flour 1 box　Saikawa Gozaemon
　The above was procured from Uchinami village in Ono domain
　and presented to Kohei's place
　privately献上
1. 28th day　Yoshie falcon hunting
　　Sake 3 sho
　　In white barrel　presented　announced by chamberlain　kitchen　Ushiya-machi　Oriemon
1. 28th day　Regarding Kuninosuke-sama's precedence, the following understanding was communicated from the chamberlain
　　　Princess Kiku　Kuninosuke-sama　Kengoro-sama
1. Confections　rice crackers
　The above were presented by courtesy from the princess [up to here in red ink]

1. 29th day of 9th month
　　　Arrived last night　　Chinese ink 1 box with 10 sticks　presented on 5th day of 10th month　Ito Yunoshin
　This morning he appeared to inquire about health, not necessarily granted a formal audience　However, he appeared in hakama and haori

1. 2nd day of 10th month　Due to Yunoshin's arrival, henceforth he and Sozaemon will appear on alternate shifts, and when either is indisposed, Sakae will assist both sides as ordered. During poetry reading and composition sessions, Sakae will be summoned. However, the same arrangement was ordered for Kengoro-sama's side as well

1. This morning during the entrance, since there was a presentation of the gift list for Kengoro-sama's birthday celebration, formal dress was worn. However, the celebration viewing for Kengoro-sama was held on the 28th of last month as previously arranged, but since his lordship was absent from the residence on the 28th, it was postponed to today and received

1. 3rd day of 10th month　Sokukui-suji falcon hunting
　　Sake 3 sho　Chiyotomo　　presented
　　Silver 7 monme　Since first time, private disbursement was bestowed　　　　　Kitchen　Saburomaru village　Masuemon
　　Sake 3 sho　　　　　　presented
　　Silver 7 monme　Since first time, private disbursement was bestowed　　Short rest on return to residence　Kyoden village　Kanzaemon

1. Assembly at 7:30 for the Boar Day celebration, seated in the Tartar room, ceremonial offerings, rice cakes, meal
　Service attendants appeared with full arrangement, chamberlains (3), chief aide, spoon physician, acupuncture physician received rice cakes directly. Afterward, rice cakes were distributed left and right by front pages, with the duty close attendant serving as intermediary. Front pages likewise, then page heads and pages received them personally. When concluded, front pages removed the rice cakes, then rice cakes were brought to the front, meal attendants appeared, and one inspector and one side commander received them directly. When concluded, the ceremonial offerings and rice cakes were removed by meal attendants {{marginal note: swords removed}} All wore formal hemp dress. Those who received directly removed their swords

1. With the front area closed off, there was a ceremony in the great interior, and Kengoro-sama also entered and participated in the celebration