1. 16th day of 10th month: Due to the first snow, the following was sent to Lady Teisho-in:
　　　Sea bream, thin noodles
　　　　　Water dropwort
　The above was ordered to be taken as Sodeno-kata went out to the fountain garden estate today.

1. 17th day of 10th month:
　　　Appointed for next year's Edo attendance duty　　　　　　　　　Confucian scholar: Takano Sozaemon

1. 19th day: Falconry at Teramae district
　　　Chinese yam　　Enclosure was ordered
　　　Abalone　2　　Given to attendants Shinemon and Kiroku
　The above献上 was announced by the chamberlain　　　　　　　Kitchen: Shioden Matahachi

1. 20th day of 10th month: From tonight, the three daily meals will be taken in seclusion
　 　Firearms　matchlock guns　2　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hasegawa Takeemon
　The above were献上 as his製作

1. 22nd day of 10th month: From tonight, retiring in seclusion was ordered

22nd day:
1. Fish money 100 hiki: As Middle Court Lady Sato begins duty today, this was presented from the Great Interior

Great Interior retirement in 10th month:
　22nd day　23rd day　24th day　27th day　28th day

1. 23rd day of 10th month: The following were appointed for next year's Edo duty, announced by the inner guard:
　　　Tea ceremony: Magara Zensaku; Inner: Hashimoto Bansai, Niwase Gensen
　　　　　　　　　　Yamaguchi Saneki; Morio Kihaku, Mori Kyuzo
　　　　　　　　　　Oshima Eiritsu; Makita Rineki, Hayami Kyui
　　　Night watch: Kimura Kosen; Hayami Bunsetsu, Fujii Kyusai
　　　　　　　　　　Koizumi Yoshiharu; Timekeeper: Mitsuhashi Koden
　　　Inner storehouse deputy: Katsu Yasaemon; Ishikawa Genkyū
　　　Due to circumstances, relieved of inner monk duties, appointed as outer monk, announced by inner guard: Fujimoto Kyuei

1. 24th day of 10th month: Hereafter when the chief aide performs advance guard duty, even on duty days, overnight stays are excused, as announced by Senior Councilor Amagata Magohachi. However, currently with two in the same position working alternate days, this applies, but if there are three in the same position, this excuse does not apply. However, for distant pilgrimages to four locations, even with three people, the excuse applies.
　　　Inner monk Teisuke was appointed; Outer monk: Wada Yusetsu
　The above was announced from inner guard to tool service

25th day:
1. Ginkgo nuts, one layer: Sent with correspondence to Princess

26th day:
1. Kuwayama pills, 10 packets of 50 pills each: Kuwayama Matakichi's hereditary medicine was presented and given to Sodeno-kata

28th day:
1. Small ducks from falconry, one each to Ito Yunoshin and Takano Sozaemon: These were given by his thoughtfulness with letters attached

Same day: A courier arrived reporting that on the 16th, a princess died at Kajibashi. As she was a niece of his lordship and Kengoro-sama, there should have been three days of mourning, but as the days had passed, one day of restraint was observed today. Accordingly, senior councilors and chamberlains made courtesy inquiries, and senior retainers and officials of outer rank and above are scheduled for tomorrow.

Same day: One layer of sweets was sent from the Princess

1. 29th day: Regarding kitchen matters that were ordered, recorded at the beginning

1. Last day of 10th month: As Kuninosuke-sama has been slightly unwell due to fetal poisoning recently, prayers were ordered at Shinmei Shrine, handled by the ceremonial chamberlain

　　　　　Speech

1. Previously it was ordered that cotton clothing be used even within the Edo estate, but furthermore
　All those serving in residential quarters should strictly use cotton clothing