Appointed as Head of the Book Chamber Guard, serving continuously until the year of the Dragon　Chamberlain Shibuya Gonzaemon
Serving continuously until the year of the Dragon　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okabe Sazen's group

1. Three brushes presented by Princess Tsutsushimi-sama
   Tea from Tsūsen-yama, one box, presented by senior ladies Tagawa, Okano, and Jusen

1. 20th day of 11th month:
   Buckwheat noodles presented for this occasion by Great Interior lady-in-waiting Okano and others
   Hagi-mochi (sweet rice cakes), five each to all Great Interior Hiroshiki staff
The above was distributed down to the lowest ranks for this occasion, with 149 people in charge of meal service

21st day: Seven citrus fruits - these were produced at the Osaka storehouse, brought by Kawano Hasuke on his visit to Fukui and presented to the senior councilor for viewing
22nd day: Fresh sea bream, one box, presented by Kawamura Bunpei and consumed

1. 24th day of 11th month:
   Mandarin oranges, one basket, to the senior councilors
The above was from offerings by Tenryū-ji temple, distributed by the chamberlain
   White-sheathed sword by Ima Yoshihiro - Aoki Kichiemon
The above was presented as a family heirloom, shown to the senior councilor and stored in the sword department
   Departing tomorrow - Intelligence trainee Yamada Tōbei
The above was granted audience in the audience chamber

Courier dispatch:
1. White sugar candy, red and white, one box; three citrus fruits presented to Princess-sama with accompanying letter
1. Direct letter; snow seaweed, one box presented to Koto-hime-sama  
1. Citrus fruits and mandarin oranges presented to Young Lord-sama for comfort

1. 25th day of 11th month: Due to cold season, received messengers from various ladies in the small sitting room, with Amemori Denzaemon and Tsuda Shirōzaemon serving, wearing only hakama for this occasion

   Two flatfish
   Five squid
   Seaweed bundles, sea vegetables in lacquered container
   Water dropwort, citron
The above was specially presented for Lady Teishō-in's move today, sent from the Great Interior

1. Mandarin oranges, one basket, presented by Kezō-ji temple
   6th day of 12th month: distributed to chamberlain
1. Buckwheat flour, two bags from Fukuen-ji temple in Honjō village
   The above was presented due to connections with Shinemon's family
1. One hundred small steamed buns in steamer, presented for cold season by Zuizen-in
   The above was distributed to the personal attendants

1. 27th day of 11th month:
   Mandarin oranges, two baskets (for tutor, senior councilor, personal attendants on duty)
The above, along with fermented beans, was presented by Unshō-ji and Zuigen-ji temples and distributed by his lordship's gracious will

1. 28th day of 11th month: At 5:30, the tea ceremony for opening the new tea (kuchikiri) was held. His lordship was seated in the audience chamber, with senior councilors and monthly chamberlains attending at the front. The tea master performed the kuchikiri ceremony, carrying out tea on lacquered stands, placing tea from ■■ onto the stands and presenting it before his lordship. After viewing the catalog, it was immediately withdrawn. Upon completion, immediately for hawking and horses...