due to poor conditions, he entered from the veranda of the sitting room. For this reason, the chamberlain led the way to the veranda and back, and for garden worship, as before, the close attendants led, followed by the chief attendants, with ceremonial spears naturally displayed. Accompanied by chamberlains, he entered on foot. His formal attire was a noshi-me ceremonial outfit.

Chinese satin fabric: 2 ryo, 1 bu, 3 shu
Lining: 2 ryo, 1 monme     Total: 4 ryo, 1 bu, 2 shu, 4 monme, 7 bu, 5 rin

The above was because Teisho-in-sama was fond of Chinese satin short coats, as reported by Tsuda Shirozaemon. This was heard and presented as a year-end gift in monetary equivalent.

1. At evening, as customary each year, for year-end felicitations, the junior chief attendants, page captain Maenami Tanosuke, physicians, page captains, pages, and close attendants all came forward and made their presentations in the small sitting room. From 7 PM until night duty, they wore hemp formal dress.

Addendum
1. 12th month, 19th day: Messenger departs. The following were presented and bestowed:
To Princess-sama: Cod roe, 10 bags, boxed
                  Same, 5 bags each to 4 people beginning with senior lady Kurahashi
                  Same, 3 bags each to 6 people from middle-ranking ladies to front attendants
                  Same, 2 bags each to Tagawa, Okano, Jusen, Fujita, Tamura

[Lower section] The portions for Kurahashi and others were packed in one box and sent around to Tagawa's quarters, with arrangements made for respective distributions. This was reported from Sodeno-kata.
Total: 58 bags

Tenpo 2, Year of the Metal Rabbit                    Middle Elder: Amagata Magohachi
Tenryo-in-sama in residence                          Chief Attendant: Atsumi Shinemon
                                                                      Kumagai Kohei

[Red ink]
Note: Inner palace sleeping during first month
1st day, 2nd day, 3rd day, 4th day, 5th day, 6th day, 9th day, 10th day, 11th day, 12th day, 20th day, 21st day, 24th day, 27th day

1. New Year's Day: His lordship was in increasingly good spirits, awakening at 6 AM with no physician's examination. When moving to the small sitting room, the year-man presented fresh water as customary, the meal attendants announced it, and folding fans were bestowed. The meal attendants handled the proceedings and offered thanks. ○Regarding assembly times during ceremonies and duty rotations.

[Red ink]
1. Though today is the first day of the month, because it is New Year's Day, all matters were moved up to the previous day, and since there was no abstinence required, the inner palace retired tonight.

1. Assembly at 6:30, in the sitting room receiving messengers from various lords, completing the triple toast celebration with senior councilors and tutors.

[Red ink] 1. Kohei goes to the administrative office - Shume's quarters

Receiving thanks from middle elders and other formal ceremonies, completing those of long hakama rank and above, taking a short rest, completing up to meal attendants, short rest, partaking of hot water. ○After completing all up to library guards, at exactly 7 PM ○changing from formal lighting to plain clothes.

1. Kengoro-sama entered and offered New Year's greetings, with a meeting in the small sitting room. Pages presented long abalone, then immediately accompanied him into the inner palace where ceremonies were held. 《However, this was after the library guards' ceremony was completed, when an announcement was made and he entered》

1. 2nd day of 1st month: After changing clothes was completed and he entered the small sitting room, there was the first combing ceremony celebration with the year-man's audience, announced by the meal attendants.

[Red ink] 1. Shinemon goes to the administrative office - Sakon's quarters

1. In the sitting room, the first hawk perching ceremony was performed, then immediately in the gun room, the chief bird keepers and chief falconers...