1. 15th day of 2nd month: The following appointments were made [Matters announced today, appearing at the end]
　Remaining in same position, succeeding construction magistrate Hatano Gorozaemon: Attached chief side attendant Tsuda Yataroku
　Young lord's chief side attendant trainee: Kengoro's chief side attendant Nakane Shinroku
　Succeeding Kengoro's chief side attendant Nakane Shinroku: End number supernumerary Sasaki Kozaemon
　Young lord's attached page for autumn Edo duty: Great guard Kaifuku Rikitaro
　Young lord's attached close attendant: Kengoro's attached close attendant Ikoma Tojiro
　Same: Great guard Hasebe Aikichi
　Succeeding Kengoro's attached close attendant Ikoma Tojiro: Same position Matsuda Yatadayu

1. 16th day of 2nd month: This morning Kumagai Koheiji was summoned and went from night duty to the council hall, where Shinemon's duty allowance withdrawal loan was approved <<Shinemon and others submitted loan applications through Koheiji, and Koheiji submitted the same application through Shinemon>>

1. 17th day: Previously Nakamura Ichiemon had consulted regarding the license transmission matter, and though training and notification have not yet been completed, there are thoughts on the matter, but since there are matters to be reported, the private instruction was that it should be received before the current departure, and today at the training session Koheiji informed Ichiemon

1. 19th day of 2nd month: The following appointments were made
　<<By internal request, relieved of duty, senior assembly member hereditary seat, excused from wind patrol duty, however the previous salary supplement will not be given hereafter>> Middle councilor Amagata Magohachi
　<<Appointed side chamberlain, seat next to Sasaji Gonemon, this spring's escort duty inspection handling same as middle councilor>> Calligraphy guard captain Omiya Toba

　Succeeding calligraphy guard captain Omiya Toba, seat promotion next to Sano Kotaro: Calligraphy guard captain rank chamberlain Amemori Denzaemon
　<<This time due to exceptional strict laws and frugality investigations, various responsibilities are appointed and should be thoroughly discussed>> Announced at administrative chambers: Atsumi Shinemon, Kumagai Koheiji

20th day: Courier arrived
1. One box of confections from Princess

21st day
1. Fifty pieces of young seaweed: Presented to Lady Teisho-in to be put in the garden pond

1. 23rd day of 2nd month: Courier departed
　Young seaweed: One hundred pieces, one box　　　　　　　　　　Tentoku-ji Temple
　The above was handled by the great interior, given annually

1. Tomorrow 24th day: Lady Junan-in's 100th day memorial, tea ceremony at Unsho-ji Temple, the following was given:
　Hagi rice cakes　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Great interior duty rotation
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Lady Teisho-in's attendants

25th day
　Appointed to accounting office duty: Inner storage deputy Katsu Yasaemon
　Appointed to succeed inner storage assistant Yasaemon: Inner monk Hashimoto Mansai
　　Changed name to Mankichi

26th day
1. Nine-go grilled duck incense container, one: Tamamura Keisai
　The above was presented and used for tonight's banquet

1. 27th day of 2nd month: The following appointments were made
　Chamberlain and presenter: Side role chamberlain trainee Sakai Junosuke
　Side role chamberlain trainee: Assembly member Nakane Eitaro

27th day
1. Assorted delicacies, one folding container in lacquered case: two small sea bream, two John Dory, three sweet sea bream, one abalone, ten whiting: Given to Omiya Toba
　The above was presented by His Lordship of the same place as Lady Teisho-in went out today, and today kemari ball game was played at the second compound horse ground, the horse viewing area was cordoned off, Kengoro also entered and all three lords watched together. When the kemari was finished, Lady Teisho-in returned directly from the second compound.
　　　　Steamed buns from Lady Teisho-in: Given to all who attended the kemari

1. Tiered food container <<1. Confections 2. Simmered dishes>>
1. Small tiered container with pickled vegetables
　The above was presented to Lady Teisho-in and was used for refreshments at the horse viewing area

1. Food money, 100 gold pieces: Presented as per annual custom　Kuwayama Kishige

1. The crane received earlier, kitchen work ordered to Takeshima Senemon, all according to last winter's custom, formal hakama worn