There was a change of dress, but it was black habutae silk with family crests and formal court dress without hakama, with the guard attendants leading. At 8:30, they moved to the main sitting room. However, before moving, in the west entrance area, the Kanazu magistrate, town magistrate, financial administrator Kaifuku Saemon, magistrates, deputy administrators, intimate retired officials Kuwayama Kijū, Komiyama Tsuneharu, and Hasebe Koemon were seated in rows, and from inspectors to side military heads, deputy administrators, and district magistrates, lined up continuously from the east rear entrance next room in front of the alcove, and when they entered where these officials were waiting and took their seats, there were seasonal greetings and conversations. Meanwhile, soup was served, sake bottles were brought out, and after going around once, words (leisurely) were given and withdrawal occurred. Three sets of sake cups and two types of delicacies were served, sake was received, the chief side attendant appeared and recommended sake, and chamberlains gave greetings. As usual, guard attendants served. When withdrawing from his lordship's presence, inner Buddhist priests served. After a while, entry occurred again with leisurely conversation. Entry to the second room entrance occurred, sake was recommended, words (please partake well) were given, and withdrawal occurred again. Everyone received cups and when finished, tea was brought out, exchanged with soup trays and completed, and at the appropriate time with tea bowls, when all chamberlains had withdrawn completely, the chief side attendant reported and entry occurred. Upon taking seats, everyone expressed gratitude and departed from the lower seats. However, since this year was a time of special economy, evening meals were not provided. It was completed at evening time.

1. 15th day of 3rd month: After ceremonies, there was a ceremony for concluding practice sessions.

　　Items given in packages:　　　　　　　　　　Maeda Undō
　In the Peacock Room's second chamber, with the alcove as the head seat, when all were seated and assembled, this was reported by the chamberlain　Ichihashi Gunbei
　Entering in formal court dress, taking seats, and being ordered to conclude, expressing gratitude　　　Iijima Shirōemon
　This was reported by the chamberlain, and words (great effort since last year) were given. Gifts were brought out by inner　　　Idebuchi Heibei

　attendants and presented, with those of outer rank and above being personally given, and the　　　Ihara Genbei
　remainder being distributed to each by inner attendants, and when all had been distributed, the　　　Takano Sōzaemon
　chamberlain expressed gratitude for the bestowed items and withdrawal to the small sitting room occurred.　　　Nakamura Ichiemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hasegawa Takeemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Takahata Kinzaburō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Rear attendants' sons

[At the top] For this spring, there were some differences in the gifts given, which should be reviewed.

　When lined up in the practice hall and preparations were ready, the chamberlain reported and entry occurred　Chief Bird Observer Kuze Hachizaemon
　From the usual seating position, one tatami to the west, facing south　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Falconer Kishi Gorōzaemon
　Here sake was given and gratitude was expressed by the chamberlain, with words　　　　　　　　　　　All falconers
　Same as above, gifts and ceremonies all the same as above
　The sequence was all the same as above, but the seating tatami was the usual place　　　　　　　　　　　Horse officials
When this was completed, sake and soup were given in the long brazier room.
　　[Marginal note: Fans - one pair
Sake cups - one]　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kishi Ribei