The above was presented as a farewell gift.
　　Sake, soup, delicacies, grilled fish dishes
　　Dried sweets
The above was presented upon Lady Teishōin's visit. Although she has firmly declined sake and soup offerings in the past, these were specially presented as entertainment in her honor by his lordship's consideration.
　　Classic of Filial Piety　　one scroll
　　Initial offering　200 hiki in gold
The above was privately dedicated to Hitomaru Shrine at Mount Asuwa, handled by the chamberlain for personal attendants.
　　Folding fans　two
　　Sake cup　　one　　　　　　　　　　　　　to Komiyama Shūzō
The above was given for lending his copy of the Comprehensive Mirror.
[The following five lines have red ink notes at the bottom]
1. Fine clouded paper　100 sheets　　Makita Settsu no Kami
　The above was presented for private viewing, as there is a family connection with Shin'emon and he requested to make a private dedication.
1. Bamboo shoots　two　　from Koma Tadashizu
　The above was privately presented for viewing.
1. 17th day, 3rd month, at 5:30, the retinue assembled for worship at all shrines via the rear route (ritual purification examination from the previous night) ○ Only those involved with spring garments and formal wear. After returning to the palace, still in formal dress, worship was performed at the ceremonial rope area, garden, shrine grounds, audience hall, shrine embankment, Buddhist hall, etc. The procession was led as usual by the chief side attendant in plain clothes, with only the personal attendant guards leading at the Buddhist hall.
　　100 hiki in gold each　　　　　　　　　　　　(Four head inspectors of the kitchen, six main ceremonial cooks)
　　2 shu in silver each　　　　　　　　　　　　Two kitchen deputies
The above was given from private funds for their diligent efforts and hard work in economizing the dining arrangements last year.
1. 18th day, 3rd month, at 5:30, the retinue assembled for worship at all temples via the rear route, beginning with Senshōin.
1. In the audience chamber, beginning with Honda Kuranosuke's group, including senior councilors, their retired predecessors, their sons, tutors, chamberlains (young talents for next year), retired chamberlains, favored retirees, both personal attendants, and chief side attendants, all paid respects regarding tomorrow's departure. All received words ○ of safe travels and meeting again next year. However, for retired chamberlain Arakawa Koshige, there was no chamberlain mediation, while for the others there was chamberlain mediation. Formal robes, court dress, and hakama were worn.
1. 19th day, 3rd month, awakening at 6:00, preparations completed by 5:05, departure at 5:30 in excellent spirits. Horse was taken to Shimo-Arai.
1. On the 18th, Lord Kengorō visited, and as usual there was a meeting in the small sitting room, after which he visited again for conversation, and sweets and tea were served.
1. The same evening, Takano Sōzaemon was summoned for a brief conversation and was given sweets.
　　Sweets　one box (dried sweets, fresh sweets)　privately presented through Kohei　　from Kyoto, Sugiyama Ryōzō
　　(Sweets　one box, earthenware teapot　one)　　given by special consideration　　　to Kumagai Kohei