1. On the 25th day of the 5th month, a messenger was dispatched
　　　　100 gold pieces　　handled by the Great Interior
This was sent as a formal reply to the gift money for fish sent by Princess-sama to celebrate the lord's return home via the previous messenger.

1. On the 28th day of the 5th month
　　　　Fish gift money　100 gold pieces each　　reported by the chamberlains　Makino Mokuya
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kuwayama Kieshige
This was privately献上 献上 as is customary each year.

From □□□-sama
1. One ceremonial fish platter: one sea bream　　　　To be presented to Kengorō-sama
　From the Great Interior　three small sea bream, two sweet sea bream
　　　　　　　　　　　　two mullet, one octopus　　To be shared between both groups

From the same lord
1. Fine noodles　　presented as a gift, provided by the Great Interior

1. At 8 o'clock with the retinue assembled, Lady Teishōin entered the Great Interior's main hall, where the lord and Kengorō-sama also entered for a meeting. Then they entered the front small parlor in private session and partook of sweets. After 7 o'clock when she departed, formal court dress was worn; when seeing her off wearing court dress, only hakama were worn; upon departure, one set of stacked food boxes was presented. At the mansion, only sweets and tea were served. Of course, Kengorō-sama served as host.

Presented to Lady Teishōin
1. One ceremonial fish platter: two sea bream, two small sea bream, three sweet sea bream, three mullet, three small fish. This morning it was sent via the meal attendant to Tsuda Shirōzaemon's residence.

As a courtesy gift to the same lord
1. Stacked trays: two sweat cloths, four tobacco pouches, four sleeve protectors, four square toothpick holders, three letter openers

1. On the 29th day of the 5th month
　　　　Restoration to the position of court physician was ordered　　Court physician　　Nakarai Chūan

1. On the 2nd day of the 6th month
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Regarding Shichinosuke　　　　Ariga Kosaburō
A private notification was given to change his name as above. Of course, this is not a bestowed honor but handled by the administrators.
　　Edo service assignment upon completion of preparations [departed on the 16th]　Administrator　Akita Un'nosuke
This was ordered because Sano Kotarō fell ill in Edo.

1. Fish gift money 100 gold pieces　privately presented upon receiving approval　Uesaka Tōsuke

1. On the 3rd day of the 6th month, during a tour of the castle town, he stopped at the Sakurababa Academy for an inspection, where four academy heads were present:
　Atsumi Shintarō, Nakane Futai, Takada Yaichirō, Takano Yūkichi

1. Today, bamboo shoots were gathered from the bamboo grove at Sakurababa and presented to Lady Teishōin and Kengorō-sama.

5th day
1. Seven eggplants, three cucumbers, fifty green bean pods　presented as gifts from Kengorō-sama, said to be prepared in the Enshū tea ceremony style

1. On the 6th day of the 6th month
　Edo service assignment upon completion of preparations [departed on the 20th]　Personal attendant and inner storehouse keeper　Takada Chōjūrō

1. On the 8th day of the 6th month, after 8 o'clock, he toured and inspected various offices, duty stations, and department rooms. Leading the way was administrator and deputy inspector, side military head Sugiura Yūzō, who provided guidance. From the meal attendant's various locations to the inner platform, storehouse, small implements office, administrative office, inner secretariat, front secretariat room, administrators' upper room, senior councilors' room, then ascending to the second floor, small implements lower office, storehouse officials' room, entering the corridor, administrators' lower room, physicians' room, Confucian scholars' room, pages' room, chief attendants' room, head pages' room, personal attendants' room, kitchen facilities entirely, front pages' room, middle gate side second floor foot soldiers' officers' station, front storehouse office, sword department office, middle gate front passage, foot soldier inspectors' room, inspectors' room, front platform, corridor passage, entering the front entrance hall, foot soldiers' guard station, great hall, guards' rest area, senior guards' station, messenger guards' station. However, there was a greeting to Shin'goemon of the Great Interior, castle administrator's room, officials' duty station, then to the designated location.