Though it would be acceptable to dine [in the Great Interior], by his lordship's will tonight, meals were taken in the formal quarters.

The Great Interior prayers extended into the night, so the prayer location was set up in the formal area where prayers were conducted.

On the 18th day of the 9th month, when making pilgrimage to Awaga, there was wind and rain with considerable flooding, and water on the return route to the castle caused hindrance, so an emergency rest was taken at Niuemon's place in Yasuhara village. Meanwhile, arrangements were made to send around boats at Inazu crossing, and boats were also sent around to the route from the boat master's office, allowing safe return to the castle at 6 o'clock in the evening (retinue assembly at 5 o'clock, castle departure at 5:30).

On the 19th day of the 9th month, polo was played and all officials were granted viewing permission. When performed before his lordship, viewing was from the lower rolled-up area of the horse viewing stand, and for subsequent polo, viewing was from above the horse viewing stand, receiving gracious words (about the season). However, while sweets were bestowed in previous years, they were not bestowed this year. The day before, from the senior attendant one letter each was sent to town magistrate Kaifuku Saemon, joint magistrates, formal ceremony chief retainers, deputy office chief clerks and county magistrates, inspectors, personal military commanders, one checkpoint inspector, and escort commanders. After the matter was completed, all paid respects at the secretaries' office.

On the 20th day of the 9th month, Shin'emon's son Shintaro's hot spring bathing request was granted this morning as requested, and orders were given to report to the inspectors before and after. However, regarding reports to inspectors, those of fixed seat rank and above could complete this by letter, while those below required submitting written certificates.

One bamboo charcoal basket - presented by flower master Saibei, bestowed upon the tea service, ordered to be used occasionally during tea ceremonies.

On the 22nd day of the 9th month, pine mushrooms were successively sent from the lord's mountain, so they were handled as bestowals according to annual custom, with details recorded by the meal supervisors.

　　　　Senior councilors　　　　Senior personal attendants　　　Chief retainers
　　　　Senior attendant chiefs　Formal ceremony chief retainers　Escort commanders
　　　　Physicians　　　　　　　Same, retired　　　　　　　　　Pages
　　　　Personal guards　　　　　Tea masters　　　　　　　　　Great Interior
　　　　Koma Tadashizu's group　Those presenting mukago, etc.　Great Interior dried goods service

These were handled by meal supervisors, however officials and Confucian scholars received no bestowals.
　　　　Young lord's attendants　　Kengorō-sama's attendants
These were calculated and bestowed by the senior attendant chief.

On the 23rd day of the 9th month:
　　　　Falconry assignment - appointed at the secretaries' office　　　Senior page chief Takamura Tōbei

On the 24th day of the 9th month, as Lady Teishōin went mushroom hunting at Tōgō lord's mountain, the following were presented:
　　　　Layered box contents: 1. Inkstone cover dish, 2. Miso pickles, 3. Clear soup with fish
These were arranged by the meal supervisors and sent to the destination.

One hawk-caught duck - presented to Kengorō-sama

25th day:
Same as above - presented to Lady Teishōin

26th day, evening arrival: Attached page Kaifuku Rikitaro
　　　　　　　　　　　　Same, personal guard Ikoma Tōjirō
　　　　　　　　　　　　Same　　　　　　　　Hasebe Aikichi

On the 27th day of the 9th month: Daichōin
Pilgrimage took place.

On the 27th day, Daichōin pilgrimage, everything as two years ago (announced by chief retainer when meal replacement was completed). One box of sweets presented to Daichōin.

On the 29th day of the 9th month, Shin'emon's daughter's request to become adopted daughter of the Okabe Sazen family was granted, and Shin'emon went to express gratitude to the secretaries' office and duty office...