Murata Jūtarō　　【Attendant】Court physician　Hosoi Senpaku
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sanada Gensaemon　　　　　　　　　　Iwasa Genkei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsuo Jiemon　　　　　　　　　　　Yoshida Sen'an
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kondō Naojirō　　　　　　　See-off　Tsumaki Keisai
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kuwayama Jūzō　　　【Attendant】Confucian physician　Hanaki Ei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Morita Yasubei　　【Attendant】Inspector　Nishio Goemon

Concerning the above, the senior personal retainer, chief retainer, senior attendant chief, court physician, and personal attendants offered formal thanks before his lordship. The pages had no formal thanks. Of course, aside from thanks before his lordship, there were no other formal courtesies.

One item: As Shin'emon was unwell, the above was conveyed to Kobei and communicated by letter. However, there were no formal thanks upon attendance.

9th day, courier arrived
One item: Regarding Young Lord's official record and diary, Kōzuki Kyūemon reported by letter that due to back pain he could not bring it, and it was presented for viewing by Shin'emon.

One item: On the 11th day of the 11th month, as customary each year, all attendant staff along with palace court physicians and others, both administrative office assistants and interior priests, were granted the honor of receiving old garments. After the interior staff arrangements were completed and reported, he entered the practice hall for inspection.
　　　Striped crepe lined garment　One　　　　　　To court lady Sato

The above was specially bestowed by his gracious will, passed from the senior attendant chief to the senior lady-in-waiting. The items bestowed each year are matters of his will at the time.

One item: Goose from falconry　One
The above was presented to Kengorō-sama during the audience.

One item: 13th day　At Sokukui area falconry outing　Small heron one bird　Inoue Heitarō
Immediately granted the honor of receiving it.

14th day, courier departed
One item: True goose from falconry　One bird　Presented to Princess
For feeding the above, Nakamura Rokuzō and Kishi Zentarō appeared and were assigned the task.
One item: Sake two shō　Bestowed upon the two above, handled privately by the head kitchen manager.
One item: 14th day, Lady Jūnan'in's third memorial service corresponding day, only proxy worship performed.
　　Rolled rice crackers　One basket
The above was presented by Lady Teishōin for the memorial.

One item: On the 15th day of the 11th month at 5:30, assembled for monthly formal thanks received by all, moved again to the main audience chamber, tea ceremony mouth-opening ceremony held as customary each year.

One item: On the 16th day of the 11th month, entered Teramae area for falconry.
　　　Sake　Three shō　　　　　　　　　　　　To (Kishi Ribei, Nomura Katsugorō)
The above was bestowed by his gracious will because of frequent goose hunting, handled by the meal service staff.

19th day, courier arrived
One item: Confections and tea, one box in layered containers　Presented by Princess.

One item: On the 20th day of the 11th month at 4 o'clock, Hasegawa Buemon offered formal instruction in the catalog of beginner's collection techniques, therefore in formal silk court dress in the audience chamber, Buemon and his son appeared in the middle of the second chamber, brought out the catalog on a stand, and received his gracious words (both names). The catalog presented to the senior attendant chief was received and offered up. When Buemon was summoned to appear at his side, there were gracious words (about the school's catalog), it was unsealed for viewing and completed, he returned to his seat, presented the family tradition writings and offered grateful thanks, the chief retainer mediated with gracious words (congratulatory), there was further mediation and he withdrew, entered the small sitting room and the above...