The following were offered and bestowed:
　200 hiki in gold　　　　for first fruits offering
　200 hiki in gold　　　　to Kasuya Seijirō
　27 momme 5 bu in silver　　various expenses
　2 momme in silver　　　　to Mandai Okuemon
All of the above were disbursed privately and delivered to Seijirō through the rear officials.

One item: 4th day of 2nd month - The above proxy worship was performed by the head retainer as per precedent. However, upon notice from Seijirō, Shin'emon performed the duty wearing formal upper and lower garments. One box of prayer amulets presented by Seijirō was sent around to the Great Interior and dispatched with the courier departing on the evening of the 6th.
　　Long-tailed duck　one bird　　Katō Dosanburō
The above was shot this morning at Kamo mountain, so acceptance of the offering was ordered. This offering will continue hereafter.

[In red ink] One item: Tomorrow being the first horse day, festival rites begin today. After nine o'clock worship was performed, entering from the formal sitting room. Within the chambers, officials led the way, and from the garden passageway entrance, Shin'emon led the way [up to here in red ink]

One item: 6th day of 2nd month
[In red ink] One item: Three ceramic sake cups - presented in the evening to Lady Teishōin's residence for her use [up to here]
　　One mallard caught by hawk yesterday during falconry　　to Residence Official Tanaka Sōzaemon-dono
The above was sent by his lordship's thoughtful consideration with tonight's courier. However, the head retainer sent a letter to Edo residence-attached official Iida Sakuzaemon explaining this matter, and Sakuzaemon was to deliver it. The duck was [sent] from the meal service quarters.

[Written in red ink below] Reply letters were sent to (Echigo-no-kami-sama, Koto Princess-sama)

[Written in red ink above]
8th day of 2nd month
One item: Large wild geese from Kaga Province, one box, with congratulatory performers
　The above as usual
　privately offered
One item: 500 hiki in gold　to the congratulatory performers
　The above was bestowed as greetings to both parties, since they also made offerings last year during the castle arrival

10th day, courier arrived
One item: Sencha tea, one box - presented jointly by Young Lord-sama and Kin Princess-sama [up to here in red ink]

[The left page is the next frame]