Item: June 25th, inspected masks and headpieces owned by Koma Moku. As on the day before yesterday, Mizushima Tōbei accompanied and appeared. Total of 183 pieces
Item: June 28th, regarding the hot weather inquiry relay station official letter, around the hour of the rooster (6 PM) it arrived at Itatori, with notification given around dawn at 7:30 (5 AM). Past 6 o'clock from Mizuochi post station, around 6:30 from Asamizu post station notifications came, around 5 o'clock notification came of arrival at Ishiba inn. The various quarters were cleared away, there was a report from the administrators, [his lordship] changed into dyed summer robes and formal dress, and there was guidance to the inn. Upon arrival at the main castle, [retainers] came out to greet halfway through the gun room and took their middle seats.
　[His lordship] proceeded first and took his seat in the main hall. The monthly administrator for official letters, Daidōji Magokurō, opened [the letter], Akita Un'nosuke attended the reception, after completion ceremonial gifts were presented, and the senior retainers expressed their joy.
　Ceremonial gifts were bestowed with instructions《Note: Regarding the official letter reading｜to be done》Nagami Tonomo, Ōmiya Tōma and all other administrators without exception expressed joy, the assembled chief attendant Maenami Tanosuke, head page captain Taira, all pages appeared and expressed joy, administrators held meetings and [his lordship] entered the small sitting room. After this was completed, from senior retainers down to all officials were ordered to read the official letter. During this ceremony, in the side entrance to the main hall, swords and chief attendants, pages lined up wearing swords. However, entering from the gun room, when coming from behind, the western side entrance to the main hall, the cedar doors and sliding doors were opened, passing through the side entrance and taking seats behind [his lordship]. Item: At the administrative office, instructions regarding the above were given.

Item: For the above celebration, Lord Keigorō entered and they met face to face
　　《Note: Assistants 2 sets｜Reins 3 strings》　　To Koma Mokurō
　Regarding the private requisition and inspection of the above-owned Noh costumes, the personal administrator handled the arrangements
　However, since Mokurō was absent guarding Edo, [the gifts] were given to his adopted son Kumakatsu
　　Gold 200 hiki　　　Mokurō's retainer　Itō Tarōemon  
　　Same 100 hiki　　　Same　　　　　　Mito-no-kami Tōbei
　　Same same　　　　　Same　　　　　　Tagaya Rokubei
　The above were privately given for handling the private inspection matter
Item: In the evening entered the corner turret of the former seat on Kita-fumei street. Frequently thereafter
Item: June 29th
　　《Note: 2 fans｜1 hand towel》each　　《Note: 14 pages｜3 assistant pages》
　The above were personally bestowed due to hot weather, as in the year before last