Item: August 26th - The third meal was granted (granted by his gracious will due to current inconveniences) - Nagami Tonomori

Item: August 27th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Attached page: Sakakibara Tōgorō
　　Audience in the small sitting room before departure tomorrow - Same, inner guard: Watanabe Chūshirō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same, personal attendant: Kaneko Rokuemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same: Kawai Tarōsuke

Item: August 28th - The relocation to the sitting room and the new rice celebration were completed. In the large hall, all those with perfect attendance among the attendants and guards had an audience. As relocation officials, Hibi Hikonoshin and Hashizashi Nakata were granted audience due to their perfect attendance at the front guard duties at Yakibi-no-ma. However, there were gifts at Teppō-no-ma before the audience.

Item: August 29th - Courier arrived
　　From Princess - Confections in return gift boxes

Item: August 30th
　　Two shō of sake
　　Two blocks of tofu - To eight men who handle arrows
　　One bundle of dried squid

　The above was granted as usual from two years ago for today's final rifle shooting ceremony. However, this year it was requested and ordered to be received at the kitchen.

Item: September 2nd - Fresh sea bream, large and small, two fish (privately presented, handled by meal service, consumed) - Ninagawa Rinzaemon

Item: At seven o'clock the attendants assembled for a tour of the castle town, with a brief rest at the Eastern Hall rest station

Item: September 3rd - Fresh sea bream, two fish, presented and consumed - Kuwayama Kieshige
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Head page
　　　　　　Falconry official - Announced by chamberlain - Inoue Heitarō

Item: September 4th
　　Fifteen pieces of silver, from private funds - Yoshida Shigeemon
　The above was granted for the recent presentation of a quiver. Announced by attendant chamberlain.
　　Ten pieces of silver, from official funds - Retainer of Kii Kuno Ōminokami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Takagi Naosaburō
　The above concerns the special care and concern shown regarding the adoption and marriage arrangements of Yoshida Shigeemon's adopted son Jirōkichi before the hall, for which a gift was ordered to Shigeemon. Announced by attendant chamberlain.

Item: September 5th - Assembled at eight-thirty for polo, the son of the attendant chamberlain and the brother of the chamberlain's son were ordered to observe. Before and after, prostrating on thin mats for observation throughout, with coordination by attendant chamberlains before and after at the horse viewing area above. No confections were granted.

【Written in red ink】
Small notation
Inner palace lodging in September
2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 18th, 21st, 22nd, 
23rd, 24th, 27th