...were bestowed even to the retainers. There is a record kept by the meal attendant.

Item: Since Kohei came on duty as an escort from his off-duty day yesterday, he was granted leave and ordered to withdraw after nine o'clock today. Hereafter as follows.

　　From Princess and Young Lord: Protective amulets - presented due to the lord's unlucky year

Item: In the evening, toured the garden and entered the corner turret. No chamberlain accompanied.

Item: September 21st - Since Shin'emon will come from off-duty tomorrow to escort the falcon hunting at Yoshie, he was granted leave to stay tonight and withdrew after eight o'clock. Hereafter as follows.

Item: September 23rd
　　Local products
　　　　Three agate stones　　　　　From Matsudaira Shuma's side
　The above was reported by the attendant chamberlain and presented privately.

　　To Teishōin-sama: One mallard duck caught by hand
　　To Kaigorō-sama: One mallard duck caught by falcon
　　　　Three mallard ducks - caught and kept at Yoshie yesterday, directly bestowed
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Kuzumaki Tōjirō

　　From Teishōin-sama: Fifteen daikon radishes - consumed
　　　　　　　　Twenty-four eggplants
　The above were presented as souvenirs from yesterday's visit to Koma Takumi's estate.

　　From Kaigorō-sama: Five matsutake mushrooms, seven yuzu citrons
　The above were presented as souvenirs from today's mushroom hunting at Tōgō's御立山.

Item: September 26th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Murakami San'etsu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kōzuki Hachirozaemon
　　Arrived from Edo and granted audience　Arakawa Sōhei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamaguchi Sakunosuke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kaga Tōzaemon

Item: September 27th
　　Sencha tea: One jar, Dōhachi-yaki kyūsu teapot: One, to be presented formally on the 29th, issued from the secretaries' quarters, new imported water pitcher: One - Hattori Saemon
　The above were presented privately upon his recent departure to the capital.

　　　Mallard duck caught by hand: One　　　Kōzuki Kyūemon
　　　Duck caught by falcon: One　　　Kishi Gorozaemon
　The above were bestowed by his lordship's will, sent with accompanying letters.