each was granted accordingly
　　Fish offering money, 100 mon (privately presented upon being ordered to conclude the lecture series)　　Nara Gondayū
　　15 pieces of silver　from private funds　　Asuwa Shrine priest　Makita Settsu-no-kami
　The above was reported internally to the chief attendant, and a donation was made as this was a matter concerning an especially distinguished shrine

1. At 8 o'clock the entourage assembled, and for year-end [greetings the lord] visited the residence of Lady Teishō-in. [He wore] formal dress, fukusa cloth, and kamishimo, returning to the palace in informal dress
　　To Lady Teishō-in　Assorted fish　one box　presented　via the inner palace
　　　[In red ink regarding the above fish] This fish was presented yesterday, and what was presented on the 29th was as follows:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　1 sea bream, 3 small sea bream, 3 sea bream
　　　　　　　　　　　　　2 flounder, 30 shrimp [up to here in red ink]
　　From Her Ladyship of the same residence (1 sea bream, 3 small sea bream, clams, 2 monkfish, 3 sea bream)　one box　presented　received by both chambers

1. Tonight was the year-end celebration with clear soup, sake, triple servings, formal meal, followed by continued celebration. For the same occasion, gifts were bestowed by chambers as per recent custom. There was no bestowal in [the lord's] presence

1. December 29th - Express messenger dispatched
　To Princess　Letter

　To Princess Koto　Reply letter
　　　　　　Wild duck　2 birds
　　　　　　Snow seaweed　1 box　however, due to cold season　all sent via inner palace

　To Lord Arima Genba-no-kami
　　　　　　Wild duck　2 birds
　　　　　　Letter

1. December 30th - Express messenger arrived
　From Lord Matsudaira Ukyō-tayū
　　　　　　Reply letter
　　　　　　Spanish mackerel roe　1 box

1. At 5:30 the entourage assembled and pilgrimage was made to the spirit altar and mausoleum of Lady Itoku-in at Unshō-ji temple

1. Before 9 o'clock, the chief attendants and all attendants offered year-end congratulations

1. After 7 o'clock, worship was performed in the garden at the shrine as well as Sōgen Hall, then at the original seat location's Benzaiten and Inari shrines. However, due to snow, [the lord] took a palanquin from the veranda of the formal chamber. For this, one attendant leader and one sandal bearer came out, and otherwise as usual, one attendant leader and one close attendant stood before the palanquin. Two curtain bearers and the rest, beginning with attendants, proceeded from behind. From where [the lord] alighted, the chief attendant led the way as usual. Of course, none wore hakama tucked up [for travel]