...This Week's Program...
Human Trap
Shochiku Cinema Kamata Super Special Contemporary Film
"Sunday Mainichi" Prize-winning Film Scenario
Yoshiko Okada's First Starring Film Since Joining the Company
◇◇Production Staff◇◇
Original Story...Yasuo Yamaguchi
Screenplay...Tadao Ikeda
Camera...Shinichi Nagai
◇◇Cast◇◇
Kenkichi Akagi...Tatsuo Saito
Wife Mahoko...Yoshiko Okada
Toshiko Asano...Yukiko Tsukuba
Managing Director Fukuda...Sotaro Okada
Fujimura...Shunji Katsu
Tamiko...Shizue Tatsuta
Mixed-blood Jimmy...Shunsaku Kashima
Akagi's Colleague (A)...Jukuji Kobayashi
〃　　　　(B)...Kenichi Miyajima
〃　　　　(C)...Kenji Oyama
Masako's Friend...Mitsuko Yoshikawa
〃　　　　　...Satoko Date
...Outline...
Commentary: This is the first starring film by the famous actress Yoshiko Okada since joining Kamata, known as a renowned actress throughout the theatrical and film world. We can finally witness her masterful acting after a long absence, with star Tatsuo Saito, who was active in "Acacia Tree," playing the male lead. The theme song has been recorded on Polydor Shochiku Records.
[◇－◇－◇－◇]
Synopsis: A mammoth department store with brilliant colors shining in scenes of modern life. Kenkichi Akagi worked as its sales floor supervisor.
One evening at closing time: Kenkichi discovered that employee Toshiko Asano had committed theft and while earnestly admonishing her, she showed a coquettish attitude, which made him furious and he left. Managing Director Fukuda, who was nearby, was attracted to Toshiko's beauty and took advantage of her weakness to defile her.
Kenkichi's household lived happily with his beautiful wife Mahoko, but Mahoko, who had strong desires for luxury, was seduced by the corrupt madam Tamiko and became a company president's secretary despite her husband's objections. As days passed and Mahoko became more modern, she was introduced to Fukuda. Fukuda sharpened his fangs and tried to lure Mahoko out using Tamiko and Fujimura. Kenkichi was displeased that his wife returned home late every night, but being poor, he could not satisfy his wife's vanity and was melancholy. Invited by colleagues to go to a bar, Kenkichi heard about his wife's conduct from Toshiko, who had changed her appearance. When Mahoko was lured out under the pretext of a picnic and fell into Fukuda's scheme, finding herself in danger in a hotel room, she was fortunately rescued by Toshiko and Jimmy who happened to be in the adjacent room. While Kenkichi was idly spending a Sunday without his wife, Toshiko vigorously entered, accompanied by Mahoko who regretted everything...

Hanjiro of Matoba
Shochiku Cinema Presents - Utaemon Pro Special Film
Film adaptation of the serialized novel in "Asahi" magazine
Original Story...Kan Shimozawa
Screenplay...Fuji Majin
Director...Sentaro Shirai
Camera...Ko Matsui
◇◇Main Cast◇◇
Matoba Hanjiro...Utaemon Ichikawa
His daughter Otsuru...Mirue Maya
Wife Okiku...Sakura Miyako
Confectionery shop owner Otsune...Mikiko Oe
Yogarasu no Gobei...Kunitaka Takado
Maigi Village's Kaju...Kaneyoshi Ida
Tsukumi Misaki Gantets...Jinro Hatahira
Kagiya no Santa...Kikuzo Matsuda
Saijo Antaro...Jinichi Amano
Umizuka no Shin...Gan Miki
Kasugai no Kozo...Tsutajiro Ichikawa
Eirakuji no Kuma...Hotei Umekawa
Ono no Yoshimatsu...Kenro Rai
Kawara no Yoshimatsu...Umon Ichikawa
Matoba family's wet nurse...Shizuko Ozaki
－...The Story...－
Matoba Hanjiro, a retainer receiving 120 koku in the great guard unit, had his beloved wife Okiku stolen by his close friend Hojo Tamejuro, and carrying his daughter Otsuru, continued his journey of revenge for four years. With the help of Yogarasu Gobei in Eiraku Village in Joshu, he ran a temple school while serving as bodyguard for the Yogarasu family. Around that time, seeing the tyranny of the skilled samurai yakuza Saijo Angoro who had drifted into the neighboring village of Kogui, Gobei planned to defeat him, but no one would respond for fear of his skill, so Hanjiro himself volunteered for the task. Leaving his daughter with the confectionery shop owner Otsune, he and Santa stormed into Saijo An's house. Surprisingly, Saijo was the very enemy he sought, Hojo Tamejuro. He struck him down with one blow of his sword, and with the return stroke cut down Okiku, but Okiku's deathbed confession that she had given her heart to Hojo even before marriage brought new anguish to Hanjiro, and he even began to doubt his own child Otsuru, leaving her with Otsune. After several months passed, one night Maigi Village's Kaju and dozens of others attacked the confectionery shop, claiming to avenge Saijo An. Hanjiro, returned to his true self, pursued Otsuru to the confectionery shop through the snow with his wounded body -- snow fell coldly on the corpses of father and child, Hanjiro and Otsuru, embracing each other. --

◇◇The Long-Awaited Epic Grandly Opens Next Week◇◇
First Step Ashore
Shochiku Cinema Kamata Talkie 3rd Production
Dobashi-style Shochiku Phone Full-Scale Special Production
Original Story and Screenplay...Komatsu Kitamura
Director...Yasujiro Shimazu
Camera...1st Camera: Yoshihiro Mizutani
〃...2nd Camera: Takashi Kuwahara
Sound Recording...Haruo Dobashi
〃...Takeo Dobashi
Music Director...Tetsuo Takakai
...Princess of Bright and Beautiful Voice
Yaeko Mizutani...Starring
A great feat of the Showa film world! The pioneer that represented Japanese talkies to the world, proclaiming with towering spirit "Japan has this famous talkie"! Shochiku Cinema completely knocked out the talkie world with the release of the 1st (Madam and Wife) and 2nd (Excitement of Youth) productions, freely receiving praise and acclaim from the general public and being certified as "Talkies are Shochiku Cinema." The famous talkie 3rd release "First Step Ashore" is finally approaching next week!