178

[Right page, upper section - Photo caption]
Eisa of Heshikiya, Katsuren Village, Nakagami District, at Urasoe City Folk Concert. Photographed by Honda Yasuji

[Right page, lower section]
Volume 2 of "Omoro Sōshi" was compiled in Keichō 18 (1613). Keichō 18 was five years after the Satsuma invasion, when Satsuma's supervisory rule had just begun. The "Kyūyō Diary" states that family diaries and various records were reduced to ashes, but perhaps they collected songs that remained in people's memories to preserve them for future generations.

The 16 volumes from volume 3 onward date to Genna 9 (1623), while volumes 11, 14, 17, and 22 are of unknown date.

Esa Omoro: Omoro was originally a general term for songs. At the end of the 14th century, new melodies and content appeared. The Esa Omoro of volume 14 represents this development. What was sung in Esa Omoro was not prayers to gods, but social figures and events. The venue for singing was not at mori-take (sacred groves), but at celebrations and festivals unrelated to gods.

The protagonist of the Omoro collected in volume 14, section 1, is a person known as Chūzan King Satto. He was the one who opened relations with China (Ming Dynasty), and in Omoro he is sung as Jana-moi. Jana (Shana) is a hamlet in Urasoe village, his birthplace. Jana-moi was the leader of one of three powers that divided the island into three parts at that time, and his influence surpassed the others. He responded to the Ming emperor's recommendation for tribute relations

[Left page, upper section]
by sending envoys in Shiseiʹ 1 (1372), 32 years before Ashikaga Yoshimitsu's tribute missions.

He undertook an unprecedented adventure and succeeded magnificently. Historical records state that he sent his younger brother Taiki, but Omoro sings that Oza-no-tachi-yomoi went. Oza is a hamlet in Yomitan village, Tachi is a name, Yomoi is "omoi" (thought) as an honorific, and "Taiki" is phonetic writing for Tachi. The expression "younger brother Taiki" uses the same technique as later calling Ming envoys princes and having them pose as princes. As stated in "oza no, tachi-yomoi ya, tō akinai, haerachie" (15-66), tribute and offerings are sung as "Tang trade."

Taiki and others brought back vast quantities of pots, kettles, and ceramics, benefiting the people. The Ming emperor gave Jana-moi the Chinese name Satto and bestowed upon him the royal title of Chūzan King.

　　　　　Esa singing of Jana-moi (Volume 14, Section 1):
　1. Jyana-mohi ya, taga, nachyaru, kuwa ga,
　　　　koga, kiyorasa, koga, mibosha ya, ayoru na,
　　Again, momo-chyara no, akute, ochyaru, kochyakuchi,
　　　　　jyana-moi shu, aketare,
　　Again, jyana-moi ga, jyana-uhe-baru, nobote,

[Left page, lower section]
　　　　　keyagetaru, tsuyo wa,
　　　　　tsuyokara-doka-bashi ya, aru.

　　　　　(Translation) Lord Shana, whose child is he,
　　　　　　　So beautiful, so worthy of admiration,
　　　　　Again, the storehouse entrance that a hundred lords
　　　　　　　struggled to open, Lord Shana opened it,
　　　　　Again, when Lord Shana climbed to Shana-ueharu,
　　　　　　　the dew he kicked up,
　　　　　　　even the dew is fragrant.

This song differs from previous Omoro, being filled with emotion appropriate for praising a hero who brought light and hope to villages emerging from the age of earthenware and stone tools. The group dance members were men who stomped with rough footwork and marched to drum accompaniment. This appears to be a precursor to the July Eisa that still remains today.

Eisa is a musical accompaniment, with calls of "Eisa, Eisa, Sa, Niisa, Eisa." Since there are many similar forms in Japanese mainland folk performing arts, they are probably not unrelated.

Eto Omoro: Next to appear was Eto Omoro. Eto originally meant a call or shout, but became work songs and from the late 15th to 16th centuries became a general name for songs. Eto Omoro is divided into "walking Eto" in volume 10 and "dancing Eto" in volume 13.

Okinawa Oral Literature

179