Record of Fire Outbreak Locations in the Great Edo Earthquake

When we heard that nine-tenths of Edo was struck by a great earthquake, how immense must be the grief and sorrow of parents and siblings throughout the various provinces. The most important thing for peace of mind is to receive news of people's safety as quickly as possible.

The time was the night of October 2nd, Ansei 2nd year (1855), when the shaking began from the 4th hour of the night. Houses and storehouses collapsed, there were numerous dead and injured, and on top of this, fires broke out in twenty-five locations simultaneously, creating a great conflagration.

First, along the Nikko Highway: Koga-juku, Satte-juku, Kurihashi-juku, Soka-juku, Kasukabe-juku, Osawa-juku, Koshigaya-juku, Takenotsuka, Umeda Village, Senju-juku 5th district sections 4-3-2-1, Kamon-juku, Kozukahara, etc., were all burned down due to fires following the earthquake. Asakusa-cho, Shin-Torigoe-cho 3rd district sections 2-1, one area including Shin-machi, Minowa-cho 1st-2nd districts, Sakamoto-cho 3rd district sections 2-1, and the area in front of Daion-ji Temple suffered major collapse. New Yoshiwara Edo-cho 1st district caught fire, and Ageyamachi, Kyo-cho 1st-2nd districts, Kado-machi, Edo-cho 2nd district, and Fushimi-cho were burned. 3,700 people died, with countless injured. Tamachi 2nd-1st districts, Takemon, Kita-Bado-cho, Minami-Bado-cho, Saruwaka-cho 3rd-2nd-1st districts burned, while Actor's New Road remained. Shoten-cho, Kawara-cho, Yamanoyado-cho, and Hanakawado-cho were half-preserved. The area in front of Yadai Shrine burned. The Nio Gate of Kannon Temple remained safe. Namiki-cho, Komagata-dori, Suwa-cho, Kurofune-cho stopped burning around Hachiman-cho. Tori-hatago-cho, Morita-cho, Kata-machi, and one area from Tabara-cho 3rd district to the temple and townhouse area in front of Kotoku-ji Temple suffered major damage. In Shitaya, the Fujido, Tachibana, and other daimyo residences were all damaged. From Ueno-cho, Choja-cho 3rd district sections 2-1, and the middle of Uodana Shichiken-cho, fire broke out and spread to Izumi-sama Street. From there, Naka-machi and back streets collapsed while the main street generally remained. Hirokoji and the Iguchi side burned. Similarly, Kaya-cho up to 2nd-1st districts burned. Both districts of Nezu suffered major damage with 400 dead, countless injured, and only two houses remaining. On Muen Slope, the residence of Matsudaira Bingo-no-kami burned. Around Sendagi and Dangozaka, many collapsed, while a little remained above Yanaka Zenko-ji slope.

From there, Hongo Street was damaged and Kiridoshi burned. The Kaga domain deployed all personnel to establish fire-fighting positions. Yushima Tenjin suffered some damage, and the townhouses with earthen storehouses on both sides of the gate were all damaged. In the middle of the same San-kumi-cho, two houses collapsed, and in addition, Hata Shin-machi, in front of Reiun-ji Temple, and practice walls collapsed. In Tsuma-koi-cho, the Inari shrine was safe but the neighborhood collapsed. Both sides of Asakusa Kaya-cho were damaged. The stone walls of the metsuke (inspector) flew out. Bakuro-cho, Yokoyama-cho, Odenma-cho, and Kodenma-cho suffered particularly minor damage. The residence of Matsudaira Oki-no-kami facing East Bridge collapsed and burned. From around Honjo Ishihara, the area in front of the imperial boat storehouse collapsed, with some damage to Omote-cho, and burning extended through Mitsume, Midori-cho 1st-2nd-4th districts, Yotsume Bridge, to Kiba. One area including ■■-cho, Minami-Shinbori, Shin-kawa, Shinbori, Reigan Island, and up to Okawabata burned.

In Fukagawa, Aikawa-cho, Tomikichi-cho, Moro-cho, Hamaguri-cho, Hikawa-cho, Ke■dono-cho, Kumai-cho, Nakajima-cho, Kuroe-cho, Naka-cho, and in front of Eitai-ji Temple all burned completely. 127 people died. Kara Street, Shin Street, Migikiba, Kurofune Inari, and the lower residence of Matsudaira Awa-no-kami were all lost, while Irifune-cho suffered minor damage. From Sake-cho through Kawagishi Street to Ishiki-cho suffered major damage, Tera-cho and Hirano-cho were damaged, Kiba suffered major damage, and around Yamato-cho, 40 people burned to death. Imagawa Bridge, the commercial area of Nihonbashi, Tenma-cho 2nd district (minor), 3rd district, Tatami-cho, Gorobei-cho, Inaba-cho, Tokiwa-cho, Gusoku-cho, Yanagi-cho, and Daikon-gashi burned.

Another area included inside Kanda Bridge, the residences of Sakai Utano-kami, Morikawa, Daimyo-koji, Endo Tajima-no-kami's fire brigade residence, Inshu-sama, Echizen-sama, etc., all burned completely. Sakai Saemon-sama and Ogasawara-sama partially collapsed, Nagai Hida-no-kami-sama and Honda Nakatsukasa-daisuke-sama burned. Doi-sama was half-burned, Matsudaira Ukyo-no-suke-sama minor damage, inside Wada-kura Gate Aozu-sama, Matsudaira Shimosa-no-kami-sama, Naito Kii-no-kami-sama, and Baba-saki Gate guardhouse burned. Outside Soto-Sakurada Gate, Yamashita Gate, Nabeshima-sama, Nambu-sama, Ito-sama, Matsudaira Tokinosuke-sama burned. Satsushu-sama, Choshu-sama, Mikusa Tanba-sama, Uemura-sama burned. Hitotsu-bashi Street, Kiji-bashi Street, Ogawa-cho, Hongo Tango-no-kami-sama, Matsudaira Kii-no-kami-sama, Sakakibara Shikibu-daisuke-sama, Itakura, Toda, all around this area burned completely.

Also in the Yamanote area, Azabu, Azabu Mamiana, this area suffered major collapse. From Yotsuya's Hocho to Koji-cho, in front of Hirakawa Tenjin, all collapsed. From here to Ochanomizu, Ban-cho, Aoyama, Rokudo-tsuji, Itabashi, all collapsed. Another area from Kyobashi, Shiba-guchi 3rd district partially collapsed, Gensuke-cho, Rogetsu-cho, Shin-ginza, Higo-no-kami-sama ■-yuki collapsed. Fire broke out from Shibai-cho, burning both sides of Udagawa-cho. Both sides in front of Shiba Shinmei collapsed, Wakisaka Awaji-no-kami-sama and Sendai-sama partially collapsed. Hamamatsu-cho 4th district, Kanasugi 4th district suffered minor damage. Also, Shinagawa Tokai-ji's entire mountain area collapsed, both sides of Honjuku and Shinjuku slopes fell and collapsed, Takanawa, Matsudaira Yamato-no-kami-sama's residence collapsed, Arima Nakatsukasa-daisuke-sama's practice walls collapsed, Satsushu-sama's front long house collapsed, Nanku-cho collapsed in the middle, about ten Takanawa houses collapsed, 3rd district collapsed, Myoho-ji Temple main hall roof...