What is seen here compared to Chinese varieties is particularly small, barely like fine black beans. Among unique products is sweet potato (banshō), found everywhere. It is planted by plow in sandy soil, with vines spreading to cover the fields. People use it as food, with benefits comparable to grain consumption. Households plant dozens of banana plants, drawing fibers to weave into banana cloth. Men and women wear this in both winter and summer, providing benefits equal to sericulture. The old records of Ming册使 (investiture envoys) Xiao Chongye and Xia Ziyang state: "The soil does not grow cotton, the land is not suitable for tea." Now there are occasional instances of these, but they say cultivation is not very extensive.

Vegetables include Chinese cabbage, mustard greens, spinach, radish, coriander, luffa, winter melon, eggplant, sword beans, broad beans, taro, scallions, garlic, Chinese chives, ginger, pepper, Chinese onion, celery, shepherd's purse, bracken fern, bottle gourd, cilantro, fennel, crown daisy, mushrooms, purple laver, bok choy, wood ear mushrooms, and agar seaweed. Unique products include kelp, burdock, spicy buckwheat, poria vegetable, and jar vegetable. There are also pine mushrooms, called "chikura" in the local pronunciation. They grow in the soil under large pine trees during the ninth and tenth months. The fruiting bodies are round and white, a type of fungus with fresh and delicious taste. Those produced in Gushikami are especially good; gray ones grow in cattle dung and are inedible. [Note: Among sea vegetables is kelp, also called kombu. There are also red vegetables, similar to agar seaweed but somewhat flattened, found on beaches. There are also chicken-foot seaweed and kirin seaweed.]

Trees include pine, cypress, Japanese cypress, cedar, banyan, camphor, gardenia, willow, pagoda tree, palm, boxwood, and Chinese parasol tree, though very few. Unique species include oak and others.

[Oak] Also called Arhat cedar. The leaves are short, thick, and three-angled, same as Chinese Arhat pine. The wood grain is hard and smooth; it is used for all beams and pillars in house construction throughout the country. It exists on all islands, but those from Kikai are especially good.

[Fukugi] Leaves are like holly but particularly large, growing in opposite pairs, about two inches long, thick and shaped like kidneys.