And glossy, also called Tokiwa-gi (evergreen tree). The tree grows straight up to over ten feet in length and does not wither throughout the four seasons. The leaves can be used to dye green color, it opens small yellow flowers and bears fruit like oranges that can be eaten. There is also another tree with the local name [Yarabo]. All leaves resemble fukugi, also growing in opposite pairs, with white flowers resembling plum blossoms. They fruit in the eleventh and twelfth months. Both are called "gentleman trees." [Note: The leaf patterns are paired and continuous like weaving, with the center edges appearing transparent golden-yellow when held up to sunlight. The traditional "tōrō tree" described as having orange-like leaves should be this very tree.]

[Iron Tree] This is the sago palm, also called sea palm. The trunk is like a banana plant with leaves that are firm and upright, growing in pairs, feathery like a phoenix tail. When lit by sunlight, there is a translucent line through the center with no shadow. It does not wither in any season and is planted everywhere.

[Black Wood] Leaves are like cinnamon, growing straight up. The exterior is no different from ordinary wood, but the heartwood is black in color. However, there are also those with white grain. There is also [Red Wood].

[Oil Tree] Leaves resemble orange trees, fruit is as large as oranges but inedible. It is used for pressing oil. There is also [Fukuman Wood]. The tree is several feet high, leaves resemble hibiscus but somewhat smaller, flowers cluster like small oranges in red color and are edible. There is another tree with leaves resembling holly, over ten feet high, flowers clustering like jujube fruits, similar to Chinese privet berries. Sweet and sour, edible, and can also be used to dye things blue-purple color. Named "Sanmai" and also called "Nomago," this should be the blue essence plant.

[Kubatisu] Tree height over twenty to thirty feet. Leaves are large like persimmon leaves, flowers have five branches, fruiting in the eighth and ninth months like green olives but somewhat flattened, with fragrant sweet taste. This exists in Fujian and is named "Bodo."

[Mina] Tree height over thirty to forty feet. Leaves resemble white paulownia, flowering in summer season like Chinese autumn mallow with yellow petals and sandalwood-colored center.