[Chibun Tree] Height of five to six fathoms, leaves like grain trees, small white flowers grow in clusters, blooming in winter months. It is poisonous and can be used to poison fish.

[Moon Orange] Tree height over one fathom, fine leaves like jujube. In the fifth and sixth months it produces small white flowers that are extremely fragrant, named "ten-ri fragrance." It bears fruit like Indian berries but somewhat larger, clustering red all over the tree in the second month.

[Teigo] Tree height seven to eight fathoms, large ones requiring several people to encircle. Leaves are large like persimmon, each leaf extending in a "pin" character shape, growing in opposite pairs. In early fourth month, flowers are vermillion red, one to two or three sun in length. Each trunk directly produces dozens of clustered flowers. The flower leaves are like brush wood spitting flames. This is a Korean variety from Mount Taiping.

[Shittatsujiko] Tree height about one fathom, leaves resemble peach, fruit like grape clusters, deep blue in color. Named jiko-milk, inedible.

Flowers include plum, peach, apricot, cinnamon, magnolia, lotus magnolia, water hibiscus, red cherry, snowball, camellia, pomegranate, azalea [Note: Azaleas bloom from October until March. The flowers are extremely large, four times larger than those produced in China], hibiscus [Note: Double-flowered varieties come in deep red and light red colors. Single-flowered varieties have only deep red. The central pistil extends about one sun beyond the petals like a candle holder. Hence it is also called "palace-illuminating red." It flowers in all seasons, with June being the peak], coral lily [Note: These are particularly large compared to China, with some forming trees over one fathom tall. Red flowers bloom in fours, dozens clustering like fire. There are double-flowered varieties with very elegant layered platforms. The statistical notes say that coral lilies and hibiscus both originated from Japan and first entered China], orchid [Note: Blooms in all seasons], chrysanthemum, jasmine, begonia, periwinkle, narcissus [Note: October flowers], campion, monthly rose, rose, globe amaranth, silver platform, golden cup [Note: namely narcissus], day lily, iris, lily, mallow, cockscomb, daylily, carnation, prickly pear, amaranth, and wisteria.

Among exotic species, there are names such as Nago orchid and others.