[Jikogura] Also called Fire Phoenix. People often plant it on house walls to ward off fire. The stem resembles Euphorbia royleana, leaves resemble fire-prevention grass, flowers resemble yellow chrysanthemums. There are also red ones called Fortune Wood.

Fruits include lotus root, sugarcane, watermelon, cucumber, papaya, mandarin oranges [Note: several varieties], fragrant oranges, kumquats, Buddha's hand citron, lychees, longan, grapes, cherries, Chinese bayberries, raspberries [Note: shaped like Chinese bayberries], chestnuts, persimmons, walnuts, loquats, and plums [Note: small as longans]. Among exotic products are banana fruits, etc.

[Banana Fruit] The fruit produced by banana plants, called Sweet Dew Flower. Purple-red in color, large as a gourd, opening one petal per day, bearing fruit like five or six fingers of a hand hanging in parallel. After picking and storing for a long time, the flesh texture resembles the most tender lotus root, and when ripened, it becomes sweet like sweet potato.

[Ateini] Leaves are long with thorns on the sides. Over time they form forests with interconnected vines, strong and sharp enough to serve as fencing. Leaves can be used to make mats, roots can be used to make rope. Those that flower are male plants; flowers are white like lotus petals with pointed tips, bursting and layering left and right with over ten clusters growing straight up. Five-branched stamens protrude like staffs several inches long, fragrant and intense like citrus blossoms. Female plants have no flowers but bear fruit large as melons, with raised skin patterns like studs, all hexagonal and edible. This is a different variety of jackfruit, also found in eastern Guangdong where it's called pineapple.

[Chinquapin] Also called Shiba nuts. Like acorns but smaller, found everywhere in the mountains. Also called Shii nuts.

Bamboo varieties include bitter bamboo, cat bamboo, tiger-spotted bamboo, phoenix bamboo, pole bamboo, broom bamboo, black bamboo, large pole bamboo, arrow bamboo, and flexible bamboo. Among exotic varieties is Kannon bamboo.

[Kannon Bamboo] Grows in clusters from the ground, with leaves about a foot long, three to four inches wide, purple in color.