Principles of Child-Rearing Foundation

How pitiful it is that children who die young have diseases that are not without treatment methods, but this leads to death because effective medicines are not carefully selected and used. The Qianfu Lun says, "Those skilled in nurturing life take medicine before falling ill," and so forth.

Even the miraculous remedies of great physicians have what is suitable and unsuitable. Even though they may be commercial medicines, if they hit the mark, even Jivaka and Bian Que could not surpass them. When a great physician's medicine is not suitable, no matter how many times it is repeated, there is no effect. How much more so when claiming that one commercial medicine can treat all diseases - this is far too crude. I tested this from Bunka 4 (1807), the year of the metal rabbit, until the year of the snake, for three years, distributing medicine in all directions and testing it. Among the same symptoms, some had effects and others did not. However, the selection criteria were not clear. After repeating this for another four years, with seven years total of medicine distribution, by the year of the rooster I was able to clearly distinguish between what could be cured and what could not. Therefore, for those who would have no effect afterward, so that they would not use my medicine, I record in detail the presence or absence of efficacy. This is an instruction manual, so regarding how to use this medicine, please read until you fully understand. Even if this medicine is not used, I also record what should be understood by those who have children, and title this "The Foundation of Golden Child-Rearing."

During the aforementioned seven years of medicine distribution, people who had been paralyzed for three or four years, or those who could not move freely, or children who had become blind with various pediatric diseases, adults with accumulated qi, retained fluids, blood disorders, or types of consumptive cough - those who were cured of difficult diseases put up standing boards one ken long and one shaku five or six sun wide at their gates, recording in detail how their difficult diseases were completely cured, out of excessive joy. The people of Kyoto know this well, and it is recorded in detail in a book called "Kyoto Habutae."

If there is even a little effect within one round of treatment, even if family and relatives come saying that using commercial medicine for such a serious illness is unreliable, and laypeople try to discourage you with their amateur judgment, use it with unwavering determination. Daily recovery will be like the rising of the morning sun. However, if there is not even a little effect within one round, it should not be used.