It functions in this way. Also, the impure toxins ingested in response to crying will become phlegm and foam and be completely expectorated from the mouth, so there is no doubt that the child will grow up with robust wisdom and talent, and enjoy a life free from illness and long life. Some people use darasuke. This method is also acceptable, but I do not adopt it. Those who use this method should use darasuke, but generally should not use any other external medicines.

＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿

Giving breast milk to a newborn child should be done after twenty-four hours have passed - this is the established method. This is because the mother's milk does not flow properly until twenty-four hours have passed. During this period, there is no harm to the infant in not giving milk. When giving milk, some people squeeze out and discard the first milk, saying it causes diarrhea and is bad for the infant. This is a great mistake. The first milk is medicinal milk that naturally appears to purge the fetal toxins received in the mother's womb, so it should never be discarded. Give it as is without harm, and it is good for the child to have diarrhea. The diarrhea will soon stop naturally. This is the natural principle of heaven.

However, people become impatient waiting for twenty-four hours when the mother's milk has not yet come in properly, seeking milk from others to feed the baby early, or they discard the excellent medicinal first milk, calling it "rough milk" and not using it. Because human knowledge goes against the heavenly principle, fetal toxins sink into the spleen and stomach, becoming the foundation for serious illness even after the child grows up. This should be understood as the most important principle. However, when the newborn appears particularly healthy in relation to the mother, discretion should be used.

＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿

○ Principles of Child-Rearing

The milk of a wet nurse who has fluid retention, fever, or syphilis should never be used. It will cause various symptoms in the infant. Also, be aware that the milk of an overly amorous wet nurse tends to damage the infant's liver.

＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿﻿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿

In the wet nurse's diet, there are cases where oily foods or raw fish are made into miso soup with the intention of making the infant strong. This is not good for fetal toxins or smallpox. Simply eating salty foods regularly is greatly beneficial.