One should always pay attention to and observe the bowel movements. A bright yellow color indicates normal stool and is good. If it becomes blue, or black or white, there is certainly illness. Even if the child appears vigorous at that time, illness will soon manifest. This may also be the work of fetal toxins. One should be careful and use medicine early. However, when using Yakuō-en (King of Medicine Pills) and the color of stool changes, this is very good.

＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿

One should not dress the child too warmly with thick clothing out of excessive care. Overheating will instead weaken the firmness of the skin, and even after growth, the child will tend to catch colds easily.

＿＿＿﻿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿

Children with strong spleens have good circulation of qi and blood, and even the heavy blood called fetal toxins will float up and circulate, so it manifests on the surface, becoming small sores and various other skin eruptions, and the fetal toxins naturally dissolve. However, people who misunderstand this apply topical medicines, causing the sore toxins to attack inward, generating great fever and bringing out various diseases. This is the first principle to understand, so topical medicines and ointments must never be used.

＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿

All principles of child-rearing depend on what one becomes accustomed to. Children raised in the noisy areas of the city have no worry of being startled even when hearing musical instruments or loud voices. Children raised in quiet places may develop convulsions from fear when occasionally hearing loud voices or musical instruments. Children who stay only at home may have the fear of external pathogenic influences or food poisoning when they occasionally go out during the day in rainy weather. As for play, it should generally be free without worry. Barefoot play and playing with dirt are particularly good. One should encourage this. In most cases, children raised in poverty are robust, while children raised in wealthy households tend to be sickly - this should be understood. For the first one or two years after birth, one should pay particular attention to child-rearing. Whether one becomes sickly or robust in later growth depends on the care during the first one or two years after birth. Children normally tend to overeat, which damages the spleen and stomach, transforming into various conditions like the five types of malnutrition, intestinal worms, and various symptoms, eventually leading to difficult-to-treat conditions. Is this not something to fear? This Spleen-Liver King of Medicine Pills is an excellent medicine that primarily tonifies and benefits the spleen and stomach, so using it vigilantly during the first one or two years after birth is of utmost importance.