Please carefully read this book, and those whose children have made a complete recovery should lend this book to their acquaintances to share its contents.

○ Spleen-related Parasitic Worms

Since children's spleen and stomach are not yet fully developed, the period up to six, seven, or eight years of age is extremely critical. Generally, due to mothers' carelessness in nursing and feeding, the spleen becomes damaged and all manner of diseases develop. The severe cases are called "spleen kan" (spleen parasites). Particularly during weaning, carelessness with food damages the spleen organ, and as the child becomes thin and weak, they increasingly crave food, prefer hot tea day and night, or favor rice cakes, roasted beans, and salty foods in large quantities. All of these become increasingly toxic to the spleen and stomach, preventing the body from directing water to urination. Food cannot be digested and passes directly into bowel movements countless times. Water stagnates, causing the abdomen to swell like a drum, or the child develops night blindness or cataracts, eventually becoming blind. They waste away to skin and bones like hungry ghosts, and all ten out of ten children die. This is an extremely difficult condition, but if my divine medicine is used, it supplements the fundamental spleen and stomach, so no matter how difficult the serious illness, it stops diarrhea in two or three doses, completely expels evil toxins and water toxins through urination, reduces abdominal swelling, and clarifies the eyes. Gradually, as it is used, it responds effectively, increases muscle mass, and cures all ten out of ten children, hence it is called "Spleen-Liver Medicine King Pills."

Dietary therapy for weaned children:
○ Milk-flavored soup, rice porridge, or rice soft like porridge should be given in small amounts
○ Rice cakes, roasted beans, dumplings and other hard foods should be strictly avoided

Although all the above symptoms can be treated, when medicine is used too late, the bowel movements become white in color and smell like rotting fish intestines. This is due to water toxins in the abdomen causing the organs to decay, and such patients will inevitably die within ten days or so, making medicine ineffective and inadvisable.