Heart fire becomes excessive causing bone scorching, and fatty flesh becomes phlegm froth, producing cough. This is because the spleen-stomach's
yang qi is thin, and the qi and blood that should circulate press upon the chest diaphragm area without moving, thus becoming consumptive
cough. Its beginning involves constipated bowel movements or watery diarrhea, lumps forming in the abdomen, strong
palpitations with stiffness rising to the back, emaciation and fatigue, and spitting up phlegm froth. This is called consumptive cough,
meaning cough arising from exhaustion. Although these are all difficult conditions, if the bowel movements have
form or during diarrhea, if this Yakuō-en is used, it will stop diarrhea and
soften constipation, treating everything completely without fail. However, if before taking this medicine the bowel
movements are neither diarrheal nor, for example, like miso ground in a grinding mill - loose and without form -
then using it will have no effect. It should not be used.
＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿
　　　○　Flooding and Leaking (Bōrō)
Women's flooding and leaking refers to when menstruation suddenly flows heavily and becomes unbearable. This Yakuō-en

powder medicine should be fried to a fox color and one dose used, which will have immediate miraculous effect. Using three or
four doses brings recovery as if by divine intervention.
For those who constantly have much clear blood flowing with menstruation and become thin and weak, using it as described above, the effectiveness
is rapid.
＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿
　　　○　Red and White Stagnant Discharge
In women there is what is called "white blood, flowing blood," where menstruation constantly becomes like purulent blood
and flows abundantly, gradually causing emaciation and weakness - a very difficult condition. For this condition, Ketsuki-tō should
be used in combination.
＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿
　Ketsuki-tō　　Charred Cyperus rotundus 1 monme　Fresh Cyperus rotundus 1 monme
　　　　　　　　Angelica sinensis 1 monme　　　Cinnamon bark 5 bu　Dried ginger 5 bu
＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿
　Decoct the above five ingredients as usual, and with each dose take one dose of Yakuō-en large pills