1. Senior Secretary　　　　　　　　One barrel containing three shō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　However, due to official duties preventing attendance, a substitute participated, hence this arrangement

1. Scribes, Junior Scribes, Official Supervisors　　　One wicker basket set
1. Junior Secretary, Bureau of Housekeeping, Left and Right Stables Bureau　　Same as above
1. Treasury Ministry Palace Bureau, Assistant Envoy Attendants　　Same as above
1. Imperial Storehouse, Inner Treasury Bureau, Water Supply Office, Guards　　Same as above
1. Court Musicians　　　　　　　　One wicker basket set, one five-shō barrel
1. To Palace Administrator Officials　　Two wicker basket sets

1. Miscellaneous Servants　　　　　Five shō of cooked rice, three shō of sake
　　However, regarding hospitality for miscellaneous servants, according to precedent, valley officials provide the entertainment
1. Gifts to Construction Department Officials　Five shō of sake
　　By request, evening meals and night meals for twenty people of upper and lower ranks were ordered from Jinbei
　　This follows approximately the same protocol as the main shrine Kataoka

The above items were to be brought by attendants to their respective rest stations.
However, regarding the Imperial Storehouse Water Supply Office, it was conveyed to the attendants that according to precedent a three-shō barrel should be added, but since this was not recorded in the Kanpō shrine records, Kanetame stated that only wicker baskets should be sent according to precedent. When previous year records were examined showing that one barrel had been sent, various concerns were raised about how it would look to differ from precedent this time. Since there was no immediate preparation available, it was agreed to thoroughly examine the shrine records and provide a follow-up response later, which was acknowledged.

1. Around the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM), the Imperial Messenger and Magistrate proceeded together to the inner shrine
　　Chief guide Yasuhisa Suehide (in hunting dress) and additionally Yasutoyo (in court dress) accompanied them as attendants

1. Regarding arrangements by the Palace Bureau, Housekeeping Bureau, Carpentry Bureau, etc.
　　Same as the main shrine's formal relocation ceremony; organization same as Kataoka