1. Daily offerings were presented to both the inner and front shrines of Kifune Shrine (with single portions only). For the offerings, Kifune's celebrant deputy and Takeyasu served as transfer attendants, with two people in attendance. Of the four meal sets for the withdrawal ceremony, one set was shared as a communion meal by everyone at Kifune, while three sets were taken to the Kambu-ri pavilion as communion meals for the head priest and both officials.

1. Those who climbed the mountain yesterday began descending one after another from early this morning.

1. For last night's formal relocation at Kifune, in addition to Senior Negi Naruhisa, Celebrant Shigeuji, and Assembly Representative Ujisato, Chief Administrator Yasumasa remained on duty all night at the council chambers.

1. As thanks for the successful completion of Kifune's formal relocation without incident, Kifune Negi Okuhisa-kane made formal visits to the court and military authorities after breakfast, following precedent with the following tribute items:

　To the Imperial Messenger: Vertical record ceremonial papers, double set
　　Dried squid　　　1 box
　　Kelp　　　　　　1 box
　　Sake barrels　　　1 load

　　　Above items
　　　　　　　　From Kamo Shrine Community

　To the Magistrate:
　　　Same as above (specifically: 10 strings of dried squid each, 10 bundles of kelp each, and 2 hand-carried 5-sho barrels each)

In addition to the above, substitute payments of 500 mon each for the three types including the cedar boxes presented yesterday at Kifune were placed on platforms and delivered to the Imperial Messenger and Magistrate.

1. Large dried squid, 2 strings each on platforms, were presented to both magistrate offices. Additionally, formal notification of gratitude for the completed relocation and thanks to the Shogunal Guard officials for their security services were conveyed through intermediaries.

1. When fish and other items were presented to Magistrate Lord Hinnonishi-no-Ben with expressions of gratitude, Deputy Administrator Inoue Tanomo appeared and stated that when the formal relocations of the six shrines including the new shrine are completed, reports should be sent by express messenger to the Imperial Messenger each time, and that notifications should also be made to his household on such occasions. Lord Ben conveyed this instruction to be kept in mind. Imperial transmission (continues)