However, since it was urgent, consultation was not conducted, he said. In any case, regarding the main shrine and eight shrines, after consultation they should submit a written report so that the formal shrine transfer can be completed within August. Furthermore, not only the sacred treasures of the main shrine but also all the sacred treasures of the eight shrines should be completed before the 20th of the 7th month. The contractors should also be properly instructed within the shrine community, and the government office should also be requested to prepare them without negligence. Having heard this, [he] returned home before the hour of the monkey.

7th day, clear

1. The Tanabata divine service was conducted as usual. Since Kataoka and all other auxiliary shrines below it are enshrined in temporary halls, there was no opening of the sacred doors. Divine offerings were presented in the outer sanctuary, large platform, inner and outer sanctuaries.

8th day, clear

1. A written pledge that those lodging during the construction have no debts or purchases was brought by one person, Kiei, and filed.

　　　　Respectfully submitted pledge
1. Regarding this construction project, we investigated whether there were any debts, sales, etc. at this location among the lodging officials from high to low ranks. Those within the shrine precincts reported that there were absolutely no persons with debts or purchase obligations. Therefore, we submit this pledge as stated.
　　《Marginal note: Year of the Rooster}} 6th day of 7th month　　　　　　Upper Kamo Shrine Community Seal

1. From around the hour of the horse, a meeting was held at the assembly hall for Kaneko's announcement.

1. The matter of Kanei's attendance at the western government office on the 6th was announced, followed by a speech. {{Marginal note: Previously seen}} Houshō's speech: Today when Tanida Kyūtarō made his rounds, Houshō discussed that regarding the formal shrine transfer, there had been private inquiries from Magistrate Lord Hino-nishi Ben, to which responses were given. Nevertheless, if it must be executed so as to be completed within August, since Shimogamo's formal shrine transfer is on August 13th, our main shrine's formal shrine transfer would need to be planned before that. However, there is protocol regarding the order of lower and upper [shrines] in all matters, so if it were to become a case of the lower shrine first followed by the upper shrine, this would be improper. Therefore, he suggested consultation so that this matter could be scheduled from mid-August to late September.