[continuation from previous page]

1. Today the master carpenters' group submitted a petition requesting additional payment for the main hall construction materials {{Marginal note: filing略之}}
   Decision: 250 momme to be granted as per the Kanpō precedent

1. The supervisor announced: Due to the shrine construction, there are many laborers from both east and west village communities, so perhaps sake should be granted at this time. Although it would normally be granted after the formal shrine transfer according to precedent, it would be appropriate to grant it now: 3 tō of sake and 3 kan mon of coins to the east, 3 tō of sake and 3 kan mon of coins to the west. Tonight the village elders and officials will be summoned, and [the funds] will be distributed by the supervisor using the sixth-eye [measurement].

1. After lighting the candles, the supervisors assembled. The seven-town elders and officials were summoned, and as decided at today's meeting, 3 tō of sake and 3 kan mon of bird-eye coins to the eastern three towns, and 3 tō of sake and 3 kan mon of bird-eye coins to the western four towns were to be granted, this was announced.

9th day, clear

1. Kawaguchi was summoned. Regarding the clothing racks and folding screens for the eight shrines, by the 17th day the repairs and mounting work should be completed. Concerning the painting work, could it be finished on both the 18th and 19th days? The contractor submitted a direct estimate. Like the Kibune temporary hall, would 5 momme each be approved? [He was told to] consider it well and submit [his proposal], this was conveyed.

1. Kawaguchi was summoned again. For the newly made curtain screens for Kataoka Shrine and Ōta Shrine, the painting fee for both shrines would be 30 momme, plus meal expenses to be provided for the work. When this was proposed, [he said] he would give a reply tomorrow. This was proposed at the request of the contractor.

10th day, clear

1. Irie Kichibei and Matsumura Heizaemon came for inspection rounds. Kanemochi attended for greetings. On this occasion, [the following] was conveyed to Kichibei: Regarding the formal shrine transfer of the main shrine and eight shrines that was recently ordered to be completed within August, consultation was held. While the ceremonial formation can be completed in two formations, since there are many shrine buildings for the transfer ceremony, if [work] does not begin from early August...