The document was brought to Magistrate Hinonishi Ben-dono, but as he was absent, it was left with instructions, and then proceeding to the Go-densō, the matter reported to the magistrate was delivered.

- Past the hour of the Monkey, a letter arrived from among Hinonishi Ben-dono's petty officials, the content being that there was official business concerning Okamoto Sanmi, so one should hurry to the Hi-kurōdo-guchi.

- Regarding the above, Hoshō immediately departed, returning past the hour of the Dog and explaining: Upon arriving at the Hi-kurōdo-guchi, in audience with the Go-densō, today's inquiry about the date limit for the Upper Shrine formal relocation was discussed. Regarding this, there are imperial thoughts - would it not be possible to conduct the formal relocation of Shingū and other tutelary shrines by the 11th day of the 9th month? Also, regarding the Main Shrine, Kataoka, and Kibune, could the date limits not be shortened and made earlier? This would interfere with the Lower Shrine, and moreover, as the date and time for the Lower Shrine will be set tomorrow, in any case, tonight the Upper Shrine formal relocation should be roughly determined. Due to this, you have been urgently summoned. The written document was examined as follows, and regarding the inquiry whether this could not be arranged as stated: concerning the Main Shrine formal relocation on the 18th, as it would be difficult to apply to the shrine's onmyō divination document, this was excluded from the report. In that case, from the 19th onward,

there are no other date limits available, and regarding the 16th and 17th, it was understood that there would be interference with Imperial Palace matters, so the Kawai Shrine formal relocation would be postponed. Regarding the Upper Shrine Main Shrine formal relocation, it should be announced as reported today. Regarding Kataoka, it shall be executed on the 25th as commanded. Regarding Kibune, as it cannot be arranged within today, it should be within the two days of the 2nd and 3rd. The Shingū and other tutelary shrines should be executed between around the 5th and the 11th. When this response was submitted, it was commanded that this matter be communicated to the shrine community tonight and reported early tomorrow morning, which was acknowledged before withdrawing.

　　August 13th　　Mioso Shrine (Upper Kamo)
　　　19th　　Kawai Shrine
　　　25th　　Mikage Shrine  
　　　27th　　《Hiraki Shrine, Sansho Shrine》
　　　29th　　Kibune Shrine
　August 18th　　Betsurai Shrine (Lower Kamo)