General Representatives of Kami-Kamo Shrine
　　　　Year of the Rooster, 8th month, 1st day　　　　　　　Nandaiji Hitachi-no-suke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi　　Yamato-no-kami (seal)
　　To the Magistrate's Office
　Separate folded paper
　　　　　Imperial Messenger　　　　Yamana Shikibu-no-daijō Ryōju
　　　　　Deputy　　　　　　　　　Aoki Nakatsukasa-shōroku Yukiari
　　　　　Year of the Rooster, 8th month, 1st day　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo Shrine Group

After the hour of the monkey, [someone] returned home, and according to the account, the seven noble families' storehouse keeper met and received [documents]. In this sequence, when the imperial edicts for the new shrine and the six subsidiary shrines below are handed down, [we] inquired whether we should submit notification of the dates and times. The answer was that "since notification documents were already submitted previously, it would be appropriate to submit the notification."

　2nd day (Kinoto-Hitsuji/Wood Sheep) Cloudy

1. On the ceremonial day gathering, at the meeting place, Moriakira made an announcement.
　1. On the past 29th day, the Deputy Head Priest reported that regarding the matter of ceremonial dress previously mentioned, upon investigation, during the Shōtoku era, on the 2nd day of the 7th month, 108 monme and 5 bu of silver was bestowed, and there is definitely a written record that grandmother received it. For the Kanpō era, we have heard it was received according to tradition, but no clear written record can be found. The discussion remains undecided.

　1. From the Head Priest, Kataoka Negi, and Kifune Negi, regarding the imperial messenger's visit on the last day of the month, the imperial edict that was presented is recorded as follows:

　　From the Left Controller's Office　　To Kamo-Wakeikazuchi Shrine
　　　Regarding the matter of appointing appropriate dates and times for conducting the formal reconstruction of this shrine
　　　　　8th month, 19th day (Mizunoe-Inu/Water Dog)　　Hour of the Rooster
　　The Right Provisional Major Counselor Fujiwara no Ason Norimasa respectfully transmits
　　the imperial command that appropriate dates and times should be appointed for conducting [the ceremony]. The shrine should acknowledge this
　　and act according to this edict.