Once understood, the details were fully acknowledged. Furthermore, it was asked "Would the 11th be more convenient for the temporary relocation?" so we replied that "the 11th would be good." Then we stated "We will begin ritual seclusion the day after tomorrow on the 5th. Although this is sudden, we were informed today by the construction work rotation, so we report this immediately. We humbly request your favor in this matter." The response was "Then it cannot be done without an official announcement tomorrow," so we replied "If that could be arranged, it would be excellent."

4th day (Boshin) Clear weather

1. Magistrate Hinnonishi Ben-dono sent word that the shrine collective representatives should appear at the Hi-kurōdo entrance. Around the hour of the Horse, Kōkyū and Kanetame went to appear. They returned around the hour of the Sheep and explained: When they went to the Hi-kurōdo entrance, the Imperial Messenger and Magistrate were both present, and the Kibune Shrine temporary relocation date and time that was petitioned yesterday was announced in writing as follows. Also, the imperial edict would be delivered on the coming 6th day at the hour of the Dragon at the Imperial Messenger's residence. Since both officials would be in ritual seclusion, when asked who would come to receive it, they replied "Anyone can come as a representative." Regarding the lantern matter requested yesterday,

it will be announced later.
　　Official document, folded horizontally
　　　Kibune Shrine temporary relocation
　　　　This month, 11th day　　Hour of the Dog

1. Since the Kibune temporary relocation date and time has been announced, the monthly prayers scheduled for the coming 11th will be held on the 16th instead. During the temporary relocation, free worship will be permitted, and the jitte officers were ordered to announce this. Also, it was ordered that three attendants for the temporary relocation, the 5th group, 7th group, and 8th group should enter ritual seclusion and begin service from the coming 5th day.

1. Since the Kibune temporary relocation date and time has been announced, the following written report was submitted to the construction office:
　　　　Verbal Statement
　Regarding the temporary relocation of Kamigamo subsidiary shrine Kibune Shrine, it will be carried out on the 11th of this month at the hour of the Dog, as just announced in the joint presence of our shrine's Imperial Messenger Kushige Dainagon-dono and Magistrate Hinnonishi Ben-dono. We hereby report this matter. The above.
　　(Year of the Rooster) 6th month, 4th day　　　Kamigamo Shrine Community [Seal]