Next, I went to the eastern [office] and made an inquiry to the inspector's office. There I encountered Kimura Genhachirō, so regarding the security petition I had submitted on the 29th of last month concerning the shrine reconstruction, since it was well received at the Western Administrative Office and I had submitted it together with revised precedent documents, I also reported it to the current administrative office. I requested that they exchange it with the petition I had submitted previously. Genhachirō replied: "The petition from the other day was received due to a misunderstanding by my colleagues. Since this entire matter is handled exclusively by the western [office], you should petition the west, and as soon as official instructions are given, you should promptly submit both documents with a cover letter, stating that approval has now been granted by the west. Otherwise, having dual petitions would cause confusion, so you should take back today's documents as well." Having received these instructions, I acknowledged them and withdrew.

6th day: Clear weather
1. The head priest reported: Today around the hour of the snake (9-11 AM), the yin-yang master Kōtokui Shukeito came to my residence and said, "On the day of the formal shrine reconstruction, after both bureaus visit before the deity, I wish to perform purification rites. Please prepare the necessary implements for this." Hirohisa replied, "There is no precedent for our shrine providing such arrangements. However, if this is your request this time, we can provide them." When [Kōtokui] said, "Please kindly do so," [Hirohisa] arranged that "if such is the case, we will set them up under the eaves of the worship hall on the day."

7th day
1. Ceremonial day meeting, assembly hall, Mori disclosure
1. On the 5th, Taguchi made the following request: "For Kataoka Shrine's temporary hall, we received provisions during both the Shōtoku and Kanpō [reconstructions]. We would like to receive [provisions] according to previous precedent this time as well."
   Decision: Approved

1. Should the date and time of the formal reconstruction of the main shrine and subordinate shrines be announced to the local security groups? Should lanterns be displayed at gates on the evening of the reconstruction, or is this unnecessary?
   Decision:
   The date of the shrine reconstruction should be announced to the security groups. It was decided that an announcement should be made that lanterns should be displayed at all houses.