It was declared that the matter would be settled with yesterday's report.
Next, regarding the procedures for the main shrine relocation, there were some minor mistakes at the lower shrine as well, so thorough coordination should take place, which was the reason for the summons. There were inquiries and responses, which are abbreviated here.

One: Notices were issued to the police officials regarding taboo words, soul covering, suspension of music, and fire precautions for the main shrine relocation.

One: Instructions were given to the seven districts and other usual locations regarding soul covering, music, fire precautions, self-defense watch, and not making sounds of bells and gongs.

One: Regarding the temple communities, although the 19th falls on the first day of Higashi, since it is the day of the shrine relocation, not only bells and gongs but all activities should be restrained. Moreover, since there are various festival activities during the festival period, this time there should be no sightseeing activities, and they should exercise utmost caution. This message was conveyed from the meeting place to the executive representatives.

15th day: Light rain

One: To allow the general public to view the sacred treasures in the inner and outer sanctuaries of the main shrine, the monthly duty officials from the sacred treasures and vestments section came early in the morning to display them at the sacred registry building.
For this purpose, six shrine attendants (toneri) should be appointed.

One: Chief magistrates Chen Kenmori, Hoho-ai, and Usyun went out to set up wooden lanterns at various locations and supervised the work. The locations were:

Wooden lanterns:
One pair in front of the torii gate, one pair in front of the second torii, four pairs between the torii gates, one pair in front of the tower gate, one pair in front of the Nara torii, one placed on the west side of Naradono Bridge

Paper lanterns:
Two at the gate of Jurakuji Temple, two at Sakadono Bridge, one from Masugata to the checkpoint, one at the corner, one at Fuda-no-tsuji, six before and after Kawarabashi Bridge, one in front of the retreat quarters, one in front of the bathhouse, two at the front gate of the meeting place