It was decided that it would be appropriate to request that they attend wearing their own pure white garments (jōe), and everyone dispersed.

16th Day - Occasional light rain
1. Kanemochi alone came to the West Administrative Office and brought a notification document regarding the announcement of the names of the imperial envoy, assistant secretary, and others for the main shrine's formal reconstruction ceremony on the 19th.

1. Since the head carpenter will cut the sacred door hinges tomorrow, he will retreat to the repair hut from tonight following precedent. Moreover, he will remain in retreat until the 19th for the purification bells on the actual day.

17th Day - Clear
1. Suiren (green bamboo blind) and tatami supervisors Kōku and Chikaki attended and hung green bamboo blinds at the shrine buildings.
　Instructions for locations: Chinese gate《marginal note: hanging wisdom》, priest quarters, tax office crossing house, record house《marginal note: both north and south》
　　West offering place, 《marginal note: shrine precincts》music hall, shrine guard station, communion hall, small office, offering hall
　　Purification house,細殿, bridge hall, earthen house, 《marginal note: within the second torii》music hall
　1. The general supervisors attended and gave instructions for spreading white sand

1. Assistant head priest Yasuhisa attended as the duty officer for daily offering presentations.
1. Tree planting supervisors attended to clean the sacred Monoimi River and repair the shrine vicinity.
1. The head carpenter《marginal note: wearing ōkatabira under pure white garments》attended and ceremonially cut the sacred door hinges of the main hall between the hours of the Sheep and Monkey (1-5 PM).
1. A newly made sacred field sword donated by the current construction department was completed, and swordsmith Zensuke brought it.
1. Around the hour of the Sheep (1-3 PM), Suee alone attended upon summons from the West Administrative Office officials, where Maeda Chūjirō met him and conveyed that since the Shoshidai position is currently vacant, there will be no security guard. Suee replied that he understood, but asked if there were any other arrangements available, to which it was replied that there were none. When he said this matter was truly lamentable, Maeda, speaking in strictest confidence, said that if there were any petitions to be made, sooner would be better. If they were definitely going to petition, they should first make an inquiry-petition to the current administrative office, and with that intent