West group yoriki inspector　　　　East group yoriki inspector
　　　Mano Hachirōbei　　　　　Nishio Shintarō
　　West group dōshin
　　　Yamada Denemon　Shimada Yagorō　Yamauchi Monemon　Matsumoto Shigenoshin
　　East group dōshin
　　　Mori Kyūzō　　Nakagawa Hannosuke　　The above wore hemp kamishimo
　The above duty assignment follows the form of palace guards, with seating
　from the imperial messenger's advance to before Takakura.
　However, due to rainy weather, they were seated in the west corridor of the tower gate until the imperial messenger's departure.
　However, two of the six dōshin were seated on the left and right outside the east Chinese gate.
　All round cushions were provided by the shrine members due to their devotion. Since there were no
　palace guards, there were no tall lanterns, and box lanterns were placed in front of each person. From the guard duty,
　two copies of the abbreviated procedures for the main shrine relocation and the names of the court nobles participating
　were requested and provided.
1. Around noon, fire patrol officials entered, each wearing fire-fighting attire.

　West group yoriki Ueda Kijirō, East group yoriki Tsumaki Rokurōbei, dōshin Nakae Yozaemon,
　Yoshitake Suejirō, Kodera Jūkurō, Yoshida Katsugorō, Asaga Eizaemon, Ōhashi Isaburō,
　Upper town representative Matsubara Hanemon, Lower town representative Ukai Mozaemon, one middle seat official, one guard
　etc. After their arrival, they requested to view the shrine front, so the hospitality staff in hunting robes
　provided guidance (however, the metal staffs were left outside the second torii). Then for the local patrol, two companions from Jūrakuji gate
　in formal dress provided guidance. First from Ikeden-chō up to Naka-ōji, down Minami-zushi-chō. Then up to Naka-ō
　ji again. The second time around the hour of the Monkey, from near the shrine through Fujiki-dōri to Higashi-Ōta front, west on Kita-ōji
　from Hamaguri-chō to Jingūji. The third time entering the night, following the first route down to Ikeden-chō, up to Naka-ōji-chō
　from Minami-zushi-chō, then up to Naka-ōji-chō again. The above three rounds were completed.
1. For the local fire patrol, the group including Narinaga, Sū, Ken, Yoshi, Suetsuna, Suetsuna, Ban, Nao, Naomochi
　Above six people, accompanied by ten servants, all in fire-fighting attire, repeatedly patrolled
　Zushi-kōji day and night. Especially at night, two tall lanterns were carried in front.