The shrine relocation was completed, and everyone withdrew around the hour of the Ox.
1. Construction magistrate Yamamura Shinano-no-kami did not attend.
1. Construction officials Nakai Monto, Sakuma Jinpachi, Maeda Chūjirō, Imai Kansuke, and dōshin
　Kuroyanagi Kyūzō entered (each wearing hemp kamishimo). As they wished to observe the ceremonial procedures, thin mats
　were laid between the record building and Haji-no-o shrine for their seating. The hospitality official Shiaki provided guidance.
　However, notification was delivered in writing that the shrine relocation had been completed, as follows:
　　　　Memorandum of oral notification submitted
　　Today the 19th, the main shrine relocation of this shrine began at the hour of the Rooster and was completed without incident at the hour of the Boar.
　　We hereby submit this notification. End
　　　　　　　　　　　　Representatives of Kamigamo Shrine
　　　　August 19th　　　　　　Minamiōji Hitachi-no-suke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Yamato-no-kami (seal)
　　To the Magistrate's Office

1. As in Kanpō era, officials were stationed at the bathhouse, and for evening meals, eggs, and senior officials, sake and delicacies
　were served successively. For attendants and laborers, only eggs were provided. Sake was distributed at the council
　chamber after the ceremony was completed.
1. Two Kibune valley shrine attendants (wearing yellow robes), as during the Aoi festival, were seated
　facing east on round cushions at the southwest of the tower gate.
1. As it began raining from around the hour of the Monkey, the roof of a curtained enclosure used for the sacred birth place was raised
　above the Ministry of Public Works' curtained area in front of the Wakamiya shrine by the shrine. Most urgently, Hoshō inquired with the imperial messenger, and
　was told that since there was precedent from the Kibune Kanpō era main shrine relocation, it should be erected.
1. Procedures for guiding the imperial messenger and other officials to worship:
　　First worship at the hour of申上刻　At this time the Onmyōryō attended for purification
　　Second worship　At this time the secretary-historian attended　Imperial decree delivered to the head priest
　　Third worship　At this time　Imperial messenger, secretary, and various Tsugimiya officials attended