flew away, so one day Gozaemon and Manjirō went together from the shore up to hunt,
climbed the steep cliffs and ascended about three or four chō, where there was a wide flat area
with an old well made of piled stones. The island appeared to be
about one ri in circumference. Later when they heard more about it, this was called an uninhabited island, located
about one hundred ri east of Japan. Around this time, Jūsuke developed
diarrhea and lay down in the cave, bedridden. Denzō was also
extremely exhausted since the fujikurō birds became scarce, and only tended to Jūsuke. The three men - Toraemon,
Manjirō, and Gozaemon - dug for shellfish, gathered seaweed, and such,
procuring food for everyone daily. Around what seemed to be June,
after worshipping the crescent moon, about two days later at dawn, when Manjirō left the cave
and looked toward what seemed to be the southeast direction, he spotted a sailing ship in the distance.
When Toraemon and Gozaemon also came out to look, it was a large foreign ship that gradually

approached. They all raised their voices, tied clothing to
the wreckage of their damaged ship and waved it to signal that there were castaways. The ship
lowered two small boats and rowed toward the island. They beckoned with hats and such,
which made them very happy, and they also beckoned with their hands. When the boats came near the shore,
since it was a rough rocky coast where boats could not easily land, from the boats they made hand gestures
suggesting to wrap clothing around their heads and swim over. Since these were unfamiliar people,
they felt uneasy, but since this was not an island where they could stay forever,
they swam to the boat as the people had gestured. When that person again made hand gestures
as if asking whether there were others with them, they pointed toward the cave and
gestured that two people remained. Then another boat with a very dark-skinned person
rowed around toward the cave. At this time, Denzō was inside the cave
tending to Jūsuke when suddenly at the mouth of the cave a pot