This place is called the "cannibal island." I don't understand what kinds of trees grow there, but there is much good timber. In February of the Mi year, we arrived again at "Kyuen," stayed about thirty days to provision firewood and water, sailed northwest, and arrived at Ryukyu in the northwest direction. The ship captain received two pigs from the local people and presented two bolts of cotton cloth before departing. From here we sailed east for whaling, and about eighty ri east of Japan we spotted Japanese fishing boats. I boarded a small boat with crew members and called out to the fishing boat. I wore a Japanese-style headband and tried to speak, but we couldn't communicate. When I asked "Which direction is Tosa?", they pointed southeast saying "That way is the boat," but then said "Senrabe." From here we sailed northeast then turned east, and in early October arrived at "Uwaho." I heard that this time a ship had entered port with two Japanese people aboard, so I immediately took a small boat to that ship, where

Denzo and Goemon were there, and we met after a long time. Jusuke had died of illness. This time the two brothers tried to arrange passage home, but due to various circumstances they could not achieve their aim and had returned to this port again. As "Betes" was departing that very day, we hurriedly parted. We conducted whaling near Hadaka Island and sailed northwest. Around February of the following Saru year, we arrived again at "Yuen," stayed about ten days taking on firewood and water, when "Debes" suddenly went mad, dressed in military gear, killed pigs, grappled with people, violated women, and other acts showing he had lost his mind. So we hurriedly went to Luzon and made a request to the American-appointed authorities. This place has a large harbor inlet and is a prosperous area. The name of the place is "Senera." Many of the hats worn in both the West and East are made here. The people are of Asian stock, with many Chinese residing there. There are tremendous numbers of British warships and merchant vessels.