with tears in their eyes.

The aforementioned castaway was to be handed over by the Nagasaki magistrate, so Horibe Tashiro,徒目付役 (tsumetuke-yaku, patrol officer) of Tosa domain, with the treatment befitting a samurai, went to Nagasaki this past June and brought him back. At that time, Fujisaki Senmei, who was attached to Tashiro, said he heard this from Manjiro.

In my territory within Ryukyu Kingdom, in Mabuni magiri, on the third day of the first month of this year, three unfamiliar-looking men drifted ashore from a small boat. When officials went out to question them, they found they were Denzo and Manjiro (23 years old) from Usa-ura in Takaoka district of Tosa province, along with Denzo's younger brother Jukichi and Toraemon from the same village - five men in total who had set out fishing in the first month of the previous Year of the Ox, encountered severe storms, and drifted to an uninhabited island in the direction of the Dragon (southeast), where they survived by eating birds and other

food. Around the third day of the sixth month of the same year, when a foreign ship passed by, they called out to it. Through hand signals they learned it was an American whaling vessel, and pleaded to be rescued. All five boarded the ship, and in the tenth month they arrived at the Hawaiian Islands in the Western ocean. The ship's captain arranged for someone he knew to take care of them, and told them that Manjiro would be taken to the home country. In the eleventh month they departed from there, and in the fourth month of the following year arrived in North America. They boarded a ship there and went again to the Hawaiian Islands, where they all worked for wages. When they heard that American ships were going to China, they requested to be sent to Japan since they wanted to return home, but were refused because preparations for the ocean crossing were not yet complete. They then requested to purchase a small boat to use as transport, asking to be put ashore whenever land that appeared to be Japan was sighted. The aforementioned Jukichi died of illness five years earlier, and Tora-