There were also supplementary tribute missions. <<Marginal note: Supplementary tribute missions had no envoys>> For expressions of gratitude and congratulations, the Hōshi officials and Purple Gold Grand Masters served as chief and vice envoys. For regular tribute, Jimoku officials and Senior Deliberation Grand Masters served as chief and vice envoys. When the Qing emperor passed away, a Senior Deliberation Grand Master served as incense-offering envoy. Regular tribute ships numbered two vessels: the first with 120 people, the second with 70 people. Supplementary tribute (tsunkon) ships <<Marginal note: Sometimes written as setsukon>> numbered one vessel with about 100 people. The tribute envoys departed from Naha, sailed up the river to Wuhu Gate at Fuzhou, and entered the Ryukyu Hall. Generally, in early winter, about twenty chief and vice envoys would depart, traveling by palanquin, horse, boat, and cart for over forty days to enter Beijing, where they would have an audience at the Hall of Supreme Harmony, meet the Qing emperor, and present tribute. The queen consort, envoys, and all others received gifts. When envoys had an audience with the Qing emperor, Ming-style clothing was not permitted; they wore national dress. During their stay in the capital, banquets were sumptuous, and all lodging and travel expenses were provided by the government. Around the summer solstice of the following year, they would return home aboard supplementary tribute ships. From King Satto onward, among successive rulers, only a few kings did not receive investiture from Ming or Qing. Investiture envoys under Ming were generally Secretariat Drafting Officials as chief envoys and Court of Imperial Sacrifices officials as vice envoys. Under Qing, the chief envoy was necessarily a Manchu, the vice envoy a Han Chinese, both being civil officials from the Hanlin Academy. The investiture ceremony proceeded as follows: when a king newly succeeded to the throne, he would be called Crown Prince of Chūzan and request investiture. The Qing emperor would then appoint chief and vice envoys, arrange elaborate ceremonial guards and dress, depart from Fuzhou, and land at Naha. The crown prince and others would welcome them at the Geion Pavilion, and during their stay, they would be housed at the Celestial Envoys' Hall in Naha. First, they would conduct a memorial service for the previous king at the former royal mausoleum in Mawashi <<Marginal note: Only memorial services, hence no posthumous titles for successive generations>>, then conduct the investiture ceremony at the royal castle in Shuri. The crown prince and others all wore Ming-style clothing. The music and ceremonies were solemn. During the rest of their stay, dance, music, and banquets were extremely lavish. Investiture envoys generally departed on southern winds after the summer solstice, taking the southern route, and returned on northeastern winds after the winter solstice, taking the northern route. However