A man named Basil Hall once came to the East to investigate the customs of Ryukyu, and heard it said that the people had never known such a thing as war since ancient times. Later, he passed through St. Helena Island and met Napoleon, and when their conversation happened to touch upon this matter, Napoleon, upon hearing of this peculiar natural disposition, was surprised and shrugged his shoulders, saying, "No war at all? That is absolutely impossible." For such a great general who loved war, this would naturally be his response. However, in ancient times the country was divided internally, and since ruins of old castles still exist today, the calamities of conflict could not always be avoided. Seeing how they fought and attacked each other within this tiny remote island, one can also infer the gentle and timid nature of their character. ○As for language, it differs only slightly from the mainland. However, the particles "te-ni-wo-ha" and local pronunciation have differences, making conversation difficult to understand clearly. They call Ryukyu (Ryūkyū) "Dūkyū," and Shuri and Tomari "Shui" and "Tomai." These are all dialectal pronunciations. The fact that they mispronounce all "ra-gyō" sounds is also true of Satsuma people, showing they are of the same race as the ancient Hayato people. However, many of their appellations preserve ancient mainland words, and they call the mainland "Yamato" with great reverence. They call mainland people "Yamato-chū" (Japanese people), while Ryukyu people call themselves "Okinan-chū" (Okinawan people). Some examples of their dialect are listed below:

Water (mise), tea (cha), day (hē), fire (hyō), moon (shiche), star (fuze), wind (haze), chicken (nuatoe), egg (tomagu), sea (ume), eye (mē)
Hand (tē), nose (hana), mouth (kuchie), tree (kē), rice (kumē), sweet potato (karaemu), pot (medē), sake (sake), tobacco (tobako), palanquin (kagu), silver (nanzē)
Iron (tezē), headband (hachiemachie) [meaning hat], mirror (kagame), book (shumuzē), chair (tē), stone (izā), pig (bubā), rice/meal (meshi), man (enguwa), woman (onna)
Father (jū), mother (anma), elder brother (yakume), younger brother (ottō), kitchen knife (hōteu), clothing (ibuku), name (na), farmer (hakushau), spring (haro), color (iro), god (kamekanaishi)