Buddha (hotokenakashi), Satsuma official (tonokanaishi) [Note: "kanashi" is always an honorific suffix], poisonous snake (majimono) [meaning "bewitchment"], wife (toji) [meaning "toji" - lady of the house], child (kuwa), beautiful maiden (kiyoramiwaraha) [meaning "pure young girl"]

At the end of ordinary conversation, they say "deaberu." This is said to be an abbreviation of the ancient expression "dearibaberu."

Political System

The political system is autocratic monarchy, with succession by bloodline, and political power rests in the hands of the chief minister. Nobles and samurai class all follow the hereditary stipend system, and officials are all appointed from these noble families. However, they are not native residents but all live concentrated in Shuri, Naha, and other such places. The village heads of each village and each island are selected from commoners, officials are dispatched to govern them, and the government in Shuri oversees the entire system. Ranks range from first grade to ninth grade, each having senior and junior divisions, making eighteen grades total. Official robes follow the Ming system, with distinctions of rank made by the colors and construction of caps, hairpins, robes, and sashes. There are two types of officials: "national officials" and "Chinese-style officials," but their duties correspond to each other. [Presumably, "national officials" are remnants of ancient titles, like nobility titles, while "Chinese-style officials" are modeled after China.]

[Following in table format]

National Official　　Rank　　Chinese Official [Note: "kashō" indicates rank, "za" indicates apprentice]　　Cap　　Hairpin　　Robe　　Sash

Prince　　Senior First Grade　　National Chancellor [Left Chancellor one person, Right Chancellor one person]　　[Purple silk five-colored flower, blue silk five-colored flower]　　Gold　　Red　　Brocade flower　　Princes and lords with talent and virtue are appointed to this

Lord (aji)　　Junior First Grade　　Legal Officer [Criminal law one person, Finance one person, Ceremonies and records one person]　　Purple silk　　Same as above　　Green　　Brocade　　Also called "Three Ministers"

Foster Parent (oya-kata)　　Senior Second Grade　　Purple-Gold Master with Legal Officer rank　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Deep blue　　Yellow ground with coiling dragon

Foster Parent　　Junior Second Grade　　Purple-Gold Master　　Same as above　　Gold flower silver stem　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Called "Purple Headwrap Official" because they wear purple caps

Foster Parent of the Clouds (oya-kumo-ue)　　Senior Third Grade　　Supervision Officer [Master of Guests, Master of Rewards, Master of Punishments, Master of Ceremonies, one person each]　　Yellow silk　　Silver　　Same as above　　Same as above　　All called "Court Attendants" or "Spokesmen"