Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Junior Third Grade　　Senior Councillor with Supervision Officer rank　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Called "Spokesman Apprentice"
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Senior Fourth Grade　　Investigation Officer　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Red ground with coiling dragon　　Also called "Advisor"
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Senior Fourth Grade　　Senior Councillor　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Junior Fourth Grade　　Middle Councillor　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Also "御物城"
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Junior Fourth Grade　　Chief Interpreter　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Senior Fifth Grade　　Palace Gate Official　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Mixed-colored flowers
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Junior Fifth Grade　　Vice Interpreter with Gate Official rank　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Senior Sixth Grade　　Palace Guard Captain　　Yellow silk　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Or Ceremonial Guard
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Junior Sixth Grade　　Assistant Guard Captain　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Or Assistant Ceremonial Guard
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Senior Seventh Grade　　Village Son Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Junior Seventh Grade　　Chikudun Foster Parent of the Clouds　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above

Village Son　　Senior Eighth Grade　　Palace Village Son　　Large red crepe gauze　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
Village Son　　Junior Eighth Grade　　Village Son Apprentice　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above

Chikudun　　Senior Ninth Grade　　Palace Chikudun　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
Chikudun　　Junior Ninth Grade　　Chikudun Apprentice　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above　　Same as above
[End of table format]

The king wears a leather cap with red tassels, dragon-headed golden hairpin, python robe, and brocade sash. He is called the King of Chūzan and uses the two surnames Minamoto and Shō. [In ancient times, when the King of Hokuzan was defeated in battle, he threw the precious sword Jūkinmaru into the river. A hundred years later, a person from Keihei Yashima found it when it washed ashore and presented it to the court. It is now the kingdom's most precious sword. There is a place called Tekkenkei (Sword-throwing Ravine) in Nakijin.] The queen wears a phoenix-headed golden hairpin and flower satin robes. She is called Middle Lady. The crown prince is called Nakagusuku. ○ Princes (Wōshi) can be the king's uncles, brothers, or even those of different surnames. Lords (Aji) are appointed from among the descendants of princes. Foster Parents (Oyakata) means relatives and are equivalent to royal family members. Foster Parent of the Clouds (Beikin) means being close to the palace. [Like saying "court nobles," "Beikin" is an ancient remnant term.] All of the above hold territorial