{{These are the Hibumi (divine writings) of the age of gods, perhaps transmitted by people from our age of gods who came here.}} From the time when the medieval King Shunten transmitted our national script, the entire country widely used hiragana and katakana to transcribe the national pronunciation. {{When they first established communication with Ming, they sewed wooden tablets with leather and carved kana characters to send them.}} Also, the mixed use of Chinese characters and kana in writing, as well as correspondence and the practice of reading Chinese texts in reverse order using return marks and marginal notes, are all the same as on the mainland. Block-printed Chinese books with kana annotations are brought from the mainland. Only the descendants of Fujian people in Kume village study ancient calligraphy models and read Chinese books with Chinese pronunciation. From when they first sent students to study in Ming during the Hongwu era, through the Qing dynasty to the present day, this has continued without interruption every year. There are schools in Shuri, Naha, and Kume, where royal relatives and children of various officials all enter to study the teachings of Confucius and Mencius, learn Chinese characters, and read ancient classics. The school in Kume has a nearly complete educational system, with a Confucian shrine that enshrines Confucius and the Four Sages. Children of commoners use temples as schools and monks as teachers, studying the Jitsugokyo (True Word Teaching), regulations, and family instructions. In calligraphy, the schools of Ohashi, Tamaki and others are practiced, and they generally pursue imperial learning (national studies), excelling particularly in waka poetry, with calligraphy that is also elegant and beautiful. In painting, imperial and Chinese styles are about equal, naturally forming their own distinctive style. For medicine, they study in Satsuma or Qing China. Without studying in both countries, they are forbidden to practice medical treatment. There are also diviners. ○Throughout the country there are many shrines to Ise Daijin, Hachiman, Tenjin, Kumano deities, etc. On Ben-dake they enshrine a daughter of the Tenson clan. They also worship and revere a deity called Kimamono. For other deities of heaven and earth, mountains and rivers, they all use stones as sacred objects. Tenpi-gū (Mazu Temple) enshrines a daughter of the Lin family who was born during the Qianlong era of Song, believed to have spiritual power over the seas. Successive investiture envoys have accordingly enshrined her here as one who calms wind and waves, similar to ship guardian deities. Buddhism consists only of the Rinzai and Shingon sects, with quite many temples and monks