refers to this, and it should not necessarily be called far-fetched reasoning. Probably Amamiko is the character interpretation of Tensōshi, being Amamiko (Heavenly Prince). Shinerikyu might perhaps be a phonetic transformation of Hime-miko (Princess).

Ninigi-no-Mikoto and his descendants are called Tensō (Heavenly Grandsons), and Hoteri-no-Mikoto, a prince of the deity, is made the ancestor of the Satsuma Hayato people. "Haya" is the name of a bird of prey, and in ancient language, fierce bravery was also called "haya," hence the name. Ancient histories describe the fierce nature of Ryukyu people, and since the indigenous dialects of Satsuma people and Ryukyu people are still the same today [Note: See the section on race and language], we should understand that they are all of the same race as the Hayato.

From this consideration, Hoteri-no-Mikoto gradually opened the southern sea islands from Satsuma, propagated the Hayato race, and being of the Tensō imperial family, was probably called Amamiko. Moreover, the fact that he initially crossed to the northernmost mountain of Ōshima and then arrived at Okinawa is truly sufficient evidence of crossing over from the mainland. Also, the sowing of rice and millet would be from one who transmitted the seeds of the Land of Abundant Rice Ears.

Hikohohödemi-no-Mikoto, the imperial younger brother of Hoteri-no-Mikoto, entered the sea palace, married Toyotama-hime, and after residing there for three years, Toyotama-hime crossed wind and waves with her younger sister Tamayori-hime, arrived at the seashore, transformed into a dragon at the time of childbirth and departed, while Tamayori-hime remained and did not return. If we consider the sea palace as Ryukyu, the eldest daughter who became a heavenly deity as Toyotama-hime, and the second daughter who became a sea deity as Tamayori-hime who departed and did not return, both being daughters of Hoteri-no-Mikoto would perfectly correspond. The marriage between uncle and niece was common in ancient times. And after Hikohohödemi-no-Mikoto, travel to and from the sea palace appears to have ceased.

The Kagoshima Shrine in Ōsumi enshrines the spirit of the deity. The remains of his fishing expeditions would be in present-day Kagoshima Bay. Also, the people of Okinawa Island call it Okina Island themselves.