[The Ryukyu islands were placed] under the jurisdiction of Kagoshima Prefecture. In the 9th month of the 5th year [of Meiji], Shō Tai's congratulatory chief envoy Prince Ie, vice-envoy Ginowan oyakata, and councilor Kiyamu peichin, along with approximately forty others, arrived in Tokyo. On the 14th day, at 1 o'clock in the afternoon, the three envoys participated in court ceremony. The Foreign Minister and Assistant Ceremonial Official led them, with the Grand Minister of State and various ministry officials standing in formation, to have audience with His Majesty. Shō Tai's memorial stated:

　I humbly reflect that since Your Majesty's accession to the throne, Heaven's order has begun to be established, all governmental affairs have been renewed, and there are none among the people who do not bathe in imperial grace and rejoice with dancing hearts. I, Shō Tai, being in the southern extremity, prostrate myself upon hearing of these glorious events, and cannot contain my utmost joy. Now I dispatch chief envoy Shō Ken, vice-envoy Shō Yūkō, and councilor Shō Ishin to respectfully perform the ceremony of court congratulations and moreover to tribute local products. I prostrate myself and request that this be heard.

　　　Meiji 5, year of the Water Monkey, 7th month, 19th day　　Ryukyu's Shō Tai respectfully memorializes

The tribute items were Chinese brushes, ink, inkstones, paintings, fine cloth, twilled silk, silk crepe, plain silk, mother-of-pearl boxes, distilled spirits, and others. Separately, there was a memorial and offerings to the Empress, and the envoys also personally presented offerings to His Majesty, all receiving gracious words of acceptance. Next, the Foreign Minister read aloud the investiture edict. The imperial edict stated: (At the beginning there is the seal of the Great Japan National Seal, and at the end there is the seal of the Imperial Seal)

　I, having received Heaven's bright mandate, succeed to the imperial throne of an unbroken line for ten thousand generations, broadly possess the four seas, and rule over the eight directions to their furthest reaches. Now Ryukyu is nearby in the southern region, with similar temperament and nature, no difference in language and writing, and has been a dependency of Satsuma for generations. And you, Shō Tai, have well demonstrated diligent sincerity. It is fitting to bestow upon you high rank. You are promoted to be King of Ryukyu Domain and ranked among the nobility. I charge you, Shō Tai, to value the responsibility of domain protection, stand above the masses, earnestly embody my intentions, and forever assist the Imperial House. Be respectful!