【Right page, upper section】
【Character】Tarōsaku's sister (name unclear)
【Actor】Utagawa (presumed)

【Main text】
Mataji, who left home to search for his sister, tries to bring her back with him. Detecting the unfamiliar scent of a hat, he realizes that Emperor Hanayama is hidden in this house. Somehow, the Hiru-no-omashi sword that was concealed is suspected by Tarōsaku and later passed to Ibaraki Genba.

Tarōsaku conceals the fact that Emperor Hanayama has arrived, while Mataji suspects the contents of the bundle that Mataji carries on his back.

【Right page, illustration】
【Character】Village headman Mugitake Magozaemon (presumed)
【Actor】Denkurō

【Character】Tamba farmer Kurinoki no Mataji, actually Uemon-no-jō Tokiakira
【Actor】Hiroemon

【Character】Ikuno village farmer Tarōsaku, actually Genji of Ninose
【Actor】Sōjūrō

【Character】Tarōsaku's wife Osato, actually Tokiakira's sister Hashidate
【Actor】Satoyoshi

【Right page, lower left, main text continued】
Having slipped out of her brother's house to follow Tarōsaku, she came searching upon seeing the lacquered hat - this shows a woman's spirited nature.

【Left page, upper section, right side of the figure in striped kimono】
【Actor】Sōjūrō【Playing Tarōsaku, possibly doubling with Yorimitsu from panel 5】

【Main text】
When Tarōsaku tries to strictly investigate and remove the hidden Emperor Hanayama, he is surprised to find that the emperor cannot be seen.

【Actor】Satoyoshi【Playing Hashidate】

Hashidate deliberately meets her husband, secretly signals him, falls into her husband's hands, and stands as a substitute for Emperor Hanayama.

Excellent! Excellent!

【Left page, middle section】
【Character】Ascetic monk Nakiyama (characters are distorted, but panel 11 shows "Nakiyama"), actually Sōma Tarō Yoshikado
【Actor】Mon-no-suke【Possibly doubling with Urabe no Suetake from panel 5】

【Main text】
Finding it strange that small birds are gathering, he abducts Emperor Hanayama in his monk's backpack and departs.

【Left page, lower section, main text】
Since it is the third anniversary of his father's death, Tarōsaku stops the ascetic monk. Regarding the loss of the imperial testament, he had placed before the Buddha a flute that had fallen and scattered beside the corpse of his father, the lord of Ninose. Learning that this was a flute passed down in Yasumasa's family, he asks the ascetic monk about it and rejoices to learn that his father's enemy is Yasumasa.

【Actor】Sōjūrō【In striped kimono, playing Tarōsaku】