[Right Page]
By the hour of the Dragon (around 8 AM), there was rumbling from the southwest that sounded like hundreds of thousands of thunderclaps. In an instant, black clouds covered the entire sky, making it as dark as night even at midday. Objects as large as kickballs rained down from the sky, and when they struck the ground and shattered, flames suddenly burst forth and ignited. When we lit candles to examine them, they appeared snake-bone-like in shape, yellow in color with a foul odor, yet still lightweight. Sometimes the flames burned thatched houses, and flying stones killed people. We truly believed the time had come when the three disasters would destroy the heavens. Men and women, old and young, all gathered before the Buddha, chanting the Buddha's name in loud voices and earnestly reciting sacred sutras, hoping only for a swift end. By the hour of the Monkey (around 3 PM), thunder sounds came from east and west converging in the middle, with such violent roaring that it seemed to split one's brain. Though heard from dozens of ri away, it sounded as if someone were snapping their fingers right above one's own roof. In an instant it passed to the east and west again, and ice-stones rained down frequently, as large as peaches and plums, with a salty taste and as heavy as metal. By dawn of the 24th day, the sand rain was still faint and the thunder sounds were also faint. Looking up at the sky, we first saw starlight through the clouds and knew that heaven had not yet fallen, but still the stone and sand buried the roof ridges. Even with heaven and earth existing, how could the people

[Left Page]
preserve their lives? We still wished for swift death. By midday there was faint light, still dim like a hazy moonlit night. Men and women suffered from hunger and thirst, seeking wells but finding them difficult to reach, and even approaching great rivers could only moisten their lips with muddy water. By the 25th day, the sand rain was still very light, and we could extinguish candles to look upon the faces of parents and children. Those who had traveled to other places the previous day returned and told their families: "The fire disaster and dire crisis of Mount Fuji has reached even neighboring districts, but there are still peaceful lands where people live." Hearing this, we revived, abandoned our household goods without regard for valuable items, and supporting each other with bent backs, fled to other provinces wanting to preserve our lives. Alas, how pitiful! Even birds and beasts, struck by the rain of stones, could not fly away and died of hunger and thirst. By the 26th day, sunlight appeared through the clouds, the sand rain became like fine dust with occasional pieces the size of plums. On this day we first looked at Mount Fuji and saw that the burned ash had accumulated to form a single mountain. By the eighth day of the twelfth month, the thunder sounds ceased entirely, the sand rain also stopped, and the weather returned to normal. Therefore we lowered fishing lines to console the people, and with hoes dug into the ground to measure the depths. In nearby villages and distant countryside, on flat land and in mountain marshes, naturally there were