countless... [omitted] On the fourth day of the eighth month, Kinoto-Mi, there were five earthquakes. On this day, above the Tatsuchi Gate, there appeared a phenomenon like smoke but not smoke, like a rainbow but not a rainbow, which flew up and reached the heavens. Those who saw it all said, "These are flying ants"... [omitted] On the twelfth day, Mizunoto-Ushi, a heron gathered on the Hakuko Tower of the Chōdōin and the Seika Tower of the Hōrakuin. The Bureau of Onmyō divined and said, "One should be cautious of fire disasters." On the thirteenth day, Kinoe-Tora, there was an earthquake, and herons gathered on the ridge ornament of the south gate of Hōrakuin. On the fourteenth day, Kinoto-U, at the hour of the Rat, there was an earthquake. On the fifteenth day, Hinoe-Tatsu, at the hour of the Sheep, herons gathered on the eastern ridge ornament of Hōraku Hall... [omitted below]

According to a work called "Kōtei Kishō," on the ninth day of the seventh month of the first year of Bunji, at the hour of the Sheep, there was a great earthquake. In Kyoto and its surroundings, temples, shrines, pagodas, ancestral halls, and private houses generally collapsed, trees broke and fell, mountains and rivers all changed, and many people died. Thereafter, without rest, this continued for more than forty days, and all people suffered distress, their spirits as if intoxicated... [and so forth]

In Kamo no Chōmei's "Hōjōki," it says: Around the second year of Genryaku, there was a great earthquake. Its manner was extraordinary - mountains collapsed and dammed rivers, the sea tilted and flooded the land. The earth split and water gushed forth, rocks cracked and rolled into valleys. Ships drifted on the waves, and horses traveling the roads could not find secure footing. Moreover, in the vicinity of the capital, not a single one of the various halls, shrines, pagodas, and temples remained intact... [omitted] Though the places that shook so violently stopped after a short while, the aftereffects did not cease for some time. There was not a day without two or three earthquakes startling enough to normally cause alarm. After ten or twenty days had passed, they gradually became more infrequent - sometimes four or five times, sometimes two or three times, or once a day, or even once every two or three days, and so forth.