The fire stopped on the village roads, with no difficulty blocking passage. The conflagration at Chinosawa extended to the seashore, but since this was originally uninhabited land, there is no need to discuss obstruction of passage. However, the aftermath of the valley fire has filled the mountain valleys with charred stones. In the three villages of Senzu, Sakigichi, and Nomashi, those who make their living from logging and collecting firewood are constrained. In the two villages of Niijima and Okada, ship owners who make their living from transport have lost profits. The entire island has abandoned the fishing industry, which is also one cause of livelihood difficulties. However, from the 11th month of Teiyū (November 1857) until May of this year, receiving provisions from the prefectural officials, they have known no hunger and all praise the thickness of imperial benevolence, expressing words of shared gratitude. The island's field crops have also not reached complete devastation and are sufficient for surviving winter. Therefore, submitting the population register to the great magistrate's office and additionally presenting an outline of the island's households and livelihoods. On a certain day in the 11th month of Tsuchinoe-inu (November 1858), retainer X submitted this to the Accounting General Office of the Great Magistrate.

Oshima extends 15 ri east to west, 30 ri north to south, 216 ri by sea route from Edo, 108 ri from Misaki in Sagami province. 518 households, 2,298 men and women, plus 5 exiles and their families. 37 Shinto shrines, 3 Buddhist temples, 4 halls. Logging and transporting firewood to Edo is the livelihood of five villages. Sweet potatoes and Satsuma potatoes are the staple foods of the five villages. Millet and sorghum represent small-scale livelihoods cultivated by changing mountain fields yearly. Japanese knotweed, dioscorea, Chinese yam, vine roots, and ashitama are the spring occupations of women in the five villages. Skipjack tuna is caught by summer fishing in the two villages of Niijima and Okada. Flatfish and carp are what the two villages contribute through autumn fishing. Seaweed and hamuha are gathered by women of the two villages from the middle reefs as accompaniments to staple foods.

The four seasons' appearance differs little from other regions, with winds often blowing in one direction.