[Right Page]
It was unable to calm the yin forces. Is not Bo Yang's argument exactly correct? If so, then Heaven's will can be understood. To protect the people below through virtue is naturally the proper way. To greatly aid these people and thereby atone for sins cannot be declined. Did not Han Shao say, "Enter the earth with a smile"? Those now in positions of authority must keep this in mind. What use are petty small kindnesses? When people align with the Mandate of Heaven, disasters are transformed into blessings. Is it not through great calamities that the foundation of great peace is established?

Composed by Chinzan-jin at the fire-ravaged site of Sanmai Bridge

[Left Page]
Earthquake Records　　　　　　　　　Saito Setsudo

Heaven's pillar snapped, earth's cords split; castles became moats, hills transformed to valleys. Disaster broke out in Kansai and spread to Kanto. O that azure Heaven, how cruel you are! I dwell temporarily in Edo, observing this ominous year of the wood rabbit, in the first month of winter. A million homes all collapsed completely, and Zhurong, aided by spirits, sent flames surging upward. Corpses lay scattered throughout the capital, countless ghosts abandoned their dark graves, the living without shelter, the dead without coffins. Between death and life, who offers condolences? The food of high and low is like facing war; the dress of superior and inferior like rushing to battle. Grass huts and cloth screens shelter from wind and rain, crude as military camps - who chooses convenience? Nothing like the usual luxury and extravagance. Decorating homes with carvings and rouge paint, clothing necessarily of silk brocade, food preferring sweet delicacies, people commonly boasting of pearls and gold. Originally this was forgetting disorder and becoming accustomed to good government. The vast multitude under heaven was as if intoxicated, but suddenly awakened with a start from dreams of prosperity. Not only fearing the earth would split, but also that heaven might fall. The words of the man of Qi might also be enlightenment. How can we know that earthly portents are not Heaven's will?