(Two)
Weekly DENKICAN NEWS No. 123

[Page 2 Upper Section]
Starring John Barrymore………

　　　　　…………………"The Frenzied Devil"

[Page 2 Middle Section]

　　　　　Film Program Order

(1)　Pathé News No. 71　(documentary)　　1 reel

　　　　　Fox
　　　　　　　　Sunshine Pictures
(2)　Wild Woman and Tame Lions　(comedy)　　2 reels
　　　　　Cast
Mac Abdul………Tom Mennedy
His wife…………………Ethel Teare
　　　　　　Narrators　Matsuoka Shihō　Hosoyama Mugan

　　　　　Fox Pictures
(3)　The Lure of Ambition　(human drama)　　5 reels
　　　　　Cast and production credits
　Director……Edmund Lawrence
　Author　……Julia Burnham
　　　　　…Edmund Lawrence
Olga Dolan……………Theda Bara
Sylvester Dolan…………………
……………………………Dan Mason
Cyril Ralston…………………………
……………William B. Davidson
Duke of Rutledge……Thurlow Bergen
The Duchess………Ida Waterman
Lady Constance Bromley…………
……………………Amelia Gardner
Miguel Lopez…………………………
…………Robert Paton Gibbs
(Outline)…A girl named Olga Dolan with great
ambition works as a hotel clerk when she becomes
acquainted with a young diplomat named Cyril
Ralston, and by chance is hired as secretary to his
mother, goes to England where she becomes known to
the Duke of Rutledge and becomes his secretary,
gaining his trust, and after the Duchess's death
finally marries the Duke, satisfying both her
ambition for fame and love.
　　Narrators　Tokunaga Tenro　Ishino Bajō

[Page 2 Lower Section]
　　　　　Paramount Pictures
(4)　The Frenzied Devil　(literary film)　　7 reels
　　　　　Cast and production credits
　Author Robert Louis Stevenson
　Scenario writer Clara S. Beranger
　Director John S. Robertson
　Cinematographer……Roy Overbaugh
Dr. Jekyll
Mr. Hyde　　…………John Barrymore
Richard…………Charles Lane
Sir George Carewe…………………………
……………………Brandon Hurst
Millicent……Martha Mansfield
John Utterson………………………
…………J. Malcolm Dunn
Edward Enfield…………………
……………………Cecil Clovelly
Gina………………………Nita Naldi
(Outline)…Dr. Jekyll was a strict and
charitable, vigorous young man, but when
accompanied by his friend George, he first enters
a London tavern and encounters dancing girls,
his eyes are opened to base human desires. He
considers that the same human being has two
natures, noble and vulgar, and thinks it would
be interesting if the action of some chemical
could split the same human being to make only
one or the other nature work. After day and night
research, he discovers such a drug and takes it
himself. When he becomes evil, he calls himself
Hyde and commits crimes in London's dark side;
when he becomes good, he continues research as
Dr. Jekyll. However, the drug to return from evil
to good runs out, and he becomes a servant
searching throughout London but cannot obtain it.
Finally in despair, even when his lover visits
he won't see her, and commits tragic suicide.
　　Narrators　Asano Ryūsui　Tsuruno Issei　Takaoka Kokugan

Weekly DENKICAN NEWS No. 123
(Three)

[Page 3 Upper Section]
Starring Theda Bara………………

　　　…………………"The Lure of Ambition"

[Page 3 Lower Section]
　　　　PROGRAMME
　　Commencing 5th May ... for One Week Only

　　　A FOX SUNSHINE COMEDY
　"WILD WOMAN AND TAME LIONS" 2 Reels
　　　　with
　　Tom Mennedy and Ethel Teare

　　　A FOX PICTURE
　"LURE OF AMBITION" 5 Reels
　　　　THE CAST
Olga Dolan .................. Theda Bara　　Duke of Rutledge ... Thurlow Bergen
Hon. Cyril Ralston .　Wm. B. Davidson　　Sylvester Dolan ............ Dan Mason
The Duchess ............... Ida Waterman　　Lady Constance Bromley　Amelia Gardner
Miguel Lopez ...... Robert Paton Gibbs　　Muriel Ralston ......... Dorothy Drake
Minna Dolan ............... Peggy Parr　　Dan Hicks ............ Tammany Young
　　By Julia Burnham & Edmund Lawrence
　　Directed by Edmund Lawrence

　　　A PARAMOUNT ARTCRAFT PICTURE
　"DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE" 7 Reels
　　　　THE CAST
Dr. Jekyll　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Millicent Carewe ... Martha Mansfield
Mr. Hyde ............ John Barrymore　　Dr. Richard Lanyon ... Charles Lane
Sir George Carewe ...... Brandon Hurst　　Edward Enfield ......... Cecil Clovelly
John Utterson ......... J. Malcolm Dunn　　Poole ..................... George Stevens
　Therese ................................. Nita Naldi
　　By Robert Louis Stevenson
　　Scenario by Clara Beranger
　　Directed by John S. Robertson
　　Photographed by Roy Overbaugh

(Four)
Weekly DENKICAN NEWS No. 123

[Page 4 Upper Section]

　　Popular Entertainment and Motion Pictures
　　　　(Written at the request of Mr. S)
　　　　　　　　　Neko (Wild Cat)

　Motion pictures as popular entertainment exert
the greatest influence on popular psychology,
occupy the central force of entertainment, and
have important missions and value in the
significance of their existence. Recently, the
Ministry of Education has established an
investigation committee in the Social Education
Division regarding the improvement of popular
entertainment, with Mr. Norisugi, head of the
General Academic Affairs Division, Mr. Tachibana,
head of the Higher Censorship Section at the
Metropolitan Police, Professor Sugawara of the
Women's Higher Normal School, and Mr. Gonda and
Mr. Hoshino, former Imperial University lecturers
now at the Ōhara Institute for Social Research,
promoting awakening and action among the general
public, theater operators, and social education
personnel for the sake of social welfare improvement.
　However, conservative educators and nostalgic
elderly people think that motion pictures have
a bad influence on the feelings of boys, girls,
and young people, but these are one-sided views
lacking understanding of appreciation, and times
have changed considerably from the past.
Originally, there are various ways to appreciate
motion picture films. Some people appreciate them
in chaos, others appreciate them in silence and
indulge in their taste. Here appears a great
difference that might be called appreciation
consciousness. Various criticisms emerge from this.
　Some people appreciate and criticize motion
picture films artistically, and whether viewed
from an entertainment or educational perspective
for adults, they have social significance, strong
stimulating impressions, and progress to popular
appreciation psychology as social art. The masses
can equally resonate. Thus, they must be
entertainment art that can give the most virtuous
consolation, impressions, and emotions.

[Page 4 Middle Section]
At the same time, they should be studied among
all classes as various movements that promote
the real benefits of the nation and society, or
as a kind of entertainment education institution,
becoming a standard of sound morality and having
important significance recognized generally in
positive aspects.
Motion pictures are clearly a type of popular
art in terms of their style. In their essence
they contain intellectual impulses and also
contain dangers. Here the social policy of
entertainment becomes necessary.
　Film censorship at the Metropolitan Police
and the Ministry of Education select relatively
wholesome films from among many candidate films,
combining entertainment perspectives with social
policy, and present them to the general public
drawn to film art as recommended films. Such
films become fuses that give life to solving
life problems and individual group enterprises,
resonating with social improvement and popular
emotions, naturally penetrating their cells
and achieving effects.
　In short, if entertainment makes today's
masses watch interestingly while making them
yearn for better life or harbor deep fraternal
feelings toward each other, as a result it
greatly influences the mental activities of
the masses. This is the so-called realistic
vision, the environment of popular entertainment
in its true respectful significance, which as
academic research I particularly want to call
to the attention of all intellectual class
gentlemen and scholars dealing with literature
and other serious social problems.
　We want our popular art to be art that stands
on such self-awareness and incorporates thoughts
and emotions, art that expresses all true real
feelings that can touch genuine humanity.

[Page 4 Lower Section]

　　Nikkatsu Upcoming Film Releases

　"The Miracle Man"　　8 reels
　　Paramount Artcraft Picture
　Director George Loane Tucker
Main actors……Thomas Meighan, Lon Chaney,
Betty Compson, Elinor Fair, Lucille Hutton

　"A Doll's House" (literary film)　　5 reels
　　　　　　　　　Artcraft Picture
　Director……………Maurice Tourneur
Main actor………Elsie Ferguson

　"Queen of the Sea"　　6 reels
　　　　　　　American Fox Special Production
　Director…George G. Adolf
Main actor…Annette Kellermann

　"Don't Change Your Husband"　　5 reels
　　　　　　　　　Artcraft Picture
　Director………Cecil B. DeMille
Main actors…Elliott Dexter, Gloria Swanson,
Lew Cody, Theodore Roberts

　"The Dark Star"　　6 reels
　Paramount Artcraft Special Production
　Director………………Allan Dwan
Main actors…Marion Davies, Norman Kerry,
Matt Moore.

　"Bill Henry" (pure comedy)　　5 reels
　　　　　　Paramount Ince Picture
　Director…………Jerome Storm
Main actors…Charles Ray, Edith Roberts,
William Carroll.