(Continuing from the previous page) ...bursts forth violently. Mountains and peaks with dry air assist this process, creating even greater winds. The reason winds come from the east, west, south, and north is that they originate from the direction in which the air movement is generated. In some cases, they follow the climate of the four seasons. In spring, the vital energy (生気) rises from the east, which is why the east wind (kochi) is the first to blow gently—this is the natural order. The quality of the wind follows the land it has passed through: the north wind is cold and the south wind is warm. Winds that have traversed the humid seas to the southeast are hot and humid, while the northwest, being far from the sea and largely dry, produces winds that are similarly dry. The spring wind rises from below, as can be observed by flying a kite (paper kite). The summer wind flows horizontally through the sky. The autumn wind descends from above, which is why it causes leaves to fall. The winter wind travels close to the ground, howling along the surface and generating cold. All of these phenomena have their natural reasoning. In the *Erya* (爾雅), the south wind is called "Kaifū" (凱風, genial wind), the east wind "Kokufū" (谷風, valley wind), the north wind "Ryōfū" (涼風, cool wind), and the west wind "Taifū" (泰風, great wind). There are also theories of the "Eight Winds" aligned with the Eight Trigrams (八卦), but these are merely ways of naming wind by direction; the underlying principle of wind is one and the same.

〇On the Strong Winds of the Second and Eighth Months
Question: Among the winds of the four seasons, large and small, the second and eighth months are particularly prone to great winds that scatter red and white blossoms, spoiling the elegant views of the nobility, and damaging the grain crops, causing grief to farmers. What is the reason for these great winds occurring specifically in these months?

Answer: The second and eighth months are the seasons when the two vital energies (二気) ascend. In the second month, the yang energy rises vigorously, and in the eighth month, the yin energy rises vigorously. For this reason, the winds are also pulled upward by these energies and surge high into the clouds. As the clouds move about incessantly, the winds grow increasingly fierce. In general, violent storms occur when dry, heated air is enveloped by cold clouds and then suddenly bursts through them, shooting out to form a violent windstorm. At such times, the cavities in the soil of mountain peaks (土竅) violently expel their air, further intensifying the storm, making it ever more...

(Marginal note) When one looks forward to the blossoms of mid-spring on the following day, there are times when sudden wind and rain render those hopes in vain.