Answer: Between heaven and earth there are three zones (san-sai), and within the cold zone (reisai) there is a region of extreme cold. The rains of the two autumn periods and the snows of the three winter periods descend upon reaching the initial boundary of the cold zone. This is because earth qi ascends slowly. In summer, the ascent of earth qi is extremely rapid and sharp. Therefore, when it ascends far upward and suddenly plunges into the zone of extreme cold, the rain freezes and becomes hailstones. Their varying sizes depend on the depth of cold and the thickness or thinness of cloud qi. Being a cold substance that suddenly forms during the heat of summer, it brings no benefit to the processes of creation and growth, and instead damages and devastates fields and paddies. This is the underlying reason. As for how climate operates between heaven and earth: during the first and second yin periods of the fifth and sixth months, when yang qi is excessive and becomes isolated from the deficient yin without harmonizing, and when yin presses in and condenses, extreme cold is produced all the more. This is why there is no need to be surprised that cold substances fall during the summer months.

○ Dew (Tsuyu)

Question: Dew is the nighttime qi. It seems to descend from heaven, leaving droplets like jewels on plants and trees, and wetting one's clothing if one walks at night. Or perhaps plants and trees draw up moisture themselves and collect dew. How does this work?

Answer: In the *Ruisho Sanyō* (Classified Writings Compendium) it is written: "Dew is yin liquid; it condenses to become dew." Dew is originally the moisture of water and soil. At dawn it is slight; during the daytime it rises and is dried by wind and sunlight; as night comes it ascends further, enters the cold zone, condenses, and becomes dew. Generally, in the middle of the night the cold is deep and the ascent of qi is somewhat heavy. For this reason, the morning dew (shinju) is said to be especially abundant. If there is a strong wind during the night, it receives wind damage...

【Figure: Illustration of dew】