5th day (Kiinoi/Boar) Clear weather

1. To report the Kibune temporary relocation date and time that was announced from the Imperial Palace yesterday, representative Suehide alone appeared at the Western Magistrate's Office after the morning meal. A copy of the document he brought:
　　　　Oral Statement Record
　Regarding the temporary relocation of Kibune Shrine, a subsidiary shrine of Upper Kamo, this will be conducted at the Hour of the Dog on the 11th of this month. This was announced yesterday in the joint presence of our shrine's Imperial Messenger Kushige Dainagon-dono and Magistrate Hinnonishi Ben-dono. We hereby report this matter. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Upper Kamo Shrine Representatives
　　　Tori 6th month, 5th day　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke [Seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tomino Sado-no-kami [Seal]
　　　To the Magistrate's Office

1. For the temporary relocation of Kibune Shrine and Shirahige Shrine on the coming 11th, those entering ritual seclusion from this evening are:
Head priest Hirohisa, Kibune shrine priest Ikuhisa, assistant priest Norihisa (represented by Takeyasu due to young age), attendants, 5th group Shizuji, 7th group Yasuaki, 8th group Yasutaka, etc. The recognition ceremony was assigned to Sakaiya Jinbee as before.

6th day (Kōshi/Rat) Clear weather

1. Regarding the Kibune Shrine temporary relocation matter, for the delivery of the imperial edict, Kataoka shrine priest Yoshihisa appeared as representative of Kibune shrine priest Ikuhisa (serving as proxy due to ritual seclusion), wearing hunting dress and accompanied by colleagues and attendants. At the Hour of the Dragon, he received the sacred spear from Imperial Messenger Kushige Dainagon-dono and went to pay respects to Magistrate Hinnonishi Ben-dono. The colleagues and attendants were sent from the shrine collective.

1. A copy of the document sent to master builder Okajima Goichirō regarding the measurements for the sacred garments of Kataoka Shrine's Wakamiya:
　　　　Kataoka Shrine Sacred Garments
1. Summer court dress　　1 set　5 jō 7 shaku
1. Winter court dress　　1 set　5 jō 7 shaku
　　Note: Inner silk measurements the same
1. Court trousers　　　　1 set　4 jō