For the places to visit: For the Imperial Messenger, we requested through the deputy in charge of his absence, Yoshikawa Kingo. For the Magistrate, since he was at home, he immediately expressed his acknowledgment. Through intermediary Kataoka Naohyōe, and then to the Imperial Administrator and both Magistrate offices - these three places for the gratitude notification through Inspector Kobori and others for thanks. Additionally, they went to pay respects to the successor's assistants and constables Nakai Mondo, Sakuma Jinpachi, Shimogamo lodging, and Edo representatives, returning home around the hour of the Monkey.

1. In the evening, being summoned by the construction office, representatives Kiei and Kanemochi appeared. The site of the temporary construction huts at the riding ground was cleared and the land was handed over to the shrine community, so they were instructed to submit a receipt document. The copy of the receipt follows:

　　　　　　Memorandum of Verbal Statement
　　　The reconstruction and repairs were magnificently ordered, and today's inspection was completed.
　　　The entire shrine community considers this a most grateful situation. Therefore, as the construction huts are being cleared away,
　　　we respectfully receive the handover of the said site. The above.

　　　6th month, 29th day of the Year of the Rooster　　　　　　Upper Kamo Shrine Community Seal

1. As the construction office came out to view the Mikado-shiro meeting performance, Yasuchika and Shi Akira were dispatched from the responsible office for greetings. The viewing place was a 4-ken curtained enclosure built by the construction office to the east of the Hanano road in the southwestern grass area of the sake hall. The shrine community provided cut rice, simmered dishes, and sake delicacies as hospitality. The coordinators Chikaaki, Yasutake, and Kanetō were dispatched to the administrative building all day to oversee various arrangements. The catering was assigned to Sakaiya Jinbei.

1. In the evening, the Mikado meeting divine ritual proceeded as usual, with the head priest descending to perform duties as customary. However, since Kataoka Shrine and the eight subordinate shrines were enshrined in temporary halls, as previously discussed, there was no opening of the sacred doors, and divine offerings were presented at the inner sanctuary of the large platform.

1. At the retreat lodging, Head Priest Hirohisa gave a speech saying: "At this time we have the temporary hall enshrinement. How should the shrine officials be seated? In the Kanpō era, the negi priests sat in the western corridor and the hafuri priests in the eastern crossing hall - which would be appropriate?" He said this matter should be discussed. The consensus was to follow the Kanpō precedent.