-jirō
Others involved: Fukaya Heizaemon, Tejima Gōemon, {{marginal note: attendant}} Ōta Bunzaemon, Hirose Sanoemon, Takeo Hyōemon, Nishimura Tōzō

1. Around the hour of the Sheep (around 2 PM), a summons arrived from Magistrate Hinnonishi Ben-dono, stating that representatives should come immediately to the Hi-kurōdo entrance. Representatives Ikikyū and Kaneshige immediately went and returned after about half an hour.
   According to their report, they met with Ben-dono at the Hi-kurōdo entrance, who asked, "Around when will the formal shrine transfer ceremony be conducted?" When the representatives replied, "Since some of the sacred treasures are not yet completed, the date has not yet been determined," he further stated, "If you have even a rough idea, bring a written schedule to Ben-dono's residence by the ninth hour tomorrow." The representatives said, "We understand in detail. Should we also report the contents of today's discussion to the Imperial messenger?" To which he replied, "There's no need for detailed reporting, but it would be appropriate to notify them that these instructions were given." Accordingly, they also notified the Imperial messenger before returning home, etc.

1. Regarding the above, after consultation among those responsible, it was decided that it would be appropriate to state that the main shrine's formal transfer ceremony should be conducted between mid-August and late August, and the subsidiary and branch shrines' formal transfer ceremonies between late August and late September. A written document was prepared accordingly, to be delivered by the representatives after breakfast tomorrow morning.

1. Artist Kanō Kurando-no-jō was summoned regarding the urgent completion of paintings for the interior ceiling framework of the main shrine's sacred floor. Although he is currently working on the main hall's shadow komainu, he was asked to rest for a day or two to work on this task, to which he agreed.

4th day (Hinoto-u) Clear weather

1. Today at the hour of the Snake (around 10 AM), since all construction alterations and repairs were completed, the adze ceremony was conducted under the eaves of the tower gate as per precedent. Accordingly, daily offerings were presented. As usual, this was conducted between the morning and evening daily offerings. The ceremony was like that of the 4th day of the first month. However, no religious practices were required at the head priest's residence. The timber used was hinoki cypress {{marginal note: 4-sun square, 2-ken length}} prepared by the timber office for this shrine construction, one piece, and similarly