1. 60 momme
   The above for three sacred bows

1. 30 momme
   The above for three sets of sacred arrows

1. 150 momme
   The above for three sacred spears

1. 18 momme
   The above for six sacred feather brooms

1. 65 momme
   The above for one pair of sacred screens

1. 55 momme
   The above for three sacred clothing racks

1. 6 momme
   The above for three sacred scepters

The above are the portions to be prepared by shrine families from among the newly created sacred treasures.

Regarding Kibune auxiliary shrine and the eight small shrines, we shall report separately later.

   7th month of the year of the Rooster　　　　　　Upper Kamo

1. When Irie Kichibei met with Kanei and inquired about when the formal shrine transfer would be conducted, [Kanei] responded that it was planned to execute all ceremonies for the main shrine, auxiliary shrines, and subordinate shrines from mid-August to late September. Kichibei said that Shimogamo has already set dates and submitted their report - the main shrine on August 13th, auxiliary shrines by the 27th, and all formal shrine transfers for those receiving imperial messages have been scheduled and inquired about at the imperial court, with dates now fixed. For Upper Kamo's auxiliary shrines, if they extend into September there will be notifications from the government office, so for subordinate shrines, whatever the case may be, those shrines that receive imperial messages should be executed by the end of August. Regarding the ceremonial formations, there are probably two formations remaining now. In consultation with Shimogamo, we should coordinate so as not to increase the number of formations and inquire at the imperial court. The main shrine and auxiliary shrines should definitely be completed within August. Since it is not necessary to inquire with the government office about dates, each shrine should inquire promptly at the imperial court. [He] asked whether the Shimogamo representative had discussed the matter of ceremonial formations with Upper Kamo.