this time it is the same year, so making petitions to the officials twice would be inappropriate. Therefore, it was decided to combine them in one document with an addendum, and the petition should be submitted urgently tomorrow."

1. After nightfall, there was a small gathering where the head priest, monthly duty officer, and the six officials assembled.
　1. Regarding sake money for shrine officials and attendants who will keep vigil during the formal reconstruction of the Main Shrine, it was decided after consultation to send thirty mon in bronze coins to each household.

1. It was decided to request fire watch patrols for the two nights of the formal reconstruction of the Main Shrine and Kataoka Shrine, with the following personnel:
　　Higo-no-suke, Bingo-no-suke, Chikugo-no-suke, Naomaru-dayū
　　Akemaru-dayū, Sado-no-suke

　4th day (Hinoe-Tori/Fire Rooster) Clear

1. Today, the imperial edict was to be presented to the negi priests of the six shrines below Shingū at the residence of Major Counselor Kushige at the hour of the snake, so after breakfast each went out to receive it. The personnel were as follows:
　　　Shingū negi Yasumune, Ōta negi Yasuto, Wakamiya negi Motoyasu
　　　Nara negi Masaaki, Sawada negi Kanetame, Ujigami negi Kaneyasu

　　According to precedent, one companion and one servant each from the shrine community accompanied the above shrine officials.

1. After the first half of the snake hour, Hitachi-no-suke alone went to the Western Office as representative, carrying notification that today the imperial edict for the six shrines was presented by the court liaison, as well as petition documents for security arrangements for the Main Shrine, Kataoka, and Kifune shrines. The record is as follows:

　　　　Document of Oral Notification
　　(Kamigamo)
　　　　Shingū　Formal Reconstruction　9th month, 5th day　Hour of the Rooster
　　(Same)
　　　　Ōta　Formal Reconstruction　Same day　　Hour of the Dog
　　(Same)
　　　　Wakamiya　Formal Reconstruction　8th day　　Hour of the Rooster
　　(Same)
　　　　Nara　Formal Reconstruction　Same day　　Hour of the Dog
　　(Same)
　　　　Sawada　Formal Reconstruction　11th day　Hour of the Rooster
　　(Same)
　　　　Ujigami　Formal Reconstruction　Same day　　Hour of the Dog

　　The imperial edict regarding the dates and times for the formal reconstruction of the above six shrines was presented today at the residence of Major Counselor Kushige, who serves as court liaison for our shrine. We hereby submit this notification. The above.