Shingu Ōta Shrine　　　September 5th　Hours of Rooster-Dog
　　Wakamiya Nara Shrine　　September 8th　Hours of Rooster-Dog
　　Sawada Shrine, Ujigami Shrine　　September 11th　Hours of Rooster-Dog

For the main shrine's rotation of offerings: from the 13th at the hour of the rooster, ten people will maintain vigil, one from each neighborhood watch group. For Kataoka Shrine's rotation of offerings: from the 19th at the hour of the rooster, two people will maintain vigil from the 9th and 10th groups. For Kibune Shrine's rotation of offerings: from the 25th at the hour of the rooster, five people will maintain vigil from the 1st through 5th groups.
　Of the five people for Kibune's rotation of offerings, three will withdraw once Kibune is completed, while two will remain by agreement to serve the rotation of offerings for Shingu Ōta Shrine.

For Wakamiya Nara Shrine, Sawada Shrine, and Ujigami Shrine's rotation of offerings: from September 2nd at the hour of the rooster, two people from the 6th and 7th groups will maintain vigil. Moreover, among the rotations of offerings for Kataoka Shrine, Kibune Shrine, Wakamiya and below, [they] shall also handle the rotation of offerings for the smaller shrines.

1. On the day of reconstruction, those making voluntary pilgrimages must conduct themselves with utmost reverence, especially during the divine procession and at the shrine grounds. They must also instruct their attendants to avoid loud voices and the like. Furthermore, on the night of the main shrine's formal reconstruction, lanterns shall be displayed at all gates.

1. Imperial edicts were submitted by the shrine officials of Shingu and the six other shrines below. The record is as follows:
　　From the Left Controller's Office　　Kamo Shingu Shrine
　　　Matter of conducting the formal reconstruction of this shrine at the appointed date and time
　　　　September 5th, Year of the Metal Rabbit　　Hour of the Rooster
　　The above Right Acting Major Counselor Fujiwara no Ason Takamochi declares and respectfully receives the imperial command: it is appropriate to conduct [the ceremony] at the appointed date and time. The shrine should duly acknowledge this.
　　Acting according to this declaration
　　　6th year of An'ei, July 30th　　Right Grand Historian Miyoshi no Ason [seal]《Marginal note: Respectfully》
　　Acting Minor Controller Fujiwara no Ason [seal]
　　From the Left Controller's Office　　Kamo Ōta Shrine
　　　Matter of conducting the formal reconstruction of this shrine at the appointed date and time