It was ordered that two yoriki and six doshin would be dispatched from East and West for guard duty. Then, going to the Eastern Office and making application to the metsuke department, Kimura Genhachiro appeared and when told that acknowledgment would be made of what was ordered at the West Office, it was requested that this oral statement be written down with a seal and submitted. Accordingly, it was written and submitted, with the following copy retained:

　　　Memorandum of Oral Statement
Regarding security for today's formal relocation ceremony of the main shrine, we have repeatedly petitioned about this matter, but due to the vacancy in the Shoshidai position and last night's directive from the Imperial Messenger, since the security matter is under inquiry, it is difficult to dispatch [full security], but it was ordered that yoriki and doshin be dispatched for guard duty, as conveyed by the West Office, which we hereby acknowledge. The above.

　　　19th day of the 8th month　　Upper Kamo Shrine Community Representative
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Minamiooji Hitachi-no-suke (seal)
　To the Eastern Magistrate's Office

Then, gratitude was expressed to the Imperial Messenger Magistrate for the above notification before returning home. However, since there was also a summons from the Imperial Messenger, Suenaga set out to attend, but met Shiaki along the way, who said he had just visited the Imperial Messenger Magistrate, so both returned home from that point, etc.

One: This was the day of the formal relocation ceremony of the main shrine. The designated time was the Hour of the Rooster. Accordingly, around the Hour of the Rabbit, daily offerings were presented as usual from the main shrine (at this time newly enshrined in the new temporary sanctuary) to the former sanctuary (at this time the temporary hall), and to the subsidiary and branch shrines. The duty priest was Kataoka Negi Yoshihisa; for subsidiary shrines, the duty parishioner; for the twenty-one small Kamo shrines, shrine deputy Sueyoshi; and for the fifteen small Kibune shrines, daily attendant Hirotada made the offerings.
　　　　　Note: Details of fish offerings to the deities are recorded separately

One: The distribution of rice offerings and lower-grade rice was as follows:
　[Certified]
　One to nine sho six go: Daily offering rice　　One sho five go: Same (for deity offerings transport personnel)
　Nine sho six go: Vegetable offerings　　　　　Four go: Sitting fee
　One sho two go: Paper stand fee　　　　　　Four sho eight go: Oil fee
　Six sho four go: Temporary shrine daily offerings　Nine sho six go: Vegetable offerings
　One sho two go: Paper stand fee　　　　　　Four go: Sitting fee
　Three go: Rice cake and dumpling offerings　　Five sho eight go: Distribution portion