This is sake that has been officially recognized.

1. As a courtesy visit to Assistant Controller Takeuchi Danjō-shōhitsu, Tsutsumi Sanmi Tsunenaga came to visit. At the rest area, the assistant controller received recognition and other items from the shrine community, same as for other assistant controllers.

1. Today, as the stipend holders brought many people requiring provisions, arrangements were made in advance with the seven districts' representatives, and there was an allocation of chief administrators according to festival protocol.

20th day
1. Around the hour of the Snake (9-11 AM), representatives Shigeshoku and Kanemo went to the court and military authorities to express gratitude for yesterday's successful completion of the main shrine's formal relocation ceremony. They returned home before the hour of the Cock (5-7 PM). According to their report, they first visited Takeuchi Danjō-shōhitsu:
Dried squid (ten bundles), kelp (ten bundles), sake barrel (hand-carried barrel) one load

The above is because yesterday's formal relocation of the main shrine was completed without incident, for which the entire shrine community is deeply grateful. We offer the above礼 and, following precedent, present these items as listed. The response was appropriate.

1. Visiting Imperial Administrator Hinонishi Ben: same offerings as above. Particularly regarding security matters, you have taken great trouble

and arranged for provisions to be sent, for which we are all most grateful. We also expressed our thanks for this, and additionally presented 100 mon in gold to the administrative staff as is customary. The response was appropriate. On this occasion,
for the formal relocation ceremony of Kataoka Shrine, you provided us with the list of participants from Ben and below. Therefore, when we inquired about the time schedule, you indicated that offerings would be prepared at the hour of the Horse (11 AM-1 PM) and you would arrive by the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM).　Formal letter, folded horizontally

　　　Participants in Kataoka Shrine Formal Relocation
Ben　Hinонishi Gon-sa-shōben　　Records Office　Summoned attendant Muneoka-yukи
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Messenger
Officials Office　　　　　　　　Palace Maintenance Office　Assistant　Toshikazu
　Right Junior Historian Ki-atsushiki　　　　　　　Record Keeper Taira-yoshinobu
　Left Record Keeper Harumasa　　　Chamberlains Office
　Left Office Head Ki-ujikata　　　　　　　Imperial Storehouse　Tamami
　Right Office Head Ki-ujiakira　　　　　　　　　　Kiyomasu
　Summoned attendant Muneoka-kariyuki　　Water Office　　　Nobumasu
　Deputy envoy Muneoka-tomoyuki