was ordered.

1. Tea bowls were distributed to those stationed at the rest curtains and various rest areas, and preparations were made for transporting equipment, tea, tobacco powder, and lighting. However, one bundle of wood and one bundle of brushwood were distributed per household.
1. Under the direction of the chief organizer and general magistrate, there was inspection and distribution along the divine procession route and other areas.

2nd day (Kinoe-ne) Clear weather

1. For the formal relocation of Kifune Shrine, the shrine official on duty for offering divine provisions to the main shrine and auxiliary shrine outer sanctuary was Shrine Priest Sawada Kanei. However, since Kanei was ascending to Kifune today, the offerings were to be transferred, so Nara Celebrant Ujio participated instead. For the auxiliary shrine, the duty clansman made the offerings.
1. For the formal relocation of Kifune Shrine, the divine provisions for the inner and outer sanctuaries of both front and rear shrines as well as the small shrine outer sanctuary departed at the hour of the rabbit. Six porters for the imperial provisions were accompanied by Taguchi.
1. The hospitality personnel ascended the mountain around the hour of the rabbit today. The group was as follows:
　Assistant Priest Yasuhisa, Celebrant Yasukiyo, Shrine Priest Sawada Kanei, Secretary Akira (zasucho), Suehide
　(same) Kaneshige, General Magistrate Moriyasu - each brought one attendant when ascending the mountain.

　　At Kifune, each brought one person in informal court dress and one commoner attendant.
1. Nineteen laborers were sent to Kifune to transport various equipment. In addition to these laborers, attendant workers were all kept on standby and given various assignments. Including the imperial provision porters and leaders, a total of thirty-two laborers were assigned. Also, for tea transport: carpenter Choshiro, carpenter Ichibei, bark roof thatcher Seibei, and father and son Risuke came.
1. For the formal relocation of Wakamiya and Nara shrines on the coming 8th day, from tonight Wakamiya Priest Motoyasu, Celebrant Sueta, Nara Priest Kenkei, Celebrant Ujio, transfer offering sixth group Fumiyuki, and seventh group Kiyoman began religious retreat.
1. Early in the morning, the inner shrine was decorated, with the head priest and both officials in court dress, and transfer offering attendants in purification robes participating.
1. Around the hour of the snake, daily divine provisions were offered to both the rear shrine and the temporary shrine. However, these were morning imperial provisions.
　Those who participated were as follows:
　　Head Priest Hirohisa, Priest Okihisa, Deputy Celebrant Takeyasu, Ota Priest Yasuto (each of the above wore court dress and was accompanied by one commoner attendant)