Regarding the imperial report, since there will be a palace visit, the matter will be reported upon return to the residence. The intermediary is Okamoto Torajiro.

1. Besides the above, places where courtesy visits were made following the completion of the shrine relocation are as follows (conducted in simple ceremony):
   Nakai Mondo and other assigned yoriki and doshin are omitted.

1. Gifts sent to Igarashi and others are as follows:
   1. 200 mon in gold (for both the main shrine and Kifune formal relocations) - (Senior miscellaneous officer) Igarashi Gengo
   1. 1 kan mon in copper coins (same as above, in blue pouch) - (Junior miscellaneous officer) Yamada Kohji
   1. Same amount, same as above (same) - (Same rank) Nakai Sanemon
   1. 200 mon in gold, same as above - (Senior miscellaneous officer) Ogino Shichiro-zaemon
   1. 1 kan mon in copper coins (same as above) - (Junior miscellaneous officer) Kurisaka Bungo
   1. Same amount, same as above (same) - (Same rank) Yuasa Tashichiro
   These six households sent through group messengers.

1. 1 silver piece (placed on platform) - Dai-geki (Senior Secretary)
1. 500 mon in copper coins (in blue pouch) - Deputy envoy
1. 300 mon (in paper wrapping) - Messenger attendant
1. 1 kan mon in copper coins (in blue pouch) - Right Grand Historian (Yamana Harima-no-kami)
   However, due to administrative difficulties, this follows the precedent of Shotoku era for substitute attendance
1. 500 mon (same) - Deputy envoy
1. 300 mon (in paper wrapping) - Messenger attendant
   The above were sent through group superiors and subordinates. When delivering the silver piece to the Dai-geki, upon inquiring about the lodgings of the deputy envoys and messenger attendants, they were told it would be conveyed from the Dai-geki at one location, so they left it there and returned. The same was true for the Right Grand Minister.

1. Tonight at the hour of inu-i (9-11 PM), for the formal relocation of the four shrines - Kifune subsidiary shrine, Suzuka shrine, Kawao shrine, Ushiichi shrine, and Shirahige shrine - daily offerings will be presented to our shrine's main sanctuary and subsidiary shrines as usual. The preparations are by Celebrant Sawada Jushtun. For the four subsidiary shrines of the Kifune formal relocation, daily offerings and transfer offerings are prepared during the day, and at the time of relocation the head priest makes the preparations. Following the previous relocation, Master Head Priest Hirohisa, Transfer Offering Keeper Yasutate-ya Akira...