1. Tonight, for the formal relocation of both Sawada Ujigami shrines, the monthly prayers were held at dawn.

1. From early morning, head magistrates Chinken, Morimori, Yasumasa, and Suke-toshi appeared before both shrines and made some preparations.

1. Around the hour of the Snake, the head priest, both officials, and ritual assistants came for the interior decoration of both shrines, and both shrines were completed around the hour of the Sheep.

1. Tonight, for the formal relocation of both shrines, divine offerings were prepared and presented to the main shrine's subsidiary shrines. Shrine official Kataoka negi Norihisa attended.

1. At the hour of the Rooster, the formal relocation of Sawada Shrine began and was completed around the hour of the Dog, after which the sacred treasures were removed from the temporary hall. After the hour of the Dog, the formal relocation of Ujigami Shrine began, and the divine relocation was completed around the hour of the Boar. The relocation procedures for both shrines were the same as for Shingu and Ōta, so details are omitted. 《However, after extinguishing the ceremonial fires, there was the opening of sacred doors, purification, etc.》

Procession
Shrine attendants《torches》    Shrine attendants《torches》 Priest  Court dress《shoe-bearer, umbrella-bearer》
         Head priest《abbot, administrator, deputy》Court dress《shoe-bearer, umbrella-bearer》
Shrine attendants《torches》    Shrine attendants《torches》 Negi   Court dress《shoe-bearer, umbrella-bearer》

Ritual assistants  Servants
                   Group procession
Ritual assistants  Servants

Those participating in the service were as follows:
Head priest Hirohisa《formal court dress》, Sawada negi Kanetame《formal court dress》, priest Jūtoshi《same》, Ujigami negi Kaneyasu《same》, priest Hisayasu《same》, yin-yang master Yorikane《court cap and robe》, ritual assistants Fumiyuki and Kiyomaro《pure white robes and divided skirts》, abbot Kaneyasu, administrator (deputy) Yasuhiro, deputy (representative) Kenkō《but for Ujigami Shrine, pure white socks only》, Taguchi head carpenter, sword-bearer, shrine attendants, etc.

Shrine officials attending voluntarily:
Head priest Shigeueru《court cap and robe》, former head priest Yasutoshi《hunting robe》, assistant head priest Yasuhisa, priest Yasukiyo《court cap and robe each》, Kataoka negi Norihisa, Kifu negi Yasukyū, Ōta negi Yasuto《pure white robes each》, priest Chikaaki, Wakamiya negi Motoyasu《court cap and robe each》, priest Sueta《pure white robe》, Nara negi Kenken, priest Ujio《court cap and robe each》. Besides these, purification leaders and others attending voluntarily, approximately forty-some people.

The Ujigami Shrine ceremonies were completely finished around the hour of the Rat. After that, at the administrative building, all the visitors received divine offerings