Kami-Kamo Single Shrine Representative
　　　　Tori Year, 10th Month, 19th Day　　　　　　　Okamoto Awa-no-kami [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Umetsuji Oki-no-kami [seal]
　　　　Magistrate Office
　　Furthermore, to the court intermediary magistrate, this was reported orally
　　　　Document of Report
　　　　　　　　　　　　Single Shrine Representative Priest
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsushita Sanmi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke
　　　　　　　　　　　　Kifune Representative
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsushita Mutsu-no-kami
　　The above individuals will travel to Edo to express gratitude for
　　the successful completion of this construction project.
　　We hereby submit this notification. The above.
　　　　Tori Year, 10th Month, 19th Day　　　　　　　Okamoto Awa-no-kami [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Umetsuji Oki-no-kami [seal]
　　Magistrate Office

1. Representative Kanemochi returned and reported that the notification document about the completion of the Noh performance was received by Inspector Tanaka Yagoemon in the eastern office and Yamada Sakuzaemon in the western office. On this occasion, when he submitted the name registration document for the Edo gratitude visit to the western office, this was also received by Sakuzaemon. The notification was also submitted to the court intermediary magistrate.
　22nd Day, Kanoe-Tora, Clear weather
1. Regular day assembly. Among the reports from meeting place Kaneko:
　1. On the 21st, officials from the seven eastern and western districts attended and reported that they would offer daily offerings of celebration for the successful completion of construction on the 23rd
　1. From the coming 24th for five days, depending on weather, they wish to offer Kyōgen performances during the day, which was privately
　　communicated to the responsible group
　　After deliberation, it was decided appropriate to submit written notification to both offices, and after the offices' acknowledgment, notification should also go to the court intermediary magistrate. Immediately, representative Suenaga alone went forth (the notification document can be seen at the end)