To the patrol group: On the coming 24th and 25th, depending on weather, Kyōgen will be offered,
　so they should come out to watch. The viewing area should be arranged
　the same as during the recent celebratory Noh performance, and this should be announced
　to the junior officials
1. The farmers and young men from east and west districts requested to hold sumo wrestling
　After deliberation, it was decided that they should submit a petition with officials' additional seals, and only then make their request
　If a petition is submitted, a small assembly should be convened
　　　　After this concluded, everyone dispersed
1. From after the hour of the Horse, representative Suenaga alone went to the eastern and western offices carrying a notification document about the offering of Kyōgen, record of:
　　　　Oral notification document submitted
　The stage used for the celebratory Noh performance following the completion of construction
　has not yet been dismantled and remains as is. Therefore, on this stage, on the coming 24th and 25th,

　depending on weather, the townspeople who have business dealings with us have requested through
　the shrine association to offer Kyōgen for one day. Of course, there are no obstacles to this,
　so we wish to grant permission for the offering as requested. Since it will be offered on the aforementioned stage,
　we submit this notification. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo Single Shrine Representative
　　　　Tori Year, 10th Month, 22nd Day　　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Umetsuji Oki-no-kami [seal]
　　Magistrate Office
　23rd Day, Clear weather
1. Since a petition for sumo wrestling was submitted by young men from east and west, a small assembly was convened, record of:
　　　　　Memorandum of respectful petition
　We are most grateful that this construction project has been completed successfully. Regarding this, the young men from east and west
　have consulted together and wish to hold sumo wrestling at the riding grounds on the 26th of this month,
　so we respectfully petition you. We would be most grateful if you would graciously grant this request. The above.