One: Record of the petition document brought by representative Kanemochi
　　　　Petition statement
　As a celebration for the completion of our shrine's reconstruction, following the precedent of the Kanpō era, the farmers of the precinct
　have agreed to hold a one-day charity sumo tournament at Baba-omote on the coming 26th day as an offering to the shrine.
　Of course, if the 26th is rainy, we have requested to hold it on the 28th. After detailed inquiry at the shrine,
　it was determined that this would be carried out in the same manner as during the Kanpō years, and there being no
　obstacles, we humbly request that our petition be granted as requested. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo Shrine Representative
　　　　　Tori 10th month, 23rd day　　　　　　　　Okamoto Awa-no-kami (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Umesuji Oki-no-kami (seal)
　To the Magistrate's Office
　24th day, clear weather
One: Today, kyōgen was offered by townspeople who frequent the shrine. The program was as follows:
　　Sukara　　　　Yōzō　　　　Futari-bakama　　　Amazō
　　Awadaguchi　　Denjirō　　　Mago-muko　　　　Otokurō
　　Bun-sumō　　　Sentarō　　　Sannin-katawa　　Tōkurō
　　Nawanai　　　Tokujirou　　　Kōyaku-neri　　　Sutegorō
　　Fuse-mukyō　　Sōsuke　　　　Suō-otoshi　　　Denjirō
　　Kama-bara　　　Otokurō　　　Shūron　　　　　Yōzō
　　Satsukuwa　　　Genshirō　　　Utsubo-zaru　　　Tōkurō
　For this, the shrine gave 2 pieces of silver and 5 shō of sake to the kyōgen performers.
One: Early in the morning, Kiē went alone as representative to the Eastern Office. The purpose was regarding the sumo petition from the young farmers,
　so he brought the village headman and 2 domain farmers. Of course, he brought a written pledge from the shrine and
　petition documents from the farmers.
　　　　　Humbly submitting this petition statement
　This time, the reconstruction of Kami-Kamo Shrine has been completed without delay, and all the farmers are grateful for this
　fortunate occasion and rejoice. During the previous Kanpō reconstruction, the farmers also agreed to hold
　charity sumo at Baba-omote as an offering. This time too, following precedent, at the same
　location on the coming 26th, or if it rains on the 28th, we wish to hold a sumo tournament as an offering.
　Of course, we will not collect admission fees or gate fees, nor will we erect any temporary structures.
　It will not be elaborate, and we will conduct it as quietly as possible. We humbly request that, as in previous years,