we humbly request that you hear our petition and grant us permission. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo Village Farmers' Representative
　An'ei 6, Year of the Rooster, 10th month, 24th day　　　　　　　　　　　Gensuke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hyōsuke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Village Headman
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matazaemon (seal)
　To the Honorable Magistrate
One: Record of the follow-up document submitted to the government office regarding the sumo petition by the farmers that was granted permission
　　　　Document submitted
　The reconstruction of our shrine has been completed without delay, for which we are grateful. As an offering of gratitude at Baba-omote,
　the farmers of the precinct petitioned to hold a one-day charity sumo tournament,
　and we are grateful that permission was granted as requested. Given this, we will ensure it is not elaborate and that no fights or
　arguments occur. Of course, we will not erect any temporary structures.
　Also, we will not use this sumo event as a pretext for gambling or any competitions,
　as instructed, and we humbly comply. Of course, we will not charge spectators even one mon.
　Furthermore, the shrine will strictly enforce that it be finished within the day. For future reference,
　therefore as written.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo Shrine Representative
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke (seal)
　　　　Rooster year, 10th month, 24th day　　　　　　　Umesuji Oki-no-kami (seal)
　To the Magistrate's Office
　　　　Document submitted
　One: The farmers of Kami-Kamo Shrine's horse ground have agreed to hold a charity sumo tournament
　　on one clear day between the coming 26th and 28th days, and we are grateful
　　that permission has been granted. Given this, we will strictly observe the prohibitions
　　that have been issued from before and will be careful about fire prevention. Also, at the said location,
　　not only gambling and competitions but also dissolute persons will be strictly excluded. Of course, temporary structures
　　will not be erected at all. Regarding miscellaneous expenses for this event, even if disputes arise and petitions are made, they will not be taken up,
　　as instructed, and we humbly comply. When the designated period ends, we will promptly report. If we violate these conditions,
　　those who have affixed their seals may be punished in any manner. This document is submitted for future reference, as written.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo Farmers' Representative
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Gensuke (seal)
　　　　An'ei 6, Year of the Rooster, 10th month, 24th day　　　　　　　　Hyōsuke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Village Headman
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matazaemon (seal)
　　To the Honorable Magistrate