By council decision, it was decided to give 300 me each as decided in the previous meeting
　One: Hōkōin was invited, and regarding the petition for the opening ceremony, the petition will be submitted the day after tomorrow on the 24th, and naturally the
　　monks should also appear, this was requested
　24th day (Hinoe-Tatsu) Clear
One: Around the hour of the Dragon, representatives Kōkyū and Kanemochi appeared with the purpose of bringing a petition from the temple regarding the opening ceremony of Jingūji and Shōshinji
　with the endorsement of one shrine
　　　　　Memorandum of petition
　　The repair of Kami-Kamo Jingūji, Shōshinji and others through religious associations has been ordered
　　and we humbly express our gratitude. In previous years we also conducted opening ceremonies of the main images of both temples following repairs,
　　so this time as well, we humbly wish to conduct an opening ceremony for thirty days from the 20th day of the 2nd month to the 27th day of the 3rd month of the coming Dog year.
　　We humbly petition for favorable consideration of this matter. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Representatives of the monks
　　　12th month of the Rooster year　　　　　　　　Kisshōin seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Gyokusenin seal
　　　　　To the One Shrine

　　As the monks have petitioned as above, the entire one shrine
　　unanimously petitions that permission be granted as requested. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kami-Kamo One Shrine Representatives
　　　24th day of 12th month, Rooster year　　　　Okamoto Awanokami seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tomino Sadonokami seal
　　To the Magistrate's Office
　Precedent document: folded cedar, horizontal fold
　　　　　　Precedent document
　　For thirty days from the 28th day of the 2nd month to the 27th day of the 3rd month of Kanpō 3
　　the petition was submitted and permission granted. The above.
　　　　　12th month of Rooster year
Around half past the hour of the Rooster, returning home to explain: when appearing at the Eastern Office and applying to the public affairs department, meeting with Kimura
Kurōbei, regarding the petition matter, since official duties ended on the 22nd and it was particularly reported to the imperial secretary,
it cannot be concluded, so the petition should be made in the coming New Year, and thus withdrew. The same was
reported by Gyokusenin, the representative of the monks.