Gyokusen'in accompanied them in their appearance. However, the copy of the documents they brought is as follows:
　　　Oral report notification
　　Regarding the anti-slip boards for the steps during the Jingūji and Shōjinja exhibitions and
　　the bamboo handrails that we previously notified you about, today with the closing of the exhibitions we have removed them. Therefore we submit this notification. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kamigamo Shrine Representatives
　　　Year of the Dog, 3rd month, 27th day　　　Yamamoto Kazusanosuke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Echigonokami (seal)
　　Magistrate's Office
　　　Oral report notification
　　Regarding the Jingūji and Shōjinja exhibitions for which we previously submitted a petition and received permission,
　　today on the 27th day at the hour of the monkey we closed the exhibitions, so we submit this notification. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kamigamo Shrine Representatives
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yamamoto Kazusanosuke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Echigonokami (seal)
　　Magistrate's Office
　　　　　　　Two copies each to the above two offices

29th day (kanoe-tora) cloudy
One: After morning meal, early on, regarding the temple's submission of scrolls, accompanying representatives Wahei and Suehide appeared. Moreover, the temple monk Gyokusen'in also accompanied them. Past the hour of the sheep, the representatives returned home. The report stated:
Upon visiting the magistrate, since the divine services were to conclude by the hour of the horse, the presentations to the five palaces were completed after the hour of the horse. Moreover, there were apparently accompanying messengers to four of the palaces.
　　　　4th month, short month
7th day (hinoto-tori) clear
One: Ceremonial day assembly, among what Assembly Head Ujitetsu announced:
　One: On the past 29th day, temple monk Gyokusen'in came and brought the printing blocks of the sacred image from Shōjinja to return them
　　In discussion, it was decided that today they should be placed in the imperial library
　One: What Head Priest Hirohisa reported was that regarding the small shrines outside of the main repairs, previously from within the shrine [community]...