1. Same year, December 21st: Appointed as attendant guard, granted an increase of two hyō.

1. 1st year of Kan'en, Year of the Dragon (1748), November 26th: Marriage approved with the younger sister of Takahashi Kichibei, retainer of Lord Mizuno Kenmotsu.

1. 2nd year of same era, Year of the Snake (1749), April 19th: Relieved of duties as secretary and purchasing officer, henceforth appointed to next guard duty at the lower residence kitchen.

1. Same year, June 17th: Appointed as temporary steward for Lord Shōgeiin, to serve concurrently as gate guard.

1. 3rd year of Hōreki, Year of the Cock (1753), December 24th: Appointed as regular steward for Lord Shōgeiin, granted an increase of two hyō, total stipend of twenty-two hyō and support for two retainers.

1. 8th year of same era, Year of the Tiger (1758), October 18th: Appointed to serve concurrently as inspector and steward, thereby promoted to the rank of middle page, granted an increase of four hyō and one retainer's support, total stipend of twenty-six hyō and support for three retainers, appointed to rest quarters duties and assistant equipment keeper.

1. 11th year of same era, Year of the Snake (1761), July 29th: Due to exceptional service despite heavy kitchen duties, privately summoned by chamberlain Shibata Onouemon and granted ceremonial court dress.

1. Same year, September 18th: In February of this year, when the young lord moved residence, temporary attendants were assigned. Due to current difficulties with the retainer quarters, he was asked to temporarily make use of existing quarters, which he quickly arranged. However, due to various complications, both men were kept there for an extended period and have finally been returned at this time. Due to the long stay in temporary quarters causing hardship, and hearing that even the tatami mats in the quarters had become unsightly, granted one ryō two bu as compensation.

1. 12th year of same era, Year of the Horse (1762), intercalary April 29th: Appointed to serve concurrently in the treasury department, relieved of steward duties.

1. 1st year of Meiwa, Year of the Monkey (1764), November 23rd: Adoption approved of Yosuke, second son of Nakamura Shozaemon, retainer of Lord Itakura Settsu-no-kami, age fourteen.

1. 4th year of same era, Year of the Boar (1767), May 7th: Granted an increase of two hyō, total stipend of twenty-eight hyō and support for three retainers.

1. 8th year of same era, Year of the Rabbit (1771), December 25th: Appointed as inspector of middle pages, granted an increase of five hyō, total stipend of thirty-three hyō and support for three retainers, continuing concurrent service as inspector and treasury official, all other matters as before.

1. 2nd year of An'ei, Year of the Snake (1773), March 26th: Retainer of Lord Miura Shima-no-kami [entry incomplete].