granted support for two retainers. Duties to continue as before, with foot soldier service to be appointed as circumstances require.
1. 8th year of same era, Year of the Monkey (1788), May 20th: Ordered to report to the lord's escort service.
1. 2nd year of Kansei, Year of the Dog (1790), March 21st: Appointed to escort service duty.
1. Same year, September 8th: Died of illness in Osaka 《Marginal note: Since great-grandfather's time》
　　　　Request placed that grandmother and mother not be left destitute. Buried at Rokushichiji Temple, Hosojima, of the Jōdo sect, being of the Ikkō sect.

　　　　　　　　　　　Emergency Adoption
　　　　　　　　　　　　Nishida Tamemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Originally Kinemon
1. Actually the second son of Matsuoka Kinnosuke, a foot soldier in Lord Yonezu Kotayū's fire brigade unit 《Marginal note: 32 years old》. 2nd year of Kansei, Year of the Dog, October 13th: Moved to adoptive family. Should observe prescribed mourning period. Relatives Nochi Matsuemon and Sakai Orisaemon made request.
1. 2nd year of Kansei, Year of the Dog (1790), December 4th: Nishida Kuemon's deathbed request. The deceased's grandmother and mother made petition through Nochi Matsuemon and Sakai Orisaemon. Adoption approved as requested. Since Kuemon's great-grandfather's time, [the family] served diligently, therefore granted inherited position of stipend eighteen hyō and support for two retainers. Appointed to lord's escort foot soldier service under foot soldier commander supervision.
1. 4th year of same era, Year of the Rat (1792), April 22nd: Appointed concurrent duty in mountain affairs and emergency food distribution under magistrate supervision.
1. 5th year of same era, Year of the Ox (1793), January 4th: Appointed as proxy pilgrim to Myōgi on the coming 9th day.
1. 6th year of same era, Year of the Tiger (1794), December 25th: Relieved of both official duties.
1. 7th year of same era, Year of the Rabbit (1795), January 2nd: House arrest lifted. Appointed to escort service duty under foot soldier commander supervision.
1. 11th year of same era, Year of the Sheep (1799), February 1st: Died of illness 《Marginal note: Since great-great-grandfather's time, wife deceased》

　　　　　　　　　　　Emergency Adoption
　　　　《Marginal note: Retainer of Suwa Shinnosuke, younger brother of Yamada Kyūemon, 28 years old》　　Nishida Shingo
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Originally Kodenji
1. 11th year of Kansei, Year of the Sheep (1799), March 23rd: Emergency adoption approved as requested by the late Nishida Tamemon. Granted inherited position of stipend eighteen hyō and support for two retainers. Appointed to lord's escort foot soldier service under foot soldier commander supervision. Same year, 28th day: Changed name to Shingo, previously Kodenji.
1. Same year, August 9th: Absconded, family line severed. Great-great-grandmother of adoptive family granted assistance of support for one retainer. 3rd year of Bunka, Year of the Tiger (1806), May 23rd: Died of illness.