【Red text in upper right corner】Nishimura
　　　　　　　　　　　　Nishimura Kanbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Originally Yasudayū
1. 3rd year of Kyōhō, Year of the Dog (1718), 2nd month: Changed name to Kanbei 《Marginal note: Request made on January 15th, approval obtained from Edo》
1. Same year, September 19th: On this occasion at Niekawa post station, during an incident involving a madman, failed to perform proper martial conduct, therefore stipend support was revoked and forbidden to remain anywhere in Shinano Province or to wander about Edo.
　　　　　District magistrate unit member Saitō Hatsuemon went mad.

　　　　　　　　　　　Kanbei's son
　　　　　　　　　　　　Nishimura Kinzaemon
1. 3rd year of Kyōhō, Year of the Dog, September 19th: Father Kanbei failed in proper martial conduct at Niekawa post station, therefore stipend support was revoked, and consequently granted permanent leave of absence with restrictions imposed by senior councilor's close branch family members. Kinzaemon's wife and children temporarily taken in by Okamura Matahachi.

　　　　　　　　　　Edo
　　　　　　　　　　　Kanbei's son
　　　　　　　　　　　　Nishimura Uheiji
1. 3rd year of Kyōhō, Year of the Dog, September 26th: Father Kanbei failed in proper martial conduct at Niekawa post station, therefore stipend support was revoked, and consequently granted permanent leave of absence with restrictions imposed by senior councilor's close branch family members.
　　　　　However, since he served as a document clerk, when the order was issued, a counter-pledge inquiry was commissioned.

　　　　　　　　　　　　Hoshina Kichiemon
1. 2nd year of Kansei, Year of the Dog (1790), April 14th: Temporarily appointed as assistant guard at the castle gate.
1. 4th year of same era, Year of the Rat (1792), intercalary 2nd month, 6th day: Farmers at Horinouchi in Lord Uchida Tsurugorō's domain - Kawahira Sazaemon's daughter wishes to marry, petition approved.
1. Same year, March 15th: From temporary service as castle gate guard in the kitchen department, granted regular rank with five koku of rice stipend and support for two retainers 《Marginal note: Previously four ryō》
1. Same year, April 22nd: Appointed to regular guard duty at Minami-no-tsuji.
1. 7th year of same era, Year of the Rabbit (1795), September 26th: Wife died.
1. Same year, November 27th: Petition approved to adopt Yoshizō, younger brother of Kaneko Eisaku from the castle keeper's unit.
【Red text in upper left corner】Hoshina