to serve. Two hyō salary increase, total twenty-two hyō with support for two retainers granted, temporarily retained until appointment as successor to purchasing agent
1. Same year, April 8th: Marriage to daughter of Kobayashi Ichiemon, masterless samurai under Matsudaira Tononomkami, approved as petitioned
1. Same 11th year, Year of the Snake (1761), February 28th: Relieved of temporary purchasing agent duties
1. Same 12th year, Year of the Horse (1762), intercalary April 29th:
　　As the Young Lord takes residence at the lower mansion, appointed to take charge of catering duties and all kitchen affairs, to consult with financial inspectors regarding various expenses and accounts, and to serve in the move to the lower mansion
1. Same 13th year, Year of the Sheep (1763), March 3rd: Petition for official position withheld by the stewards
1. 1st year of Meiwa, Year of the Monkey (1764), June 14th: Appointed temporary head of servants at the lower mansion, concurrently serving mountain affairs, miso production, and cooking duties
1. Same 3rd year, Year of the Dog (1766), April 25th: Appointed permanent head of servants at the lower mansion, appointed to concurrently serve mountain affairs, miso production, and cooking duties, two hyō salary increase, total twenty-four hyō with support for two retainers granted
1. Same 7th year, Year of the Tiger (1770), March 14th: Appointed to the rank of middle page, two hyō and one retainer support increase, total twenty-six hyō with support for three retainers granted
1. Same 9th year, Year of the Dragon (1772), May 21st: Appointed inspector of middle pages, four hyō salary increase, total thirty hyō with support for three retainers granted
1. Same year, October 29th: Appointed concurrently as inspector of the lower mansion
1. Same year, November 15th: Appointed as catering officer for the Young Lord, as previously appointed, naturally including inspection duties, to take charge of all kitchen affairs and various expense accounts
1. 1st year of An'ei, Year of the Dragon (1772), December 10th: At the lower mansion, appointed as ceremonial attendant for the Young Lord's yakudoshi year, granted formal court dress
1. Same 2nd year, Year of the Snake (1773), November 20th: Serving at the head accounting office, concurrently inspector of accounting and various departments, appointed to upper mansion administration, middle page inspector duties as before
1. Same 4th year, Year of the Sheep (1775), April 5th: Died of illness. Since late father, Izawa Jūdayū's younger brother, Shirōji, age 16, currently residing in the domain, petition for adoption submitted
　　　　　　Service record

　　　　　　　　　　　　Actually younger brother of Izawa Jūdayū
　　　　　　　　　　　Adopted son
　　　　　　　　　　　　Tomioka Genshichi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Original name: Shirōji