We believe that everyone should manage to get by and continue their duties. The details have been communicated to the senior retainers, so they should be informed.
　　　　However, there is no statement that "all those below regular duty officers are well and this is gratifying"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Monthly Duty Officers

○As just expressed in His Lordship's statement, excessive rice borrowing has been imposed for a long period, and His Lordship is deeply concerned that this will cause hardship for everyone. Various deliberations have been conducted regarding appropriate relief measures, but due to the suspension of various debts and financial constraints, there are no other financing options available. Therefore, although a small amount, temple note silver borrowing has been ordered as relief, and the interest will be repaid through savings from His Lordship's household. Furthermore, as previously ordered, all should serve with forbearance regardless of others' circumstances. The magistrates will issue notifications regarding the amount of lending notes and the proportional repayment rates.
　　　　　June 1st　However, in Edo this was announced on June 17th
　　　　　　Silver lending proportions as follows:
　Same rank division
　300 koku - 230 monme of silver　365 koku - 276 monme of silver　250 koku - 192 monme of silver
　Subordinate division
　25 koku - 73 monme of silver　9 koku - 17 monme of silver　　　　Others abbreviated
　　　　　　Total
　　However, repayment with interest of 5 shu per month

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Chiefs of Divisions
○In the previous year of the Rat, there was an official notice from the senior inspectors, and as announced at that time, regarding the fundraising pilgrimage for repairs to various halls and shrines of Hayabusa Hachiman, this time the shrine officials representing head priest Imazawa Dainoshin will conduct a pilgrimage through this province. Believers should make appropriate silver donations regardless of the amount. If they request relay horses, lodging, etc. during the pilgrimage, this should be communicated to subordinates so that there are no obstacles through mutual assistance.
　　　　　July 23rd
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate　Takada Magoemon

○Regarding river embankment construction methods, as repeatedly announced, local villages along river embankments should regularly maintain and repair them so that agricultural land does not collapse due to major breaks. In case of floods, not only local villagers but also villages that may be affected by flooding should coordinate and work together to prevent damage. When major floods occur, members of the four-district groups should be dispatched with respective instructions. For critical locations, river embankment officials may be dispatched to direct prevention efforts, so all villages should understand this collectively.
　　However, regarding the Shibahara upper water intake, as this is a critical location, during major floods, all of Matsuoka, Shihi border town, and other nearby villages as well as downstream villagers should coordinate and come out to provide protection.
　The above should be communicated from us to the Kanazu Magistrate, Three Districts Magistrate, and River Embankment Magistrate.