To the Inspector

○Regarding the water drainage from people who have been drawing water for drinking from the runoff of the ornamental pond in His Lordship's garden, while this water drainage work should normally be done at their own expense through private construction, since this is during the designated year period, for this occasion only, the water drainage work will be newly granted from above as a one-time measure. Therefore, arrangements should be made so that water can flow out into the moat from beside the Kawaguchi Gate. However, hereafter, when this waterway becomes damaged, those who draw water should consult together and perform private construction at their own expense, as has been ordered. Note that the content of this main text should also be communicated to those who draw water.
　　　　　November 20th

　Regarding the above, this should be communicated to Okabe Sazen's group, Inaba Miki, Hayashi Hachiemon, Sanada Chikara, and others respectively.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Town Magistrate

○The Zenkoji Nyorai will make a pilgrimage tour soon. In this regard, we have been informed that careful treatment has been provided at various locations during previous pilgrimages, and we assume you are aware of this. As you know, due to drought damage this year, tax collection has decreased considerably, and we are in difficult circumstances. Moreover, since reports have been made to the shogunate and we are in a period of exceptional frugality, we cannot act freely in all matters. There are also considerations of balance with other provinces, and it would be problematic if the other party were to misunderstand the situation. Therefore, this matter should be communicated to the temple administration for their understanding.
　　　　　Intercalary November 14th

　　　However, this matter should also be communicated to the Kanazu Magistrate and Four Districts Magistrate through Takada Magozaemon

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Suzuki Hyakusuke

○A copy of the written document given by Account Magistrate Kuze Tango-no-kami has been handed over. This should be understood accordingly.

　Written Document

　Regarding the domain's emergency rice reserves ordered in the past Year of the Rooster, when first ordered, it was commanded that they should be stored as unhulled rice (籾) as much as possible, and portions not in unhulled rice should be replaced annually. However, there have been claims that portions of unhulled rice storage suffered from disease or spoilage, leading to orders to replace them with hulled rice. But if hulled rice storage continues to increase in this manner, it would contradict the original intention of storing as much as possible in unhulled rice form. Therefore, hereafter, replacing with hulled rice without special reasons will not be easily permitted. Furthermore, even portions currently stored as hulled rice would better serve the original intention if converted to unhulled rice, so this matter should also be communicated without fail. If portions currently stored as hulled rice are hereafter replaced with unhulled rice, the reason should be reported to the Accounting Office. This matter has been communicated as it was ordered to Toda Uneme-no-sho.
　　　　　Intercalary November

　Regarding domain emergency rice reserves, for branch family territories under branch families, portions already reported jointly to the Accounting Office by the main family need not be separately communicated, so this should be handled as stated in the separate document.　Intercalary November
　　　　　Intercalary November 25th