Year 1 of Kansei 7, Year of the Rabbit
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Magistrate

○Regarding the prohibited regulations for the offshore entrance of Mikuni Port, as deliberated this time, the long-standing legal provisions should be added in writing and delivered to Kanazu Magistrate Atsumi Shinemon. This is to be communicated as follows. Also, copies of documents delivered in Kyōhō 13, Year of the Monkey, should likewise be delivered.

　　　　　Document to be delivered to Atsumi Shinemon as follows:

　The prohibited regulations for the offshore entrance of Mikuni Port have been ordained since ancient times, and should be strictly observed as they are read aloud annually on January 22nd at the port to all assembled. However, in recent years, we have heard that there are some who misunderstand these rules. Hereafter, when such misunderstanding individuals are reported, severe punishment will be administered. Furthermore, having deliberated this time, the long-standing legal provisions are to be added to the regulations, and the Magistrate is instructed that the Accounting Office should communicate these to you personally. The offshore entrance regulations are matters that have been communicated to the public authorities. You should communicate the details to Kuchisen-yaku Hori Chōbei and other officials, as well as to the port officials, and as before, ensure that the regulations are thoroughly read aloud annually on January 22nd at the port, and that all understand without error. Also, copies of documents delivered in Kyōhō 13, Year of the Monkey, should be communicated, so they should be handled in accordance with the previous article.
　　　　　　February 8th

　The aforementioned offshore entrance prohibited regulations have until now been delivered directly to the kuchisen-yaku at the Accounting Office, but from this time forward, the revised method as stated above has been ordered. Other matters should be understood as before.
　　　　　　However, the Kanazu Magistrate has also been instructed to understand and handle this matter accordingly.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Nakane Yukie

○There has been a recent directive that investigations should be assigned respectively to prevent confusion regarding military equipment. Accordingly, I have been ordered to assist the Senior Councilor and serve in this capacity.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tsuchiya Jūrōemon

○Since military equipment is numerous, investigations have been ordered to ensure it is organized without confusion. The Senior Councilors have instructed that this should be communicated to the Military Equipment Magistrates as well, and that Ihara Hyōzaemon should consult and gradually conduct investigations.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ihara Hyōzaemon

○The same as above, investigations have been ordered, so the Senior Councilors have instructed that consultations should be held with the Military Equipment Magistrates to conduct investigations.
　　　　　　February 25th　Note: On November 16th of the following Dragon year, the military equipment sorting and inspection was completed, and various commendations and rewards were received.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Magistrate

○Since the kitchen head's annual duty of handling ceremonial standards has been exempted henceforth, regarding the ceremonial standards office appointed this time...