It has come to his lordship's attention that they behave arrogantly. Since their stipend is 100 koku, they naturally think they have good status, but this is a grave misunderstanding. Due to such attitudes, there have been cases where they have requested to present their sons during martial arts demonstrations. Henceforth, they must not forget their proper station.

1. Regarding adoptions and marriage arrangements: From now on, for positions of junior guard (sue no bangai) and above, marriages with yoriki will not be permitted unless there are proper connections. However, for positions below junior guard, the previous arrangements remain acceptable as before.
　　　　　September (Year of the Monkey)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Supervising Head
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector (Metsuke)

○ As previously announced, since his lordship has many affairs to attend to, there may be occasions when his judgment differs from expectations. Therefore, it was ordered that in such cases, all departments should report anything they notice that might benefit his lordship. Everyone should be prepared to report such matters. However, not everything is reported - many matters are held back and not reported, which is common practice among various domains, both high and low officials. Nevertheless, since this has been ordered with such gracious consideration, nothing should be held back, and his lordship is pleased when matters beneficial to him are reported. This is something he has long understood. He believes that no one other than his retainers has such deep loyalty to speak up for his benefit. Previously, minor matters were not reported and were held back as common practice, but if this continues, his gracious intentions will not be fulfilled, hence this announcement.

　He considers this matter to be of no consequence. Recently, when the warehouse guard position was abolished, it was heard that the handling of this matter should have been reported from below. Regarding this, Ota Saburobei was appointed to both the gunpowder warehouse guard and the wool/boat guard positions, and when this was quickly announced to the gun unit leaders, Saburobei expressed his deep gratitude. In such matters, everyone should have requested that replacement positions be determined before abolishing the warehouse guard position, and there would have been no dissatisfaction from below. Such situations should not occur in the future, and this is announced once again. End.
　　　　　September 27th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain (Goyounin)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Temples and Shrines Magistrate

○ Until now, memorial services have been held for the 70th anniversary of death for successive lords and others, but it has been ordered that this practice will be discontinued hereafter.
　　　　　October 27th