1. After the various lords take up co-residence, Kishida Jirozaemon, Ideura Kyusaburo, and Tsubokawa Hanshiro - these three men shall consult together and perform guard duties as ordered

1. Due to the co-residence, staff reductions are ordered, and a total of four samurai retainers are ordered to return to the home domain

1. Regarding Yamaguchi Tonai, although staff reduction is ordered for him, he is retained for martial arts training, assigned to the three-district fire brigade role, and also ordered to serve in the great hall guard duties and such

1. Three ashigaru (foot soldiers) are subject to staff reduction, but when personnel are insufficient, temporary hiring is authorized, so economize and manage personnel accordingly

1. Two pages are subject to staff reduction

1. One cook, one kitchen assistant deputy, three male servants, and one head laborer are subject to staff reduction

1. Among the chamber attendant non-sleeping monks, one assistant is assigned from among those currently on duty rotation, making a total of three assigned

1. Regarding the same attendant formal monks, since staying at the upper mansion formal reception area would not allow them to handle their duties properly, they are assigned as requested from the attendant inner quarters rotation

1. Among the kitchen regular workers, previously at Reiganjima mansion there were four water carriers to be reduced plus four out of eight messengers to be reduced, totaling eight reductions out of twelve people. However, the previous three upper mansion messengers should be combined for a total of seven to carry out the work

1. Among the broad quarters laborers: During the lifetime of Lady Koan-in, there were eight servants with daily duties that met requirements, but after the servants became senior staff, they were called lower rotation, with eight servant replacements plus two additional workers, totaling ten assigned. However, with co-residence, these ten become senior staff, and with sixteen servants for Lady Sada and Lady Hiro, the previous arrangements should meet daily requirements

1. Seven broad quarters regular workers are reduced from both sides

1. Five Reiganjima broad quarters gate guards are discontinued upon relocation
　However, among these five, some carried [items] during nearby fire evacuations, but hereafter broad quarters minor officials shall carry them

1. Similarly, eight water carriers become senior staff
　However, if there are no water carriers at the upper mansion causing problems, assign them according to previous upper mansion arrangements

1. Five Reiganjima formal reception regular workers are discontinued
　However, if the upper mansion reception staff at current levels cause problems, increase after investigation

1. Three stable workers are reduced from both locations

1. One Reiganjima scribes' office administrator is discontinued

1. Similarly, two garden workers and one cleaning worker are reduced

1. Similarly, construction work is normally suspended, and when there is official business, workers come from the upper mansion. Therefore, two out of four building guards and tatami specialists are reduced, two construction guards and office staff are stationed, and work is performed daily under construction supervision

1. One senior chambermaid and one junior chambermaid for the formal lady are hereafter discontinued and become additional garden workers

1. One out of two - senior and junior chambermaids - for the young lord is reduced

1. For the Tayasu attendant administrator's assistant and lance-bearer substitute positions, the broad quarters reception guard duty personnel are ordered to serve instead, and the aforementioned lance-bearer substitutes