Due to poor harvests and unexpected disasters such as fires in the post town, they reduced by three more horses and have recently been managing with seven horses. Unlike other post stations, this has caused problems as an accommodation station, requiring them to hire from nearby stations and pay additional fees. Moreover, since last year, five of the seven horses have become sick horses, compounding their difficulties. They wish to replace these five sick horses and newly add three post horses, making a total of ten horses to serve official duties without incident. However, this is difficult to achieve on their own, so the leaders have undertaken to request a loan of rice. After examination, for the purpose of newly stabling three post horses and replacing five sick horses, a loan of thirty-five bales of rice has been approved for ten-year installment payments starting from the end of this Year of the Dragon. This matter should be communicated. However, regarding Asamizu, while there is annual assistance, recently they have petitioned about post horses and been granted excessive rice loans, yet before completing full payment, they petition again, which is an undisciplined request. After strict investigation at the office, they should be carefully ordered with proper written pledges not to carelessly reduce service horses or make inappropriate requests when replacing horses in the future, and this matter should be handled accordingly.
　　　　February 25th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Supervisory Head [?]
1. Sake, miso, soy sauce, sweet sake, indigo for dyers, vinegar
Those who use medicinal substances to temporarily restore spoiled items of the above types, or make new sake into old sake and old sake into new sake, and perform strange methods regarding men and women, plus about thirty other mysterious practices - over twenty such people have appeared from the western provinces. The medicinal substances used for these restorations are extremely poisonous, and even a small amount eaten or contacted with the body will result in death within fifty days without exception. Therefore, they have been arrested in various places, but remaining members moved from Wakasa to Tsuruga, from Tsuruga to Imajo post station. Recently one person came to Imajo, stayed there, and distributed written notices to sake shops, but as word gradually spread from Tsuruga about this suspicious person, yesterday on the 29th he fled from the inn at Imajo. He is said to be originally from Kaga Province, and from Imajo went toward Yunoo. He is described as about fifty years old and one-eyed. The above.
　　　　Last day of February
　　If such a person stays or is present, arrangements should be made to report immediately.

　　　　　　At Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspector
To be entered later in order [error?]
1. Regarding purification: There are proclamations after the government succession, and proclamations issued in accordance with these. However, due to many errors, this is now proclaimed anew. Hereafter, proclamations are issued to avoid misunderstandings.
1. When visiting Toshogu Shrine: From evening time, purification and inspection of mourning period for the residence
1. During prayers in the 1st, 5th, and 9th months: The same as above
1. For visits to other shrines regarding purification: From evening time, inspection of mourning period for those involved in serving food; others involved in mourning may remain at the residence without problem. Those attending as escorts must be inspected for mourning in all cases.
The above is proclaimed for both Edo and the domain.
　　　　April 28th