1. First Year of Kansei, Year of the Rooster (1789)
　　　　Addendum: Notice from the Accounting Office as follows:
　○As ordered in the attached document, please submit written reports immediately. If there were no expenses from last year, please report that as well. End. February. To all concerned. Accounting Office
　　　　Attached Document
　○As previously instructed, since direct orders were issued to various departments last summer, everyone should work diligently and handle matters of frugality. Regarding this, each department should submit reports comparing last year's expenses with those of the previous Horse year, showing increases and decreases. Furthermore, it is ordered that from now on, during his lordship's residence in the domain, comparisons should be made with the previous year of residence, and during his absence, comparisons should be made with the previous year of absence, with annual increase/decrease reports to be submitted by each department.
　　　　Total ※However, for the inspector's office, regarding the count of official paper submitted by organized personnel, miscellaneous silver expenses are unclear and not submitted. Nothing else is submitted either.
　　　　February 3rd
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate of Four Districts
○Previously, there was an announcement from the shogunate to territories under direct administration, and it was ordered that the same message be conveyed to our domain territories. Regarding storage in rural areas during bad harvest years, everyone is aware of this matter. Furthermore, it is announced that if one does not always keep in mind the possibility of bad harvests, there will be difficulties with food supply in rural areas when poor harvests occur. While relief will be provided to the extent of our capability, rural areas should also be constantly mindful and devise storage methods that could help during poor harvests. Each magistrate should instruct the head village officials, and if there are any innovative methods, they should be reported in advance. This matter is to be communicated as ordered.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Same as above
○Regarding people from rural areas of our domain going to other provinces to work, there are established regulations. Until recent years, many people were doing this. Although the numbers have decreased in recent years, there are still those who go to other provinces under various pretexts. When the number of farmers decreases, it naturally weakens the agricultural productivity of our domain. Therefore, people should not carelessly go to other provinces to work. However, if there are unavoidable circumstances and a request is made, the reasons should be thoroughly investigated before permission is granted. This matter is to be conveyed as ordered.
　　　January 25th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector
○As announced in previous years, regarding promotions, requests from subordinates should no longer be made. Additionally, requests for positions such as junior calculator or junior assembly member through representatives should also not be made. This should be understood accordingly.
　　　February 22nd