loans shall be made according to the same proportion.

　　　　　Method of Silver Loan Distribution
Applications received by the 25th of each month will be distributed on the 10th of the following month
　Note: With monthly interest of 3 shu, to be paid back over 5 years

The above shall be distributed at the Policy Office (Goshui-kata Yakusho)
　　　　　June 11th　To all subordinates
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inspector in charge of the Treasury Office

〇Regarding the silver loans ordered for retainers this time, 62 kan-monme from the treasury silver has been borrowed using the port fees from Mikuni Harbor as collateral. However, since these port fee funds were previously allocated to emergency assistance loans for Edo, until that amount is fully repaid, 5-year installment principal and 3 shu interest will be collected from the retainers, and 4 shu for repayment, totaling 7 shu to be added and distributed. Of course, once the previous principal and interest are settled, the port fee revenue will be transferred to the principal and interest of this current loan replacement, with appropriate adjustments made.
　　　　　June 13th

【Left margin attached paper】
In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chamberlain
1. Cleaning around the mansion shall be done carefully, and tatami mats, fusuma sliding doors, folding screens, and all other furnishings shall be handled so as not to be damaged
1. All doors, shoji screens, fusuma doors, and furnishings in the rooms and duty stations of both mansions have been entrusted to the head priests and duty guards. These shall be inspected and transferred during shift changes
1. When furnishings are damaged, the Construction Office shall be notified to arrange repairs. Of course, if repairs require sending items to the Construction Office, the Accounting Office shall be contacted to arrange this. For minor matters, consultation should be made to avoid unnecessary trouble, and details should be communicated during duty rotations

The above has been ordered to be handled by the head supervisors of the priests, equipment officials, and timekeeper officials.
　　　　　June 14th