Magistrate
                                            Fuda-dokoro Inspector
〇 His lordship deeply sympathizes with the severe financial hardship of the retainers, and as relief measures, has graciously extended the deadline for repayment of the silver loans from the year of the Tiger that were due this winter. This should be announced as stated above.
    September 25th
                                            To the Inspector
〇 When box petitions are submitted and respective investigations are ordered, the department heads should understand the nature of the petition and thoroughly investigate the circumstances.
Article 1: Regardless of whether the petition is granted or not, when there is an investigation regarding a box petition, it has the same effect as if the petition were granted.
Article 1: If the method of box petition violates the regulations, there shall be judgment after investigation.
    November 19th This matter should be communicated to the supervising heads
                                            Magistrate
〇 According to the recent policy, among the three deputy administrators serving the magistrates of the fourteen territories, one person per territory has been appointed as a ten-hyō stipend deputy administrator. When there are vacancies among deputy administrators in other offices, they should gradually be reassigned accordingly.
    November 20th
                                            Magistrate
〇 Since last year, the sorting and inspection of military equipment and tools has been ordered, and various maintenance work has been conducted. Due to orders for replacements, the previous accounting ledgers have been discontinued and changed to equipment registers. Furthermore, it has been decreed that newly made equipment from this year onward should be recorded annually in the equipment registers.
                                            Inspector
〇 Tsuchiya Jūrōzaemon should be informed to handle the above matter in the same manner.
    December 6th