If petitions are made for daughter marriages, they may be granted as requested following investigation.

Article 1: Uniform Rank (ittōkaku)
For those of uniform rank to arrange adoptions or daughter marriages with guard units, acceptable lineage is:
For adoptions: same family name and up to actual nephews of the petitioning person
For daughter marriages: same family name and up to first cousins of the person taking the bride

Article 1: Those within the retainer group who cannot serve due to illness and unavoidably became rōnin {{Marginal note: However, those who became rōnin due to misconduct are a separate matter}}

Article 1: Arrangements from other domains
From the above two categories to samurai, acceptable lineage for adoptions and daughter marriages:
For adoptions: same family name and up to first cousins of the petitioning person
For daughter marriages: same family name and up to second cousins of the person taking the bride

Addendum:
For those permanently stationed in Edo and Kyoto, adoptions and daughter marriages from other retainer groups are acceptable even without lineage. For arrangements with outsiders in both the domain and Edo/Kyoto, written documentation of the other party's relatives and rank must be attached to the petition.

Article 1: Regarding adoptions and daughter marriages from rural samurai to the samurai class, matters involving bloodline extinction may be granted following investigation, so one should communicate one's thoughts internally to the inspectors and petition according to their guidance.

Article 1: Petitions for adoptions from Buddhist temples will not be accepted. However, in cases of deathbed adoptions where there are no blood relatives, if there are close blood relatives in the temple who petition, there will be deliberation following investigation.
Note: Blood relatives up to nephews, but those who have once served as head priest will not have their petitions accepted.

Article 1: For daughter marriages from Jōdo Shinshū temples, both giving and receiving are acceptable even without lineage.
Note: For sub-temples (tatchū), approval will be granted following investigation.

Article 1: Shinto shrine families
For shrine families to arrange adoptions with the samurai class, acceptable lineage is:
Same family name and up to actual nephews of the petitioning person
For daughter marriages, both giving and receiving are acceptable even without lineage.

Article 1: Licensed town physicians with audience rights
For such town physicians to arrange adoptions and daughter marriages with guard units, acceptable lineage is:
For adoptions: same family name and up to actual nephews of the petitioning person
For daughter marriages: same family name and up to first cousins of the person taking the bride

Article 1: For any of the above categories taking second wives from lower ranks, this is acceptable even without lineage.
Note: For taking wives from uniform rank persons, petitions will not be accepted for even second wives if there is no lineage.

Article 1: Generally, for giving children (both sons and daughters) to lower ranks, this is acceptable.