[The reserve offices] should exist. Since there should also be domain territories within these reserve offices, this matter is hereby communicated.
　　　　Third Month　Note: This was announced at the Council Chamber on the 20th day of the Fourth Month

　　　　Regarding the inquiry about the method of reporting rice price rates at Mikuni Port: In this matter, the rates for purchasing small quantities of early-harvest rice from nearby areas are high, so one category is selected from the purchase rates to establish the top-grade rice rate. For middle-grade rice rates, the rates purchased by townspeople from nearby areas are averaged to establish the middle-grade rice rate. For low-grade rice rates, prices are averaged for rice of poor quality such as water-damaged or insect-infested rice to establish the low-grade rice rate, and this is reported according to established custom.
　　　　The above is reported without any discrepancy. End
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Domain Territory
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mikuni Port, Echizen Province
　　　　　Kansei 11, Year of the Sheep, Fifth Month, 6th Day　　　Names of Officials
　　　　　　　　　　To Katsu Yohachirō-sama

　　　　Regarding the inquiry about the method of reporting rice price rates for Fukui stored rice and town rice: In this matter, for the method of reporting Fukui stored rice rates, we report the rates for rice purchased and sold using payment vouchers from the domain lord and retainers. For the method of reporting town rice rates, one high-price category from the rates for rice sold exclusively to retainers is established as the top-grade rice rate. For middle-grade rice rates, similarly, one low-price category from the purchase rates is established as the middle-grade rice rate. For low-grade rice rates, low prices from within the town are selected and reported as the low-grade rice rate.
　　　　The above is reported without any discrepancy. End
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Domain Territory
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fukui Town, Echizen Province
　　　　　Kansei 11, Year of the Sheep, Fifth Month, 7th Day　　　Names of Officials
　　　　　　　　　　To Katsu Yohachirō-sama

　　　　The above is without discrepancy
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Suzuki Hyakusuke　Seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōta Saburōbei　Seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Oka Hanemon　Seal
　　　　The above seals were arranged by the magistrate's chief clerk at Katsu Yohachirō's lodgings

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrative Head
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate
○For cocoon silver at 5 bu per 100 monme, wholesalers shall be established and arrangements made according to the investigated tightening methods. For silk thread, at 1 bu per 100 monme, both for export to other provinces and local sales, weight inspections shall be conducted in the same manner.
The above tribute payment method has been announced according to this directive. Note: The inspector should also be informed of this matter and should consult with the magistrate as announced.
　　　　　Fifth Month, 18th Day