Monthly Duty Officer: Makino Shuzen
Excluding duplications from the previous section
1. Messengers are to be declined. Of course, previous recipients of messengers should also be notified of this discontinuation.
1. Messengers for urgent consultations from main family branches and related families are exceptional cases.
1. Those who previously performed New Year duties and other services to this house should also be informed that visits are declined.
1. Domain administrators shall handle official business and consultations in the secretaries' office as before.
　　However, the office arrangements shall remain as they currently are.
1. For New Year courtesy ceremonies of pages: in the home domain they shall be held in the Tartar Room, in Edo they shall be held in the Small Study.
1. In both the home domain and Edo, appearances at official Boar Day and Setsubun festivals are discontinued.
1. Regarding requests from outsiders for domain products: since requests will come through various channels, they should be declined as much as possible.
1. Regarding private gifts from elsewhere or celebratory items: if delicacies and such arrive, they shall be handled as non-acceptance.
1. Gifts and arrangements for domain-affiliated temple monks and Noh performers during their retirement, daughters' marriages, or hot spring treatments are discontinued.
1. Seasonal gifts to both Hitotsubashi senior retainers are discontinued except for year-end gifts.
1. The same applies to Lord Sueyoshi Settsu-no-kami.
1. Regarding the four official physicians and Asai Yōtoku, Kondō Ryōzō, Koyama Tokugen, and Akiyama Genzui: year-end gifts of ceremonial paper, soft paper, high-quality paper, cotton goods, etc. are discontinued during the period of restrictions.

1. Personnel reductions are as follows:
　　During Edo residence: Assistant inspectors on duty reduced by 1, head pages the same, pages reduced by 2, physicians on duty the same
　　　　　　　Senior guards on duty reduced by 4, inner palace assistant supervisors on duty reduced by 1, foot soldier group leaders on duty the same, foot soldiers on duty the same
　　　　　　　Regular hired personnel the same
　　During lord's absence: Senior guards on duty reduced by 2, regular hired foot soldiers reduced by 1, foot soldiers on duty the same
1. Personal attendant pages reduced by 2.
1. For palanquins: whereas previously new covers and complete refurbishment occurred for Hassaku festival and New Year Edo visits, now only New Year re-covering occurs, with complete refurbishment discontinued and existing palanquins to be used.
1. Regarding ceremonial spears, long swords, portable cases, etc.: although repairs were made for New Year and Edo visits, during the frugality period regular repairs are discontinued. However, they shall be used even if somewhat unsightly.
1. Regarding long abalone given during New Year ceremonies and armor-shaped rice cakes: the long abalone previously given whole shall be cut and given as cut long abalone.
　　However, for first audiences upon succession or gifts to Matsumoto Rizaemon and Suga Ichizaemon, whole long abalone shall be given.
1. Regarding various papers for official use in the secretaries' office: exercise even stricter economy and arrange to reduce usage as much as possible.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Administrator