1. Recently, orders were issued from the shogunate that commodity prices should not rise throughout all provinces, and as ordered in our domain as well, this should be strictly observed. However, prices should be lowered as much as possible, and domains where this policy is thoroughly implemented will receive special recognition from the shogunate. This is an important matter affecting our reputation. Of course, depending on the year, certain goods may sometimes be in short supply and naturally become expensive, but those who handle such goods should fully understand this and conduct buying and selling at the lowest possible prices.

1. In general, goods produced in our domain should be used as much as possible. Understanding this policy, clothing and other items should be made from goods produced in our domain as much as possible.
　　　　　　June 16th　Also to Fuchu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Four Districts Magistrate

○ When farmers go to Edo for service, the established law requires them to petition the office and receive instructions before departing. However, recently it has been heard that they are going into service through private arrangements with village officials without petitioning the office, which is most improper. Originally, if the village population decreases, agricultural labor also weakens, and tax collection naturally becomes poor. Village populations should be kept as large as possible. Henceforth, if anyone goes into service, they must petition the office and receive instructions before departing. If anyone departs without petition after this, punishment will definitely be imposed. Therefore, this should be strictly communicated not only to the villages but also to the headmen and leading farmers.
　　　　　　June 20th

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Town Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Four Districts
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three Districts Magistrate

○ Regarding cases where office deliberation and investigation have been completed and punishment decisions are submitted in writing: without distinction of severity, recent precedents call for punishments equivalent to death, but petitions are being made asking whether tattooing and banishment should be imposed out of mercy. While there may be cases where lighter punishments are imposed by gracious consideration, each department should conduct investigations and henceforth petition for appropriate punishments based on established laws and ancient precedents. The above.
　　　　　　June 26th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Head of Administration

○ After investigation, oil pressing wholesalers have been appointed in the castle town. Private transactions shall remain at discretion as before. Since price fluctuations are determined by market conditions through the wholesalers, transactions through wholesalers may be conducted at discretion.
　　However, for oil sold to wholesalers, a commission of one bu per to (about 18 liters) must be paid.
　　　　　　June 29th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Head of Administration