Inspector　Sakakibara Genban　Wakida Okuemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Also to Fuchu

1. For shrine visits, orders shall be given as before
1. When going out for falconry postponements, falconry hunts, etc., regarding the advance guard, document boxes, traffic control, road clearing, outsiders from the castle town, and remaining advance escort: since there are no markers, it is best to follow previous practices from where bird watchers are stationed. At falconry grounds, having people on the roads move to one side in advance is as before, but depending on the time, people may be moved aside from areas where falconers are stationed. Henceforth, since bird watchers will be stationed in advance of single-file processions, people should be moved aside from where the bird watchers are positioned.

1. In general, impure items on the roads and items that obstruct the roads should be cleared away, but items that are not particularly problematic need not be cleared. Today's commercial goods may be left out on the roads - this is out of gracious consideration so that merchants need not suffer the hardship of repeatedly clearing them away for each procession.

1. Traffic to viewing areas about one cho (approximately 109 meters) to the side of the road may proceed at discretion.

1. There are ancient regulations, and each department should already understand these, but since these gradually tend to become burdensome, His Lordship thinks they should not become overly burdensome.

　The above has been ordered
　　　　　July 2nd

○ Those who petition for adoption and also wish to make daughters, sisters, and other relatives including adopted daughters into the family, along with marriage ceremonies together: as per regulations, petitions shall be granted as requested. After adoption, if biological daughters are born, or in cases involving relatives such as brothers, aunts, nieces, etc., petitions to include them with the adopted child: if under seven years old, there are no mourning restrictions, so petitions should be submitted while under seven years old. Orders will be given after investigation. If the age has passed, it will not be taken up.
　　　　　August 1st　Communicated to respective parties at the main keep
　　Note: Although there was a proclamation in Enkyō 4 (1747), the wording was ambiguous in both versions, so after deliberation this time, all departments should understand as proclaimed in the separate document from that Enkyō period, as previously communicated by the senior councilors.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Town Magistrate

1. Previously, after investigating undesirable persons in the town districts, various banishments were ordered. Regarding this: henceforth, if suspicious persons lodge in town districts, or gather people, or are deemed undesirable for any reason, not only town officials but especially those in the three houses opposite and two neighboring houses should pay attention, and if anything suspicious is observed, it should be reported to the office. Investigation will be ordered immediately. Of course, mistaken reports are not problematic at all, so with this understanding, the security methods of each town district should be discussed.

1. If any banished person should return and lodge secretly at night, etc., first the three houses opposite and two neighboring houses should pay attention, and the town