To the Magistrate
○ Same as above. If the mountain magistrate, irrigation magistrate, and others also have matters involving the handling of penalty silver, they should be notified.
　1. Matter of penalty silver　1. Matter of dispatching laborers
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Four Districts Magistrate, also to Fuchu
○ Same as above
　1. Matter of persons transferred to various offices　1. Matter of all transferred persons　1. Matter of penalty silver
　1. Matter of wholesale merchants' control
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Arakawa Matahachiro
○ Same as above
　1. Matter of penalty silver
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspector
○ Same as above. Separate document to be sent to the Head of Naval Forces
1. Regarding the inquiry about the punishment of persons transferred to Atsumi Shinemon and Kobayashi Matauemon, although this was announced last June, it has now been revised, so both men should be informed of this matter.
　　　　　　To the Head of Naval Forces
　1. Matter of dispatching laborers
　　　　　Same day
○ Regarding the announcement of this year's half-reduced borrowed rice, the accounting office issues a notice about providing relief rice to those with nine koku or less in the domain and those returning from Edo.
　　　　　November 28th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Squad Leaders
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Department Heads
○ Previously, it was privately communicated that the guard unit members are experiencing financial difficulties, particularly many of those with 150 koku or less are absolutely unable to make ends meet. This has reached His Lordship's attention and he is greatly concerned. Therefore, if those with 150 koku or less who are in extreme financial difficulty make a request, small amounts of loan certificates will be granted, so this should be examined and reported.
　　However, for those with 150 koku or less who were omitted from the above, the inspector will notify them. Moreover, even the lowest-ranking stipend recipients of ten koku will be granted loan certificates if they request in accordance with the above, so this matter should also be communicated to the department heads.
　　　　　December 2nd
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Monthly Duty Officers