From [this year] until the coming Year of the Sheep (Mi), for a period of ten years, extraordinary financial reforms have been established. Beginning with matters concerning your own status, all lords have practiced economy in all matters, and various procurement methods have been ordered in the home domain as well. However, no matter how much economizing is done, fundamentally the domain's foundation is insufficient, and due to inadequate tax collection and financial difficulties, annual debts continue to increase, leading to ever greater hardship. Therefore, extraordinary measures have been decided upon, and furthermore, since the spring visit to Edo this year, intentions have been announced as planned, various procurement methods have been ordered, and step-by-step financial reforms have been established. However, since up to now all matters have been conducted under severely constrained circumstances, if no special expenditures can be made beyond this point, economy must be ordered in all things as much as possible. Consequently, although it is considered most troublesome that there are difficulties due to reduced personnel, it cannot be helped, and attendants and others must be reduced again. Matters concerning economizing will be announced to various departments in due course. Of course, regarding proper conduct, as directly announced in the previous Year of the Monkey, there should be no misunderstandings, and [these rules] must be observed all the more strictly.
This matter is to be communicated as ordered.
　　　　　　September 28th
One: Exemption from overnight duty for senior retainers and inspectors
One: Current reduction of attendants, fifteen persons high and low, as ordered
　Various other articles have been issued in writing (abbreviated)
　　　　　　Total
　　　　　　　In Edo　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Senior Retainers
One: All stable attendants shall henceforth be called "household servants" without exception, as ordered

[One line unreadable]
　shall continue to be provided as before
　　　　　　Same day
　　　　　　　In Edo
One: Whereas the number of horses has been set at twelve until now, from the coming November it is ordered to be set at twenty horses
　　　　　　October
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mizutani Jirōsuke
○For all official business travel to Kyoto, Edo, Osaka, and other provinces, on the day before departure and the day of return, one must go to the monthly duty senior retainer's residence and report. Of course, reports must also be sent via messenger to the monthly duty inspector for both departure and return.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Inspectors
○For all official business travel to Kyoto, Edo, Osaka, and other provinces, on the day before departure and the day of return, that matter must be reported to the monthly duty senior retainer's residence. If the person in question has some impediment, a colleague in the same position must go and report. Since there have apparently been some who have been negligent in this regard, this is now being announced anew, so henceforth there should be no misunderstandings in conduct.
　　　　　　November 5th