Imperial Tutor
Steward, Personal Attendants

○ Since financial affairs are critically hindered, the policy for continuity has been investigated, discussions are being held progressively, and there are special intentions, so everyone should work diligently. This matter was ordered to be communicated from Edo. This should be understood accordingly.

Same as above:　　　　　　　　　　　　Kanazu Magistrate, Town Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Deputy Territory Chief Administrator, Personal Attendants Chief Administrator
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Palace Steward, Three-District Magistrate
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Deputy Territory District Magistrate

Magistrate
Inspector

○ Same as above. Also, if the above duties are rotated monthly, there may be hindrances, so temporarily Oda Jinbei and Eguchi Genzaemon should consult as supervisors. This should be understood accordingly.
Oda Jinbei
Eguchi Genzaemon

○ The policy just communicated should also be conveyed to the accounting inspectors and financial officials. Also, the same should be communicated to the foot soldier inspectors. For both official positions, following the above, submit written reports of the names of those who will consult as supervisors.
Eguchi Genzaemon

○ Since the policy has been established, there are many documents to be acknowledged in the attached papers. Therefore, Aoki Yoichizaemon has been appointed to handle these acknowledgment documents. This matter should be communicated to Yoichizaemon.
December 20th
Tagaya Gonbee

1. Pass guards and military commanders should serve in rotation as before
1. The assistant inspector title should be discontinued, and appointments should be made to personal military commanders as before. Duties include guard duty, escort duty, and assistant inspector duties. However, they should remain together in the foot soldier commander quarters
1. The lord's quarters, main guard post, and foot soldier guard post should be appointed as before from now on
1. In the home province, security for pilgrimage sites should be appointed to personal military commanders and military equipment commanders as before
1. Regarding letters to senior retainers and castle deputies, as well as congratulations and all other correspondence during the term limit, as follows:
　1. For ceremonial visits to Edo, leave of absence, and receiving gifts of larks and ducks, letters have been sent to senior retainers of Honda Kuranosuke's faction and castle deputies as before, but during the term limit, these letters should be suspended, and letters should be sent to senior retainers stationed in Edo instead, with notification also given to those receiving such letters and to the samurai. This should be communicated by letter from senior retainers of Kuranosuke's faction and stationed senior retainers. Naturally, steward notifications remain as before.
　However, letters for New Year's sword presentations from senior retainers remain as before