June 22nd《Marginal note: July 23rd, notification from the Finance Office regarding the new regulations as follows:
1. Papers that have been handled at 48 sheets per book (ichijō) shall henceforth be fixed at 40 sheets per book
1. Papers that have been handled at 40 sheets per book shall henceforth be fixed at 32 sheets per book》
　　　　　　　　　　End
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Chief Retainer

1. Regarding visits to Daianji and Tenryūji temples, in this Year of the Monkey, depart early in the morning from the domain residence, worship, and return directly to the palace
　　However, wait while the palanquin bearers take their rest
1. Regarding visits to Awaga and Daichōin, in this Year of the Monkey, the accompanying retinue shall bring bento meals from the domain residence as is done for falcon hunting expeditions
1. At worship sites, strictly prohibit offering any items, however small, to the visiting destination or to the accompanying entourage
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Three-District Magistrate

〇Regarding places where village laborers gather along the routes when the lord departs from the palace, it has been decreed that arrangements should be made so that the farmers do not suffer hardship. Please be aware of this accordingly.
　　　　July 4th
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Magistrates

〇This time, through special consideration, economies have been ordered in all matters from the lord's personal expenses and lifestyle to the smallest details.
　Therefore, regarding the distribution of official paper to various offices, those who have received fixed allotments since long ago have had their allocations reduced many times, so further reductions might cause difficulties. However, this time reductions in paper quantity per book have been decreed proportionally. Each office should make arrangements with careful consideration to avoid problems and communicate this to their respective departments. Of course, this also applies to distributions made with monetary substitutes. Furthermore, regarding annual distributions made as needed, fixed allocations should be established based on an average of approximately three years. This too should be determined through consultation between offices. If the fixed allocation would cause problems for any office, please report this as well. The above.
　　　　July 23rd
　Notice from the Finance Office
　　　Regarding official paper for various offices, it has been decreed as per the separate written notice. From August 1st onwards, distribution will be made according to the new regulations. Please be aware accordingly. The above.
　　　　July　　　　Lord　Additionally, please inform fellow officials　Finance Office
　　　　Memorandum
　1. Papers that have been handled at 48 sheets per book shall henceforth be fixed at 40 sheets per book
　1. Papers that have been handled at 40 sheets per book shall henceforth be fixed at 32 sheets per book
　　　　July

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　To the Magistrates