1. Regarding townspeople who, due to poverty, wish to partner with reliable persons from other provinces for entertainment performances as a means of livelihood: after examination, their requests may be granted as wished. As a matter of procedure, they should consult privately with their respective administrative offices before partnering with outside parties.

　　　　　　Separate Document

1. Due to difficult times, the people of Seigan-ji Temple have no means of livelihood, and the village is said to be heading toward destitution. Permission was granted for tea house business after examination of their request. However, it has been announced that酌取女 (serving women) who had been prohibited since previous years have been permitted, which is questionable. If there are aspects resembling prostitution, both the tea house business should be revoked after investigation. Furthermore, if they scatter without business, orders may be given as deemed appropriate.

　　　　　Same Day
　　　　　　Regarding Leave Within the Domain

1. For all overnight stays of one or two nights, requests must be made with written petitions
1. For day trips beyond five ri and trips to Mikuni, Kanazu, and Fuchu, consultation should be made with oral reports
1. Even within five ri, for trips to public or other domain territories, personal oral reports should be submitted for consultation. Members of guard units should consult with their unit commanders and obtain instructions before departure
1. For children's overnight stays of one or two nights, their parents should make requests with written petitions. For guard unit members, consultation with unit commanders and following their instructions is required
　　However, even for day trips to Mikuni, Kanazu, and Fuchu, parents should submit oral reports, and guard unit members should consult with unit commanders and follow their instructions
1. For retired persons staying within the domain territory, no notification is required. For stays in public or other domain territories, Mikuni, Kanazu, Fuchu, etc., their sons should report to the inspectors
1. For women staying in public or other domain territories within the domain for salt water cures and such, requests should be made with written petitions

　　　　　March 15th　I note that regarding leave requests for second and third sons, there was an announcement on July 27th that should be referenced

Regarding the above leave requests, written instructions were previously distributed by the senior councilors with orders for respective notifications. On the 15th today, notifications were made to respective parties at the main castle. Subsequently, the guard commanders submitted the following written statement:

1. Regarding members of guard units bringing their mothers, wives, children, etc. to stay within the domain: for women, no petition is required, just notification to the commanders. Since men should be assigned to accompany them, the fact that retainers are being sent should be reported to the inspectors by the person concerned. The same applies to Mikuni, Kanazu, and Fuchu.

The above was determined through discussion between Takada Kozaemon and the inspectors at the Council Chamber on April 11th, Kyōhō 12th, Year of the Sheep.
　　　　　End

Regarding the above, upon consultation with the senior councilors, on the following April 7th, concerning the section about women's lodging in the above document, it was distributed by the duty officer Koma Taitō with the following notation, which duty commander Minagawa Toneri conveyed to duty commander Tsutsumi Yasuemon.