Miscellaneous Poems from Qinzhou

At Fenglin, weapons have not yet ceased. The roads of Yuhai are always difficult.
Signal fires burn on precipitous cloud-covered peaks. The suspended army's
tents and wells run dry. Wind connects to the western extremes and stirs. The moon passes over the northern court,
cold. The elders think of the Flying General. When will they
discuss building an altar?【Seal: "Qixia?"】

Qinzhou miscellaneous poems
At Fenglin, weapons have not yet ceased. At Yuhai, the roads are always difficult. Signal fires burn on precipitous cloud-covered peaks.
The suspended army's tents and wells run dry. Wind connects to the western extremes and stirs. The moon passes over the northern court
and is cold. The elders think of the Flying General. At what time will they discuss building an altar?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While staying as a guest in Qinzhou, I composed various poems about the turbulent state of the world. Around Fenglin Pass, war has not yet ceased, so places like Yuhai County also have roads that are constantly difficult to traverse. Following the second line, the peaks shrouded in clouds where signal fires burn are also steep. Following the first line, the army positioned on high ground has pitched camp in such a way that they have drawn their wells dry. This contains the meaning of hoping that, like when Geng Gong of the Later Han was thirsty without water in his camp and prayed to heaven, whereupon water gushed forth, the same might happen here. The wind stirs and moves with sound connecting to the western extremes, and the moon passes over the northern court, cold and desolate. The elders think of someone like Li Guang, who was praised as the Flying General, to serve as their commander. When might there be deliberation from above with imperial favor to quickly build an altar, promote a general, and issue commands? These seventh and eighth lines contain the meaning that since Guo Ziyi had withdrawn after encountering slander, if he were employed again, the rebellion would also cease.