I humbly inquire about the above. Above
　　April 5th　　　　　　　Naito Yamato-no-kami
Attached note
　　It should follow the established precedent.

　　　　　Same, 6th day
One, Regarding tomorrow morning's visit to Noto-no-kami-dono for an audience, I sent word through the caretaker, and received acknowledgment that it was understood.

　　　　　Same, 7th day
One, Wearing fukusa half-hakama, I went to visit Noto-no-kami-dono and in audience expressed gratitude for being appointed Nikko deputy representative on the 20th day. Then I proceeded to the informal area, met with him to announce my news, and also inquired about his well-being.

One, Although it was not Sakai Wakasa-no-kami-dono's audience day, I visited him and called out his steward to announce my news.

One, Around 8:30, a written notice jointly signed by the Senior Councillors arrived from Bitchu-no-kami-dono who was on duty.
　　　　　　　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Doi Ooi-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Aoyama Shimotsuke-no-kami
　　　　　　To Naito Yamato-no-kami-dono　Abe Bitchu-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mizuno Dewa-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okubo Kaga-no-kami

　　　　　　Tomorrow you will be granted leave to go to Nikko,
　　　　　　so you should come to the castle at 6:30. Above

　　　　　　　April 7th　　Okubo Kaga-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mizuno Dewa-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Abe Bitchu-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Aoyama Shimotsuke-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Doi Ooi-no-kami
　　　　　　To Naito Yamato-no-kami-dono

One, Regarding tomorrow's leave, I sent notification letters to the Chief Inspectors and Inspectors requesting their attendance, following established precedent.

One, To the substitute Oki-no-kami, I sent a written message.

One, From the hour of the rooster this dawn, I performed purification rituals.

　　　　Same, 8th day
One, Having been granted leave to go to Nikko, I wore awase noshi-me half-hakama and left home before 6:30 to go to the castle. Through the Buddhist monks, I sent word that I was reporting to the Inspectors, and received acknowledgment. Then, before the Senior Councillors arrived at the castle, I requested the Inspectors' assistance and performed the practice ceremony for receiving gifts in the Wainscoting Room.

One, I also met with Yokose Suruga-dono of the Koke (High Families) and requested his assistance for today's proceedings.