should attend the castle. End
April

I received this and immediately withdrew.

1. For expressing gratitude, I attended Nishinomaru castle and had an audience with chamberlain Kuchiki Tosa-no-kami.
1. Those with ritual defilement, regardless of age, performed their duties in rotation and left word at the entrance about gratitude for the Nikkō leave and the granted gifts.
1. Today, due to purification for departure, I sent messengers from beside my palanquin to those I encountered on the way, informing them that formal greetings were not appropriate. Of course, I also did not accept any gestures of deference.
1. When I attended the castle today, I received imperial permission for leave to Nikkō in the audience chamber and was granted gifts. I announced this and also that the assistant duties were completed satisfactorily, immediately sending word to my colleagues on duty through a circular notice.
1. Regarding the recent birth announcement that was issued by written notice some time ago, I submitted the following inquiry to the duty officer Izu-no-kami, and the next day received instructions with an attached note.

I have been granted leave to Nikkō today on the 8th and will depart on the coming 16th. I understand that the birth will occur during my travels, but would it be acceptable for me to serve as representative on the 20th?

Attached note:
It should be reported at that time.

1. If the birth occurs before departure, should I offer congratulations through a messenger as prescribed by the official notice? Of course, should I also do the same through a messenger before returning to the capital and having an audience? Also, if I learn of it during travel, should I offer congratulations by express messenger?

Attached note:
It should be done in this manner.

1. Regarding my own worship at the shrine and mausoleum, how should I understand this matter as well?

Attached note:
You should understand this naturally after serving as representative.

I humbly inquire about the above matters. End
April 8th　　　　　　　　　　Name