1. There was no monthly ceremony, but there were some who had received leave, and there were irregular ceremonies. All the other attendees went around after the main gate opened, but I alone remained waiting in my seat. Shortly after the ceremonies concluded, I was told that Inspector Kojima Magouemon wished to see me, so I waited by the sliding doors opposite the mandarin duck cedar doors at the entrance to the Yamabuki chamber. Only the duty officer Izu-no-kami took his seat in the wainscoted chamber, and following the inspector's instructions, I went forward and received the official letter to be delivered to the Nikkō magistrate. When I inquired whether the message to be conveyed to the magistrate's chief administrator should follow previous precedent, I was told to understand it as such and to handle all matters with utmost care. Upon withdrawing, I carefully informed the inspector that my official business was complete and I would now depart. I handed the official letter to the attendant I had brought who was waiting at the castle.
　　　However, the white wooden box containing the official letter was carried out by the caretaker who was waiting.

1. After departing, I left word that I would visit Senior Councilor Mizuno Dewa-no-kami tomorrow to take my leave before departure. To the duty officer Izu-no-kami, I verbally reported my departure scheduled for tomorrow.

1. Since it was a time of purification upon departure, I did not exchange greetings with those I encountered on the way, but sent my regards through messengers.

1. I returned home after nine o'clock.

1. After returning home, my retainers gathered in the sitting room to examine the contents of the official letter to the Nikkō magistrate, then immediately sealed it and handed it to the retainers.

1. The official letter was as follows:
　　　　As representative to the mausoleum on the twentieth of this month,
　　　　Naitō Yamato-no-kami is being dispatched, so please make arrangements accordingly.
　　　　Respectfully and humbly
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Abe Tsushima-no-kami
　　　　April 15th　　　　　　Signature and seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Toda Uneme-no-shō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Signature and seal
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsudaira Izu-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Signature and seal

　　　　　　Ōkubo Naizen-no-shō

1. Ōta Bitchū-no-kami was absent from castle duty due to illness and was removed from the list.