[Continuation from previous page omitted]
1. When I sent word through a page to the metsuke that I had attended the castle, Naruse Kichirōemon acknowledged receipt. Since the duty magistrate Izu-no-kami-dono had attended the castle, I went to the designated seat to wait. Soon the metsuke Morikawa Shuzen instructed me to approach. I waited in line next to Yamashiro-no-kami by the tiger sliding doors on the east veranda of the Seiko-no-ma (West Lake Hall).
　　　　　　However, according to precedent, during the time when the gate lord attends the castle,
　　　　　　one would be seated behind the shoji screens by the deer sliding doors,
　　　　　　but today, because it was earlier than the gate lord's attendance at the castle, it was done as described in the main text.
　　　　　　Of course, Yamashiro-no-kami explained that it had been moved earlier since the high-ranking families' proxy service in September of last year. The festival magistrates were waiting on the veranda of the Seiko-no-ma.

1. The locked entrance opened, and under the guidance of the wakadoshiyori Kyōgoku Bizen-no-kami, the proxy for the 17th and the festival magistrates all entered the locked entrance area together. We all waited outside the tiger sliding doors at the second corner. When the duty magistrate Izu-no-kami-dono appeared, following the directions of the wakadoshiyori, everyone entered inside the sliding doors and sat in order with the left side up. Izu-no-kami-dono announced to everyone that we would be granted gifts, and Nakajō Yamashiro-no-kami formally accepted. Afterward, under Bizen-no-kami-dono's guidance, at the corner of the corridor, I removed my short sword and fan and placed them to the left. Nakajō Yamashiro-no-kami and all the festival magistrates entered inside the white eagle sliding doors, positioned ourselves by the side shoji screens, and waited in order. After Yamashiro-no-kami's audience was completed, there were courtesies exchanged with Izu-no-kami-dono and Bizen-no-kami-dono. I positioned myself by the shoji screens, sat down at the threshold of the inner entrance, then slid inside and prostrated myself. Only Izu-no-kami-dono's name was announced, and there was an imperial command to that effect. I proceeded to the palace, slid up to the upper platform, and prostrated myself. The matter of being appointed as proxy to Nikko on the 20th day
[Continues on next page]