【Right Page】
How much is 11,110,111 kan 100 me of tobacco when divided among 9 people?
　　　Answer: 1,234,567 kan 900 me

【Below each of the two abacus diagrams】
Division　　　　　　　　　　　Multiplication
　　　　Nine-advance one-ten　　　　Start of multiplication
　　　　Nine-eight, down add eight　　Nine-nine, eighty-one
　　　　Nine-seven, down add seven　Seven-nine, sixty-three
　　　　Nine-six, down add six　　　Six-nine, fifty-four
　　　　Nine-five, down add five　　Five-nine, forty-five
　　　　Nine-four, down add four　　Four-nine, thirty-six
　　　　Nine-three, down add three　Three-nine, twenty-seven
　　　　Nine-two, down add two　　Two-nine, eighteen
　　　　Nine-one, down add one　　One-nine is nine
　　　　Start of division

【Below diagram】
Recitation for the 9 times table:
　Nine-one, down add one
　Nine-two, down add two
　Nine-three, down add three
　Nine-four, down add four
　Nine-five, down add five
　Nine-six, down add six
　Nine-seven, down add seven
　Nine-eight, down add eight
　Nine-advance one-ten

【Left Page】
　　　Division and Multiplication　("Division" means to divide; "Multiplication" means to multiply. The common term "ken'ichi" is used because this is the beginning of this chapter.)

Ken'ichi (見一)　The division recitations all use the recitations of the "one" row. When "one-advance one-ten" cannot be performed, one says "ken'ichi mutō sakkyū" (見一無頭作九), and when subtraction is not possible, one says "kiichi baiichi" (帰一倍一), returning one to the next position.

When dividing 100 me of silver among 16 people, what is each person's share?　　Answer: 6 monme 2 bu 5 rin

　Explanation: Dividing by a "divisor" (hō) of two or more digits is commonly called "ken'ichi." First, divide the leading digit of the dividend (jitsu) by the leading digit of the divisor. This is called the "initial quotient" (shoshō) (referring to what has been calculated). Comparing that quotient with the number in the next digit of the divisor, recite the multiplication table and subtract from the dividend starting from the position after the quotient digit. Continue in this manner, subtracting through as many digits as the divisor has (at which point the division of the initial quotient is complete). Then, using the leading digit of the divisor, divide the next digit of the remaining dividend to obtain the next quotient (jishō), and again that number…