"Though you have chanted the sacred mantra for only seven days, because your hearts have already reformed and you revere the heavenly emperor, that sincere devotion has reached heaven in this very world and you have received the heavenly emperor's blessings. How much more so if you concentrate your faith and worship reverently throughout your lives. Therefore, each of you should resolve in your hearts not to forget the gracious favor of the heavenly emperor. Even if in this world you must suffer the torments of fire, water, crucifixion, being torn apart by oxen or crushed by wheels, consider that as a substitute for eternal suffering in the future, and think to reach the heaven you now worship."

Then, intending to have them worship the main deity of the heavenly emperor, they brought out something called a "Cruz." This thing called "Cruz" was made of gold, about two inches and four parts at the tip, fashioned like a planted needle 《marginal note: like what is now called a wasabi grater》 with a handle of about two feet attached. They had those people strip their skin, and with that Cruz they scratched and tore their backs until their bones ached and blood flowed out. With the dripping blood they painted their left and right hands, joined their hands together, and had them worship an image of Taishaku-ten. 《marginal note: The worship ceremony of this sect follows southern barbarian rites, so it differs from the rituals used when worshipping Buddha in Japan. The idea of rejoicing in present evil probably means it substitutes for future eternal suffering》

When they rolled up the golden brocade curtain, there appeared the sacred image of a beautiful female figure holding a small child in her bosom and giving it milk to drink (this is oral tradition), wearing a jeweled crown and clothed in seven-treasure garments. The two Padre showed this and said: "This Taishaku-ten brings down wisdom to the world, and through your sorrows and sufferings, like a mother embracing a child in her bosom and giving it the taste of milk,