At that time, Furukomu stood up from his seat, grabbed the elder's chest, drew his sword and pressed it against his chest, demanding "What is the profound meaning of 'Mind itself is Buddha'?" Though he pressed this question urgently, the elder remained unmoved, closed his eyes, and remained silent. Priest Ridō of Jōke-in, seeing this, stepped forward to respond to the challenge, but the disciples of Priest In stopped him, saying "Do not be disturbed in the slightest - composure is not yet evident. Please wait a moment." Because of this, Ridō was unable to advance. After a while, the elder opened his eyes and uttered a single "Katsu!" whereupon Furukomu closed his eyes and immediately expired. The Buddhist monks all cried out in unison, "Heretical teachings cannot oppose the true Dharma! The new sect is heretical!" The Nanban sectarians became angry and said, "The superiority in this dharma debate is not yet determined - who can know it?" and were about to engage in conflict. Nobunaga greatly restrained them, saying, "Sectarian debates exist to distinguish between orthodox and heterodox teachings. Why should you resort to fighting to determine victory or defeat? If you violate this principle, that itself will be taken as proof of your inferiority." With these words, the disturbance immediately subsided. At this point, a report came that Araki Settsu-no-kami Murashige of Settsu Province had allied himself with the Mōri of Chūgoku region. Nobunaga said, "This is urgent business. The question of orthodox versus heterodox and superior versus inferior in the dharma debate is not yet clear. We shall convene again later. Both sides should return to their temples." Thus the sectarian debate remained inconclusive, and the matter of destroying the new sect was also suspended. In the eleventh month of Tenshō 6 (1578), Takayama Ukon sided with the enemy and did not obey Nobunaga's commands. Nobunaga summoned the Organtino Padre of the Nanban temple and, through Sugaya Kuemon, proclaimed: "This Celestial Emperor new sect defies my commands