invited Baian inside. 《Marginal note: Two accompanying monks, one hat-bearer, one document box carrier, one sandal bearer, four palanquin bearers, two young attendants - twelve people in total above and below》 Baian wore beautiful clothing and perfumed the area with fine incense. At that time, during the turbulent period when it was still three ri to Kyoto and night travel was dangerous and troublesome, he said "I am grateful for your kind hospitality for one night," expressed his gratitude for the lodging, and stayed the night. Come morning, the mother instructed the household staff: "Though I do not know the monk's sect, in case he might inquire about our Buddhist altar," she had them carefully clean the Buddhist room and such, but the guest monk made no mention of such matters at all. He received the mother's hospitality with proper respect, expressed his gratitude for her thoughtfulness, and departed. The mother reflected and told the household members: "Observing the guest monk's appearance, he wore fine garments of white robes, scarlet silk crepe, brilliant colors, and a velvet collar wrap - quite different from the appearance of ordinary monks. Moreover, he made no inquiries about our household Buddhist altar. He must surely be a monk of the new sect, the Nanban temple," she conjectured and told them. Four or five days later, a samurai came to the middle gate carrying a document box, announcing himself as "a messenger from Baian, a fellow monk of Nanban temple." He brought one pound of aloes wood, five rolls of damask, and five rolls of silk crepe loaded on a stand, expressing gratitude for the one night's lodging as he presented these gifts. The mother was greatly surprised and repeatedly declined, saying the excessive gifts caused her great difficulty, but the messenger left them and departed. Thereafter, whether silk gauze or thread materials and such, he would send gifts according to the occasion and season, and she had no choice but to accept them. After a considerable time had passed, on a rainy evening, again falsely claiming to be returning from Sakai, he sought lodging with this elderly mother.