From offshore, a great tsunami of over two jō (approximately 6 meters) in height struck the coastline, causing tremendous damage to homes and buildings. At Tenpōzan, the mouth of the Kizu River, and the mouth of the Aji River, numerous vessels piled up upon one another all at once. The townspeople fled by boat into the middle of the rivers, but those who could not escape all drowned. Nearly all the bridges collapsed. The following is a detailed record of the collapsed structures in the city:

At the northwest corner of Kita-Kutarotomachi and Tōba-ike Suji, the majority of houses were tilted and damaged; one house to the north collapsed; the house further north was half destroyed. At the southeast corner of Junkei-machi and Dobu-ike Suji, and the house to the east, more than two houses collapsed. From the northeast corner of Shio-machi and Sanoya-bashi Suji northward to the town boundary, a high wall collapsed, causing injuries. At the north end of Nagahori and Midō Suji, entering toward the beach to the west, a storehouse (納屋) on the north side and five or six tenement houses (裏家) collapsed. The right torii gate at the main entrance of Zama Shrine collapsed. The well-house (井戸屋形) within the precincts of Tenma Tenjin Shrine collapsed. A storehouse at the same location collapsed. The well-house within the precincts of Goryo Shrine collapsed.

The high wall of the South Honganji (Minami Midō) collapsed. The main gate of Fukushima Tenjin collapsed. The votive tablet hall (絵馬堂) of the Hachiman Shrine (guardian shrine) at the Nobeoka domain residence on Nakanoshima collapsed. At the end of Tenma Umegae-machi, the Shōkakuji temple precinct's Konpira Shrine and its votive tablet hall collapsed. The high wall on the west side of Jōkyūji Temple on Kitsune-kōji in Hommachi collapsed. The main road near Naka-bashi in Awaji-machi split open. Both the main hall and the worship hall of the Middle Tenjin Shrine in Fukushima collapsed. The votive tablet hall of the Lower Tenjin Shrine in the same area collapsed. About twenty tenement houses in the back streets one chō west of Amida-ike collapsed. In Setomono-machi, about three houses north of Hommachi collapsed. At the northwest corner of the north end of Kyōmachi-bashi and Hagoita-bashi, two or three houses along the river collapsed and caught fire, burning the surrounding homes to the ground. At the southwest corner of the same area, Ryōgoku-bashi, and Kagoya-machi, about sixteen ken (approx. 29 meters) of street frontage collapsed. Along Dōtonbori-machi east of Ryōgoku-bashi Suji, a high wall collapsed. At Satsuma-bori, within the precincts of Kōkyōji temple (tentative), the facing (side)...