【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　Peel raw Chinese yam well and grate it,
　　　　　　　　add wheat flour, white sugar, and salt to taste,
　　Mumei　　　　grind well in a mortar, cook dainagon azuki beans and set aside,
　　　　　　　　mix into this mixture, lay a cloth in the frame
　《Also called sazareishi》　inside the steamer and pour in. The steaming method is the same for all.
　　　　　　　　Cut into rounds.

　　　　　　　　Grind lots of black sesame well, squeeze water from tofu
　　　　　　　　thoroughly, mix with sesame, add a little wheat flour
　　Mumei　　　　and white sugar to make it firm,
　　　　　　　　shape like a round stick on a board and put in steamer.
　《Also called ubatama》　Steaming method is the same. Cut into rounds.
　　　　　　　　　　Note: If too soft, add more wheat flour.

　　　　　　　　Peel raw arrowhead, add wheat flour,
　　　　　　　　white sugar, and red miso sauce, grind well
　　Mumei　　　　in a mortar, spread thickly in rectangular shape
　　　　　　　　on a board and put in steamer. Steaming method is the same.
　　　　　　　　Note: If you attach green kelp on top, it will be exceptionally beautiful.

【Left Page】
○Imo Tamagawa - Shape same as kamaboko
Boil Chinese yam well, peel, strain with a grater, color with gardenia, sprinkle black sesame on white parts, pack in frame as before and steam.
○Harugasumi - Shape appears earlier. This uses lily bulb steamed well with same adjustment, steaming method, and cutting method. All should be understood by analogy.
○Yosegurumi has the same preparation as yosegaya mentioned in the previous volume.
○Imo shirauo is made by adding white sugar and roasted salt to the strained Chinese yam mentioned above and shaping it like whitebait fish.
○Makiginu: Knead premium wheat flour with white sugar, soy sauce, and water. Oil a frying pan with sesame oil and heat, pour the wheat flour mixture, turn with a spatula, and when cooked it becomes thin silk. Put strained Chinese yam as the core, roll it about the size of rice crackers, then cook a little more in the frying pan. Note: If overcooked, the silk will crumble. Generally stop when the color changes appropriately.