【Right Page】
　[The chief retainer] stated that it would be advisable to have the Chinese ship repulsion supervisory officials enter Kokura. Jihē heard the details of the Kokura expulsion order, returned to Wakamatsu, and conveyed this message to Mimasaka-dono. On February 7th, Kitamura Yajibē and Kuno Zen'emon went to Kokura. On the same day, Miyamoto Dendayū rowed to Kokura in a Chinese ship repulsion vessel. This was because Geki-dono was to arrive by ship at Kokura in the near future, so these three men departed as repulsion supervisors. They lodged their boat below Ōhashi bridge, and the next day took lodging at Wakamatsuya San'emon's establishment《marginal note: San'emon is Chikuzen-no-kami's lodging house》.
One Since a large quantity of gunpowder for firearms had arrived at Wakamatsu, as a fire prevention measure, a wooden storehouse was erected on Nakanoshima island in Wakamatsu, where the gunpowder was stored. Three men - Hayashi Bun'emon, Wakamatsu Jintayū, and Usuki Yaemon - supervised this. Furthermore, gunpowder for large cannon firing was also stored in this warehouse, with guards

【Left Page】
　consisting of foot soldiers stationed there.
One Superior envoy Watanabe Geki-dono landed at Kokura on February 11th and took lodging across from Ōhashi bridge. Land inspectors Takakura Yasaburō-dono and Okada Genshichirō-dono also took lodging in that vicinity. Many officials responsible for entertaining at Kokura were observed, guard posts everywhere were splendidly decorated, and fire brigade units paraded around. Many accompanying messengers from neighboring provinces were observed at boat inns and land inns. On the same day, Mimasaka-dono also came to Kokura, and Kurushima Jihē also arrived. Mimasaka-dono withdrew to Tobata that same evening, while Jihē joined the aforementioned three supervisors and remained in attendance to Geki-dono.
One On the 12th, [Mimasaka-dono] summoned Hayashi Bun'emon, Wakamatsu Jintayū, and Usuki Yaemon to his lodging and gave them instructions. What was discussed among the three Kokura domains concerned the Chinese ships