【Right Page】
we intend to fire cannons, so please be prepared accordingly." Even as this message came, the sound of gunfire could already be heard. Each domain fired in turn, with Kokura firing two shots at a time in rotation.
To Kitamura Yajibē and Kuno Zen'emon, aboard six small swift boats as messenger vessels, Hayashi Bunzaemon and Hayashi Godayū brought their boat alongside the six small swift boats and reported their arrival. Kitamura said, "We will be firing shortly, so please load your gunpowder and wait," and handed over leather pouches. They loaded only gunpowder and placed wadding paper. After making one circuit and approaching close to the Chinese ships, Hayashi Godayū fired two shots. Next, the boats of Wakamatsu's Jindayū and Jihē pressed close to the six small swift boats, received leather pouches, and after making one circuit, rowed close to the Chinese ships where Wakamatsu Jihē fired two shots. Third were Usuki Yaemon and Okamoto Sōdayū, fourth were Arita Kōtayū and Hasegawa Sadahachi, fifth were Kurushima Sahēta and

【Left Page】
Okamoto Santayū, sixth were Hirano Takusuke and Murakami Tōkurō, seventh were Kanda Shinsaku and Fujino Kyūhachi. These seven boats fired in sequence, but the eighth, ninth, and tenth boats did not complete their circuit, so they did not fire. From the late hour of the Dog (9 PM) to the early hour of the Ox (3 AM), the four domains took turns attacking in this manner.
This was completely unexpected for the Chinese ships. Indeed, due to the numerous beacon fires on land since evening and the cannon fire, they raised anchor and adjusted their sails, departing from the waters around Hakushima. All ships of the four domains did not light fires during the early evening, but after the hour of the Boar (10 PM), they lit numerous lanterns on ships large and small. Also, toward Wakamatsu, led by Lord Mimasaka of the various preparations, dozens of large ships lit high lanterns and, beating drums quietly, stationed themselves at Nagoya Point and Oda Point, ready to board and capture if the Chinese ships showed any resistance. Now, to Lord Geki, seven retainers from Kokura including Shibuta rode in a boat