【Right Page】
was summoned aboard the Chōhei-maru and rowed around as rear guard for the hundreds of vessels from the four domains. The two land inspectors, Lord Okada Genshichirō and Lord Takakura Yasaburō, were sent out to sea to observe the actions of the four domains. They repeatedly rowed up to the imperial envoy's boat to make reports. Now, from the rear guard ships at Wakamatsu harbor, only the gun flashes from the offing of Ainoshima in the six straits could be seen. Since the sound of gunfire was quite distant and could not be heard clearly, only occasional firing sounds could be heard. Lord Mimasaka sent his retainer Yoshinari Kizaemon to investigate, and he quickly rowed back reporting, "It is only the sound of small guns from other domains, with the sound of large cannons only occasionally." Generally, from the local area, only gun flashes could be seen, and when sounds were occasionally heard, it was said to be from Chikuzen's large cannons. Meanwhile, the Chinese ships gradually withdrew, and since the night had grown late, all four domains rowed back to the Kokura main camp. The Chikuzen people

【Left Page】
quietly withdrew afterward and moored at Ōhashi, so night had fully dawned. The reason the imperial envoy established his main camp at Kokura this time was that the Chinese ships were now drifting within Ainoshima (Kokura domain), and the Chinese ships could all be clearly seen from the Ōhashi area. Now, although the official directive did not order them to drive off the ships without ammunition, through negotiations with Kokura's chief retainers and other officials via messengers, they gradually made requests and decided that using no ammunition would be appropriate. Someone said, "If this time we had loaded with ammunition and fired so intensively as to destroy the Chinese ships and even kill the Chinese, there would likely be no more Chinese ship drifts afterward. Perhaps because Kokura and Nagato considered this matter too important, they thought that using ammunition would be too severe, so the Chinese ships did not appear particularly startled." Thus it was discussed. Now on the 16th day, the Chinese ships also