【Right Page】
【Page center: (48)】
Some also spread these out to sleep on.

1. In the place called Manakoyohi within the island, there were seven to eight hundred houses, and in the place called Yuki, there were five hundred houses. Manakoyohi and Yuki had a conflict and engaged in battle; both sides wore armor made of cowhide and helmets made by hollowing out wood into a bowl-like shape.

2. Fifty ri across the sea from this main island is an island called Ritoto. It is said that no cattle, horses, or any of the five grains are produced there whatsoever.

3. In a place called Teiran, there are said to be guns, coral beads, cattle, and horses. The people of the main island bring pigs and chickens there and trade them for iron, copper, amber, and various weapons.

4. The place called Kakuya is about twenty ri away. The place called Haoya is also reportedly several days' journey on horseback. Both places have no cattle or horses, and their inhabitants have long hair hanging down their backs.

There was a ship of about one hundred koku capacity in this place, and it was conveyed through gestures that if they worked hard and diligently, they would eventually be loaded onto this ship

【Left Page】
【Page center: (49)】
and returned to Japan. Thinking this fortunate, they slipped away from their original location two or three at a time in the middle of the night, and striving only to fulfill their wish of returning home, they worked diligently. However, around the third month of the Year of the Rooster, when the ship that had been promised earlier was being prepared for departure in the offing, they asked whether they would be loaded aboard and returned to Japan, to which the answer came: No, this ship is setting out for distant seas and is not taking you aboard. The castaways all voiced their resentment that this was contrary to the original promise. The islanders appeared to understand that this complaint was justified, yet they set sail twenty-odd days later, destination unknown, leaving the castaways' grievances unresolved. Lamenting that if they could not board that ship today, when would they ever find a chance to return home, they all wept, but there was nothing they could do.

A man called Jirobei, who served as the ship's captain, had gone somewhere and had not been seen since around the third month. When they asked their master about this, they were told that he had gone out to the fields and had not come back.