【Right Page】
【Page center: (50)】

However, the helmsman Jizaemon also disappeared around the fourth month. Finding this strange, they searched everywhere but could not find him. Later, hearing a child of that place speak, they learned that the old man had been secretly killed by them because he was not a good worker. So there could be no doubt that the two men had been killed as well. Whether they were struck with a wooden club or what kind of end they met—even killing the young of dogs and cats is something one cannot bear to do, yet to kill someone for not working hard enough—what could this mean? On the one hand they grieved for the misfortune of the two men, and on the other they grieved for the future of those who remained, and there was no moment of peace of mind. In general, on this island, it was the custom to beat to death even one's own parents if they grew old and became unable to work. Only those whose household was wealthy and who possessed many yams were said not to follow such a custom.

Now, the castaways had been telling their hosts all along about how wealthy Japan was as a country—conveying through gestures that gold, silver, rice, and coins were abundant, and that even brass and such things were so plentiful that people did not particularly prize them—which astonished the islanders greatly. When asked how much in the way of copper coins the fifteen of them possessed,

【Left Page】
【Page center: (51)】

they gestured in reply that the combined holdings of the fifteen were too numerous to count, and moreover that whenever they wished they could obtain as much as they desired without difficulty. The islanders all believed this to be true and appeared to envy them greatly. So one day the group met together with their master and enthusiastically described Japan as a wealthy country, saying: if you were to send a ship to Japan, it is clearer than looking at the palm of one's hand that you would obtain great quantities of gold, silver, rice, coins, copper, and all manner of goods. If you lend each of us an axe, we will gather timber and build a vessel. Upon hearing this, the master replied: that is indeed what I too would wish for, but there is no iron in this land, and consequently there are no axes here, so it is difficult to fulfill your wish. However, at the place where you first came ashore, there are nails, scissors, and ship's tools taken from the Japanese vessel that was broken apart; surely there must be an axe among them as well. Go to that first place and borrow them. Everyone felt that since they had fled that first landing place without so much as a single word of farewell, going there now to borrow an axe would be extremely awkward; yet with no other choice but to