【Right Page】
【Page center: (52)】
After consulting together, they went again and said as mentioned before that their homeland had not only gold, silver, rice, and coins in abundance, but also copper, iron, brass and such in great quantities, so they would bring these back and present them. Although they all spoke as if it were true, the natives still doubted them, saying that once they returned to Japan, what connection would there be for them to come back to this place again? So the castaways then lied, saying that Matan Island produced much rosewood and ebony, and since these woods did not exist in Japan and were treasured by Japanese people, they would take this wood and trade it for Japan's gold, silver, copper, and iron. Only then did they firmly believe their words, immediately brought out axes and lent them, and moreover said that if they built the ship where they had been living until now, when the day came to bring gold and silver from Japan, they might not give any to the people of this place, so they should build the ship here instead. The mountains are near, they would let them cut as much timber as desired, and would sometimes help with shipbuilding. Since the plan had succeeded, everyone rejoiced and secretly laughed at the natives' simple honesty, while still praying to the gods for divine assistance to bring their endeavor to complete success, and soon began work on shipbuilding.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (53)】
They began shipbuilding in the tenth month of the year of the Rooster, working one day at weeding and cutting firewood for their master, and one day on ship work. By early March of the following year, they had nearly completed one ship about twenty-eight fathoms in circumference. The timber used for the ship was mostly a wood called "Shitsuho," and since they had no cutting tools other than one axe, they made three handles for this axe - using a large handle when cutting big trees, a short handle when splitting, and removing the handle entirely when shaving, changing handles according to the work. Since they had no copper or iron to make nails or clamps, they joined mulberry wood to make nails. To drill holes, they borrowed ship nails taken from their original vessel from those who possessed them and made them into chisels. Having no saw either, and being unable to bend and shave or bend and cut, they would spot naturally shaped trees in the mountains and cut them for use as the ship's stern and such. Thus it took dozens of days to shave even one plank, several months to drill even a one-inch hole, progressing slower than ants building a tower. When they had finally finished about half the work, again all their sleeves...