【Right Page】
【Page center: (54)】
a sorrowful event that would make them shed tears had occurred.

Now I shall describe the outline of this lamentable event. Initially, Chokichi from Ohno village entered the mountains to cut wood, but unfortunately was struck by timber, severely injuring his muscles and bones and also hurting his back. Although everyone devoted themselves tirelessly to various forms of nursing care, since there was no medicine, he gradually weakened and declined, finally passing away. Chokichi had previously formed a brotherhood bond with someone and had told the natives they were like brothers. When Chokichi was dying, with labored breath, he said to his master: "This time when the new ship is completed, everyone should return to Japan together, but I am unfortunate and have unexpectedly injured myself and died - this is an unavoidable fate. The great kindness shown to us Japanese people is something I cannot forget even in death." He also said to his sworn brother: "I am now receiving great kindness, but it is most regrettable that I die without repaying any of that kindness. Now I can only ask that you quickly return to Japan and bring back not only gold, silver, and copper, but also clothing and any other goods in abundance.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (55)】
This is all I ask. You must hurry back to your homeland without delay, load up as promised, and repay the kindness even for my share who will be dead." Saying this with labored breath, he sadly and pitifully passed away. The natives were also at his side shedding tears, appearing deeply saddened. Since Chokichi deceived the natives so convincingly right up to his deathbed, they believed it even more firmly, and afterward put even greater effort into helping with shipbuilding and took care of everything with utmost kindness.

However, there was a cowardly man named Gorozo who said: "Chokichi, even until his final moment, worried about the future of us twelve men and provided for our later convenience - this was pitiful yet reliable sincerity. Nevertheless, even if the new ship is completed, I alone will not go along with the others. Why? Because even ships made solidly in Japan by skilled shipbuilders with proper tools, selected timber, nails and clamps, and copper and iron fittings, when traveling the short sea route from Bishu to Edo, encounter some