【Right Page】
【Page center: (58)】
They bade farewell to all the natives, deceiving them by saying that the promised goods would be delivered shortly, and loaded the following provisions and equipment into the vessel for the voyage:

　　　　Memorandum　[This memorandum is reproduced here intentionally in its original archaic form]

Item: Taro/sweet potatoes. Received enough to eat for approximately thirty days.
Item: Eight loads of water barrels. Filled entirely with water.
Item: Ten pots. These are the equivalent of Japanese hōroku (earthenware griddles).
Item: Fifty-four or fifty-five yashiho. These are tree nuts used as confections.
Item: One axe. Provided so that it could be used should the ship suffer damage.
Item: Two chisels. Originally fashioned from old nails from our own ship.
Item: Two small knives. These were forged by the craftsmen of Batan Island.
Item: Two implements used for weaving.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (59)】
Item: One small boat of approximately two shaku in length, crafted from rosewood and ebony. This was a toy for the island's children.

Telling the natives cheerfully that the day for delivering the promised goods was close at hand, they took their leave and, having spent three years on the island, set sail from the island on the tenth day of the fourth month of the Year of the Boar. Trusting the direction indicated by the sacred lot as the way to Japan, they sailed before the wind for fourteen days, and on the twenty-third day of the same month arrived at a place called Hōtō-zan within Qing Chinese territory, where numerous small islands were clustered together. They remained there until the third day of the fifth month, but saw no sign of any inhabitants. Reasoning nonetheless that there must surely be people on these islands, they explored various areas by boat, and spotted what appeared to be a fishing vessel. They drew alongside it and tried to inquire about their situation, but the languages did not communicate and nothing could be resolved. They were able to discern only through gestures that Japan lay to the east of their current position. Recalling past hardships when they had once suffered greatly from lack of food, they resolved to stockpile provisions for the ship as much as possible, and while gathering crabs and eating seaweed from the rocky shores of this place, continuing their search onward, they encountered yet another vessel.