【Right Page】
【Page center: (78)】
The eight villains who had previously destroyed the boat were brought out here, and once again their noses were rubbed to make them cry, and they were beaten one by one with thick vermillion-painted clubs, until three of them died. Though they had been scoundrels who tormented us in the past, how could we bear to watch them subjected to such cruel punishment before our very eyes? We tried to save at least the remaining five by appealing to the officials, but since we could not communicate in their language, we pointed to the five prisoners and made gestures of bowing and pleading. The three officials gave some command to stop the beating, had the five prisoners crawl between the legs of us four castaways one after another, then also made them crawl between the legs of the three officials, rubbed their noses again, stripped them naked, and made them clear away the corpses of the three prisoners. When this was finished, the curtains were drawn and the three officials all went inside.

From then on, we descended from the castle and lodged in townhouses. We were placed on a platform covered with leather and felt, surrounded by gold brocade curtains on four sides, and were provided with hospitality daily. The meals consisted of one soup with five dishes, or two soups with seven dishes, the same as in Japan, and the flavors were particularly pleasing to our palates, along with sake that tasted like Japanese refined rice wine

【Left Page】
【Page center: (79)】
which we received three times daily. In addition, one koku and six to of rice and money were provided daily by the officials, and among the coins we could see our own Kan'ei Tsūhō. We bathed three times daily in large tubs and stayed for about forty days without any inconvenience. Every day, people like nobles and their wives came in endless succession to see us strange foreigners, and they all burst into great laughter. The women and children who came to observe would come close and throw sweets and other treats to us, treating us four completely like monkeys or parrots kept for amusement and entertainment. This attitude was quite hateful, but having drifted to a foreign land and being in a position where we had to beg for mercy, there was nothing else we could do, so we simply endured the shame and passed our days. Since the number of people throwing food to us daily was extremely large, it was far more than the four of us could eat, and when we left it as it was, some would steal and eat it. When caught by the guards, they would have their noses rubbed in the usual manner, and something would be written on their foreheads with vermillion ink, and at the gate