【Right Page】
【Page center: (80)】
Many were exposed at the gate for three days at a time. When we saw this, even to eyes like those of tethered monkeys, it appeared most pitiful.

During our stay here, one of the four fell ill, and his condition appeared quite serious. Four or five doctors attended to him, continuously providing herbal medicines, with about thirty day-and-night nurses assigned, receiving the most caring treatment. However, the medicines had no effect, and he finally died, so he was buried in that land with great ceremony. Let me describe the outline of that funeral. Both the coffin and the outer casket were extremely beautiful, and after placing the corpse in the coffin, it was filled completely with vermillion. For the funeral procession, there were numerous officials of all ranks, and from the townspeople, several thousand of the four social classes. For the funeral service, about 150 monks and one great priest stood in proper ceremonial order, with the sound of sutra chanting never ceasing. In particular, we three rode in the usual palanquins for the procession, and the burial ceremony was conducted most carefully in a great temple that seemed to be the royal family's ancestral temple. At the gate, a large board inscribed with "Japanese" in vermillion ink was erected

【Left Page】
【Page center: (81)】
as a marker. For the following seven days, men and women, old and young gathered in crowds, and those who came to pay respects were countless. Even when great ministers of that country died and received state funerals, it seemed this would not be surpassed, and the three of us who remained felt quite honored.

After the deceased's forty-ninth day memorial passed, the three of us departed from this place. Staying two days here and three days there, spending over a hundred days, we left the borders of this country. From there, after traveling about twenty ri by horse, we came upon treacherous mountain roads, and rode in palanquins again for over fifty days until we finally emerged onto plains. Then, passing many castle towns, we came to a great river called Niriuwi River. The river was about five and a half ri wide, with a riverbank five or six ri wide on the south shore. On the day we crossed this river, we departed before dawn, and it was past the fifth hour of night the following day (8 PM today) when we finally reached a post station on the far shore. This river was an extremely treacherous rapid current, with water roaring angrily, and foam several