【Right Page】
【Page center: (88)】
there was not one. The sounds of musical instruments arising from far and near sounded like singing, and there were houses where people played the koto or burned aloes wood. Eastern houses and western neighbors alike held lively banquets, and the city had the bustling atmosphere of a festival day. On this night, fourteen or fifteen Chinese people who had been to Japan hosted the three castaways as honored guests, holding a grand banquet in their honor. First they lit large candles in about thirty places, and displayed all the items everyone had brought - large and small decorative stands, crane and turtle ornaments, plum and narcissus arrangements, and various other creative displays, totaling over 140 items arranged across the room. They took turns encouraging merriment with fine wine and delicious food, served sweets, and then sang, danced, and performed while drunk. Although we could not understand their rhythms at all, we felt that our sorrows were somewhat consoled by such generous hospitality. The three men were already exhausted from the continuous banquets up to this point, yet having to participate in tonight's grand feast as well, they could not handle the wine and began to feel drowsy from early evening, paying no attention to the mountains of fine delicacies. But the Chinese continued singing and dancing vigorously throughout the night, finally departing only around sunrise.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (89)】
When the Year of the Rabbit dawned, the meals for the first three days of spring were dumplings in the morning and rice gruel at noon. The situation in the city was that each house kept its doors closed, and from the fourth day they opened their doors and resumed their usual work - this was quite similar to the New Year customs in our country. After a month had passed, it became February 3rd. On this day, for some reason many people could be seen going on pilgrimages, and throughout the city men and women mixed together dancing and performing, and there were very many holding banquets and enjoying themselves.

Thus it became March 23rd. Today was the day when the three castaways would joyfully set out on their journey home, so from early morning they hurried to make various preparations. When the time came, they were escorted by many officials as they departed the inn. At the inn, the innkeeper and eighteen or nineteen men and women, plus about forty or fifty servants, came to see them off to the port. At the time of parting, they seemed truly reluctant to separate, and all shed tears in sorrow. The three men, despite their joy at today's departure, also wept together with them and unexpectedly found themselves regretting the parting. What kind of karmic connection from past lives could there have been? Japan...