【Right Page】
【Page center: (100)】
threw away all the remaining timber as well. Day after day the wind remained strong, and as they drifted on the vast sea waves, with no trace of what might be islands and no clouds that could be mistaken for land, they could only uncertainly distinguish east from west by observing the course of the moon and sun, so they had no idea whatsoever over which sea they were drifting. They somehow managed to remake the rudder that had been broken by the raging waves, and used it for six or seven days, but again the rough waves were fierce and that rudder also broke. So having no choice, they used their spears and halberds as nails to make yet another rudder, which they were able to use for more than ten days. Even after sailing for so many days, seeing no other ships passing by, they wondered uncertainly what kind of world's ocean this could be. Using the waves as their pillow, unable even to have proper dreams, the feelings in their hearts as they passed each day and each tomorrow were pitiful beyond measure. Moreover, as their water supply became scarce, they waited for rainy days, but it was now the season of winter showers that did not fall heavily, so they caught the few raindrops in water buckets, cargo buckets, pots, mortars, and every available container,

【Left Page】
【Page center: (101)】
barely moistening their throats. Thus November arrived, but the west wind did not soften at all, and when they entered waters where the currents were particularly unusual, the rudder they had remade broke once again and became useless. So with their options finally exhausted, they tied a board to serve as an anchor and sailed by pulling on ropes that were hung from the rudder bed. Thus the frost month had already reached the fourteenth day. For several days before this, rain had continued to fall, but when it cleared, the fierce west wind gradually became a gentle breeze, so everyone gathered at the bow area and said to each other, looking at one another's faces: "It has already been twenty-five days. Since the same directional wind has continued blowing from Shioya-no-hana, and we have sailed continuously day and night at the mercy of the wind, by our reckoning we have now been blown about 2,800 ri or more. Therefore we should have drifted to some country by now, yet we have scarcely encountered any passing ships or islands - this seems to be the ultimate result of our terribly bad fortune." Saying this, they each wrung their sleeves. Among them, Nihee held back his tears and said, "I alone