【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (126)】
Both men boarded the ship, but they were very anxious about what country they might be taken to this time. The ship's crew consisted of eight women both old and young, twenty-two men, and twenty sailors and helmsmen, totaling fifty people. They rowed out toward the rough waves of the open sea without knowing which country they were bound for. When they recalled their friends they had parted from in that land, they naturally felt reluctant to leave, and morning and evening they could only gaze toward the land. Looking at the eight women, they saw them lying prostrate without lifting their heads, sobbing with tears, but while on the ship, there was no way to know the details of their circumstances. However, thinking back later, these women had all been separated from their parents, torn away from their husbands, and stolen to be sold in distant countries. One could only feel pity thinking of what was in those people's hearts. The ship carried large quantities of brown sugar, black sesame, and other goods. After more than twenty days had passed, Kōgorō, one of the two men, somehow began feeling unwell and fell ill. He stopped eating, his complexion turned pale, and he appeared hopeless. The sailors also became worried and gave him medicine, caring for him in various ways, but there was no effect whatsoever.

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (127)】
He gradually weakened and finally passed away. Alas, until now there had been just the two of them, depending on each other like parent and child, enduring harsh days together, but now one had met with the misfortune of death. What must have been in the heart of Magoshichi, who remained behind? Since this situation could not continue, Magoshichi, while weeping, arranged the corpse and asked the sailors to row to any port so he could perform a proper funeral. But they were heartless and told him to throw the body into the sea. "That is heartless and cruel," he said, "please put in at any shore for a while," and he pleaded with them in various ways, both reproaching and entreating, but they would not listen at all. While this was going on, they approached a small island, and fortunately the sea was shallow there. Magoshichi shouldered the corpse, immediately jumped into the sea, crossed to the opposite shore, dug deep into the sandy ground with a shell, buried the body, and returned to the ship. Initially there had been twenty companions, but through partings in life and separations in death, their numbers had gradually decreased, and now only Magoshichi remained alive. With his grief having nowhere to go, he lay prostrate in the bottom of the ship when the sailors