【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (142)】
The Boaya pushed through and broke in, so he cried "Alas!" and tried to flee upward, but it suddenly leaped at him and bit off one leg from around the thigh. At the sound of his anguished screams, the other watchmen were startled and came running together, and seeing the situation, they cried out loudly, so many people also came out from the various towns, and when they lit up the area with torches and lanterns to look, perhaps because it was the middle of the night and also because it was startled by all the voices, the Boaya was confused about the exit and fled about here and there within the fence, so they took aim and fired guns, but although the bullets hit, the scales were thick and did not penetrate its body. So dozens of people struck it with clubs all at once, hooked it with rakes and pulled it up to see - its length was about seven fathoms. Its belly was somewhat red and it had something like a sword at the tip of its tail; the fearsome eyes were truly like a dragon's but without horns. Until now, Boaya rarely harmed people, and people also did not kill them, saying that if killed, others would come to take revenge, so usually they would not even point at them, but this time they killed it and threw it into the water, yet perhaps because the fault lay with the creature itself, afterwards no revenge was taken.

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (143)】
None was heard of. Now that man whose leg was bitten off could not be treated and died by midday the next day. But setting that aside, this country has very just government and the people's customs are simple and honest; the teachings of the sages are practiced and the way of loyalty, filial piety, benevolence and righteousness is established. This is probably because there are many who came from China and have lived here for many years. However, while in the mainland of China the way of the five constants does not seem to be properly practiced now, conversely the fact that those teachings are practiced in this land might be called what is known as "the lighthouse keeper's own base being dark." For the farmers' taxes and tributes, they mostly pay rice, pepper, cloves, sugar and such, but from this town they say gold, silver, and textiles are specifically paid. One time many kabuki performers came by regular boat from Shanxi, set up a stage in the grounds of a great temple called Zenfukuji, and put on performances there. Since spectators crowded together making it very lively, Magoshichi also accompanied his master one day and went up to the viewing gallery to watch. At first they wore hakama and shoes while singing songs in a manner resembling dancing, and they also performed kyōgen plays wearing armor and helmets, cutting and striking at each other. As for what the various titles were -