【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (150)】
"I will never forget." He deeply appreciated his master's generous kindness, and facing toward Japan, he worshipped the gods and Buddha from afar, and for a while was overcome with tears of joy. From then on he could not sleep at night, just waiting for a ship, and before long his master heard that there was a ship going to Nanking. When his master made inquiries about Magoshichi's situation, the ship captain said, "Is this Japanese person literate?" When told that he did not know letters, the captain said again, "Then with his current long hair he cannot board the ship. He must become a monk." Magoshichi thought that it would be regrettable to cut his hair when he was finally returning to his homeland. Even if he didn't take this ship, there would surely be another ship that would take him as he was. Though his heart was eager, he was reluctant to change his appearance, so he decided against boarding this ship out of necessity. He asked close companions to inform him if there was another ship. Then he heard that there was a Dutch ship available, and when he told his master about this, the master said, "Dutch people are not very reliable, but if you really want to, I'll try asking them."

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (151)】
When his master earnestly requested the ship captain, the Dutchman also readily agreed, so on the thirteenth day of the fourth month of the year of the Dragon, the master finally granted leave and gave him much money for travel expenses. However, Magoshichi returned it to his master, saying "If I possess such items, they would rather bring harm to me." The master agreed this was reasonable and changed the gifts, giving him a sword one shaku eight sun long as a keepsake of their long separation, and also bestowed all the clothing, small tools, and even mosquito nets that had been provided to Magoshichi until now. As the next day was set for departure, Magoshichi's heart was urgent, and he bid farewell to his master's household and companions with tears, regretting this final parting in this world. When the day came, the entire household including the old mother came out to see him off, shedding tears of separation. Magoshichi too, having not only lived there for a long time but also received his master's deep kindness, especially regretted the parting and boarded the Dutch ship, looking back again and again. This ship was a small vessel among Dutch ships, said to carry ten thousand koku. With more than seventy sailors and helmsmen, on the morning of the fourteenth day of the fourth month at the river mouth