【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (158)】
They would give eight mon to whoever spotted [the mountains of Ryukyu], and twelve mon to whoever first spotted the mountains of Japan. As they competed with each other, Magoshichi also climbed the mast and, thinking that regardless of Guangdong or Ryukyu, he would be the first to spot the mountains of Japan, his homeland, he stared intently. Indeed, that honor fell to Magoshichi, and everyone clapped their hands in praise. The ship soon advanced and approached near Takahoko Island in Hizen Province. This was around the eighth hour past noon on the sixteenth day of the sixth month of Meiwa 7 (1770), the year of the Metal Tiger. Since Nagasaki harbor was now close, they realized that if they kept cannons, muskets and such stored aboard, they would not be permitted to enter port, so they threw all weapons into the sea, keeping only trade goods. That evening they sailed before the Nagasaki guard station and dropped anchor. Officials soon came aboard, inspected all the cargo, recorded it in ledgers, and when finished, everyone was permitted to go ashore.

From when they first departed that foreign port, it had been thirty-nine days and over four thousand ri at sea, across many

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (159)】
tide-paths safely, and how joyful must have been Magoshichi's heart when he returned to his homeland this very day - to describe it would be foolish, one can only imagine and understand. Since Magoshichi had returned alone on a foreign ship, he was initially suspected by the officials. They completely unpacked his belongings and even stripped off the clothes he wore, conducting detailed interrogations. But since there was naturally nothing suspicious to be found, he was soon summoned to the magistrate's office and ordered to write a detailed account of his experiences from the beginning of his drift until the present, which he immediately wrote and submitted. He was told he could not return to his home province until permission came from Edo, so he was placed in custody at the local detention house. As he waited respectfully for orders, on the twentieth day of the eighth month permission came from Edo. As a reward for bringing Magoshichi back, the Dutch were given two thousand kin of copper, and the lord of Chikuzen also bestowed twenty koku of rice. As Magoshichi received such grateful blessings, he first thought of the nineteen people who had parted from him in that foreign land.