【Right page】
We boarded and returned to the main ship, and while telling those who remained about the conditions of the island, seawater had already entered the main ship considerably, with various parts beginning to collapse, appearing to be on the verge of complete shipwreck. So we loaded the tender boat with hand tools, pots and kettles, the remaining seven or eight bales of rice, rigging equipment, and whatever else remained. All twelve of us transferred to the boat, rowed again to the island mountain, went ashore, and carried the rice, cooking implements, and other supplies from the tender onto the island.

By this time it was already evening, appearing to be around the hour of seven (4 o'clock PM by modern reckoning) when the sun was setting, so wanting first to find shelter, we divided up to search around the island mountain, but there was no shade from trees where we could rest comfortably. However, at what seemed to be the middle of the mountain, there was a large rock cave, and about twenty ken further away, separated by that distance, was another similar rock cave. When we entered and examined that cave, it seemed to be about two ken square. The other rock cave was somewhat narrower inside. In both caves, one could stand and sit freely. Perhaps in the past

【Left page】
there were others who had been blown to this island, as the rock caves showed signs of having been inhabited by people. When we dug out sand from a slightly hollowed area and looked, we could see charcoal and such below, so we dug that area deeper and made it into a cooking place where we could hang pots and kettles.

While we were carrying the rice, cooking implements, and other supplies into the cave, night fell, so we divided into the two caves, six men each. That night we had no inclination to sleep at all, so throughout the night we chanted nembutsu prayers in unison. When dawn broke, we hurried to where we had moored the tender boat, and found that the night's wind had blown quite strongly and the sound of waves had been extraordinary, so both the main ship and small boat had been wrecked, with planks and other debris blown considerably toward the rocky shore. We all gathered together and hauled these up onto the island mountain. With both vessels wrecked, we had no choice but to remain on that island.

Fortunately there were seaweeds, fish, birds and such, so we caught and ate these, but there was not a drop of drinking water. The seawater was truly bitter and salty, impossible to drink even a mouthful, so from among the tools we had brought up, we placed hand buckets and small buckets in hollows of the rocky mountain to collect rainwater for survival