【Right page】
bent into the shape of fishing hooks, unraveled drifted sail cloth and twisted together the pulled threads, attached them to the nail hooks, used stones as weights, and made them like the long-line fishing done in your locality. We would soak the large birds in seawater beforehand, tear their flesh into strips, pierce them onto the bait, cast them far out from atop the rocks at the shore, wait a while and pull them up. The fish caught on the numerous nail hooks were island horse mackerel, red fish, moiho and similar types, and other fish we had not seen in your locality - quite a good catch. We ate these fish by boiling them in seawater or drying and grilling them. We had plenty of nails to use as hooks, having pulled them from drifted shipwreck planks when they washed ashore. For bait, it also worked well to break off the legs of the aforementioned crabs. Moreover, though we did not know the name of the large birds, this spring the boat people from Horie-chō in your locality said in their account of drifting that these birds occasionally cross over to the shores of Nambu or Matsumae. They said they had once seen them in that area before. When they asked the locals there for the bird's name, they were told it was called "shikame."

【Left page】
　　Another inquiry: were there no small birds or beasts other than the large birds?
One: Other than the large birds, we saw no geese or ducks at the shore. We occasionally saw birds with overall mouse-colored plumage, red heads and black tails, appearing much larger than kites, perched on rocks exposed at low tide along the shore. These also appeared to catch and eat the aforementioned crabs. Small birds would also come down into the miscanthus, elaeagnus trees, and mulberry groves, but since I did not pay careful attention to what kinds of birds they were, I cannot say. During what seemed to be spring turning to summer, bush warblers and cuckoos also sang, so when we listened carefully for them, we could hear unfamiliar small bird songs as well. There were some exceptionally beautiful songs, but since we had no intention of catching them, we did not observe what kinds of small birds they were or their appearance. We saw no beasts at all, so there appear to be none.
When the weather was clear and the waves and wind calm, about two or three chō southwest of the island mountain where we were staying, during what seemed to be low tide, something about five or six ken square - whether stone, rock, or small mountain