【Right page】
When they replied with this intention, he came again the next day (the 29th), showing them documents that he said were from when thirteen people from Sendai in Oshu had drifted ashore in previous years. At that time, even the ship's equipment was all confiscated, but this time all ship equipment would be allowed to be taken back, so they must do as he said. Therefore, thinking that their wish would ultimately not be granted, they decided to comply with his words.

On December 13th, they received 4 kan-mon of Chinese coins as payment for the ship. Having received such exceptionally generous protection from Master Duan, they dressed in hemp kamishimo formal wear and, with the interpreter as guide, went to his house to present gifts of ten rolls of banana fiber cloth, one jar of shochu, and one stand of safflower to express their gratitude, and received courteous reciprocal gifts in return. On the 19th, a General Officer of the Third Rank named Master Ji came with many soldiers, conducted a formal inspection, and departed. They heard that this was because that country treated Japan with great courtesy, and even for castaways, they would never be negligent, so such high-ranking officials personally came to oversee matters, but they found this rather troublesome and wished such formalities were unnecessary. On the same day, Master Duan

【Left page, upper section】
returned all the goods that had been presented to him the previous day. Having first accepted them and then returning them later, this happening twice was puzzling for unknown reasons, but they could not inquire further about it and the matter ended thus. On the 21st,

【Left page, lower section】
they were told they should cross to Zhapu within a day or two, and since today was an auspicious day, they should begin loading their cargo. Following the interpreter's instructions and with help from Chinese people, they finished loading their cargo. Everyone transferred to two ships, and on the 27th they reached a port called Zhapu.