【Right page】
Taro died on October 29th during the boat journey, helmsman Sanosuke on January 13th of that year, and sailor Souemon on the 24th of the same month at Zhapu, all from dysentery and dying away from home. The bodies of Yosaburo and Jintaro were buried by government officials, so the castaways could not know of it, but for the funerals of Sanosuke and Souemon, they conducted the funeral procession together with Chinese laborers and the patrol inspector, and following the customs of that country, they burned paper money about three sun square and buried them. These gold and silver foil transferred to paper are called "meijin" (ghost money), and those with impressions of hats, clothing, etc. are called "meiishi" (ghost clothes paper), used during Buddhist services according to that country's customs. The group, pitying the deaths of their drift companions, requested through interpreters that they at least be allowed to erect stone monuments for these two men. Small stones were carved with their native places and common names, completed on April 19th, so they helped with the erection together and made their final farewells in this world.

The group's wish to return home was not in vain, as there were ships that traveled to our country. On April 11th, the eleven men were divided between two vessels, with one interpreter accompanying each vessel. One ship departed on May 19th and

【Left page】
set sail, arriving in Nagasaki on June 16th, while the other departed on May 26th and arrived on June 14th. Both arrived safely, underwent the customary interrogation, and were later each permitted to return home. However, previously when they had set sail toward Matsumae, they constantly fell into adversity thereafter, with raging waves striking the sky like the roar of a thousand thunders. When it seemed their single damaged vessel would rise into the air, it would immediately face the bottom of thousand-fathom depths. They cried out with all their voices to gods and buddhas, lamenting as if in the hell of wailing, but now they had actually seen the distant Qing country and returned, able to show smiling faces in Nagasaki - this was surely due to the virtue of the courageous seafaring profession.

Now, when they returned home, the documents the castaways possessed were: one permit for the Shoei-maru received in Anei 7 (1778), one travel pass received when going to Edo in Tenmei 8 (1788), both issued by subordinates of Matsumae Shima-no-kami and held by the ship's captain. Besides these, among the helmsmen and sailors were nine temple guarantee certificates and protective amulets from Daijingu (Ise Grand Shrine), Suwa, Konpira, Amida, Kannon, Daihannya, etc., along with the following certificate given to them at Zhapu. In that certificate, there appear to be characters that seem to be copying errors, but since no other materials are available for collation, they cannot be corrected.