Tenpyō-shōhō 5: Winter - The envoys to Tang, Fujiwara no Kiyokawa and Kibi no Makibi, returned. They encountered wind on the ocean and drifted to Okonaha Island, staying for over ten days. Okonaha is probably Okinawa.

Enryaku 22: May - Fujiwara no Kanono and Kūkai served as envoys to Tang and presented a letter to the provincial inspector. The text contained "the wolf heart of Tamna and the tiger nature of Liuqiu."

Nin'ju 3: August - The monk Chishō departed for Tang aboard a Tang merchant vessel. He drifted and reached Ryukyu. Several dozen people stood on the shore holding spears. Not knowing what the Tang merchants intended, when the wind shifted they were able to escape.

Chōtoku 3: Southern barbarians raided the western borders. The following year, Dazaifu ordered Kikai Island to pursue and capture the southern barbarian bandits.

720 [years before 1884] Eiman 1: Minamoto no Tametomo departed Izu and arrived in Ryukyu. He married the sister of the Ōzato aji and the following year had a son named Sontoku. After several years, he left his wife and child and returned to Izu.

Jishō 1: Yasuyori, Naritsune, and Shunkan were exiled separately to Kikai, Akuseki, and Iōjima islands.
4: Sontoku became the Urasoe aji.

Bunji 1: Shunba Jun'i was born.

698: 3: Sontoku executed Riyū and ascended to the throne, becoming King Shunten. September - Shimazu Tadahisa was appointed jitō of the twelve southern islands.
4: Taira no Sukemori, Arimori, Yukimori and others arrived at Ōshima and divided the island into three parts to rule.

Antei 1: Shogun Yoriie had Shimazu Tadatoki concurrently serve as jitō of the twelve southern islands.
Kanki 1: Eiso was born.
Katei 3: Shunten died. The following year Shunba Jun'i ascended.
Hōji 1: Taisei was born. The following year Shunba Jun'i died.
Kenchō 1: Gihon ascended.
2: Violent winds and great drought; the five grains did not ripen and the country suffered great famine. The following year epidemics spread and half the people died. This year Eiso was appointed.
5: Eiso became regent.

626 Shōgen 1: Gihon abdicated to Eiso and retreated to the mountains and forests. The Shunten lineage ended here. The following year Eiso received the abdication and ascended the throne.

Kōchō 1: Eiso corrected land boundaries and levied field taxes. The monk Zenkan drifted ashore and built Gokurakuji Temple in Urasoe. The people first worshipped Buddha, and from this time there were tombs.

Bun'ei 1: Kume, Kerama, and Iheya islands first paid tribute to Ryukyu. Government offices were built in Tomari village.
2: Shogun Munetaka had Shimazu Hisatsune concurrently serve as jitō of the twelve southern islands following his father's precedent.
3: Ōshima first paid tribute to Ryukyu. Ōshima is Amami, also written as Kaimi. The following year Eiso sent a chief to Ōshima.
5: Eiji was born.

Shōō 4: This year (Yuan Zhiyuan 28) Kublai Khan sent envoys to summon and persuade Ryukyu. In the proclamation it was written as "Liuqiu." The following year they finally advanced troops but were unable to accomplish their mission.

Einin 5: Last year Tamaki was born. This year (Yuan Dade 1) Yuan again tried to summon and persuade but they did not comply, so captured 130 people and returned.

Shōan 1: Eiso died. The following year Taisei ascended.
Enkyō 1: Taisei died. The following year Eiji ascended.
Shōwa 2: Eiji died. The following year Tamaki ascended. Tamaki indulged in wine and women, devoted himself to hunting, and government discipline collapsed.
Genkō 1: Satto was born.
Shōchū 2: March - Shimazu Tadamune became jitō of the twelve southern islands as usual.

559 Karyaku 1: The country was divided into three parts. The three kingdoms engaged in warfare and cut off tribute ships from various islands.
Gentoku 1: Seiī was born.
Engen 1: March - Tamaki died. The following year Seiī ascended. His mother meddled in politics and Chūzan declined.
Shōhei 4: Seiī died. The crown prince was deposed and Satto was welcomed. The Eiso lineage ended here.

535: 5: Satto ascended. He swept away corrupt policies and brought great order to the realm. He made Aranbō prime minister. This was the beginning of establishing the position of prime minister.
10: August - Shogun Yoshiakira had Shimazu Sadahisa inherit the old domain of the twelve southern islands.
24: This year (Ming Hongwu 2) the Ming emperor sent envoys to Ryukyu bearing an imperial edict to persuade Satto.

Bunchu 1: Hashi was born. This year (Ming Hongwu 5) Satto sent his younger brother Taiki to Ming to present a memorial.
Kōwa 3: This year (Ming Hongwu 16) the Ming emperor admonished the three kings of Chūzan, Nanzan, and Hokuzan to cease warfare. For the first time the proclamation was written as "Ryukyu."
Genchu 1: Satto made Gokokuji Temple his prayer temple. The temple was located at Naminoue and was built by the mainland monk Raijū. August - Raijū died.