【Right Page】
Ansei 3: Shō Jorei was made chief justice.
5: In the 6th month, a Dutch ship (the second) came requesting a treaty. This year, the instructor position on Miyako Island was abolished.
6: Prince Ie Chōchū (Tomotada) (Shō Ken) was appointed as chief inspector general magistrate. The following year (Man'en 1), Shō Injō was made prime minister.

Bunkyū 2: Ginowan Pēchin Chōho (Tomoyasu) (Shō Yūkō) was made one of the three chief ministers. In the 8th month, a French ship (the eighth) came and took the people left behind. Satsuma dispatched soldiers to Ōshima and sent officials to Ryukyu.

Meiji 1: Cowpox vaccination was performed for the first time.
4: In the 7th month, Ryukyu separated from the jurisdiction of the Shimazu family and came under the administration of Kagoshima Prefecture. The following year, the prefectural governor sent Ijichi and Narahara to cancel debts.
5: Last year, Miyako people were harmed by aborigines. Shō Tai went to Tokyo with Prince Ie as chief envoy to congratulate the Emperor's personal rule. He was enfeoffed as domain lord, listed among the nobility, and granted a residence.
6: Prince Ie was made regent. In the 4th month, Shō Tai submitted a letter of gratitude. Domain officials began residing in Tokyo. From now on, tribute was set at 8,200 koku.
7: Last year, seven national flags, two volumes of laws and regulations, and one domain seal were granted to the domain. This year, several articles regarding official systems and other matters were decreed. In the 5th month, Governor Saigō dispatched troops to Taiwan for punitive action.
8: Last year in the 10th month, Minister Ōkubo negotiated with Qing China, recognizing the Qing's punitive expedition against the aborigines as a righteous action and presenting silver. Relief rice was given to refugees and skulls were returned. Last year in the 7th month, Ryukyu Domain came under the Ministry of the Interior. Domain debts of 200,000 yen became the government's responsibility. This year in the 1st month, domain officials were ordered to go to Tokyo. There were five articles and two items of instruction.
9: Last year in the 6th month, Matsuda, Interior Ministry Senior Secretary, Ijichi, Sixth-Rank Official, and others were sent to Ryukyu to convey four-article orders.
10: Last year, Kinashi, Interior Ministry Junior Secretary, was ordered to serve in Ryukyu. Police affairs and judicial affairs were assigned to the Interior Ministry branch office.
11: In the 12th month, Matsuda, Interior Ministry Senior Clerk, was again ordered to be dispatched to Ryukyu. The following year in the 1st month, he went and conveyed the imperial will.
12: In the 3rd month, Secretary Matsuda was ordered to make a third mission to Ryukyu. He went and conveyed the decree for domain abolition and prefecture establishment, and the former king's journey to Tokyo. Shō Tai was granted the court rank of Junior Third Rank and ordered to reside in Tokyo. Prince Ie and Prince Nakijin were both listed among the nobility. In the 10th month, Shō Tai was granted government bonds worth 200,000 yen.

End of Chronicle

【Left Page】
Table of Contents for Chronicles of the Southern Islands
　Volume 1
　　Tenson Chronicles　　《Tenson Dynasty》
　　Shunten Chronicles　　《King Shunten, King Shunbajunki｜King Gihon》
　　Eiso Chronicles Part 1　《King Eiso, King Taisei｜King Eiji》
　　Eiso Chronicles Part 2　《King Tamaki｜King Seii》
　　Satto Chronicles　　《King Satto｜King Bunei》
　　Shō Shishō Chronicles Part 1《King Shishō, King Hashii, King Chū｜King Shitatsu, King Kinpuku》
　　Shō Shishō Chronicles Part 2《King Taikyū｜King Toku》
　Volume 2