【Right page】
On the sea route along the Pacific coast, spanning only about ten ri from Choshi-ura in Shimosa Province to Isohara-ura in Hitachi Province, they encountered a terrible storm one morning, endured countless hardships, and finally drifted to Annam (Vietnam). There they unexpectedly met three fellow castaways from Onahama in Oshu Province. Two died of illness in that foreign land, but the remaining seven safely received assistance from Qing merchants and were able to return to our Nagasaki. Investigating the full story of these events: Previously, six men from Isohara Village in the Mito domain of Hitachi Province—ship captain Sagenta of the Zen sect (age 35), sailors Tomoshichi of the Zen sect (age 49), Shobei (age 41), Kishiro of the Nichiren sect (age 38), Zenemon, and Kichijuro—boarded the eleven-tan sail vessel Himemiya-maru owned by Yahachiro of the same village. On the fifteenth day of the tenth month of Meiwa 2 (126 years ago), they sailed to Onahama in Oshu Province, received 620 bales of rice from Makino Etchu-no-kami, completed loading on the twenty-fifth of the same month, raised sail at dusk that day, arrived at Choshi-ura in Shimosa Province at the hour of the Horse on the twenty-ninth (around noon today), unloaded all cargo on the first day of the eleventh month, obtained a receipt from the port officials, and cast off the homeward-bound mooring lines at the hour of the Dragon on the fifth day of the same month, when the wind was

【Left page】
favorable, the sails full, and the ship running as if flying.
The ship ran northward with the following wind, and when they thought they had come about six or seven ri, a violent southwest wind suddenly arose and blew them toward the eastern offing. They quickly lowered the sails and dropped two anchors, but this had no effect whatsoever. They cut down the mast and threw overboard their cargo to reduce the wind's force even slightly, but fierce waves surged high, seawater poured into the ship, and though all hands exhausted their strength bailing it out, for every sho they bailed, a to would accumulate. Finding this completely beyond their power, they resigned themselves to their fate, cut off their topknots in prayer to gods and buddhas, and had no choice but to let out the great rope and drift with the current.
Thus blown toward the northeast, they reached what they thought might be the offing of Soma in Oshu Province (though they could not be certain where) on the evening of the sixth day, when the wind calmed somewhat and shifted to the northwest. In ancient times, those who encountered storms and were swept to the northern seas