【Right page】
He said they should go to a port called An, and on the twenty-sixth day, leading the six people, they bid farewell to the various officials and together boarded this side's ship and departed. However, the wind was not favorable and they anchored at various places, towing the boat about one ri up the inland river, until they finally arrived at the port of Hoi An on the first day of March.

The next day they went to the government office following Kokukwansan, but whatever he discussed with the officials was completely incomprehensible to the six people's ears. However, judging from the fact that they were given rice, money and other provisions, it seemed likely that it was a consultation requesting allowances for the voyage. They then left the government office and returned to the ship, relying on Kokukwansan and living on the same vessel until June. During this time, among their ship's equipment - the main rope, tow rope, anchor, water barrels and such - were sold according to that person's wishes, but he received the payment and never told them how much the amount was, probably using it all for food expenses up to that time. At this time, seventeen or eighteen Chinese merchant ships were anchored in the same port, so they desperately wanted to somehow obtain passage on these ships, and even if they couldn't reach Japan, at least...

【Left page】
【Upper section】
they desperately wanted to
cross over to China at least,
so they consulted with
Kokukwansan about this
matter. He answered that if
they had money, they should
prepay the captain for rice
and firewood expenses
and quickly request
passage. So here
all of them held serious
deliberations and entrusted
four ryō of gold

【Lower section】
to that person, earnestly
requesting his assistance.
However, he took that money
and departed by ship on
June fifteenth, never
to return again. Thus,
until now they had
looked up to him as a
true benefactor and
relied on this one
person alone as their
support and staff, yet he stole their money