【Right page】
With disheveled hair and no opportunity to bathe, constantly exposed to the sun and salt spray, their faces were reddish-black and yellow, with light in their eyes, truly appearing like demons, and their bodies were wrapped in bird feathers. When we asked what country these three men were from, we learned they were from the ship of Miyamoto Zenpachi from Horie-cho in Edo, with pilot Tomizo and seventeen crew members including sailors, who had encountered a storm and drifted to this island. These men were also thirsting for water and asked for guidance to water, so we explained that this island has no springs, and we use collected rainwater, and that we could collect more to give them, but asked that they please take us back to our home country on their boat. We joined hearts with them, went out to the rocky shore to explain the island's conditions thoroughly, brought all the men from the ship onto the island, pulled up the lighter and surrounded it, and of course they had one bag of rice remaining, which we also enclosed in preparation for departure. We learned that these men had drifted ashore on March 29th of this year. Therefore, we had these men also catch seaweed, fish, and birds, mutually preserving our lives while staying there, and while waiting daily for good weather, on April 27th of this year when favorable winds appeared, we first quickly gathered everyone and brought the boats we had pulled up on the island to the rocky shore

【Left page】
side, bringing out the sail equipment and other items, that one bag of rice, as well as about two measures of unhulled rice we had cultivated and stored on the island, loading these into the boat, along with the pots and kettles we had used for twenty years, and two pieces of hide stripped along with the feathers of large birds, thinking that if we all preserved our lives and safely returned to Japan, these would serve as conversation pieces. After loading these various items into the boat and preparing for immediate departure, two or three elderly men among the seventeen from Miyamoto Zenpachi's Horie-cho boat spoke up: "Though today's wind seems favorable, which direction should we set out toward? Since this island appears warm, it seems to be an island lying to the south. If so, considering the direction of sunrise, would it not be best to set out toward the northeast? However, our being blown to this island was a disaster of the times. That we survive is due to the protection of gods and buddhas. For our wish to return home to be fulfilled above this, how could it be accomplished without divine power? Therefore, we have here the sacred purification strips from Ise, and we should all concentrate our faith and receive them devoutly, throw them into the sea from within the boat, and raise sail toward the direction the purification strips drift." Everyone thought this extremely reasonable, and this was entirely our