【Right page】
《Official Ship Captain》Hattori Genzo《Seal》

Response from the captain and seventeen sailors of Miyamoto Zenhachi's ship from Horie-cho, Edo, regarding your inquiry.

First, regarding our affairs: In the early part of the twelfth month of Genbun 3, Year of the Horse, we loaded salted fish, dried fish, paper, cotton, and other goods onto our ship. On the morning of the third day of the twelfth month, due to favorable winds, we departed from Edo with a crew of seventeen including the captain and sailors. In late January of the following year, we entered Hachinohe Port in Nanbu domain and remained in Nanbu until we finished selling all the loaded goods. In early March, we purchased and loaded soybeans, buckwheat, and other items in Sendai. When we set sail from a bay southeast of Sendai on the twenty-first day of March, as we were sailing toward the Sunosaki area of Boso Province, a sudden great wind from the northwest began to blow. Even when we lowered the sails, the wind was so strong that we could barely manage the ship. While we were in great confusion, evening came, and although the wind gradually became calm, it seemed we had been blown more than a hundred ri offshore. On the night of the twenty-sixth day of March, the wind became severe

【Left page】
again. Though we tried our best to head toward Sagami Province, it was difficult to maintain the ship, so we threw all the bagged goods like soybeans and buckwheat into the sea. The mast was also broken by the wind during the early evening, and all seventeen of us resigned ourselves to death. After dawn broke, we looked around in all directions and found that the wind had considerably subsided. Since it was impossible to calculate how many hundreds of ri we had been blown during the night, we had a medium-sized small anchor with rope about sixty or seventy fathoms long, which we lowered to test the depth, but the rope did not reach the bottom. Since seawater was entering the ship tremendously, all seventeen of us worked desperately to bail it out, but because the ship was badly damaged, water kept entering from various places. Nevertheless, we did not give up, and all seventeen of us worked even harder, taking turns bailing out the water. On the twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth days of March, day and night, we drifted at the mercy of the currents, praying to the gods and Buddha that somehow our ship would drift to some inhabited land. Perhaps due to the wind patterns on the twenty-sixth, on the night of the twenty-seventh, strong winds began blowing again, and the ship drifted wildly. Both day and night on the twenty-eighth,