【Right page】
Since there was no way to correct them, they had no choice but to add them as they were. This is done only for those with scholarly curiosity.

　　　　　　Both Bureaus Assembly Hall　　　
　　Every time we meet with the refugees Ihei and ten others from Nagasaki-Matsumae, they state that they encountered storms and drifted to the Celestial Dynasty (China), received compassionate care, and now have abundant clothing and food and have grown accustomed to the climate and soil. However, their longing for their homeland is intense and they earnestly request early return to their country. Now, after deliberation at the Both Bureaus Assembly Hall, we have decided to send these companions back to their homeland. Currently it is already the spring equinox season with southeastern winds, but we dare not boldly send them at this time. We will wait for the Both Bureaus to dispatch ships over three months, make preparations for departure within the fourth month, and have the Both Bureaus jointly send these companions back to their country, arriving at Nagasaki.
　　　　Given on the 30th day of the 1st month, Qianlong 55th year, year of the metal dog
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Both Bureaus Assembly Hall [seal]

【Left page】
　　　Tale Ten.　　A man from Ise drifts to Russia and returns home after twelve years.

In the reign of the 118th Emperor Kokaku, on the 18th day of the 9th month of Kansei 5 (1793), year of the water ox, there was an interrogation of two men who had previously drifted to Russia and were delivered to Nemuro in Ezo this summer: Kodayu of Ise [Although many传承 records write this as Kotayu, following the theory that it should be Kodayu since his own handwritten Russian text also shows Kodayu, not Ko] and Isokichi. The 11th Shogun Tokugawa Ienari had them brought to the viewing chamber at Fukiage [within Edo Castle]. The front was arranged with hanging blinds so one could see through, and in the rear to the right sat Matsudaira Etchu-no-kami, Kato Totomi-no-kami, Hiraoka Mino-no-kami, and Takai Shuzen-no-sho in formal seating. The various officials Kamei Suruga-no-kami, Ono Kawachi-no-kami, Taki Eijuin, and Katsuragawa Hoshu served as interrogators seated at the Shogun's right hand, while Nakagawa Kansaburo and Yabe Hikogoro served as today's attendants.

Now, the two men who were summoned entered quietly, placed their caps on the ground and bowed, then sat on the two stools that had been prepared beforehand. At this time, Kodayu's appearance was with his topknot braided in three parts and hanging long behind, wrapped with black silk, and on the collar of his garment was a small gold tablet