【Right page】
there were four or five volumes of jōruri puppet plays and pictures of Ichikawa Danjūrō. They clearly knew about
Yoshitsune and Yoritomo from Chūshingura and the Genpei Seisuiki, and they also revered Sugawara no Michizane, generally admiring Japan as a divine
country. They were well acquainted with the names of contemporary figures like Katsuragawa Hoshū and Nakagawa Jun'an.

In Petersburg, there were wild boars and rabbits as small as mice, and bantam chickens as small as sparrows, so thinking to bring them back when returning to Japan,
he kept three of them, but although the local people all said that they would surely not survive,
he kept them thinking perhaps they might, but indeed they all died, which was regrettable.

Finally it was decided that they would be escorted by the Russian government, and Kōdayū received 150
rubles in money, while Koichi and Isokichi received 50 rubles each. In addition, they were given two vehicles called "kibitka" like palanquins, four
post horses, and as travel passes, silver oval-shaped tokens to wear around their necks with the images of the founding emperor and the current empress
carved on them. On the twenty-sixth day of the eleventh month of the year of the boar, ten years after leaving their country, they departed Petersburg accompanied by Kirill, and stopped at Moscow, the former capital of the tsar.

【Left page】
They stayed there for fourteen days. In this place there is a famous great cannon. When one enters the muzzle and lies on one's back,
stretching out one's hand to test it, the fingertips just barely reach, and it is about three ken
in length. There is also a famous great bell. Having fallen and burned, it is now embedded in the ground,
so they dug around it and built stone walls, making it possible to go down inside to view it. Its size
is beyond description in words, appearing like a small mountain, but its weight is said to be 2,500 kanme, with our country's 4 kan and 5
hundred me counting as 1 kanme. Now leaving this place
to head for Irkutsk, they were invited by the leading people of this area for a standing reception
and other entertainments, and were told that departure by ship would be around the coming May, by order of the emperor. Then
heading eastward, they arrived in Irkutsk on the third day of the first month of the year of the rat. Thus,
on the twentieth day of the fifth month, accompanied by Kirill and Adam along with interpreters and others, they departed, retracing their route, arriving in Yakutsk on the night of the nineteenth day of the sixth month, leaving that place on the second day of the seventh month, and arriving in Okhotsk on the third day of the eighth month.
From here, Adam and the sailors, thirty-nine people in total, together with Kōdayū, Isokichi, and Koichi, making forty people altogether...