【Right page, upper section】
cultivated and achieved the spirit of bold enterprise in many young people of maritime nations. It is indeed joyous that this kind of book has now reached the hands of our country's children. This book is a collection of true stories brought back by our countrymen who drifted to foreign countries. The author says, "The purpose is to familiarize children with maritime affairs and serve as an aid to national education." We hope that this maritime nation of the East will soon produce vigorous children who can navigate rough seas as if they were flat roads, operating sails while chatting and laughing.

●Tokyo Asahi Newspaper (July 20th) This book was compiled by Mr. Ishii Tamiji, editor-in-chief of Shōkokumin, with the purpose of contributing to national education, collecting particularly remarkable factual accounts from castaway tales of the Tokugawa period. At that time, because ship construction was inadequate, people often made mistakes due to raging waves and angry billows, or drifted to distant foreign lands thousands of miles away, tasting many hardships. Among these, the account included in this volume of the sailor Magoshichi from Karadomari in Chikuzen, who was blown to the South Seas with twenty companions, endured nine years of hardship, and returned home as the sole survivor, can be called the most bitter of bitter experiences. Now there are steamships on the seas, and the world has become unified. Readers should give this due consideration.

●Jiji Shinpō (July 21st) The "Tales of Japanese Castaways" published by Gakureikan is a collection of several accounts of our people during the Tokugawa period who were blown away by wind and waves, wandered to various overseas locations, witnessed various phenomena, and experienced all manner of difficulties.

●Tokyo Nichi Nichi Newspaper (July 21st) Even if you preach loyalty, filial piety, benevolence, and righteousness at great length with millions of words, it is difficult to move people's hearts. In contrast, if you tell the stories of Kusunoki Masashige, Zhuge Liang, Lu Zhongda, Hino Ashinmaru, and others, even woodcutters and shepherd boys will weep. Therefore, the path of education must place more importance on showing examples rather than discussing theories. This book depicts the experiences of those who drifted overseas and tasted many hardships—sometimes massacring pirates and turning seawater red, sometimes

【Right page, lower section】
helping kings subdue rebellious people, sometimes engaging in trade to amass vast fortunes. Sometimes it makes you furrow your brow, sometimes smile, sometimes feel exhilarated. It is a good companion for children.

●Central Newspaper (July 23rd) Mr. Ishii Kendō, editor-in-chief of Shōkokumin, compiled five biographical accounts after extensively searching records and miscellaneous writings about Japanese castaways from the Tokugawa period, intending to familiarize children with maritime affairs and serve as an aid to national education. This is "Tales of Japanese Castaways, Volume One." The writing flows smoothly and the language is simple, not only suitable for children's reading but also sufficient for anyone interested in maritime affairs to read and use as reference.

●Nippon (July 24th) Yesterday "Maritime Nation" was published, and today "Tales of Castaways" appears. Is this because people in the country are gradually beginning to stir maritime military thinking, or because enlightened people are trying to develop our maritime military thinking? This is cause for national celebration. This book recounts the strange tales of those who, during nearly three hundred years of national isolation, drifted to the four corners of the seas and conveyed previously unseen and unknown things to their compatriots, and the achievements of those who endured hardships and contributed to the nation. The consideration shown for young people is truly admirable.

◯When the first volume was published, many distinguished individuals sent materials about castaway stories or wrote offering to lend materials. I humbly express my gratitude here. I cannot contain my hope that through the continued favor of these gentlemen, this small ambition might be brought to great fruition. —The Editor, with respect

【Left page】
Printed: October 18, Meiji 26 (1893)
Published: November 2, Meiji 26 (1893)　　　　　(Regular price: 25 sen)

Copyright Owner
　　　　　　　　　　Author　　　Ishii Tamiji
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Yanaka Honmura, Kita-Toshima District, Tokyo Prefecture)
　　　　　　　　　　Publisher　　　Takahashi Shōzō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(5 Nishiki-chō 2-chōme, Kanda District)
　　　　　　　　　　Printer　　　Shima Rentarō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(26-7 Nishi-konya-chō, Kyōbashi District | Shūeisha member)
　　　　　　　　　　Publishing House　　　Gakureikan
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(5 Nishiki-chō 2-chōme, Kanda District)
　　　　　　　　　　Distributor　　　Gakureikan Branch Office
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Minami-Kyūtarō-chō, Osaka)
　　　　　　　　　　Special Major Distributor　　Maekawa Zenbei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Minami-Kyūhōji-chō, Osaka)