【Right Page】
They were given five bales of rice, two hundred pieces of dried cod, sake, fish, miso, salt, and other items. The banquets served along this route were all very similar to the king's menu. Then they met Furukawa Izaemon, a retainer of Lord Sō of Tsushima who was stationed there, and told him their story of the drift voyage. Furukawa gave them one pack-load of barrel sake, one to (measure) of shiitake mushrooms, one hundred pieces of squid, fifteen bundles of paper, ten kin of konpeitō sugar candy, twenty tobacco pipes, and thirty boxes of tobacco, and provided them with a letter of introduction to Lord Sō's chief retainers. They departed from there and arrived at Wani-no-ura in Tsushima on the seventeenth day of the third month, then arrived at Fuchū on the twenty-second day. Lord Sō of Tsushima provided various hospitalities and gave them cotton-lined garments, loincloths, and summer robes—fifteen sets each. They departed Tsushima on the second day of the sixth month and all arrived in Osaka on the sixteenth day.

【Left Page】
Second Tale: A man from Awa drifts to an uninhabited island and returns to his homeland by means of a single plank.

In the reign of Emperor Reigen, the 111th sovereign, in the ninth year of Kanbun, the year of the Rooster (223 years ago from now), in Asakawa-ura, Ama District, Awa Province, there was a ship captain named Kanzaemon who hired crew members from the same area—Yasubei, Hikonoȷō, Sanemon, and others—for his eleven-tan sail ship. On the twenty-eighth day of the intercalary tenth month of that year, after praying for safe passage at sea, they departed from the same port successfully. In early Shimotsuki (November) they arrived at Miyazaki in Kii Province, loaded mandarins belonging to Fujishiro Chōzaemon of that place, made an agreement to transport them to Edo for a freight charge of 830 me of silver, and with Kanzaemon and Chōzaemon together making a total of seven people aboard (though this small number is questionable), they departed from the same place on the fifteenth day of Shimotsuki. After seven or eight days they arrived at Anotsu in Ise Province, waited for favorable weather for twelve or thirteen days, and departed from the same place in the early morning of the sixth day of the twelfth month.

This sixth day of the twelfth month was a day to be remembered by the seven men. It was truly the day this story begins. As they looked upon Owari Province to port and barely emerged from the inland sea,