【Right Page】
【Page center: (46)】
They secretly consulted with each other and explored the island, finding a place about two ri away with what appeared to be seven hundred houses. They all fled to this place and met with appropriate people, using gestures to tell their life story. The people understood everything clearly and said they would employ them with kindness, so they should all work faithfully - this response was given through gestures. Here for the first time their hearts were at peace, feeling as if they had met Buddha in hell.

Now, let me briefly record the actual conditions of this island:

1. This island is called Matan Island, and the place where the fifteen men stayed was about two ri wide.

2. Large trees grow everywhere on the island, and the soil is black. There were places where mountains had been burned to create fields, where they mainly grew corn and tobacco. As for grains, there was only millet that occasionally grew wild, and there was no rice, wheat, or other grains at all.

3. The animals living on this island are pigs, flies, foxes, mosquitoes, snakes, earthworms, cats, dogs, mice, and sparrows - similar to those in Japan.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (47)】
They also catch some fish from the sea.

4. Men sometimes eat dogs outside their houses. They also eat cats and mice.

5. There are no concepts of years, months, or seasons, no Bon festival or New Year, and it is always warm. Even what they consider the coldest time has the warmth of March in Japan.

6. They do not know how to worship gods or Buddha. There are no customs of honoring parents, religious abstinence, or proper etiquette. When someone dies, they simply bury them in the field, and even relatives do not mourn them.

7. There are marriages of brides and grooms. They invite each other as guests. When inviting guests, they do not enter the house. They stay outside, sit on stones, and slaughter sweet potatoes, dogs, cats, etc. for entertainment.

8. All houses are about two ken by nine shaku, bound with tree bark, roofed with thatch. The house eaves are about three shaku high, requiring crawling to enter and exit. There are no floor coverings inside, they sit on arranged wood planks, and wealthy people have something like Japanese furoshiki cloths.