【Right Page】
【Page center: (50)】
But the helmsman Jizaemon also disappeared around the fourth month, so thinking this strange, they searched everywhere but could not find him. Later, when they heard children of this place talking, they said that because the old man worked poorly, they had secretly killed him without telling us. So those two must have been killed. Whether they were beaten with wood or met some other end - when one cannot bear to kill even puppies and kittens, what kind of thing is it to kill someone for insufficient work? On one hand they grieved for the misfortune of the two men, and on the other hand they grieved for the future of those remaining, and had no peace of mind. Generally on this island, when people grow old and become useless, they kill them even if they are parents. Only those whose families are wealthy and own many sweet potatoes do not follow this custom.

Now these people had long been explaining the wealth of Japan, constantly telling them that not only gold, silver, rice, and coins were abundant, but brass and such were extremely plentiful, and people did not particularly treasure them. They were astonished beyond measure. They asked how much of such copper coins they possessed,

【Left Page】
【Page center: (51)】
so they answered through gestures that the possessions of the fifteen men were too numerous to count, and when they desired more, they could obtain as much as they wanted without labor. Everyone believed this to be true and seemed to envy them greatly. So one day they all met with the master and enthusiastically described Japan as a wealthy country, saying that if he would send a ship to Japan, it was clearer than looking at one's palm that much gold, silver, rice, coins, copper - all kinds of wealth could be obtained. If you would lend us one axe each, we would gather timber and build a ship. The master replied that this was what he desired too, but there was no iron in this place and therefore no axes, so it was difficult to fulfill their wish. However, at the place where they first landed, there were nails, scissors, ship tools and such taken from breaking up the ship that came from Japan, and surely there would be the desired axes there too. They should go to the original place and borrow them. Everyone thought that since they had fled from the place where they first landed and had not even greeted them once since, going there to borrow axes would be very awkward, but...