【Right Page】
【Page center: (58)】
So they bid farewell to all the natives, falsely claiming that those promised goods would be loaded immediately, and the food and implements they received for provisions during the voyage were as follows:

　　　　Record.　[This record is deliberately presented in its original ancient document form]
One, Sweet potatoes. We received enough for about thirty days of eating.
One, Eight loads of water barrels. We filled them all with water.
One, Ten pots. These are Japanese-style shallow pans.
One, Fifty-four or fifty-five coconuts. These are tree nuts used for sweets.
One, One axe. To be used if the ship should be damaged.
One, Two chisels. Originally old nails from our ship.
One, Two small knives. These were forged by the craftsmen of Batan Island.
One, Two implements called weaving tools.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (59)】
One, One small boat about two shaku long, made of red sandalwood and ebony. This is a toy for island children.

Saying cheerfully to the natives that the day to present the promised goods was near at hand, they departed after three years on the island. On the tenth day of the fourth month of the Boar Year, they set sail from this island, trusting the direction indicated by the divine lots to lead them to Japan. Sailing with the wind for fourteen days, on the twenty-third of the same month, they arrived at a place where numerous small islands were lined up near Mount Houtou in Qing territory. Though they stayed here until the third day of the fifth month, they saw no sign of inhabitants. However, thinking there surely must be people on this island, they searched various places by boat and spotted what appeared to be a fishing vessel. When they approached this boat and tried to inquire about the situation, the language did not get through and they could not communicate. Only through gestures could they understand that Japan lay to the east from there. Since there had been times when they suffered greatly from lack of food, they thought to store up ship provisions as much as possible, so they caught crabs and ate seaweed at the rocky shores of this place while searching around, when they encountered yet another boat.