【Right Page】
【Page center: (68)】
Since they could see the sun's rays, it must be waters where dawn comes very early. While this was happening, an east wind arose again and blew them away from the mud, and for forty to fifty days they drifted without seeing a single island. However, during that time the weather was quite warm, so all the crew members spent their days constantly with their upper bodies bare.

During such times, one day a south wind arose, and from then they were blown out north and north for about fifty to sixty days. Since there had been no rainfall for a long time, their drinking water was completely exhausted, and for about twenty days they could not drink even a drop of water. The hardship was truly unbearable. However, since there was nothing they could do, they put small amounts of white sugar that had been stored in the ship into their mouths, moistening their throats with it and barely sustaining their lives. But two men from Toba finally died of thirst. From then on, grief and suffering pressed upon them more and more, and while everyone earnestly prayed to gods and buddhas and begged for rain, there was no sign of immediate divine response. They merely licked the dew that dripped onto copper vessels morning and evening, barely staving off thirst - a suffering that was far beyond what others could

【Left Page】
【Page center: (69)】
possibly imagine.

Perhaps because they had been blown northward, the cold became particularly severe, adding yet another layer of hardship. When they observed the rising moon from this place, the scenery was the same as when viewing it from Japan, so they thought this must mean they had surely drawn near to Japan, and everyone greatly rejoiced and took courage. They had now been drifting for about one hundred and fifty days, and what they found strange on the sea was that when drifting northward, one day large sharks about three ken (approximately 5.4 meters) long surrounded the ship in countless thousands, and they feared that at any moment the ship would be capsized by them and they would be buried in the fish's belly. Also, later in the southern seas, there were places where lotus leaf-like plants grew thickly, seven to eight shaku (about 2.1-2.4 meters) wide and continuing for dozens of ri. Also, one night they saw what appeared to be lights flying back and forth from somewhere on the sea. There were also places where pine tree-like things appeared to be growing luxuriantly in the sea.