【Right Page】
【Page center: (82)】
four to five feet high churned up countless masses of foam. Therefore, when crossing this current by boat, it seemed we might capsize at any moment, and our spirits and hearts were not with our bodies - calling it frightening would be an understatement.

After finally completing the crossing, as far as the eye could see there were plains, with villages connected to one another and rice fields adjoining each other, creating the most beautiful scenery. After emerging onto this flat land, we did not hurry, so spending about ninety days, we reached a certain port. From there we boarded a ship, and after about fifty more days, we finally arrived at a place called Fuzhou in the Qing country.

Upon arriving in Fuzhou, the situation was very different from the previous island country, and among the things that met our eyes, there were not few that resembled Japanese scenery. From here, seventy to eighty escorts and two or three doctors accompanied us, we were treated to delicacies from mountain and sea at each post station, and in approximately 150 days total, we finally reached the capital of Nanjing in late February. The castles we saw along the way numbered over a hundred, all splendid and magnificent, and among

【Left Page】
【Page center: (83)】
them, what appeared to be castle keeps could be seen in fourteen or fifteen locations. Besides these, the number of towers and turrets was great everywhere, and there was no time to remember them all one by one. Now, on the road we frequently encountered the processions of great lords, but everything was different from Japan - there was no advance clearing of the way, they carried no spears or naginata, but proceeded with various banners raised and flutes, drums, and other musical instruments playing in amusing rhythms. Particularly those who appeared to be princes all rode in palanquins, and these palanquins were various - lacquered in vermillion, black, and so forth - with especially beautiful craftsmanship, carried by about sixteen bearers, with ox-carts nowhere to be seen. The retainers were mostly on horseback, providing security front and rear. Now, during our three men's journey, we constantly had silk banners with some kind of writing carried in front, one per person, and when we rested at post stations, the crowds of onlookers were enormous. Even on the road, in some places our passage was frequently obstructed by spectators. However, these spectators all looked at the castaways' clothing and could not help but laugh, and especially the women and children laughed loudly and made fun of us.