【Right Page】
【Page center: (84)】
However, to our eyes, their customs appeared very strange and quite amusing.

Since Qing is a great country, we arrived at the capital of Nanjing from Fuzhou without treading even one ten-thousandth of its land, and the entrance to the capital extended for over ten ri, all continuously built up with towns. As for what the other areas were like, we could not see them at all. Also here there were four or five large shrine buildings, each appearing to be about 240 ken in length, with very many worshippers, and various general goods shops set up under the eaves. There were also bridges like Uji Bridge, with even the railings done in vermillion lacquer with raised maki-e, and many other buildings were also lacquered in vermillion. The places where people sat and lay were all paved with stone, with chairs and beds provided. However, this was the appearance of the townspeople's area, and as for what the inside of the castle was like, there was no way to see it, so we gave up.

After arriving in Nanjing, we rested for fourteen or fifteen days, and then word came that we should report to the government office, so the next morning we went accompanied by officials, and a person who seemed to be a town official questioned us in Japanese about

【Left Page】
【Page center: (85)】
the three men's native country, the date of departure, etc. So we answered in detail that we were from Toba in Shima Province, had departed last September, drifted to Taiwan, had both our main ship and small boat completely destroyed, and had our nails and metal goods taken. They reported this whole story to the other officials and wrote it all down one by one. Afterwards, according to a Chinese person who spoke Japanese, many investigating officials had gone to the previous country, and they would surely punish the eight bandits who had earlier destroyed the ship and stripped away the clothing. From this government office we three were given three rolls of gold brocade, three hundred felt mats, and three pieces of silver ingots about five sun wide and three sun long, so when we returned to our lodging and exchanged these silver ingots for coins, each silver piece was worth six hundred mon.

During our stay here, our meals consisted of one soup and seven dishes including carp sashimi, grilled crucian carp in broth, catfish dengaku, etc. Carp and crucian carp were abundant while sea fish were scarce. We were also frequently given sake, and each time they served about five kinds of clear soup and about six or seven kinds of appetizers, and after the drinking party we were given sweets, steamed buns, sweet bean jelly, etc. All these expenses were provided by the government office.