【Right Page】
【Page center: (86)】
Tofu was priced at two mon for about one and a half blocks' worth compared to Japan, and konjac, yam, and other vegetables seemed cheaper than in Japan. Felt mats were sold at the rate of ten pieces for one silver ingot. Chinese people who had been to Japan, about fifty per day, were stationed there, holding banquets and showing the most cordial hospitality. Since we could communicate somewhat in their language, we sometimes forgot our sorrows of being in a foreign land. With such nutritious meals morning and evening, we later grew tired of them and requested barley rice, but they said there was no barley at all and gave us soba noodles instead. These were very different from Japanese ones - much thicker and poor in flavor, mostly inedible. We were constantly made to sit on three felt mats each, and since we were made to take daily doses of ginseng decoction, we suffered greatly from overheating. When we complained about this, three doctors came and gave us other medicines, and finally the overheating stopped.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (87)】
On December 25th, the government office gave each of the three men kosode robes with white smooth exteriors and silk lining, five rolls of white silk, five rolls of white rinzu silk, five rolls of white crepe, one double-faced haori jacket of patterned silk, and one obi sash each. The clothing was tailored in Japanese style, and the fabric was of a quality like thick weaving. Previously, at Fuzhou, we had received three padded robes of scarlet crepe each, three unlined robes each, three haori jackets of bright red each, and at Taiwan we had received felt clothing and gold brocade haori jackets, but since these were all tailored in the local style, we returned them without wearing them.

Thus the year drew to a close and it became New Year's Eve night. If we were in our home village, the rice cake pounding and soot sweeping would be finished, and our families would gather to see out the old year. But here we were seeing out the year in a foreign country thousands of ri away. Our wives and children must be waiting for us - how are they spending this year? They must surely be setting out memorial offerings and praying for our safety. These were the thoughts of hometown that all three men shared as the year's end approached. Perhaps this country has no system of credit sales, for on New Year's Eve night there was not a single person