【Right Page】
【Page center: (90)】
from the ends of Japan, becoming guests in distant China, receiving kindness deeper than that of blood relatives - to be thought of so highly was nothing short of miraculous.

Upon departure, the king bestowed upon each of them thirty rolls of scrolls, thirty rolls of scarlet silk, long felt carpets, various types of Chinese paper, and silver plates six inches square with carved characters and attached crimson tassels. These served as ship passes, and they were ordered to wear them around their necks. Following these orders, they boarded the ship and sailed safely across the sea, arriving at Nagasaki Port in Hizen Province on April 19th. There they were investigated by the local magistrate's office, and all the various goods given to them in China were confiscated. In place of the ship passes, they were each given three pieces of silver. As for the other scrolls and such, when leaving Nagasaki, on the advice of Toba officials who said that carrying goods on the long journey would be troublesome, they sold everything and kept only a small amount as souvenirs for their homeland to take back with them.

【Left Page】
【Page center: (91)】
Thus, on May 25th, a messenger came from the Nagasaki magistrate's office saying that officials from Toba and two relatives each of the three men should come to receive them. More than thirty days later, official Shirai Kinemon and two others from Toba, along with six or seven relatives, arrived in Nagasaki. Here they were handed over to their respective people, immediately departed Nagasaki, and safely traveled by sea and land, arriving in their hometown of Toba on the evening of July 23rd. However, the three men were first summoned to the government office and strictly ordered never again to make their living as sailors for the rest of their lives. Then they were finally permitted to return home. Of the original crew of six, two had died of thirst at sea, one had died of illness in Taiwan, and the remaining three - ship captain Koheiji, sailor Watamura Kichiemon, and Mikasho village's Gonhachi - had all arrived safely. This was considered an even rarer event than the blooming of the udumbara flower, so relatives and connections gathered together, rejoicing with tears of joy, and all the people raised their voices in celebration of this good fortune.