【Right Page】
【Page center: (94)】
toward the northern road. Thus on July 20th they finished loading the timber and departed from a place called Kotomari in Tateishi, sailing with very gentle favorable winds, but when they had rowed about fourteen or fifteen ri offshore from the port, somehow the cook Genzō was struck by the sail and fell from the ship into the swirling waves. At this the entire ship fell into commotion, immediately lowering the sails and dropping anchor, throwing in straw mats and extending water poles, calling "Swim! Swim!" but there was no sign of him surfacing. So everyone was alarmed and lowered a small boat to search here and there, but there was not even a trace to be found. Alas, poor Genzō, nineteen years old this year like autumn grass, his dew-like life vanished like seaweed debris at the ocean floor. Having no choice, they raised the sails and prepared the ship, and in the sorrowful parting with the white waves behind them, everyone wrung their sleeves in grief. From there they arrived at a place called Sainoura in Nanbu domain, stayed for more than ten days, found a replacement for Genzō, hired a man named Sadagorō, and then arrived at a place called Hakodate in Matsumae territory. Since this was a good port,

【Left Page】
【Page center: (95)】
they stayed there waiting for favorable weather for a while. Here among the sailors was a young man named Chōsaku who secretly met with Okin, a daughter of their lodging house, and on the night before their scheduled departure, he eloped with that girl. This would later prove to be the lifeline that saved lives, as they would come to realize. For one or two days they searched for Chōsaku's whereabouts, but could not find him at all. First Genzō had met his tragic end, and now they encountered this misfortune, so everyone felt dejected, wondering if this was an ominous sign for their journey ahead, and departed with heavy hearts. Thus around August 20th, they arrived at the port of Kobuchi at Sendai Cape in Ōshū, stayed at a trading house, invited a monk, held memorial services for Genzō's thirty-fifth day after death, and also asked people to help find a replacement for Chōsaku. They hired a man known in that region as a strong man called Kanazuchi Chōta. They also made various repairs to the ship's equipment, and to avoid early autumn storms, they stayed there for a while observing the weather. As the days passed and the sky's appearance became favorable, they prepared to definitely set sail the next day and waited for dawn to break.