【Right Page】
【Page center: (96)】
They waited there. That night around the hour of the Ox (about 2 AM), Magoshichi had a dream in which an elegant court lady appeared, resembling the image of Princess Shikishi that he had seen in the Hyakunin Isshu, wearing magnificent twelve-layered court robes at the bow of the ship. She said "I shall wait at Kobuchi" and pointed toward the shore before flying away, and he awoke to a strange fragrance pervading all directions. Magoshichi found this mysterious and wondered what auspicious sign this might be, thinking to tell others about it, but since he was only nineteen years old and among the youngest of the crew, he thought it would be embarrassing to speak carelessly and be ridiculed, so he kept it to himself at the time. Now, traveling from Hakodate to Edo by sea was about three hundred ri, and the weather was favorable, so on the morning of October 15th at the sixth hour (6 AM today), they departed from Kobuchi port. After traveling about ten ri, the wind began to pick up a little, so they turned the rudder toward a bay called Hahakigi. This place was about one ri by land from Kobuchi port, and to enter Kobuchi bay, one would pass close by Kinkazan to the east. Kinkazan is an island about five ri in circumference, rising about three ri

【Left Page】
【Page center: (97)】
from the mainland. Seen from the ship, it appeared as if gold and silver sand had been spread, and the shrine at its base was visible in all its magnificent beauty. Thus on the night of October 19th, when they observed the weather, the wind had somewhat subsided, so at the seventh hour in the morning (4 AM today) they departed from Hahakigi bay and sailed over fifty ri to a place called Shioya Cape at the border between Ōshū and Hitachi provinces. Then the wind became fierce again, the sky looked ominous, and the sea's surface showed an unusual appearance, so everyone consulted together and said they should moor the ship at a suitable place and wait for better weather. The ship's captain Jūemon, being only eighteen years old this year, had no particular reason to object, but his senior Nihee said, "This wind will later turn to an east wind and gradually calm down without doubt. We should just drop anchor here for a while and wait." The helmsman Shinshichi perhaps found this hard to accept, so he called out to a neighboring ship among the forty-odd vessels from various provinces that had gathered waiting for favorable weather, asking "What do you think this wind will do?" The reply came back: "It's hard to say either way. If the wind worsens after nightfall..."