【Right Page】
【Page center: (106)】
talking about how their homeland might be today was also pitiful.

Perhaps as a sign that spring of the new year was beginning today, the wind that had been blowing violently until yesterday became very gentle, and the weather became even more pleasant. So they gently raised their heads from the ship's bottom and looked around in all directions. Far to the southeast, something appeared faintly to their eyes - whether clouds or mountains, Wu or Yue, they could not tell. "This must certainly be land," they thought with joy and haste. With a following wind the sail moved quickly, and in a short time they reached a cape of an island. Debating where this might be, some said it must be Satsuma, others said Ryukyu, and still others said it might be Ezo - it was difficult to determine which was correct. However, looking carefully at the condition of the island, there were only unfamiliar plants and trees and the voices of unfamiliar birds, so it did not seem to be an island close to Japan. Especially seeing large trees like mayumi growing from the middle of the sea, it seemed to be an extremely distant foreign land. Uneasily they lowered a small boat and rowed to shore, but there were no people around, and rattan vines spread

【Left Page】
【Page center: (107)】
everywhere like a spread net. In any case, thinking there must be inhabited places within the island, they returned to the ship again and rowed around the island's perimeter. But since they were all people whose bodies and spirits were exhausted from long fasting, the boat's progress was very slow, and encountering headwinds besides, they were blown back about two ri.

However, they could see another island about fourteen or fifteen ri away in the distance, so wanting to reach it, everyone joined forces and turned the ship's bow in that direction. Fortunately the wind was favorable and the tidal current flowed in the same direction, so they soon reached the shore.

The appearance of the mountains and the scenery of the rocky shore were extraordinary, and with joy and fear mixed together, they wondered what kind of demonic realm they had drifted to, what kind of demon-people they would fall into the hands of, and what kind of miserable end they would meet. Even when told to go ashore, their steps were unsteady. Nevertheless, thinking "this is the place where we will bury our bodies," they changed clothes and adjusted their sashes. Though they had resigned themselves to death, they put protective amulets against their skin, wore their haori, and fastened their short swords, and for a while