【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (112)】
approached and said something, but since they couldn't understand it at all, they pointed their thumbs from this side, asking if there was a leader, and the natives seemed to understand, smiling and nodding. Then again, from this side they put fingers in their mouths and rubbed their bellies, showing that they were hungry, and again seeming to understand, they nodded and departed. At first they wrote "Japanese" in the sand to show them, but they shook their heads indicating they didn't know, so it seemed they were all completely illiterate fellows. Soon after, they came rowing to the shore in a small boat and beckoned with their hands, so thinking this meant to get on, everyone got on that boat. In the boat there was food in baskets, and they gave them boiled sweet potatoes and taro to eat, so everyone received and ate them. Before long the boat rowed out to sea, and though they rowed for one or two days, they had no idea which port they would reach. During this time, for morning and evening meals on the boat, they used rice mixed with boiled potatoes.

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (113)】
Thus they spent about four days at sea and finally arrived at a prosperous place, which they later learned was called Karagani in the castle town of Borneo in South India. This was a town of several thousand households. First one of the natives disembarked from the ship, and having apparently reported this to the authorities, after a while two men who seemed to be officials came and led the twenty men through the castle gate, soon arriving at what appeared to be an entrance hall. A person who seemed to be a high official came out and asked if they were all Japanese, to which everyone nodded and answered that this was so, and also told of how they had unintentionally drifted to this land due to wind and waves. The official nodded and seemed to give some orders to those five or six natives, but they couldn't understand a single word. After a while, someone who appeared to be an official came out and led the twenty men out of the castle gate, walked dozens of blocks through the town, put everyone in a vacant house that was very unsightly and like a stable, left three guards, and the official