【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (140)】
They sell these door to door. Generally, the peddlers in this land do not call out the names of their wares; liquor sellers blow charamela (a type of oboe), sundry goods sellers rattle bamboo clappers, soy sauce and oil sellers ring bells, and meat sellers (pork, mutton, fish, etc.) beat drums of various sizes. Therefore, Magoshichi at first could not tell what goods were what, but later came to understand the various items by the sound of their instruments, and became able to call in and purchase the goods he needed. Now, the neighborhood where Magoshichi lived was rented land for black people, so young men came from various places in the district and engaged in all sorts of selfish behavior, with fighting never ceasing. Moreover, since there were always many thieves, there had long been a proclamation from the king permitting summary execution, so all males regardless of master or servant prepared themselves with a sword, gun, spear and such, and also took turns in groups of five or six doing night patrols. Now in the great river that flows through this land dwells a mysterious fish. Its form is like a dragon in a painting, with fierce-looking lips and nose, long whiskers on either side of its mouth, but no horns. It has four limbs, and ranges in size from six or seven fathoms to twelve or thirteen fathoms. Coming and

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (141)】
going, they gather near boats without fearing people, and people also do not kill them, for it is said that if killed they will surely bring a curse. The locals call them "Boaya." To raise their young, in spring they climb up mountains to lay eggs and hatch them. The number of eggs is fixed at thirty-six. After the eggs hatch and the young reach about two fathoms in length, the parent lures them into the water and chases them about severely, devouring one after another those that are not strong enough when chased, finally keeping and carefully raising the one that manages to escape. If a boat passes near where one is accompanied by its young, the parent becomes greatly enraged and is liable to cause harm. Therefore boatmen always avoid them when traveling. Since this land is naturally a warm country, people enter the river about twice during the night to bathe and escape the heat. However, since there is the fear of being swallowed by those fish, everywhere they erect fences along the riverbank to prevent their intrusion. One time a night watchman was bathing inside the fence to escape the heat, when by chance there was a rotten fence post, so the Boa-