【Right Page】
【Center of the spine: (148)】
Since he had previously told his master that he had parents, he thought that if he now expressed his desire to meet his father and mother and asked for leave, surely it would not be refused. So he first met with his master's mother and spoke to her: "I have received deep compassion for several years, and your mountain-high, ocean-deep kindness is truly, truly impossible to repay. However, I have parents in my homeland who are sinking into grief day and night, wondering what has become of my future. They surely never dream that I am receiving such compassion these many years. As the months and days pass, I fear that someday I may be led away by the wind of impermanence on a journey of no return. Therefore, while I am still alive, I wish to cross once to the land of Japan and see my parents' well faces. Please, as your ultimate mercy, grant this person a brief leave." He spoke with flowing tears, and the old mother also shed tears with him, seeming to feel this was quite reasonable. After a while, when she told this matter to her son, the master summoned Magoshichi and asked, "Do you wish to return to Japan?" Magoshichi answered: "Yes indeed. Though I have been employed under your generous kindness for many years,

【Left Page】
【Center of the spine: (149)】
there has been no hardship at all, but I have parents in my homeland who relied on me, their only child. Since unexpectedly becoming a castaway, it has already been several years. When I think how they must be spending their days and nights in sorrow, my longing becomes all the more unbearable. Therefore, as a memory for my whole life, I would like to meet my parents once more, tell them that I came to such a blessed country and received such generous kindness, and then return again to serve you." When he said this, the master nodded and replied: "Then I shall grant you leave as you wish, but do you think Japan is a nearby country? From here Japan is separated by a sea route of several thousand ri. Once you return, it will be difficult to come back again. Originally I bought you for thirty mon in gold (one mon equals ten monme). Therefore I should keep you for life as a servant, but in consideration of your deep filial piety in longing for and grieving for your parents, if there is a good opportunity I will let you return to your homeland as you wish." Magoshichi's joy was beyond measure: "What a blessed fortune this is! How shall I repay this kindness? Even if I die, I will not forget