【Right Page】
【Outside frame, top, horizontal】Gakureikan Publication Catalog

【Upper Section】
●Kōganshi - First, Second, Third Collections, each issue over 400 pages, fixed price 20 sen including postage

●Yōnen Bunpan - Complete in 1 volume, 15 sen including postage

●Elementary Encyclopedia Series - Complete in 1 volume, 45 sen including postage
　　With 17 lithographic illustrations, 500 pages

●The Art of Life Extension - Complete in 1 volume, fixed price 8 sen, postage 2 sen

By Ishii Kendō
●Japanese Military Primer - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 12 sen, postage 2 sen

By Rohanshi, Kōyō Sanjin, Ren Sanjin, Aeba Kōson, Shian Gaishi
●Masterpiece Collection - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 20 sen, postage 6 sen

●Commentary on Sun Tzu - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 8 sen, postage 2 sen

●Lectures on the Classic of Filial Piety - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 5 sen, postage 2 sen

●Commentary on the Three Character Classic - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 3 sen, postage 2 sen

【Lower Section】
By Ishii Kendō
●Animal Society - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 3 sen, postage 2 sen

●Korean Children's Picture Stories - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 3 sen, postage 2 sen

By Shiota Rikizō
●Color Harmony - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 3 sen, postage 2 sen

●Professor of Things - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 10 sen, postage 2 sen

●Elementary Mineralogy - Complete in 1 volume, fixed price 35 sen, postage 6 sen

●Biographies of Ambitious Youth - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 10 sen, postage 2 sen

●Youth Mirror for Inspiration Upon Reading - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 12 sen, postage 4 sen

●One Hundred Childhood Biographies from Japan and China - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 8 sen, postage 2 sen

By Ishii Kendō
●Around the World in Ten Days - Complete in 1 volume, regular price 8 sen, postage 2 sen

【Back Cover】
By Rohanshi
[Family Reader "Treasure House" Complete] - Western-style fine edition, with 15 beautiful full-color woodblock and lithographic illustrations, fixed price 15 sen, postage 2 sen

This time, the Treasure House that Rohanshi introduces to you young gentlemen contains various rare and precious true treasures. And they are there for young gentlemen to take as they please. Young gentlemen who possess the key can freely open that door and take those treasures. What a truly interesting and mysterious storehouse! What truly beautiful and noble treasures! But what kind of treasures might they be? Are the treasures gold and silver? Precious stones? Something even better? The storehouse was built by the wisest person in the world. But who built it? What kind of key should be used to open it? You gentlemen surely possess that key.
Mystery! Mystery! The key? The key?
　　　　　　　　　　The key of wisdom! The key of wisdom!