Three stalks of thin bamboo (shinodake)　(Measurements for use: notches indicating the required lengths are marked on the pillars of the chōya and Kawakamigō. Vertical bamboo: 2 shaku 5 sun; encircling bamboo: 4 shaku 8 sun; bow bamboo: 1 shaku 5 sun.)
　　One horse-lantern (batōtō) — it would seem prudent to prepare one.
　　Two copies of the bannō haribumi (both in formal characters [mana] and in kana script) — to be laid open on top of the lid-cloth.

Item: At around the half-quarter of the Hour of the Horse (approximately noon), a message is to be sent to the five members of the katarai-awase assembly, requesting that they gather at my residence at once. (It should also be carefully noted that they are requested to bring their small knives.) Each arrived wearing their jōe (ritual white robes).

Item: After everyone had assembled, a celebratory round of drinks was served, as follows:
　　Fukusa (decorative cloth covering)
　　　　　Clear soup (tōfu and bonito)　Side dishes (kazunoko [herring roe], octopus, burdock root)　Several rounds of sake

　The above was established by unanimous group deliberation at the assembly held on the 9th day of the 12th month of Hōreki 12 (1762), attended by the shrine officials (shashi) from the Shingū and below, together with both elder and younger members of the Kanetori group. It is recorded in the written memorandum that all five members agreed that no more than three varieties of side dishes were to be served. However, on this occasion, one additional dish of side food that had been received as a gift (sagoshi [young Spanish mackerel] and daikon radish) was quietly served as an extra item.

Item: At around the half-quarter of the Hour of the Sheep (approximately 2:00–2:30 p.m.), notice was received that all personnel from the moku-dai (deputy administrator) down to the jinin (shrine servants) were to attend. Accordingly, everyone proceeded to the chōya (administrative building), each accompanied by one servant (wearing hakama), carrying the items listed previously.

Item: Two ategai (wooden pegs/props used for assembly) per gō (district) were fetched from the sakadono (sake storehouse/hall) by dispatching a servant.