Item: Twelve bamboo poles for baskets (kagodake) — six of 5-sun length and six of 6-sun length — are to be requisitioned from the jinin (shrine servants) responsible for organizing affairs in each respective gō (district). (For Kawakamigō and Nakamuragō, the bamboo is to be supplied by the gōshi [district official] of each respective district. For Ōmiyagō, Oyamagō, and Okamotogō, it is to be supplied by the kozukai [errand attendant] of each respective district.)

Item: All five daikan (deputy administrators) are to inspect and receive the bamboo from their respective districts. Thereafter, they are to request that the members of the katarai-awase assembly (deliberative group) conduct a further inspection, and any bamboo found to be of poor quality is to be replaced at any time as ordered.

Item: The order of precedence for the celebratory ceremony (shūgi) at the sakadono (sake hall) shall be as follows: first, the daikan and the members of the katarai-awase assembly; next, the nōshogata (administrative/accounting officers); and then the gōgata (district personnel), and so on. It is to be noted that the moku-dai (deputy administrator) is to extend an invitation to the members of the katarai-awase assembly while wearing their jōe (ritual white robes), and all are to attend accordingly.

Item: Today's lid-coverings — pine needles (two bundles) and cypress leaves (one bundle) — and the like are to be cut and set in place by the tone (lower-ranking shrine priests) who carry the gohei (ritual paper streamers). The nagadoko (long platform/altar stand) is to be prepared by the jinin in charge of organizing the event.

Item: Once the bamboo inspection for all five districts has been completed, the daikan are to confer together and begin the ritual purification (kiyome) of the kagodake and yumdake (bow bamboo). This is performed by stroking the bamboo from base to tip with a hatchet (nata). The three-sun tube [one piece] to be handed to the shōjin-tōnin (head of ritual abstinence) should be cut leaving the nodes at both the base and tip intact (or, possibly: leaving a node as a remnant), and one piece is to be cut from the tip of the andon-kake bamboo (lantern-hanging bamboo), sized to match the nail in the ceiling of the chōya (administrative building). The remainder — vertical poles, horizontal poles, bow bamboo, and so on — are to be sawn with a saw (nokogiri) to their prescribed measurements and set aside.

Item: Once all the ceremonies at the sakadono had been fully completed and the gōgata (district personnel) and naishōgata (inner administrative staff) had taken their seats, the assembled daikan were asked whether everyone had gathered, and upon receiving the reply that all were present, [the account continues on the next page].