【Lower Section Article】
On October 2nd, Ansei 2 (1855), around 10 PM, a great earthquake occurred. Mountains collapsed, rivers were buried, houses were destroyed, and storehouses toppled. Boats on the water drifted in the waves, and horses on the roads couldn't find footing. Moreover, fierce fires broke out from all directions, causing tremendous numbers of injured and dead. As aftershocks continued to occur frequently, people trembled in fear and

abandoned their normally securely locked homes and storehouses. Some, like the thief Goemon, came out carrying wicker baskets, while others like Shimaya's clerk shouldered pots. The wife's cushion looked luxurious, and the maid Osan's cosmetic box had crows cawing - when they said "bad," people ran out, and when they said "good," they fled. On squares here and vacant lots there, people laid door panels and arranged tatami mats. In lodgings under trees where stars rather than flowers served as hosts,

there were no thatched roofs and bamboo pillars lacked elegance. Behind hastily erected fences, there was barely the semblance of sleeping quarters, but every time chest hardware rattled, people cried "Oh no!" and were startled - quite different from newlywed daytime behavior. Thus, the outskirts of townhouses, usually quiet except for the wind chimes of late-night soba makers and the barking of stray dogs, became bustling and brighter than daylight with lanterns, while voices calling "Fire prevention!" and the clacking of wooden clappers were noisy. The city center, conversely, became so quiet it seemed uninhabited.

Truly an unprecedented event that will become material for future stories.

【Title in the Upper Section Frame】
《Title: Scene of Camping Out After the Earthquake》

【Upper Right】
♪Teaching children the abacus when that commotion happened
After the disaster of the 2nd, when the earthquake passed, transportation fees went up by one shu. It's unavoidable as it's for people's safety and precaution.

The master wants to settle in a single-story house.
◯Oh my, just remembering that night gives me chills

【Middle Section】
♪On the night of the earthquake there were no roofs, so no matter how much heaven and earth shook, we feared getting wet in the mist

◯Now that we have this kind of enclosure, camping out works well

♪The earthquake commotion still hasn't settled down, so I'd like a drink. I can't warm anything up. That tea kettle is missing too. What the - the sake flask is nowhere to be seen either. Oh well, never mind

▲Have it cold then. "The camping tea kettle is gone" - this is exactly what that means

【Lower Section】
♪Still, we're fortunate it's not raining

♪Well, they say when it rains once, earthquakes settle down, so a light shower wouldn't hurt

Ota Dokan composed a poem about this situation:
"What would not shake if unmoved - the passing shower of the field camp stretching out after the great earthquake"