【Right Page】
1. The expression that "worm accumulation (mushi-shaku) emerges" is truly an apt description. Generally, things called worm accumulation, just as people dwell in houses, birds and beasts live in nests, and creatures live in holes, establish their respective nests within human organs and viscera, withdrawing and normally residing there. When one indulges in fine food, heavy drinking, etc., qi increases more than usual and overflows, flowing into the nests of worm accumulation. Therefore, the worms find it difficult to remain in their nests and emerge outside. Hence it is said that worms emerge. When suffering from heat qi, worm accumulation necessarily protrudes; when it protrudes during seasonal changes, earth dominance periods (doyō), Eight Exclusives (hasssen), etc., it is all because qi movement increases. When the intestines and stomach become severely heated or extremely cold, worms may emerge toward the chest, rise up and exit through the mouth, or descend downward. Due to heat or cold, worms cannot remain in their nests and emerge. Worms that emerge due to cold have a color that is

【Left Page】
white. Worms that emerge through the mouth or descend downward due to heat have a red color. When worms emerge dead, both cold and heat are strong; when they emerge alive, both cold and heat are mild. If one refrains from fine food and good wine and maintains a simple diet, even people with worm accumulation can end their lives without suffering. Therefore, medicines for worm accumulation are medicinal flavors that lower and reduce qi. When qi diminishes, worms find it comfortable to remain in their nests. It is not necessarily about killing worms with medicine. If one tries to kill the worms, the person would be in danger. It is simply the mindset of calming qi and returning worms to their nests. Also, when qi rises and strikes the chest area causing pain, people commonly say "the worms are acting up," etc. Though it is not worms, the medicine used is the same as worm medicine. Also, when fire rises in the chest causing pain, this too is commonly called worms by people. With ordinary worm medicines