【Right Page】
Regulating [qi] is the primary purpose of health cultivation. Regarding qi being depleted through stagnation, for example: fire is charcoal, charcoal is fire. Charcoal is likened to stagnant qi, fire is likened to proper qi. When there is much charcoal and little fire, the fire is suppressed by the charcoal and extinguishes. This is an analogy for qi stagnating and proper qi being exhausted. Also, it is said that opening up stagnation generates qi, but if opened too much, proper qi will again diminish. Just as fire extinguishes due to charcoal's stagnation, if you scatter the little fire that exists, the fire will conversely extinguish. Simply maintaining a mindset of regulating qi and making it flow smoothly is the primary thing. One year consists of five seasons. Seventy-two days each, five combined make one year. Spring seventy-two days, summer the same, autumn the same, winter the same. Also, between spring and summer, between summer and autumn, between autumn and winter, and between winter and spring, there are eighteen days each of "earth dominance" (doyō). These four earth dominance periods combined make another seventy-two days.

【Left Page】
Combined, these make five seasons. The five seasons combined make 360 days. Therefore, since the five seasons represent times when each of the Five Elements - wood, fire, earth, metal, water - holds dominance for seventy-two days each, there is no reason why only the earth's seventy-two days of dominance should harm people. However, even healthy people feel unwell during earth dominance periods, and sick people suffer even more affliction. This is because during the eighteen days when summer's fire qi and autumn's metal qi are transitioning, both qi intermingle and qi becomes agitated. Since heaven and earth are the same as the human body, when the exterior is disturbed, the heaven and earth within the body also become disturbed. It is not that earth dominance creates harm, but rather the principle that qi becomes agitated where two seasons intersect and triggers disease. If there were no intersection, there would be no problem. Just as water and grain combine to create the flavors of vinegar and wine,