"Composed by Imperial Command at the Red Pavilion Temple"

From the red pavilion, one suspects seeing the white ray of light between Buddha's eyebrows. The temple is close to the imperial residence, praying for blessings in the flourishing Tang dynasty. Zhidun's love for mountains was intensely passionate. Tanmo crossed the sea on a needlessly long journey. When the chanting ceases at night, the emperor's words can be heard. Incense smoke drifts in the morning, mingling with the imperial fragrance. Who would say it is difficult to reach this place? I am grateful to be able to wander freely in this deep temple courtyard.

At the Jiayou Temple in Chang'an, there was a prayer ceremony for the prosperity and happiness of all people, and when the emperor made an imperial visit, a command was issued to compose poetry, so this was written. From within the vermillion pavilion in the inner palace precincts, there is a light - upon closer inspection, it is the white ray emanating from Buddha's brow illuminating everywhere. This temple is close to the emperor's residence (Shinky), where court monks line up to pray for the longevity of the prosperous Tang reign. "Fuku suru" means to pray. Jin dynasty's Zhidun had an intensely passionate love for deep mountains, but he restrained himself thinking "there are also good places like this present location." During the Wei period, Tanmo Kara from India came to Luoyang. Though there were probably good places near the Indian royal palace, he crossed the great sea to come to Tang China - the journey was needlessly long - thus again restraining himself and praising this Red Pavilion Temple. When the sutra chanting stops at night, wondering why, it is because they listen to the emperor's words. The smoke from the incense burner before Buddha becomes one with the imperial incense burned before the throne. Who could say that it is difficult to reach the inner depths of this place? I am grateful to be able to wander within this deep temple courtyard. This inner space complements the deep courtyard, and the deep courtyard complements this inner space - they should be viewed in mutual contrast.