Pei Di had unexpectedly been subjected to malicious words by someone and was indignant about it. Since Wang Wei was his close friend, he comforted him, offered him wine, and presented this poem.

"You are angry and your heart may not be at ease, but since I pour wine and offer it to you, drink this and ease your heart yourself. That people's emotions are unreliable and fickle is like waves - just when you think they arise, they suddenly disappear. Even those we've known from youth until our hair turns white, if they don't understand the meaning of our scholarship, will still reach for their swords, thinking us useless, and turn away.

In such impoverished times, people speak comfortingly, saying 'If anyone gets ahead first, I'll help you,' but when they serve at vermillion gates (prestigious families) and achieve advancement first, thinking they will surely recommend us, we brush the dust from our caps and wait expectantly, only to find they have no intention of helping and instead mock us.

Flattering and fawning over petty people to please your lord is like grass that becomes completely moistened after fine rain. The unsettled state of a gentleman is like flower branches that try to sway but cannot stretch upward, hindered by the coldness of the spring wind.

Speaking of the fickleness of human emotions, worldly affairs are like floating clouds - they seem to exist but then vanish, lacking any substance. Why should they be worth inquiring about? Rather than that, it's better to lie with a high pillow, increase one's food, eat as one pleases, and remain peacefully uninvolved."

Responding to Secretary Guo

The high pavilion at the facing gates is hazy in the lingering light. Peach and plum trees are shadowy, and willow catkins fly. The sparse bells of the Forbidden Palace and the government offices grow late; in the ministry courtyards, crying birds are heard while officials are few. At dawn, shaking jade ornaments, I hurry to the golden hall; at evening, receiving imperial documents, I bow in the inner palace. Though I strongly wish to serve you, I can do nothing about aging. I am about to remove my court robes due to illness in bed. [Seal: "Tenshin"]

Wang Wei also became a Secretary of State (kyūji-chū). At the facing gates where gates confront each other, there is a high pavilion. As the day draws to a close, the lingering sunlight appears hazy, the peach and plum trees are dim, and willow catkins fly - this describes the scene of spring's end. Since the days of service at the Forbidden Palace are long, time passes slowly with intervals, the sound of bells can be heard, and the government offices grow late. In the ministry where the secretary works, only crying birds can be heard crossing the sky, while officials have gone home and are rarely present.

Nevertheless, since both you and I serve as secretaries, at dawn we shake our jade ornaments and hurry to the golden hall for service, and in the evening we receive imperial edicts...