《Parentage unknown - Second generation》
Hirotomo: Appointed in the second year of Tenchō (825), he governed for sixty years until his death in the second year of Nin'na (886). At this time, he wrote down the founding history of Shōjin-ji Temple in the second year of Tenchō. In the eleventh year of Jōwa (844), he was first granted the court rank of Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade 《originally he held Senior Sixth Rank Lower Grade》. On the fourth day of the second month of the same year, pollution and impurities in the upper river flow and hunting in the sacred mountain were prohibited, the four boundaries of the upper and lower shrines were established, and pollution around the shrine was protected through the corvée labor of Atago District. On the fourteenth day of the third month of the sixth year of Jōgan (864), forty-five chō, nine tan, and seventy bu of land in Warabino, Yamamoto Village, Kawabe District, Settsu Province was donated as imperial edict land from the Empress Dowager's Palace Office for Buddha offering lamp oil at Shōjin-ji Temple 《this is Kometani Manor》.

Also at this time, during Emperor Seiwa's reign, in the Jōgan era, four hundred koku of rice for the sustenance of Kamo ritual participants was provided from the regular taxes of Yamashiro Province. During the reign of Emperor Yōzei, on the twenty-ninth day of the seventh month of the eighth year of Gangyō (884), direct petitions were prohibited, and those of sixth rank and below should be arrested and brought forward, with absolutely no leniency to be shown.

《Parentage unknown - Third generation》
Sadamoto: Appointed in the second year of Nin'na (886), he governed for twenty-five years until his death in the eleventh year of Engi (911). At this time, during the reign of Emperor Uda, in the first year of Kanpyō (889), an imperial messenger for the shrine's special festival was first appointed. Tokihira Ason, the eldest son of Minister Fujiwara no Mototsune (Shōsen-kō), holding the position of Middle Captain of the Right Guards 《nineteen years old》, conducted this festival. Inquiring into the origins of this: when Emperor Uda was still a prince, during a hunting expedition in this mountain, the fog became so thick that he lost his way. There appeared an old man with white hair and beard, dressed in white robes. The prince said to this old man: "I entered this mountain to hunt, but fog has fallen and there is no path. Old man, could you guide me?" The old man replied: "I am one who dwells in this mountain. I will teach you the way. As recompense, would you fulfill this old man's wish?" The prince answered: "If it is something appropriate for me, I would have no objection to anything." The old man replied: "The winter months are tedious beyond description. When you rule the realm, would you conduct a special festival?" The prince answered that if he ascended the throne, this promise must not be broken, stating this in various ways. The old man, filled with joy, said: "Then I will teach you the way." Before his words were finished, the heavy fog suddenly cleared, and the prince found the path through the green mountains. The old man vanished instantly as if dissolving into thin air. Because of this, at the very beginning of that prince's reign, he did not break this sacred promise, and in the first year of Kanpyō the shrine's special festival was first established. This refers to Emperor Uda and...