This refers to the matter of this prince. Regarding the white-haired old man, due to the awe-inspiring nature of the matter, it was not recorded in writing, and ancient people laid down their brushes to transmit it orally.

《Parentage unknown - Fourth generation》
Tadazane: Appointed in the eleventh year of Engi (911), died in the fifth year of Tengyō (942) 《governed for thirty-one years》

《Parentage unknown - Fifth generation》
Ariki: Appointed in the fifth year of Tengyō (942), transferred the negi position to Tadanushi on the twenty-second day of the sixth month of the sixth year of the same era. Governed for one year.
At this time, on the twenty-eighth day of the fourth month of the fifth year of Tengyō, when Emperor Suzaku made an imperial visit to our shrine, negi Kamo no Ariki and hafuri Haruzato were honored with imperial favor and granted Junior Fifth Rank Lower Grade. This was a reward for the subjugation of Taira no Masakado.

《Sixth generation - First son of Tadazane》
Tadanushi: On the twenty-second day of the sixth month of the sixth year of Tengyō (943), he received the transfer from Ariki and was appointed to the negi position 《he was originally gon-negi》. He governed for twelve years until his death in the ninth year of Tenryaku (955). At this time, during the reign of Emperor Suzaku, on the first day of the twelfth month of the sixth year of Tengyō, the three shrines of Kataoka, Kibune, and Kawai were granted Senior Second Rank. This was a reward for the imperial visit.

《Seventh generation - Called Nobu (or Ko)》
Arizane: Appointed on the eleventh day of the sixth month of the ninth year of Tenryaku (955) to fill the vacancy left by Tadanushi's death, he transferred the negi position to his eldest son Tadanari on the fifth day of the sixth month of the fifth year of Tentoku (961). He governed for three years. Except for Tadanushi, the parentage of each is unclear. However, this Arizane is said to be the grandson of Prince Kiyohito, the fourth-ranked Danshō-in and son of Emperor Kazan, and the son of Nobusada, the Jingihaku. He was granted a surname through his father the prince's petition, but there are many doubts about the chronology. The reason is that Arizane was appointed during the Tenryaku era of Emperor Murakami's reign, but Emperor Kazan was the fourth emperor after Emperor Murakami. Perhaps there are questionable additions pasted on the surface of the records.

《Eighth generation - First son of Arizane》
Tadanari: On the fifth day of the sixth month of the second year of Tentoku (958), he received the transfer from his father Arizane and was appointed to the negi position. He governed for sixteen years until his death in the second year of Ten'en (974). At this time, during the reign of Emperor Reizei, the shrine underwent reconstruction during the An'wa era.

《Ninth generation - Second son of the same》
Tadayori: Appointed in the second year of Ten'en (974) 《originally gon-negi》. However, during Tadayori's tenure, on the twenty-second day of the twelfth month of the third year of Chōtoku (997), he was dismissed from the shinshū position by negi-shūgyō Arizane. He governed for twenty-three years.