Arizane: On the twenty-second day of the twelfth month of the third year of Chōtoku (997), based on a provincial report from Yamashiro Province and according to recommendations from clan members, he was first appointed and served in the position of shinshū (head priest).
《This was the beginning of his second appointment as head priest of this shrine》《Originally former negi》However, after Arizane's replacement, he was probably dismissed from the shinshū position again. The year and month of Arizane's review are not recorded in the diary. After Arizane's replacement from the shinshū position, he became negi-shūgyō as before and died in the seventh year of Kankō (1010).

《First son of Tadanari》
Chikatatsu: Appointed in the seventh year of Kankō (1010), he governed for seventeen years until his death in the fourth year of Manju (1027). He was called Okamoto Negi. At this time, there was an imperial visit on the twenty-fifth day of the eleventh month of the first year of Kannin (1017) during Emperor Go-Ichijō's reign. Due to the remaining blessings of imperial faith, on the twenty-fifth day of the eleventh month of the second year of the same era, eight villages from Atago District in Yamashiro Province were donated to both upper and lower Kamo Grand Shrines. Four villages (Kamo-gō, Ono-gō, Nishikibe-gō, and Ōno-gō) went to Wakeikazuchi Shrine, and four villages (Tademura-gō, Kurigara-no-gō, Kami-Kurita-gō, and Izumo-gō) went to Mioya Shrine.

《Second son of Tadanari》
Yasuyori: Appointed in the fourth year of Manju (1027), when he became seriously ill in the first year of Chōryaku (1037), he transferred the position of negi-shūgyō to his son Chikatsune during the period of Kakurin. He governed for ten years.

Chikatsune: On the eighth day of the seventh month of the first year of Chōryaku (1037), bearing his father Yasuyori's recommendation, he received the transfer and was appointed to negi-shūgyō. However, during a period of discord between father and son, in the second year of the same era, Yasuyori, like during Arizane's time, applied for the shinshū position, and when he was reinstated from former negi, the official position of negi-shūgyō was terminated. [Chikatsune] governed for one year. However, regarding this Chikatsune, there was no ceremony of dismissal from office. The reason is that since the shinshū position was established again outside of the negi position, even though he was dismissed from shrine administration, Chikatsune remained in his current appointment. Therefore, this Chikatsune is considered the beginning of the formal negi position. However, the three men - Chikatsune, hafuri-be Motonobu, and gon-negi Shigenaga - conspired before the new shrine of Kifune Shrine and shot and killed shinshū Narizane, for which they were sentenced to exile. From this time, the lineage of the hafuri-be clan was permanently severed.

《Second appointment》
Yasuyori: During his critical illness, although he had transferred and appointed his son Chikatsune to negi-shūgyō in the first year of Chōryaku (1037), after recovering his health, when the father-son relationship was severed, in the second year of Chōryaku he applied for the shinshū position as before and was reinstated from former negi.
《At the time of appointment, he was shinshū》As shinshū, he made his son-in-law Narizane his deputy, and when he died in the second year of Eishō (1047), he transferred and appointed the shinshū position to his son-in-law Narizane. He governed for nine years.