The cedar trees behind Kamo Wakeikazuchi Shrine burned. Next, in Kenkyū 2 (1191), the paired cedar trees (meoto-sugi) behind Kifune caught fire and burned. Also, on the twenty-eighth day of the fourth month of Kenkyū 4 (1193), there was a reconstruction ceremony of Kifune Shrine. On the eighth day of the eighth month of the same year, Kifune's temporary shrine building was made into Sawada Shrine.

Sukeyasu (30th generation, second son of Yasuhisa)
Appointed on the fifteenth day of the ninth month of Kenkyū 4 (1193) at age fifty-eight, died on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month of Kennin 2 (1202) at age sixty-seven, served for nine years, known as Nyūdō Kami-nushi (Monk Shrine Master). When this Sukeyasu was previously Assistant Head Priest, on the seventeenth day of the ninth month of Yōwa 1 (1181) during Emperor Antoku's reign, an imperial decree was issued stating that the shrine master position of Eishōbō's auxiliary shrine and two shrine estates - Kisaichi-shō in Tamba Province and Kawachi-shō in Mimasaka Province - should be inherited.

Also, during this shrine administrator's time, there was a reconstruction of the main shrine. It was the reconstruction on the twenty-fifth day of the twelfth month of Shōji 2 (1200) during Emperor Tsuchimikado's reign. This was twenty-nine years after the previous reconstruction.

Yukihira (fifth son of Iehira)
Appointed on the twenty-seventh day of the sixth month of Kennin 2 (1202) at age sixty-one, died on the second day of the ninth month of Kenpō 2 (1214) at age seventy-three, served for twelve years, known as Torii no Kami-nushi (Torii Gate Shrine Master). This Yukihira, despite being in the position of shrine master, took religious retreat at the shrine to pray about whether converting to Buddhism might affect divine will. When Yukihira performed purification for pilgrimage, he received a rush mat (suishō no susu) at the Mitarashi River, and believing this to be divine will approving his veneration of Buddhism, he established a Ritsu temple and designated it as his clan temple. This is the present Myōkan-ji temple. It is also called Yukihira-ji temple, having two temple names. This Yukihira established the daily continuous purification baths at the shrine's bathhouse. Next, during this time in Kenryaku 2 (1212), Misono Bridge burned down, and fire reached the treetops of the great tree in front of Sawada, so that great tree was cut down. Also at this time, five-night duty shifts for the sutra hall were first established. Next, the cut boards for the shrine's administrative buildings were first cut during this period.

Yoshihisa
On the fourth day of the ninth month of Kenpō 2 (1214), Chief Priest Shigemasa was promoted from Assistant Head Priest to shrine master position (at age forty-four). Shigemasa was promoted due to being in deep mourning for his mother. In Jōkyū 3 (1221), during the nationwide rebellion, having humbly received imperial command, Yoshihisa rushed toward Yodo, but because fortune did not favor [the imperial side], in the same year...