Nineteen years of reign, he was called the Mori no Kami-nushi (Forest Shrine Head). At this time, from the first day of the sixth month of Kangen 2 (1244), to guard the sacred lamps of the shrines, three people per night out of ten ujibito (shrine family members) were stationed for night duty at the main hall, and purification of the shrines was also carried out. Each person was given three go (cups) of rice twice. Next, during this Hisatsugu's time, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month of Hoji 2 (1249), the first torii gate was erected. However, the pillars had already been erected from the previous day, the twelfth. The laborers wore yellow and white robes. Afterwards, eight shrine officials and one hundred ujibito had rice wine at the samurai quarters. There were three carp, two hawks, sweetfish sushi, three to of rice for meals, and so forth - various types of sake.

Generally, the feast of the fifth day of the fifth month was held separately for the left and right sides at the residences of both Kifune officials, after the opening of the sacred doors but before the horse races. However, from Kencho 2 (1250), the left and right annual administrators were omitted, horse races were held first, and the feast was held at the administrative building at the shrine grounds after the horse races. The evening gathering of the eighth day of the ninth month was also held by both shrine annual administrators, but from Hisatsugu's time, the negi (senior priests) held it at the administrative building and the hafuri (priests) at the samurai quarters. The feast of the tenth day of the ninth month was held at the shrine administrator's residence, but from this time it was moved to the administrative building. These remain as precedents to this day. Next, the Nara

御単 (ceremonial garments) began to be distributed to ujibito from this time. Originally they were given to two people. Even now in winter they are given to two ujibito. Also at this time, thirty-six koku of rice from Sanuki province began to be distributed among the ujibito for the first time.

Yoshitsugu (first son of Yoshihisa)
Appointed on the thirteenth day of the sixth month of Kencho 6 (1254) at age sixty-one. On the seventh day of the eighth month of Kocho 2 (1266), when shrine visits were prohibited by the shrine's superior authority, he suddenly fell ill and died on the thirteenth day of the same month at age sixty-nine. Eight years of administration. He was called the Jinguji no Kami-nushi (Temple-Shrine Head). During Yoshitsugu's time, the allocation of taxes from shrine lands and new horse racing equipment were prepared and presented. However, regarding the ceremonial saddles and below, there was an imperial offering from the shogunate as ordered by the former Great Chancellor Saionji for prayers for the safe childbirth of the Empress. Also during Yoshitsugu's administration, one to of rice per person was distributed to ujibito every year on the fourteenth day of the seventh month. When rice was insufficient, monetary allowances were given instead. However, during this shrine administrator's time, because monks from Kurama Temple illegally interfered with Mount Kifune, an imperial decree was issued. This was during the reign of Emperor Go-Fukakusa and the governance of Retired Emperor Go-Saga.