The document states:
The new road to Kifune Shrine on the eastern mountain should be stopped immediately, as ordered to Kurama Temple.
This should be understood. The imperial decree is as follows. Therefore, this is executed accordingly.
Kencho 7 (1255)
July 18th　　　　　　　　　　　Assistant Minister of Civil Affairs seal
Kamo Shrine Head residence

Ujihisa (third son of Yoshihisa)
Appointed on the fourteenth day of the eighth month of Kocho 2 (1266) at age fifty-one. On the second day of the tenth month of Kenji 2 (1276), he transferred the shrine administrator position to Senior Negi Yasatsugu (at age sixty-five). Fourteen years of administration. During this Ujihisa's time, in the twelfth month of Bun'ei 1 (1264) during Emperor Kameyama's reign, there was a reconstruction of the main shrine. This was forty-eight years after the previous reconstruction. Also during this shrine head's administration, there were reconstructions of Kataoka New Shrine, Ota Wakamiya, and the Five Shrines of Nara. Next, paddy fields north of Ichijo street were allocated at three tan per person to ten senior ujibito. These are called "elder fields." During this Ujihisa's time, all remaining rice from Sanuki province was distributed among the ujibito.

Yasatsugu (second son of Hisatsugu)
On the second day of the tenth month of Kenji 2 (1276), he received the transfer from Ujihisa and was appointed to the shrine head position. He died in Koan 2 (1279). Three years of administration. He was called the Kawabata Shrine Head.

Yasuie (third son of Hisatsugu)
Appointed on the sixth day of the seventh month of Koan 2 (1279), dismissed in the ninth year (1286). Seven years of administration. He was called the Yamamoto Shrine Head.
However, one diary says there is a theory that he died rather than being dismissed.

Ujihisa (reappointment)
In Koan 9 (1286), he returned from his previous shrine administrator position to his original post (at age seventy-five). On the twenty-first day of the twelfth month of the same year, he transferred the shrine head position to his eldest son, Senior Negi Hisayo. At the time of this reappointment, during Emperor Go-Uda's reign, Ujihisa was granted the court rank of Junior Third Rank. This was the beginning of the highest rank at this shrine (the date of appointment to Third Rank was the thirteenth day of the tenth month of Koan 9).

Hisayo (first son of Lord Ujihisa)
On the twenty-first day of the twelfth month of Koan 9 (1286), he received the transfer from his father Lord Ujihisa and was appointed to the shrine head position (at age forty-four).