On the twenty-third day of the second month of Shōō 6 (1293), he transferred the shrine administrator position to his younger brother, Senior Negi Tsunehisa (at age fifty-one). Seven years of administration. He was called the Nakaooji Shrine Head. During Hisayo's time, in Kōan 10 (1287), new costumes for horse racing were prepared and presented. This was an allocation from the tax revenues of various shrine territories.

Tsunehisa (fourth son of Lord Ujihisa)
On the twenty-third day of the second month of Shōō 6 (1293), he received the transfer from his elder brother Hisayo and was appointed to the shrine head position. On the fourth day of the sixth month of Tokuji 3 (1308), he transferred the shrine administrator position to Senior Negi Tōhisa. Sixteen years of administration (marked in red ink as "sixteen perhaps"). He was called the Iseki Shrine Head. During this Tsunehisa's time, in the reign of Emperor Go-Nijō, on the dawn of the eighth day of the eighth month of Kagen 3 (1305), the deity was moved to the temporary shrine, and on the evening of the same day, there was a divine relocation to the newly constructed main hall. This was forty-two years after the previous reconstruction. At this time, the deputy administrator position of Funaki Manor in Ōmi Province was donated as a source of funding for the samurai office's ceremonial expenses.
Next, during this Tsunehisa's time, around the Shōan and Ken'gen eras (1299-1303), a petition for debt relief governance was submitted, the paddy fields north of Ichijō street were suspended, and the purchased lands of various people were returned to the shrine families.
Also during this shrine head's time, two chō and two tan of paddy fields were permanently established. This was for horse racing ceremony expenses. What was called the original Sodetamura is this.
Next, there was a donation of one tan of oil-producing fields from Nagaregi. This is the original oil fields.

Tōhisa (third son of Lord Ujihisa)
On the fourth day of the sixth month of Tokuji 3 (1308), he received the transfer from Tsunehisa and was appointed shrine head. He died on the twenty-fourth day of the first month of Enkyō 2 (1309). Seven months of administration. He was called the Sakadono Shrine Head.

Kagehisa (second son of Lord Ujihisa)
Appointed on the twenty-fifth day of the first month of Enkyō 2 (1309). On the twenty-fifth day of the fourth month of the third year (1310), he transferred the shrine administrator position to Senior Negi Hisamune. One year of administration. He was called the Ume-no-tsuji Shrine Head. During this Kagehisa's time, two chō of the shrine administrator's transport fields were permanently donated as funding for horse racing ceremony expenses. This is the new sleeve fields.

Hisamune (first son of Hisayo)
On the twenty-fifth day of the fourth month of Enkyō 3 (1310), he received the transfer from Kagehisa and was appointed shrine head (at age forty-six). He died on the sixteenth day of the first month of Shōwa 6 (1317) (at age fifty-three). Seven years of administration. He was called the Tamukai Administrator.