Next, at this time, in the first year of Karyaku (1326), new costumes for horse racing were prepared and presented. This was the corvée duty of various shrine territories. Generally, the monthly visits on the last day of each month to both upper and lower shrines were managed by the ujibito (clan people), with rice being handled by the treasurer and vegetables by the pantry administrator. At this time, for the first time, land allocations were established, cutting from the shrine families' five-to allowance, with three tan of rice-equivalent fields allocated per month for thirteen months, donated permanently to the ujibito group. This was preparation including leap months. What is now called "misoka-da" (last-day fields) refers to this.

Also during Motohisa's time, the forests and rice fields of the bathhouse repair fund, as well as the various unsettled deputy positions of Kishi-no-sho in Tanba Province, were all donated permanently to the ujibito group.

Nōkei (son of Chief Negi Nōhide, also called Nōo)
Appointed on the last day of the eighth month of Gentoku 1 (1329) at age 66, dismissed on the thirteenth day of the eighth month of Gentoku 2, served one year, age 67.
Called the Fujiki Shrine Head. At this time, twenty koku from the Funaki-sho repayment were donated to the retainers' office meal fund.

During Nōo's time, Uji-waka-dayū Toyohisa went mad and came before the sacred presence, broke the sacred lock with his staff, opened the sacred door, and was about to enter the sacred interior when people spotted him. The said Toyohisa was captured and bound, stripped of his priestly position, and banished to another province. This Toyohisa was the grandson of Tōkyū, head administrator of the sake hall, and son of Bandō-dayū Tokihisa.
During this shrine administrator's tenure, a torii gate for Ōta Shrine was constructed.

Nobuhisa (second son of Tōkyū)
Appointed on the thirteenth day of the eighth month of Gentoku 2 (1330) at age 53, dismissed on the twenty-fourth day of the second month of Genkō 2 (1332) at age 55, served two years. During this Nobuhisa's time, on the sixteenth day of the eleventh month of Genkō 1 (1331) at the hour of the monkey, among those visiting the shrine, a monk was discovered dead of starvation in the building on the west side of the lower tower gate. This person was a local resident called Kurōdo Chūki. Consequently, the shrine administrator's servant Koratarō removed the corpse. This was an unprecedented strange incident. It was unknown when he had died. However, it did not warrant discussion of ritual pollution; only the floor boards defiled by the corpse were replaced.