Korehisa (son of Hisamune)
Appointed on the twenty-fourth day of the second month of Genkō 2 (age 41). In the year of the Ox (Shōkei 3), when Emperor Go-Daigo returned from Hakushū due to his restoration, the Shōkei era name was not used. He retired from the shrine administrator position on the nineteenth day of the fifth month of Genkō 3 due to political upheaval (age 42). In the first year of governance, he was called the lay priest of Nakaōji.

At this time, three tan of ownerless land belonging to Nakamura-kyō En were permanently donated as sacred lamp fields for Nagaregi Shrine. This became the New Sacred Lamp Fields.

Korehisa permanently donated the main house position of Funaki-shō in Ōmi Province to the parishioner community.

Next, while the forests, rice fields, and dry fields that were funding sources for bathhouse repairs had been discontinued and were not under anyone's jurisdiction, they were returned to Korehisa as before, and the attendants' office completed this.

During this shrine administrator's time, on the fifth day of the fifth month of Shōkei 2, the horse racing competition was suspended due to rebellion throughout the realm. In the fourth month of the same year, although there was the opening of the shrine household's sacred doors for the festival, there were no ceremonies on Ichijō Avenue due to turmoil throughout the land. In the same month, there were no banquets for the clan deity festival, and although there were purification banquets, there were no sacred vegetables. On the first day of the fifth month of the same year, although there were horse guard ceremonies, there were no seating arrangements. All of this was because the roads throughout the provinces were blocked due to national turmoil, preventing the transport of sacred funds from shrine territories.

Nobuhisa (Restored to Position)
When Emperor Go-Daigo returned from Hakushū, Shōkei 2 was not used and it was called Genkō instead. Consequently, beginning with the young prince, all official appointments throughout the realm, from court nobles down, were to follow the Genkō precedent. Therefore, on the nineteenth day of the fifth month of the same year, Nobuhisa was commanded from the imperial headquarters at Funagami in Hōki Province to resume his position as shrine administrator as before (age 56).

However, since this was not considered a formal restoration, he did not offer congratulations, did not change the sacred tablets, and simply inserted the seal and keys. On the eleventh day of the fifth month of Kenmu 2, when his illness became critical, he transferred the shrine administrator position to Chief Priest Sadahisa. Nobuhisa was promoted to Junior Third Rank and died on the twelfth day of the sixth month of the same year (age 58). In the second year of governance, he was called the shrine priest of Jūraku-in. This Nobuhisa...