[The Eastern Temple] was designated as the imperial palace and called the third year of Kenmu. Emperor Go-Daigo had his imperial seat on the mountain and called it the first year of Engen. There were two era names in the realm (Kenmu 3 | Engen 1). On the twenty-third day of the sixth month, when the military forces of the Eastern Temple faction attempted to attack and ravage this place, although Sadahisa engaged in various negotiations, there was no sign of resolution, so Sadahisa rushed to the mountain. Meanwhile, as the military forces were about to enter the territory, the remaining parishioners tried to defend with the shrine officials at the forefront, but ultimately could not prevail, and the soldiers broke in violently. During the conflagration of the shrine precincts, Head Priest Yasunari and Assistant Head Priest Hisakazu came and embraced the sacred body, transferring it to the divine hall. Tokuyajin-dayū Sadafusa performed the divine relocation to Kataoka. Myōju-dayū Tamehisa came intending to perform the divine procession of the New Shrine, but not knowing the proper procedures, he simply withdrew. Then New Shrine Priest Yorihisa came and brought out the sacred body. Beyond this, there were other relocations.

When Sadahisa's lodgings were consumed by fire, Kōyū-dayū Hisakane and Otsu-dayū Tsunetaka came and rescued the seals and keys. This was an unprecedented meritorious deed. Generally, the events at this place on the twenty-third day were of such an indescribable nature that they cannot be enumerated in detail. Military forces poured into the shrine precincts like clouds and mist, setting fires in various places. The soldiers entered the shrine grounds without even dismounting, and Supply Monk Civil Minister Dharma Master Shōchū and parishioner Chōju-dayū Tsunemura were wounded, while a local carpenter named Yasuzō was killed at the tower gate. Moreover, regardless of noble or base status, pure or impure, they entered even into the small courtyard before the main shrine. Ultimately, this was a mysterious occurrence since the divine relocation and the manifestation of the kami—an unprecedented extraordinary event. The divine relocation of our shrine is normally performed by choosing an auspicious time during the night, drawing great curtains, extinguishing great fires, with the head priest and ritualists performing various purifications, prioritizing secret oral transmissions as they transfer the sacred body. However, this divine procession in broad daylight was such that, even in these latter days, it was as if the sun and moon had fallen to earth.