He transferred and appointed the shrine administrator position to chief negi Hisatoshi [at age 68]. In Kōji 5 (1146), at this time on May 6th, Jōwa 4 (1348), ten rounds of horse racing were held at the shrine grounds' riding ground as on ceremonial days. The attire was also the same as on ceremonial days. This fulfilled a vow made by the parishioner group, a wish from the time when Ōraidā fields were devastated during the Genkō era. Participation by shrine officials was optional, with ho'i attire. The roku role involved six people, drummers and shō players two people, totaling eight people selected from among the parishioners. They wore sokutai court dress. Next, at this time, the first torii of Kifune was erected in front of Kajitori Shrine. This was the reconstruction and re-establishment of a torii that had been discontinued. Also, the long corridor that had collapsed during Kazhira's time was rebuilt in this generation, reduced to nine bays as originally intended. Additionally, regarding Ōne-no-shō in Tajima Province, which had been obstructed by warrior families in recent times, after going through revival proceedings, a donation document was submitted to the samurai-dokoro stating that half should be administered by the parishioner group.

Hisatoshi [third son of Hisamune]
On February 15th, Kannō 2 (1351), he received Norihisa's transfer and was appointed head priest [at age 50]. In the same year, during the reign of His Majesty at Anō Palace in the south, Kannō 2 was used. From October onward, it was called Shōhei 6. On October 18th, he retired from the shrine administrator position by order of the southern imperial court. This was due to the changes in worldly affairs. He served for nine months. At this time, a tax of two tan per tan was imposed and administered on paddy fields north of Ichijō. However, the parishioners' holdings received imperial exemption. This was due to Hisatoshi's recommendation. Next, during Hisatoshi's time, the bridge at Nara was constructed and presented.

Sadahisa [Third Rank]
[Restoration] In November, Kannō 2, due to the transformation of worldly affairs, Kannō 2 was not used and it was called Shōhei 6. This was because the south was under the reign of His Majesty at Anō Palace. Therefore, it was decreed that all officials should follow the precedent of the Kenmu era. Accordingly, Lord Sadahisa was decreed on November 18th, Shōhei 6, at the southern imperial court to serve according to Kenmu precedent and become head priest as before [at age 58]. However, stating it was not a restoration ceremony, he did not perform the congratulatory audience, did not change the imperial certificate, and submitted it with his seal affixed. When this Sadahisa attended court in the upper hall, he rode in a ke-guruma (ox-cart) and stepped on the threshold. However, from February of the following year, Shōhei 7, due to changes in the realm, Shōhei 7 was not used and Kannō 3 was