was used. On March 28th, he retired from the shrine administrator position. This was due to the imperial transition in worldly affairs. He served for five months.

Kazuhira [Restoration]
In March, Shōhei 7, due to changes in the realm, Shōhei 7 was not used and it was called Kannō 3. On March 28th, he was restored [at age 62]. However, on the first day of August of the same year, he resigned from the shrine administrator position. He served for four months. At this time, during the festival in April, Kannō 3, although there were ceremonies such as the opening of the sacred doors at the shrine grounds, there were no ceremonies on Ichijō Avenue. This was because the realm was in rebellion and the emperor was residing in Mino Province.

Masahisa [first son of assistant negi Morehisa, grandson of Tōhisa]
He was appointed on the first day of August, Kannō 3 [at age 55]. In the following year, on May 29th, Bunwa 2, he resigned from his position [at age 56]. He served for ten months. During Masahisa's time, for the purification of both Kifune shrines and the renewal of the inner sacred enclosures, seven chō of paddy fields from Shin'ōda were donated in perpetuity to the parishioner group through joint signatures of shrine officials from both shrines. At that time, Kifune...

Norihisa [Third restoration]
On May 29th, Bunwa 2, he was restored [at age 70]. In June of the same year, due to changes in the realm, Bunwa 2 was not used and it was called Shōhei 8. On June 19th, he retired from the shrine administrator position. This was due to the southern court's reign. He served for twenty days. He did not perform the congratulatory audience, and when the seal and keys were still at the administrative building of the shrine grounds, the shrine administration changed. There was no precedent and it did not reach the point of receiving acknowledgment. This was entirely due to the rebellion in the realm.

Sadahisa [Third restoration, Third Rank]
In June, Bunwa 2, Bunwa was not used and it was called Shōhei 8. On June 19th, it was decreed that he should become shrine administrator as before [at age 60]. This was due to the southern court's reign. However, in July of that year, due to the transformation of the realm, Shōhei 8 was not used and it was called Bunwa 2. On July 28th, he retired from his position. He served for thirty-seven days. It did not even reach the point of submitting the seal and keys. During Lord Sadahisa's era, all the religious ceremonies such as the Oteshiro-e were discontinued. At that time, chief negi Masahisa and hafuri Yasukiyo stated that Lord Sadahisa had withdrawn to the mountains during the Kenmu rebellion, so...