Therefore, people in the world called him the "Mountain Shrine Administrator."

Norihisa [Fourth restoration]
In July, Shōhei 8, due to the transition of the realm, Shōhei 8 was not used and it was called Bunwa 2. On July 28th, he returned to his original position [at age 70]. On October 29th of the same third year, he transferred the shrine administrator position to his eldest son, assistant negi Kunihisa [appointment?].

Kunihisa
On October 29th, Bunwa 3, he received the transfer from his father Norihisa and was appointed to the shrine administrator position from assistant negi, surpassing chief negi Chikahisa [at age 45]. On August 27th of the same fourth year, there were disputes between the parishioners of the shrine administrator's household ceremony and the general parishioners, which led to violence. This matter reached the attention of the court nobility and military houses, and due to Kunihisa's fault of excessive behavior, he was dismissed from office on November 19th, Bunwa 4 [at age 46]. He served for one year and was called the "Retired Shrine Administrator."

Chikahisa [First son of Lord Nobuhisa]
He was appointed on November 19th, Bunwa 4, and was dismissed on June 14th of the following year, Enbun 1. He served for seven months and was later called the "Shrine Administrator of Jūraku-in."

Hisatoshi [Restoration]
On June 14th, Enbun 1, he returned to his original position [at age 55]. On March 14th of the same second year, he resigned from his position [at age 56]. He served for nine months and was called the "Shrine Administrator of Baba."
During Hisatoshi's time, five parishioners were selected as the perpetrators of the violence from Bunwa 4, and the general parishioners frequently appealed, taking a united oath by drinking sacred water that they would not comply with the daily offering rituals. From September 29th, Enbun 1, the general parishioners cut and blocked the inner torii gate and withheld the daily offerings. When Hisatoshi appealed to the imperial decision about the suspension of daily offerings, on November 1st of the same year, an imperial decree was issued dismissing the five perpetrators of violence from their shrine positions: Mino no kami Yasusada, Owari no kami Sukeyoshi, Sanuki no kami Naohisa, Jōu no dayū Sadafuji, and Kyōgyoku no dayū Suesada. However, still due to their crimes...