The messengers of the military government came as far as inside the middle gate of Tanao. Haruwaka Dayū Masahisa, a retainer of the Ujibito serving Jinzhu Kazuhira's household, summoned Suenori. The Ujibito deliberated for some time whether Suenori should be handed over or not. Suenori finally decided to go to the military government, and accompanied them on horseback. All the Ujibito accompanied them on foot, supporting Suenori. Suenori was placed under the Shoshidai. On the 16th day of the 9th month of the same year, ten people - Chōju Dayū Tsunemura, Kameichi Dayū Yasunori, Chikuzen-no-kami Tadamune, Shirō Dayū Kaneto, Hatsunari Dayū Kiyouji, Matawaka Dayū Hisahide, Chōmei Dayū Harunao, Dōtoku Dayū Shigehiro, Ugo Dayū Yoshioki, and former Izumi-no-kami Suenori - were subjected to imperial censure, had their official seals, correspondence fields and below confiscated, and their residential estates were temporarily seized. In addition, sixteen other Ujibito were all subjected to shrine censure.

《70th generation》Norihisa
《Fifth time》Restored on the 5th day of the 9th month of Enbun 3 《age 75》. In Kōan 1, because the Southern Court controlled Kamo Myōjin Hall, they did not use "Kōan" but called it "Shōhei 16." On the 12th day of the 12th month, due to changes in the world situation, he retired from the shrine administrative position 《age 78》. In Jiji 4 at this time, the ten Ujibito under imperial censure received imperial pardons through Norihisa's recommendation. Also, among the five perpetrators of the sword injury incident, Sadayasu and Sukenō received imperial permission, as they had served as shrine administrators.

《Third son of Nobuhisa-kyō》Toshihisa
In Kōan 1, due to changes in the realm, they did not use "Kōan" but called it "Shōhei 16," and he was appointed on the 12th day of the 12th month 《age 45》. However, in late that month, as the world situation was restored, they did not use "Shōhei" but called it "Kōan 1," and he retired from office on the last day of the 12th month. On the 18th day of Jiji, at this time on the 29th day of the 12th month, for the winter ritual garments, only the sacred rice offerings for the main shrine and Nara shrine were prepared, while the ritual garments for the subsidiary shrines of Kataoka Kibune and below were left lacking. This Toshihisa was a shrine administrator appointed by the Southern Court.