was reported.

Also, regarding the Shinto ritual of the 28th day of the 9th month of Eiwa 1 (1375), since there was no samurai office, it was conducted at the priest's reception hall. During this event, a minor argument broke out between clansman Awaji-no-kami Gōkyū and Otozuru-dayū Tsuneo. At that moment, clansmen from both family factions came to support their respective sides, leading to further quarreling. Setagawa-dayū Suetsura was killed on the spot, and clansman Bitchū-no-kami Hisahide was seriously wounded and died the following day, the 29th. Other injured parties included Awaji-no-kami Gōkyū, Sonju-dayū Atsuhisa, Hatsu'ari-dayū Shigetoki, and Tango-no-kami Kazusada.

Also during Mitsuhisa's time, horse racing costumes were newly made.

Next, during this head priest's time, although the administrative building was old, it was constructed with adequate facilities. These were particularly excellent undertakings.

Next, during Mitsuhisa's reign, five head clansmen were exempted from their own sacred binding fees.

Tokohisa (first son of Hisatoshi)
Appointed on the 27th day of the 3rd month of Eiwa 2 (1376) at age 60, resigned from his position on the 18th day of the 6th month of the same 3rd year at age 61. In the 1st year of Jiji era, he was called head priest of Anyō-bō.

During this Tokohisa's time, the worship hall of Ōta collapsed. It was immediately rebuilt with the original facilities. Also, the end of the administrative building was blocked.

Also at this time, on the 26th day of the 3rd month of Eiwa 3 (1377), the landlord of a storehouse, Iwami-bō Chōson, who had caused trouble north of Kewaino-tsuji Anyō-bō, murdered Bizen-bō, a scribe monk whom he had originally employed. Following precedent, the shrine administration attempted to confiscate his estate, but when Lord Fujiwara Dainagon Tadamitsu of Yanagihara interceded on behalf of Chōson's support, while Tokohisa was temporarily considering the matter, on the same 28th day, the military government sent envoys: magistrates Matsuda Shuri-no-shin and Fuse Minbu-no-jō. Next, as investigators, three men entered the area: Kobayashi Shōgen, deputy of Yamana Ōshū, and his representative Saitō Shin'emon-no-jō. They summoned the shrine administrator's magistrate to Daijō-ji Temple and together inspected his storehouse, stating that the right and wrong of the matter should be decided later. In the shrine families' discussions, it was stated several times that joint investigation with the military authorities would be difficult.