【Side note: First son of Masahisa】
Nagahisa
Appointed on the last day of the first month of Eiwa 5 (1379) 【Side note: Age 47】. On the 14th day of the 4th month of Kōreki 2 (1380), he transferred his position and appointed Nōtaka as chief negi 【Side note: Age 48】. This was in the 1st year of Ōji.

At this time, on the 1st day of the 5th month of Kōreki 1 (1379), there was a fire at Shingū Shrine in the morning. Due to this, a temporary shrine was constructed, and on the 20th day of the 6th month of the same year during the sacred ritual, the deity was transferred to the temporary shrine. Both Shingū negi Murahisa and hafuri Ohei together accompanied the sacred procession and fulfilled their duties.

Next, at this time, on the 1st day of the 11th month of Kōreki 1, after conducting the Kifune sacred festival, when everyone was descending, monks from Kurama-ji led several hundred soldiers and came out to Kurama-tori, knocked down the sacred offering boxes of the returning procession, seized and consumed the naorai feast. It was a terrible scene. In the end, Arifuku Dayū Ujiyasu, an ujibito of the negi's tanasho, and Ga Dayū Kunisada, an ujibito of the shrine administrator's family retainers, were immediately killed. Besides these, there were many ujibito wearing yellow and white robes who were struck down and wounded. Also, starting with both Kifune officials, shrine priests and ujibito fled in all directions, so some survived. Afterward, since no one resided in Kifune valley, the Kurama-ji monks arbitrarily invaded Kifune valley and destroyed numerous residences of shrine buildings, miko, and local people. They stole sacred treasures, making it impossible to prepare daily offerings and causing neglect of the sacred lamps. Therefore, daily offerings and the ox lectures were conducted at Shingū.

Also recently, although Kurama-ji received an imperial decision regarding Kifune's sacred mountain, due to the persistent appeals of our shrine administrator, through military house petitions, an imperial edict was issued stating that the disputed mountain would be returned to our shrine.

Next, during Nagahisa's time, from the 1st day of the 11th month of Kōreki 1 onward, the sacred rituals, daily offerings, and sacred lamps of Kifune Shrine could not be maintained because there were no residing miko or shrine people. Thus Nagahisa's term of office passed by.