【Side note: First son of Shingū hafuri Nōchika】
Nōtaka
【Side note: Five generations of Nōtsugu】On the 14th day of the 4th month of Kōreki 2, he received the transfer from Nagahisa and was appointed to the shrine administrator position【Side note: Age 63】. Originally, this Nōtaka's ancestors - Nōnao, Nōhide, and Nōchika for three generations - were people during the interruption of the head priest lineage. Moreover, he was not the son of the main shrine's officials but rather the son of a subsidiary shrine priest, making this the first example of such an appointment to shrine administrator. On the 15th day of the 2nd month of Eitoku 1, he resigned from his position【Side note: Age 64】. In the 1st year of Ōji, he took the title of head priest of Jingū-ji.

At this time, the sacred festival of Kōreki 3 was completed, lasting until the following day.
Next, during Nōtaka's time, an imperial edict was issued to attach a separate tax of one-fifth as funding for daily offerings to the shrine administrator.

【Side note: First son of Masahisa】
Nagahisa
On the 27th day of the 2nd month of Eitoku 1, he returned to his original position【Side note: Age 49】. On the 4th day of the 4th month of Shitoku 1, he resigned from the shrine administrator position【Side note: Age 52】. He took the title of head priest of Matsushita.

Kifune Shrine was restored, and sacred rituals and daily offerings were conducted as before. The local people returned to reside in the valley. The sacred curtains, locks, and keys from the inner sanctuary were handed over by Kurama-ji. This was due to the superior judgment. Five民屋 (people's houses) were also constructed by Kurama-ji.

During this time of Nagahisa, a great wind blew and many trees at the shrine grounds and sacred mountain fell down.
Also, during this shrine administrator's time, the御所屋 (sacred residence), 贄殿 (offering hall), and 車宿 (carriage lodge) were built, though they were incomplete. The roof thatching was done with wood that had fallen during the great wind. The sacred residence and offering hall were built small at this time. Next, at this time, the second torii was constructed, also using wood that had fallen during the great wind. This was on the 7th day of the 12th month of Eitoku 1【Side note: Year of the Rooster】at the hour of the Sheep. This was during the shrine administration of the 3rd year of Ōji.

【Side note: Reappointment】
Mitsuhisa
On the 4th day of the 4th month of Shitoku 1, he returned to his original position【Side note: Age 65】. On the 24th day of the 9th month of the same 2nd year, he was dismissed from office.

At this time, on the 11th day of the 5th month of Shitoku 2 at the hour of the Monkey, lightning struck a tree west of Ōta.
During Mitsuhisa's era, the sake hall collapsed. It was immediately rebuilt at this time. This was in the 1st year of Ōji.