However, the sacred key was stored away without any official directive, and at Nara Shrine, a servant woman of Sanehisa named Iwatsuchi discovered this. When she reported the inadequacy to the magistrate, silk rolls were offered again, during which the sacred doors were opened twice. The administrative officer was Bizen-no-kami Sadanori, the superintendent of the sacred vestments office was Shima-no-kami Sukemune, and the superintendent officer was Toyokane.

In the sixth month of the same year, when the head priest was rebuilding his private residence, he arranged the sacred seat of the seal and key on the long corridor. This was unprecedented, and as a result, the superintendent officer fell ill.

Next, during Tsuguhisa's time, on the 12th day of the 8th month of Ōei 1, during the offering of daily provisions, Aishu-dayū Tsugusada accidentally dropped the first morning rice offering before the deity. Soon after leaving the shrine grounds, that rice was prepared anew as a different offering and presented. Later, Tsugusada was subjected to shrine punishment. The duty shrine official was Tsuguhisa's second son, serving as proxy for Ujigami Negi Shigehisa.

During this time of Tsuguhisa, on the 22nd day of the intercalary 7th month of Ōei 2, the Buddha hall of Myōkan-ji was transferred to Kanki-ji.

Also at this time, the pillar-raising for the sutra repository of Jingū-ji took place on the 24th day of the 11th month of Ōei 4, with a patron (who was the monk Shinkū). At that time, the abbot of Jingū-ji was Okuen, and the administrator was Daishin Ajari.

Next, at this time, on the 19th day of the 1st month of Ōei 5, snow fell in the evening, and due to that snow, the administrative building collapsed. It was rebuilt on the 23rd of the same month.

Next, Tone Aritarō presented the large drum for the sacred presence, stretched and prepared. The same year's 4th month was the beginning.

【Reappointment】
Toyohisa
On the 28th day of the 7th month of Ōei 5, he was reappointed to his original position (age 61). On the 9th day of the 12th month of the 10th year of the same era, he resigned from his current position due to illness. He died on the 14th of the same month (age 67, possibly an error for 66). He served as shrine administrator for six years.

The victory dances following the horse races on the 15th day of the 5th month had been discontinued in recent years, but were revived at this time in Ōei 6.

Also at this time, on the 4th day of the 6th month of Ōei 8, because the ceremonial offerings were destroyed...