The head priest Wakamitsu-dayū was suspended from shrine duties for seventeen days.

At this time, a small bridge was built over the bridge hall. The patron was Tsunoda's Ōmi-nyūdō (now called Takeye).

Also at this time, the Nara bridge was built. The timber was provided from the Western Palace.

Next, during this head priest's time, the earthen storehouse of Fujiki within the shrine precincts was dismantled and moved to Kitayama. Although there was an imperial directive saying it was at the intercession of the temple page's elder brother, the Palace Minister, it was not carried out.

Also at this time, on the 19th day of the 11th month of Ōei 9, because there was to be a sacred relocation (sengyo), an imperial messenger was dispatched to this shrine. The imperial edict states as follows:

This is the purport of the Emperor's decree. Before the awesome presence of the Imperial Great Deity of Kamo, with fear and reverence I speak. The construction of the imperial residence is the administration of the state. Expanding the old foundation to increase its splendor, cutting new buildings to perfect their beauty. From this time forth, it has been completed in no time at all. We wish to conduct the sacred relocation on the 19th day of next month. That it be accomplished according to the imperial will, without difficulty from wind and rain, with heaven and humanity responding together, must be through the assistance of the Imperial Great Deity, thus it is decreed. Therefore, selecting and determining auspicious days and favorable times, Sangi Senior Third Rank Sanuki-gon-no-kami Fujiwara-no-ason Takanobu and Senior Fifth Rank Lower Left Konoe-shōgen Fujiwara-no-ason Tomokiyo are dispatched as messengers, bearing the great ritual offerings as ceremonial substitutes. Awesome Great Deity, please receive this petition peacefully and tranquilly, so that the foundation of pillars and stones may last for billions of years, the framework of beams and rafters [continue] for ten thousand generations, and the Emperor's court remain on the treasured throne unmoved and eternally firm.