Kumahira-dayū Ujiyori, deputy Kai-no-kami Kuniuji, father and son. This was unprecedented.
There are documents of the Hyōbu-shōyū in the province, which are copies. Also in recent years, as in precedent, they take shelter in the imperial pavilion during heavy rain. We have ordered this matter repeatedly to everyone.

One: Tenshō, year of the sheep
At that time, the head priest was Takeuchi Sanmi Akihisa-kyō. Due to the chaotic times in the realm, when the matter of the horse racing meeting was reported to the higher authorities, ten horses were immediately ordered. This was auspicious.
《In the first year of Enpō, the rice fields above the racetrack collapsed and became part of the racetrack. The barriers moved two ken to the west. The curtained area below the steps also moved two ken. The deputy's...》

One: The number of barrier posts was 221 (on the east side) and 219 (on the west side), totaling 440 posts. There was an official decision in the 5th month of the 11th year of Tenbun, with a notation in the back of the Hyōbu-shōyū's documents.
《This was the organizer's responsibility》

21st year of Tenbun, year of the water rat
Shoshi Sado-no-kami Shigekatsu, there are writings by the Hyōbu-shōyū. Second race, left: Utano-suke Kagehisa, right: Yamashiro-no-kami Munehisa 《Recording this because it was unusual. There was no need to argue about one matter in Kai》

One: In the first year of Genki, horses of the horse racing included horses from His Lordship the Kubō. On the 5th day, there were three wild horses: one was ridden on the right as per regulations, one was moved down to the ninth position, and one was moved down to the tenth position. The Kanazu horse was moved down to eighth position. Also, in the sixth race on the left, when Bitchū-no-kami was in full gallop, various complaints were made during the saddling, but the response from below was "We do not strike, but we will throw stones at those who are wicked." There was another round of horse racing and competition.

One: 7th day of the 5th month of the 7th year of Daiei