【Right page】
Second Preface to Self-Painted Insect Compendium
In Kansei Year of the Wood Tiger (1794), I (Zuiken) was honored to receive
imperial command to lecture on materia medica at the Medical Academy and concurrently authenticate and collate medicinal substances. Eighteen years have passed since then, and I have come to
identify the names of many birds, beasts, grasses, and trees. Although there is no lack of such people in each generation, and those who publish books in the world
are numerous enough to make oxen sweat from carrying them, when it comes to those who have compiled insect categories, there are very few to be heard of.
Is this not a lacuna in our literature? During my leisure from public and private duties, I have kept this in mind. Each time I obtained an insect, I caged and raised it,
personally drew it from life, categorized it and added explanations - this too for eighteen years. Now the illustrated explanations have finally filled my
document box, so I have compiled them into two fascicles. Both front and back pages contain insects, each with explanations attached, reaching a thousand in number.
Fellow enthusiasts who study entomology may find this illustrated compendium not without some small benefit.
　Winter day of Bunka 8, Year of Metal Sheep (1811)　Kurimoto Zuiken Masazō records

【Left page】
In ancient China, when King Bunsen (Confucius) was said to know the names of many birds, beasts, grasses, and trees,
this was indeed an admirable thing.
Here, Hōgen Kurimoto not only excels in the physician's craft but also
has deep understanding of materia medica. Since the Year of Wood Tiger of Kansei,
having received imperial command, at the Medical Academy
he has lectured on those books and concurrently examined and determined
various medicinal substances for many years. Even the paintings he made as side work
have been preserved to pass down in his house. These thousand
insect illustrations are indeed one part of that work. That his years of
dedication have not been negligent can be understood by those who
observe him. Particularly the yu-monster from the Book of Songs...