[Right folio]
The fermentation process is no different from that of mountain honey. However, since domestic honey is harvested yearly, and the flower stamens are different from those in deep mountains, the honey is thinner and cannot match the concentrated, rich-flavored mountain honey.

The honey that naturally drips and accumulates in various places within the domestic honeycomb chambers is of the highest quality. However, this is difficult to obtain in large quantities. Therefore, one-third of the comb is left as food for the bees, and two-thirds is harvested. It is placed in cloth bags or large bamboo baskets, with ceramic vessels placed underneath, and set in a warm place exposed to sunlight. The honey naturally melts and drips down, and this is called "dripping honey" and considered the finest quality. This is raw honey. After passing through winter and spring, this product becomes white in color, freezes and solidifies like sand. This is the so-called white honey or white sand honey. Honey obtained by putting honeycomb in a large cauldron, boiling it, and squeezing it out while hot is called "squeezed honey." This contains bee larvae mixed in and has a reddish, turbid color, so it is considered second-grade. This is the so-called cooked honey. Kumano honey consists of only these two varieties.

Generally, bees brew honey using the clean and pure nectar of a hundred flowers. There are old theories that claim impure substances are used in brewing, but these are utterly false theories. Elder Kaibara has writings that vindicate bees against these false accusations, which should be consulted.

Generally, honey bees swarm and fly away in late spring, clustering together in a ball-like formation and hanging from house eaves or tree branches. This is when young bees separate from the parent bee. Generally, this occurs from four to five days after the 88th night until

[Left folio]
around the summer solstice, and swarms with good temperament separate during this period. Sometimes they swarm in autumn, but their temperament is not good. Even when brought into hives for cultivation, they often do not settle and escape. Swarms that separate after the summer doyo period are also unprofitable because they are out of season. How much more so for those that swarm in autumn months.

To raise bees, one makes a wooden box called a "do" (hive). The dimensions are one shaku one sun in height, one shaku two sun in width, and one shaku four sun in depth. This is the standard method. It has an opening lid. Small holes are drilled at the bottom - five should be opened in a row at the bottom. One hole is opened at the bottom, and it is good to open about five thin, long holes on the sides for light. These holes should be the size of yellow soybeans. They should be sized for bees to enter and exit freely. If the holes are too large, giant hornets will enter, kill the honey bees, and suck out the honey. When such things happen, the gathered swarm often abandons the old nest.

When bees swarm and cluster together, to cultivate them, one coats the inside of a box or sake barrel with honey, sweeps the bees in with a broom, and they will build a nest in the corner overnight. What was illustrated earlier is a tub. When it becomes cold, it should be wrapped with straw mats on the outside and placed in a warm location facing south. After putting newly swarmed bees into a box or tub, put honey in a dish inside the box, and completely block all small holes by inserting cedar leaves from the outside. After observing that they have settled in for two or three days, the cedar leaves should be removed. In Chikuzen Province, they make hat-like shapes from rice straw, coat the upper interior with sake, and place it where many bees are clustered.