[Right folio]
The swarm stings them to death. Sometimes wind and rain invade the hive, and unrelated people frequently peer into the hive. Sometimes the odor of excrement approaches the hive, or the hive and its chambers are destroyed. Large hornets or ants and spiders sometimes gather in the hive. When people who have recently experienced death in their family or menstruating women come near to observe, all the bees leave and do not return. If the hive and chambers are newly built and kept clean, they will immediately return. Sometimes, triggered by certain events, all the bees in the hive die - this happens quite frequently. Therefore, households that set up hives should each be cautious and vigilant. That each has its duties in religious practice can be understood from the diagram on the right. China also has such explanations, which I present below:

Chen Hao-zi's "Secret Transmission of the Flower Mirror" says: "Honey bees have short bodies and long legs, with sharp stingers in their tails. Among the many bees is one bee king, uniquely large in form and which does not sting people. Daily the swarm performs morning audience, called 'bee court.' There is considerable righteousness between ruler and minister. Without a king, all the bees die. If there are two kings, one must split off. When splitting occurs, the old bee king abdicates and departs, and the bees evenly take half with them, with no difference in numbers. Those who follow the departing king never return to the comb chambers. When departing, the swarm protects their king and does not let people see, etc. When collecting flowers, half guard the chambers while half go out in turns to collect. Those who gather too few flowers receive severe punishment. However, when collecting various flowers, they use both feet to grasp the stamens, making two flower pearls. Only when collecting orchid flowers do they carry one pearl on their backs to present as tribute to their king. There are also bee generals who are not good at going out to collect flowers but can brew honey. Around the seventh and eighth months, the bee generals all die. If they do not die, all the honey will be

[Left folio]
eaten by the bee generals and the swarm will surely starve. Hence the folk saying 'If general bees survive the winter, the bee colony will surely be emptied' - this too is strange."

Generally, the amount of honey obtained varies by year. Years with mild weather when plum blossoms bloom abundantly in the following spring with much nectar are considered auspicious - there is much honey. Years with continuous wind and rain, early arrival of frost, and few flowers are inauspicious, with little refined liquid essence. In those bad years, many incompetent black bees often mix in and multiply. They should be caught and killed completely using bird lime. These arise by being confused with ground bees. The way retainers observe their ruler's commands and children properly receive their father's orders, diligently working to brew and complete honey, maintaining their work and laboring day and night in hardship - this is beyond what human ethics can hope to achieve. When they store the honey they brew, it is as if half is prepared from the very beginning for humans. Humans, who are the chiefs of all sentient beings, should make firm contracts and endure hardship for humans for one or two years. This should not continue for long periods. From this we know the auspicious wonder of this substance. Therefore I place it at the beginning of this insect manual to make it widely known to people.