[Right folio]
　　　　　　　Gate guards
Common bees
　　　　　　　　　　　Working inside
　　　　　　　　　　　Food bees
　　　　　　　Cleaning bees
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Inside duty
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Also called worker bees
General bees (also called parent bees)
　　　　　　　　　　　Flower-sucking bees
　　　　　　　Black bees
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Incompetent black bees
Common bees
　　　Water-sucking bees
　　　　　　　Worker bees
　　　　　　　　　 　    Same

[Left folio]
In the "Xuetao Ji" (Snow Wave Collection), Emperor Hongwu of Ming traveled incognito to the countryside and met a village elder, asking about his birth date. The elder said his year, month, day, and hour were all the same as Emperor Hongwu's. The emperor asked, "Do you have children?" He replied, "No." "Do you have fields or property?" He replied, "No." The emperor said, "Then how do you make a living?" He replied, "I only raise bees." "How many bees do you have?" He replied, "Fifteen barrels." The emperor fell silent, thinking, "I have the capital and provinces, he has bee barrels. This corresponds to our matching birth dates." He asked further, "How many times a year do you take honey from the bees?" The elder said, "In spring and summer, flowers are abundant and bees collect easily, and forming honey is not difficult. I take it every month. After autumn, flowers gradually become scarce, so I don't take all the chrysanthemum honey - I take three-tenths and leave seven-tenths, letting the bees eat it themselves as provision for getting through the year. I exchange the honey taken in spring and summer for money, cloth, rice, and grain, measuring expenses according to income to make ends meet. And because the bees have surplus honey, they don't starve, and next year they brew honey again. I am fifty years old and rely on bees to have enough to eat. Other beekeepers are not like this - they take in spring and summer, and in autumn also take everything with no remaining honey, so many bees die. This year there is honey, but next year there is no honey - none can match me." Emperor Hongwu sighed and said, "The people are also like bees. If the ruler above does not focus on rest and recuperation but takes everything by draining the pond, how can the people avoid becoming poor and dying? If the people die, where will taxes come from? This is also the same as not leaving surplus honey. The words of this bee elder can serve as a model for those who govern people."

[Note: The "、" marks are in red ink. The same applies throughout this folio.]