【Right Page】
Found in the seas near
Edo (Tokyo)
The texture is soft and
the shape is no different
from a human tongue. It has fine
soft spines
It is pale pink in color. Fishermen
sometimes catch it on hooks
attached to long lines
Called Sumara

【Left Page】
△Sea swallow　Rare variety　Settsu Province Hyogo port dialect　Ten-tsuru-mon-tsuru　Also called Ten-tsu
　　Kumon-tsuku　Also called Tetsuru-mozuru　These are all corruptions of Ten-tsuru-mon-tsuru. People of Settsu
　　roast it dry and powder it, take it with warm sake to treat acute chest pain and asthma, shortness of breath preventing speech and breathing. One man (10,000 monme) brings immediate relief
　　Also decocted and taken to treat hernial pain striking the heart unbearably. Now in Kyoto there are often those who sell it as a wonder medicine. Also to treat bruises and
　　injuries with clotted blood, burn it black to an ash-like powder and take it mixed with warm sake. Using it without burning black is even more effective. Fishermen of Hizen Gotō
　　powder the dried and stored ones, make into paste, and apply to treat pain from bruises and injuries. Hence it has the name "bone-setter"
　　In Chikuzen it is also called Honetsugi and used as a wonder medicine for bruises. The whole form is illustrated here. On the upper side there are five branching
　　divisions, on the underside there is a ten-petaled chrysanthemum pattern in the center, and also plum blossom designs
　　In the center is a round small hole, which is its mouth. Although it performs miraculous effects as medicine, it works in doses of two to
　　three bu. One must never use excessive amounts. Too much would cause numbness and loss of sensation. Be very
　　careful

○Found on sandy bottoms in the seas from Kanagawa to Kanazawa and Kamakura. Shaped like a gourd hairpin
　Chinese name is sha-zhu, Etsuō yoshin, western dialect kaiyaangi. Length over two shaku
　with white bones
　inside. Like
　willow branches

【△ ○ indicates red mark. There is an ○ mark on the illustration of the corresponding organism. △ indicates illustration on next page.】