【Right Page】
The species is unknown, but the leaves are tightly rolled and the inside is not hollow. If so, it is not an insect nest either. It is a kind of strange object. According to Sadamoto's theory,
the "Shigoku-shō" is a book from around the Genroku era that already recorded that it was not an insect nest. When actually observed, the explanation of the local people of Sanshū is also the same.

Human Lice　In Chinese colloquial language called "six-legged insect." In Japanese vernacular called "hanpū" (half-wind). Half of the character for "wind" is written to make this name. When attached to the human body, the color is white and movement is slow. When attached to hair, movement is
fast and the color is black. Upon examination, hair lice have
a long form and black color, and are very good at
climbing hair very quickly, appearing and disappearing swiftly.
They are probably a separate species.
Those in pubic hair have a round, flattened form
like grass mites. Each has a different form.

【Left Page】
　　　　　　　　　　Dog Tick
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Many are found inside dogs' ears, and elsewhere
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　they burrow into and attach to hairless areas
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　The shape is like a castor bean seed and shines blue
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　When crushed, black blood emerges

Cattle Lice　Tick　In Iwami and Izumo provinces called "hoji." In Mito called "sudari," in Hizen called "futsubu." A certain male, aged fifty-four, occasionally felt itching in his scrotum. After thirty days it grew to the size of a jujube seed, slightly flattened, as shown in the left diagram. When trying to remove it by pulling, it caused pain and would not detach. A colleague, Keiho Ken, tied it with medicinal thread and it fell off after one night. Upon close examination, this was a cattle tick. Eight legs were arranged in rows, and like a pufferfish's fins, only the eight legs moved.
It had no eyes and its proboscis was long and pointed,
slightly curved. Someone requested my identification of this specimen, which was initially
the size of a millet grain, but after thirty days became this size. Autumn month of Bunsei Bosshi year