Those seen locally are particularly small compared to Chinese varieties, barely the size of small black beans. Among unique products is sweet potato, found everywhere. Seeds are planted in sandy soil with plows, vines grow and cover the fields. People use this as food in place of grain. Households plant dozens of banana plants, spin their fibers into thread and weave banana cloth. Both men and women wear this in winter and summer, providing benefits comparable to sericulture. According to old records by Ming investiture envoys Xiao Chongye and Xia Ziyang, "the soil does not grow cotton and the land is unsuitable for tea," but now these are occasionally found, though not extensively cultivated.

Vegetables include Chinese cabbage, mustard greens, spinach, radish, coriander, luffa, winter melon, eggplant, sword beans, broad beans, taro, scallions, garlic, Chinese chives, ginger, pepper, Chinese chives, celery, shepherd's purse, bracken, bottle gourd, amaranth, cilantro, fennel, crown daisy, mushrooms, purple seaweed, Chinese cabbage, wood ear mushrooms, and agar seaweed. Unique products include kelp, burdock, spicy buckwheat, poria mushrooms, and jar vegetables. There are also pine mushrooms called chiku-ran in the local language, growing in soil under large pine trees during the ninth and tenth months. The fruiting body is round and white, a type of fungus with fresh, delicious flavor. Those from Gushigami are particularly good. Gray ones growing in cattle dung are inedible. 《marginal note: Among sea vegetables is kelp, also called kombu. There are also red seaweeds similar to agar seaweed but somewhat flattened, found on beaches. There are also chicken-foot seaweed and qilin seaweed》

Trees include pine, cypress, hinoki, cedar, banyan, camphor, gardenia, willow, sophora, palm, boxwood, and paulownia, though very few. Unique species include oak and others.

【Oak】Also called arhat cedar. Leaves are short, thick, and triangular, same as Chinese arhat pine. The wood grain is hard and smooth; throughout the country it is used for building house beams and pillars. Found on all islands, but those from Kikai are particularly fine.

【Fukugi】Leaves resemble holly but are particularly large, growing in opposite pairs, about two inches long, kidney-shaped and thick.