【Jibunboku】Height five to six jō, leaves like grain trees with small white flowers growing in clusters, blooming in winter months. Poisonous and can be used to poison fish.

【Moon orange】Tree height over one jō, thin leaves like jujube, opens small white flowers in the fifth and sixth months, extremely fragrant. Called ten-ri fragrance. Bears fruit somewhat larger than tenjikushi, turning red and clustering abundantly on the tree in the second month.

【Teiko】Tree height seven to eight jō, large ones requiring several people to encircle. Leaves large like persimmon, each leaf extending in the shape of the character "品" (three dots), growing at opposite nodes. In early fourth month, vermillion flowers one to two to three sun long, extending directly from each trunk with dozens of clustered flowers. The flower leaves are like brushwood brushes spitting flames, a Korean variety growing on Mount Taihei.

【Shittatsu jikoku】Tree height about one jō, leaves resembling peach, fruit like grape clusters, deep blue in color, called jikoku milk but inedible.

Flowers include plum, peach, apricot, osmanthus, magnolia, lotus magnolia, water hibiscus, red cherry, snowball, camellia, pomegranate, azalea《marginal note: Azaleas bloom from October until March. The flowers are exceptionally large, four times larger than those produced in China》, hibiscus《marginal note: Double-flowered ones have deep red》《marginal note: and light red in two colors. Single-flowered ones have only the deep red variety, with stamens extending about one sun outside the petals like a candle holder, hence also called palace-illuminating red. Flowers bloom in all four seasons, with the sixth》《marginal note: month being》《marginal note: most abundant》, tiger lily《marginal note: These are particularly large compared to Chinese ones, some becoming trees growing over one jō tall. Red flowers extend in four directions with dozens clustering like fire. Double-flowered ones are layered and extremely beautiful》《marginal note: The Gazō commentary states that tiger lilies and hibiscus》《marginal note: both originated from Japan and first entered China》, orchid《marginal note: blooms in all four》《marginal note: seasons》, chrysanthemum, jasmine, begonia, vinca, narcissus《marginal note: tenth month》《marginal note: flowers》, silene, monthly rose, wild rose, globe amaranth, silver platform, golden cup《marginal note: namely water》《marginal note: narcissus》, sweet flag iris, calamus, lily, mallow, cockscomb, day lily, pink, prickly pear, amaranth, and wisteria.

Among exotic species are Nago orchids and others.