【Jigguluo】Also called fire phoenix, commonly planted on house walls to ward off fire. Trunk resembles king's whip, grass leaves resemble fire-cautious grass, flowers resemble yellow chrysanthemums. There are also red ones called fortune-prosperity wood.

Fruits include lotus root, sugar cane, watermelon, cucumber, papaya, tangerine《marginal note: several》《marginal note: varieties》, fragrant orange, kumquat, Buddha's hand citron, lychee, longan, grape, cherry, bayberry, raspberry《marginal note: shaped》《marginal note: like bayberry》, chestnut, persimmon, walnut, loquat, plum《marginal note: small as》《marginal note: longan》. Exotic products include banana fruit, etc.

【Banana fruit】Fruit produced by banana plants, called sweet dew flower. Purple-red in color, large as a gourd. Opens one petal daily, bearing fruit like five or six fingers of a hand hanging in parallel. After picking and storing for some time, the flesh becomes like the most tender lotus root, can be ripened like sweet potato and is sweet.

【Ateni】Leaves are long with thorns on the sides, eventually forming forests with interconnected vines that are firm and sharp, suitable for fencing walls. Leaves can be used to make mats, roots can be used to make rope. The flowering ones are called male trees, with white flowers like lotus petals coming to sharp points, bursting and layering left and right with more than ten clusters growing straight up, five-branched stamens exposed like staffs several inches long, as fragrant as orange blossoms. Female trees have no flowers but bear fruit large as melons, with raised patterns on the skin and all studs having six ridges, edible. This is said to be a different variety of jackfruit, also found in eastern Guangdong where it's called pineapple.

【Chinquapin nuts】Also called zhizi, like acorns but smaller, found everywhere in the mountains. Also called椎子 (zhizi).

Bamboo varieties include bitter bamboo, cat bamboo, tiger-spotted bamboo, phoenix bamboo, pole bamboo, broom bamboo, black bamboo, large pole bamboo, arrow bamboo, and 竻竹. Exotic varieties include Guanyin bamboo.

【Guanyin bamboo】Grows in clusters on the ground, leaves about one shaku long, three to four sun wide, purple in color.