Intelligence officials, as well as Finance Directors and Associate Finance Directors all receive forty shi; Advisory Officials all receive stipend payments of sixteen shi.

Naha Officials have fiefs of one county, with stipends of eighty shi.

Palace Guard Officials receive stipend payments of ten shi.

The above are the numbers for fiefs, stipends, and salaries of domestic officials of Shuri, Tomari, and Naha.

Purple-Gold Grand Masters have fiefs of one village, with stipends of fifty shi, or eighty shi, or one hundred twenty shi, all granted according to the magnitude of merit. As hereditary stipends, heirs are granted fiefs and stipends of fifty shi or forty shi; for grandsons, differences are made according to merit assessment《Marginal note: In the late Ming period, there was a Purple-Gold Grand Master named Cai Jian who received a stipend of three hundred shi and granted his heir one hundred shi》
《Marginal note: After the Kangxi guimao year (1663), this was reduced to fifty shi, grandsons forty shi, and now great-grandsons thirty shi》

Senior Deliberation Grand Masters have fiefs of one county, with stipends of twenty shi or thirty shi, with differences made according to merit assessment. Those not yet granted stipends receive annual salary payments of twelve shi.

Middle Deliberation Grand Masters have fiefs of one county, receiving annual salary payments of ten shi.

Secretaries have fiefs of one county, with stipends of twenty shi.

Chief Interpreters receive salary payments of eight shi; some have fiefs while others do not.

Vice Interpreters receive salary payments of five shi.

Interpreters receive salary payments of four shi.

Scholars receive salary payments of two shi《Marginal note: Originally three shi, but after the Kangxi jihai year (1659), this was reduced to one shi》

Junior Scholars receive one shi《Marginal note: Originally two shi, but after the jihai year this was reduced to one shi. Children of Kumemura become Junior Scholars from age seven and immediately receive stipends at Shuri》