【Right Page】
[The captain] gave fifteen fathoms each of American cotton to the officials as return gifts, then returned to the ship to use [the cattle] for food. ○
Around the same fifth month they departed this place, sailed northeast, hunted whales in Japanese waters,
then sailed north, and around the second month of the monkey year (first year of Kaei, 1848) arrived at Guam Island. At that time,
from early in the third month the captain became ill (it was a mental derangement type of illness), so they went to Manila where American
officials were present, explained the situation that they could not conduct fishing with the captain in this condition,
left the captain in the officials' care, made the bosun acting captain,
and Manjiro also became a harpooner, departing from this place around the sixth month of the same year.
○ This Manila is under Spanish control with a large port where people from various countries gather.
Many warships and steamships are also moored there.

1. In the same year (first year of Kaei, 1848) around the seventh-eighth months, they came to hunt whales in Japan's eastern seas and spotted Japanese bonito boats.
Manjiro informed the captain, put on Japanese clothing, approached in a small boat from the ship
and asked "What country's ship are you?" They answered "We are from Sendai in Oshu." Manjiro

【Left Page】
asked "Can you go to Tosa?" and they answered "We don't know." Then he took confections and such in the boat
to that fishing vessel and tried to converse, but they didn't understand each other at all. Then he
returned to the main ship and consulted about "Won't you let me return to Japan?" but the captain wouldn't listen.
At this time about twenty ships including Oshu vessels gathered together and seemed to be having discussions.
Seeing this, [the whaling ship] sailed away to the east. ○ Around the tenth month of the same year they arrived in Hawaii,
immediately went ashore, and when [Manjiro] asked "Are the four Japanese still here?" they answered "One is here."
When Manjiro went to look, Toraemon had become apprenticed to a carpenter. When Manjiro met with him,
since they hadn't seen each other for seven years, [Toraemon] seemed to have forgotten him. Therefore when [Manjiro] said "I am Manjiro,"
[Toraemon] was surprised and greatly delighted, and they went together to his lodging, rejoicing in each other's safety. Now,
when [Manjiro] asked about the dwelling of the remaining three, Jusuke had died of illness in previous years, and Denzo and Gozaemon had received
ship passage through the care of that captain who had helped them and were not present, having [already] returned to Japan. While doing this and that,
about twenty days passed. Then an American ship's person came and [said] "Two Japanese people