【Right Page】
it's all the same, so I should work as a carpenter here and make my living." Actually, Denzo and
Gozaemon had previously taken passage on a whaling ship to return to Japan, but were brought back again. This time
too might turn out the same way, he said, and remained behind. So the three men
requested passage, and Manjiro said to the captain (whose name was Isom): "I can do any kind of
work aboard ship, but I don't need to receive wages. The other two are not skilled in shipboard matters, so
in exchange for my working without pay, please somehow take the three of us to the Ryukyu Kingdom." The captain
deliberated and took out a map of all countries to look at it, saying "If it's a crossing to Japan, you should be able to
reach it well enough, but if the weather is bad it would be difficult to arrive." So they said "In that case, we will prepare a boat,
so please load it aboard and take us to where the Ryukyu islands can be seen, and from there
if you lower the boat for us, the three of us will board it and row to shore." The captain
agreed and took them aboard. So in November they departed Hawaii and sailed northwest
for about seventy days at sea until they came to where the Ryukyu Kingdom could be seen nearby. Just then with westerly

【Left Page】
northwest winds and rain falling, but past nine o'clock they lowered the small boat, left the main ship and rowed toward
shore, dropping anchor in the shadow of a mountain peak to the southeast and moored the boat. This was
the second day of the first month of Kaei 4, year of the metal boar, as they learned afterward. From Hawaii to the Ryukyu Kingdom is
said to be about 800 ri by Japanese measure.

1. On the morning of the third day of the first month (Kaei 4, year of the metal boar), looking toward land they could see large numbers of people gathering. So they raised anchor
and rowed closer, with Denzo going ashore first, but the people fled, and then one person returned and
spoke with Denzo, but since the language didn't get through, Denzo was greatly surprised and returned to the boat, saying
"We've come to a place where the language doesn't communicate. What should we do?" and was greatly disheartened. On land
the local people were gathered in groups here and there. Manjiro went ashore and went to where the crowd was
gathered, so Denzo also came after him. When they tried to communicate here, it got through little by little.
Then they were shown the harbor and pulled the boat in (this place is called Mabuni Magiri). Manjiro and Gozaemon went
ashore to get water. Now this person told them "You must go to the government office as quickly as possible