【Right page】
　　　　That is, they were commended for their service, and copies of the aforementioned official words were bestowed upon them.
　　　　Also, there should still be in the possession of Amemori Giemon a letter sent from Lord Hyūga-no-kami's chief retainer Sugino Kazuma
　　　　to Ōmiya Hikoemon regarding the service of both men.
　　　　They made transparent copies of the diagrams of Amakusa Castle and the siege positions that were submitted
　　　　to the shogunate, brought them back, and presented them for Lord Tadamasa's inspection; these diagrams are still in their possession.
　　　　Upon their return, both men were immediately granted new stipends of 150 koku each.

　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, in Kanbun 12, year of the Water Rat (1672), he was granted succession rights
　　　Inō Hachirōemon Kanenori 《Birth province: Echizen, Original name: Takayanagi Denzaemon, Changed to original family name Inō》

　During Lord Yoshikuni's reign, in Shōtoku 4, year of the Wood Horse (1714), he was granted family headship
　　Adopted son
　　Current: Inō Hachirōemon Kaneau 《Birth province: Echizen, Actual father: Yukifuki Kizaemon Tomohide》

【Left page】
　　　　　　　　△　Matsuda

　Summoned into service in Echizen during Lord Tadamasa's reign
　　● Matsuda Hanbei Yoshinao 《Home province: Sagami, Birth province: Izumo, Surname: Fujiwara》
　　　　Great-grandfather Matsuda Sakon Hidekazu, his son Horio Inaba Ujiyoshi, and his son Matsuda
　　　　Chūzaemon Yoshimune all served for generations under three generations of the Horio family: Lord Horio Taitō,
　　　　Lord Izumo-no-kami, and Lord Yamashiro-no-kami, residing in Unshū. However, after Lord Yamashiro-no-kami's death, there was no heir and the Horio family
　　　　line was discontinued. Chūzaemon became a rōnin along with all the other retainers, left Unshū, and died shortly after.
　　　　He had many children who scattered in various directions to make their own way. However, since Han-
　　　　bei Yoshinao was the youngest son and still very young, he was raised in Kyoto under the care of a maternal relative named Yamashita Dō-
　　　　ju. When relatives from Unshū who had been summoned into service
　　　　with our domain - men named Hata Kyūemon, Itō Gentayū,
　　　　and Matsuda Yaemon - sent word for him to come to this province,
　　　　he came as a rōnin, and through the mediation of these men was
　　　　summoned into service.