【Right page】
　　　　the son of Ichiemon's younger brother, a man called Yoshida Chōsuke, making him
　　　　Ichiemon's nephew. Chōsuke served the Lord of Kii, but in his old age came to this province,
　　　　whereupon his heir Uzaemon was summoned into service.

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, in Jōkyō 3, year of the Fire Tiger (1686), he was granted family headship
　　　Suzuki Uzaemon Masayoshi 《Birth province: Echizen》

　During Lord Yoshikuni's reign, in Shōtoku 4, year of the Wood Horse (1714), he was granted succession
　　　Suzuki Matasaemon Shigeoki 《Birth province: Echizen; In Kyōhō 6, year of the Metal Ox (1721), for certain reasons his stipend was revoked》

　During Lord Yoshikuni's reign, in Kyōhō 6, year of the Metal Ox (1721), he was summoned into service
　　Current Suzuki Saizaburō Yoshichika 《Birth province: Echizen; Real father: Hori Shinzaemon Naomasa》
　　　　Although Shigeoki's stipend was revoked due to certain circumstances, for the continuation of the family name, Yoshichika was summoned
　　　　and granted a stipend.

【Left page】
　　　　　　　△　Kishi

　Summoned during Lord Tadamasa's reign
　　● Kishi Sōhei Mitsukiyo 《Home province: Izumi, Birth province: Echizen; Family name unknown》
　　　　His ancestor, a man called Kishi Gorozaemon, came to this province and resided in Hikimemura
　　　　for several generations. The number of years is unknown. He became a disciple of Lord Minamoto no Kurōdo Masayori in falconry,
　　　　and it is said his family served as falconers. His son Kishi Rihei Mitsushige inherited and remained in Hikimemura,
　　　　acquiring land as territory with a document from Asakura Takakage. When Lord Oda Nobunaga was active in this province,
　　　　he had an audience at Asamizu and received a vermillion seal. His son Kishi Sōzaemon Shige-
　　　　yoshi received various documents of land increases from Lord Hori Kyūtarō and Lord Hasegawa Togorō
　　　　during his time. He preserves to this day documents from the Chikuzen Chūnagon (Middle Counselor), ink seals with joint signatures of the Five Commissioners
　　　　from Lord Hideyoshi's era. His son Kishi Sōhei Mitsukiyo's family lineage was acknowledged,
　　　　and he was summoned during Lord Tadamasa's reign. During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, his eldest son Dennosuke Kiyoharu and his
　　　　younger brother Gizaemon were summoned and granted provisional positions, with all three father and sons serving in the falconry department.