(Continued from the previous page) ...could possibly be seen with ordinary eyes? If they were to cluster together, it would certainly appear as a single band of white mist. The Westerners have only recently come to measure and determine that the Milky Way, the Praesepe cluster, the Beehive Cluster (積尸気), and other such phenomena are composed of small stars, and they take great pride in this—yet Buddhist teachings had already clarified even the dimensions of these stars in detail three thousand years ago. Let the Westerners not boast of this.

Furthermore, in the *Saddharma-smṛtyupasthāna-sūtra* (正法念処経), it is written: "When the great elephant ridden by Indra exhales, its breath reaches the heavens, and people who see it call it the Milky Way." This is something that appears from time to time, and is of the same kind as what the world calls "banner clouds" (旗雲). (The *Montoku Jitsuroku* states: "In the sixth month of the second year of Ten'an, a white cloud stretched across the heavens from the northeast to the southwest, and the people of the time called it a banner cloud.")

Also, in the *Saṃghāṭa-sūtra* (僧伽吒経), it is written: "In the midst of empty space there are five great rivers, each attended by one thousand smaller rivers as retinue. These five great rivers benefit Jambudvīpa, periodically sending down rain to nurture fruits and grasses." This refers to water vapor invisible to the human eye that exists in the sky like rivers (in Chinese thought this is called "water vapor," and they coincidentally agree on this point), from which rain descends—such is the explanation. (There are also many other theories about rainfall.) Because these are rivers existing in the sky, they are called the Heavenly River (天の川, the Milky Way).

Examining this in the sacred texts of Shinto (神典), we find references to "the eighty rivers of heaven" (天の八十河, Mata no Yasokawa), and also "facing each other across the Heavenly Yasukawa River" (天の安河), and "the eight hundred myriad deities gathering at the banks of the Heavenly Yasukawa" (天の安河辺). Later scholars interpreted Takamagahara (the Plain of High Heaven) as either "the great sky" or as the "Purple Tenuity Enclosure" (紫微垣, the circumpolar region of the sky). This closely resembles Buddhist teachings.

In connection with this, the poet Nōin composed the verse: "O Milky Way— / channel thy waters down / as seedbed floods; / if thou art a god descended from heaven, / show thyself as a god!" It is said that after this poem was composed, nourishing rain fell abundantly within three days.

Thus, beyond the Milky Way of clustered small stars appearing as a band of white mist, there must certainly also exist a Heavenly River invisible to the human eye. Such profound and subtle discourse is something that Westerners cannot readily comprehend.

The phrase "the correct explanation will be given later" refers to the same principle as the diagram of the general and particular wind-wheels and the parallel movement of stars given under the Eleventh Objection below. The small stars of the present Milky Way also reside upon the particular wind-wheel (別風輪), appearing as a long-extending band of white mist, and since they rise and set together with the fixed stars on the general wind-wheel (総風輪), completing one full revolution per day, the apparent positional difference as seen by the human eye... (continues on the next page)