【Diagram】
Diagram of capturing scenery outside the castle into the castle interior

　　　Glass mirror
　　　Mirror　　　　　　Interior view
　　　　　　Eye
　　　　　　　　Figure from New Compilation
　　　　Outer mirror

【Main Text】
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Would this not come about? How could
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　there be no such principle? If this is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　so, then between the horizon and
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　the zenith, there is a great difference
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　in the angles of atmospheric refraction,
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　and the stars that are seen are not
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　uniform. Yet now, generalizing this in
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　one direction and setting one degree
of the earth at 250 ri, and saying that when this one degree moves north-south, the pole star accordingly rises and falls by exactly one degree each time - such a theory is truly a frivolous and erroneous doctrine not worth adopting. Is this not also evident in your explanation?

Therefore I say: The above discusses motion within the immutable. However, there are times when we speak of the immutable within motion. The Natural Philosophy New Compilation's Theory of Qi states: "The nature of terrestrial qi is to rise and condense in the sky," and also "Cloud qi condenses in the sky when cooled," and also "Atmospheric qi condenses," and also "Moisture condenses in the sky," and also "Moisture in the sky condenses like a mirror," and also "Moisture forms bright condensation," etc. The above represents what Westerners have investigated and established through hundreds of years of research. According to this theory, when the light and shadows of sun, moon, and stars reach the earth below, they are all reflected in the condensed atmospheric qi in the sky, and though their light comes by refraction, within the motion of this qi there is naturally a fixed rule, so that the movements of sun, moon, and the four seasons, the length of day and night, the eclipses of the two luminaries, and the conjunctions of the five planets can be predicted in advance without the slightest error. This shows that each layer of qi has an immutable rule within motion. If this is so, then the "wind wheel" of Buddhist doctrine is also not to be doubted. Moreover, in the Abhidharmakosha-shastra