It is certain that [the land area] will amount to five hundred yojanas. Therefore, while foreigners who possess only fish-eyes [i.e., limited vision] may not know better, the scholars of our imperial nation who are endowed with the three-fold vision would naturally never adopt such a false theory as the doctrine of a spherical earth.

　Here I add the following remark. In the writings of the many schools since ancient times, those that speak of the vast extent of the earth have mostly defined it by the length of winding roads and paths. This does not represent the direct diameter of the whole earth. For example, the Tsubo no Ishibumi [the stone monument at Tsubo] states "one thousand five hundred ri from the capital." This refers to the distance from the capital of Heijō in Yamato Province to Taga Castle in Mutsu Province. When one consults the complete map of Japan, the distance from Heijō to崎陽 (Nagasaki) in Hizen Province is even greater than that to Taga Castle. If so, the combined east-west distance should reach over three thousand ri. If six chō equals one ri, then dividing by six should give five hundred ri, yet the direct diameter appears to be only around three hundred ri.

　Such is the difference between road-distance and direct diameter. This is why one cannot simply accept [these figures] at face value.

　Furthermore, I say: although the Buddhist account of astronomy is abbreviated, the fact that it accords with observed phenomena as perfectly as two halves of a tally-stick has already been argued previously. Now, with regard to geography as well, when this is examined against the theories of the Western barbarians — (the Western barbarians' wild claims are their usual habit, but in what concerns the climates and customs of various lands, there are occasional points worth adopting; this is not to be compared with their reckless speculation about the vast heaven and earth) — there are a great many points of agreement. In the *Lìshì Apítán Lùn* [Lokapaññatti], Chapter Six, "Chapter on the Four Continents," after explaining the four continents (dvīpa) and four kāru islands of the Sumeru world system, it states: "The four continents and the four bird-islands are the greatest of lands. Now, explaining each continent individually, eight islands — Ox Island, Sheep Island, Coconut Island, Treasure Island, Divine Island, Monkey Island, Elephant Island, and Women's Island — encircle [each continent]," and so on. (The above means that each of the individual continents is encircled by these eight islands, all of which are detached islands only.) Among these, the first, "Ox Island," is none other than England (the collective name for the three islands