(Continuing from the previous page, the explanation of "Cow Continent")

…must be its name. The reason for this is that the "Chikyu Setsuryaku" (Brief Explanation of the Globe), page 66, in its section on Great Britain (Igirisu), states the following: "Great Britain is located in the northwest of Europe, bordered on the east by the North Sea, on the south by the English Channel and the Atlantic Ocean, and on the northwest by the Atlantic Ocean. The land is divided into three territories: the southern land is called England (Ingurando), the northern land is called Scotland (Sukottorando), and the western land is called Ireland (Irurando). These three territories are collectively named Great Britain (Igirisu). The people of England (omitted)... regarding local products, and so forth; as for livestock, horses, cattle, and sheep are all said to be of fine quality. Scotland, about a hundred years ago, merged with England to become one country (omitted)... regarding local products, and so forth; as for livestock, there are cattle and sheep. Ireland is one island to the west of England. It lies close to England (omitted)... cattle, sheep, dogs, and horses all cohabitate (with humans), and there is no greater filth (omitted)... regarding local products, and so forth; salted beef; as for livestock, there are cattle, sheep, pigs, and so on." 

The "Yinghuan Zhilüe" (A Brief Survey of the Maritime Circuit), Volume 7 (page 28), states: "The products of the British Isles, besides coal (omitted)... horses, cattle, and sheep are most numerous." The same work (page 45) states: "English customs are such that breakfast consists of bread and buns topped with butter, accompanied by tea and coffee with milk added. The midday meal (referred to as 'beef meal') is called the grand meal. Beef and mutton are either roasted or grilled, accompanied by wine. Vegetables are not much used."

Based on these passages, it is evident that cattle, sheep, dogs, and pigs are especially numerous and that they constantly cohabitate with humans and serve as food. Among the foreigners who come to Nagasaki and other places, there is no other country like that of the Western barbarians that regularly eats raw beef. Furthermore, I myself have personally witnessed them keeping dogs on their beds and living together with them. Accordingly, not only the bodies of these Western barbarians, but also their houses and furnishings emit a filthy stench that assaults the nostrils and makes it impossible to approach them. Reasoning from this, it is certain that what Buddhist teachings describe as the "Cow Continent" (Goshū) must refer to this England.

As for the "Sheep Continent" (Yōshū), it must refer to Australia (Ōsutoraria). The illustrated description of Australia in the lower volume of the "Setsuryaku" (page 86) states: "The land of this continent is located in the middle of the great ocean. It was originally called an island (omitted)... regarding its people, in general..."