This knowledge can be gained. Moreover, the mountains produce night-luminous precious stones, green jade, and various kinds of beautiful gems, while the western coastal areas produce many bright pearls. The quality of these pearls is most beautiful, and the world greatly treasures them. What is described in the Kunyu tuzhi (Illustrated Treatise on the Earth) is also quite similar. According to these accounts, what the Buddha described as the "Treasure Continent" must certainly refer to this Ceylon Island of Southern India.

○ The "Divine Continent" likely refers to Japan. The Shuolüe (Brief Account), volume 1 (folio 33), Description of Japan states: Japan... The teachings described include: one is Buddhism (Shakkyō), and one is the Immortal Capital Teaching (Sentō-kyō), so named because it worships immortals. Confucianism exists occasionally. (What is called Sentō-kyō here is clearly a corrupted name for our Shinto teaching.) Discussing its land, it states: Within the country there are several volcanoes that never rest day or night. The earth constantly trembles and is extremely fearsome. (Although it describes that foreign countries also have volcanoes, they do not mention having such fearsome mountains. The divine spiritual authority should be seen as astounding all nations.) Also discussing the people, it states: They are strong and healthy with extremely few disputes. Their customs value cleanliness.

Streets are swept from time to time. The clothing of both men and women features large collars and wide sleeves. However, women's garments are long enough to drag on the ground, decorated with floral patterns, with short socks on their feet and silk footwear. (omitted) Regarding food, they mostly favor rice cakes, tea leaves, tobacco, and alcohol. As for beast meat and dairy, they do not enjoy eating these. (This probably refers to not eating impure meat like the Western barbarians do.) Books within the country are extremely numerous. Both men and women enter learning. (omitted) Government offices in the capital are extremely numerous, all magnificent beyond compare. The local products include gold, silver, and red copper. (omitted) As for the five grains, tea leaves, etc., livestock is very scarce. The Yinghuan zhilüe, volume 1 (folio 19) states: Laws are established strictly and people have few disputes. Those who violate laws immediately flee to mountains and valleys to commit suicide. When calling servants, if one claps hands they respond. Throughout the day no human voices are heard. They love Buddha and respect ancestors. When obtaining fragrant flowers and fine fruits, they must offer them to Buddha, or rush to present them at ancestral graves. Customs value cleanliness. Having finished describing the admirable qualities of the people, it truly states this is where the refined essence of the East is concentrated. The above well explains the land and customs of the Divine Country. It should be evident that its purity and cleanliness surpasses foreign countries. The Buddha's teaching...