【Right folio】

● Item 1: Fourth month of Genroku 10 (1697, Year of the Ox). On the occasion of the recoining of gold and silver: old gold and silver coins are to be exchanged for new ones. From the third month of the coming Year of the Tiger, old gold and silver coins will cease to be accepted as legal tender. Official directive.

● Item 2: Sixth month of the same year. New gold two-shu coins (二朱判) have now been minted. The ōban, koban, and ichibu coins are to continue to circulate as before. Official directive.

Item 3: Fifth month, 20th day of Genroku 14 (1701, Year of the Snake). As persons drunk on sake have been somewhat in evidence of late, all people should conduct themselves with restraint and avoid becoming heavily intoxicated. The nanushi (village/ward headmen) and five-household groups (五人組) throughout the town are to issue strict and constant instructions to this effect. Directive for the towns of Edo.

Item 4: Eighth month, 18th day of the same year. Memorandum:
　　Item: On days of formal salutation (御礼日) and on other occasions of attendance at the castle, one must conduct oneself with proper decorum and must not wander into areas beyond one's designated seating.　Item: During attendance hours, one must not stop at the guardhouses of the Hundred-man Unit (百人組) or the Naka-no-Gomon gate, except in unavoidable circumstances.　Item: Swords, side swords, and short swords are to be fitted so as not to be conspicuously long. Similarly, clothing and other apparel should also be kept unobtrusive.　Item: As previously instructed in a written notice, one must not bring a large number of attendants.　Item: It has been heard that the retainers of retainers (陪臣) are bringing a large number of attendants; they are to be instructed to bring only a small number. The foregoing.　Eighth month, [day unspecified]

Item 5: Tenth month, 20th day of the same year. Directive for the towns. Memorandum:
　◦　Although a directive was previously issued prohibiting excessive drinking of sake, since grain (八木) has become scarce in recent years, the serving of sake at any occasion other than wedding celebrations or send-off parties (お立ち) is hereby prohibited, even if it is a celebratory event. Accordingly, sake is to be dispensed with even in the exchange of gifts for celebrations, and the monetary equivalent of a cask of sake (樽代) shall be used instead. Tenth month.

Item 6: Fifth month, 9th day of Genroku 15 (1702, Year of the Horse). Delivered to the resident representatives (御留守居) at the residence of Lord Akimoto Tajima-no-Kami. Memorandum. Verified against the law register (御法度帳).
　　Item: In general, when loading cargo onto horses, one must take into account the condition of the horse and the quantity of goods so as not to cause the horse undue hardship, keeping the load light. Furthermore, care must be taken to strictly observe the prescribed weight limits for pack horses on the road, and heavy loads must not be applied.　Item: Sick horses and injured horses are to be treated with due care, and such horses must not be put to use. However, those who are found to have forced such horses to work must be reported, as previously instructed. These provisions are to be observed; anyone found to be in violation will be subject to punishment. Fifth month, Year of the Horse. A copy was distributed to each of the administrators (支配人) with instructions to notify the towns and villages (町・在々).

Item 7: Tenth month, 16th day of the same year. Delivered to the resident representatives at the residence of Lord Tsuchiya Sagami-no-Kami. Memorandum. Same as above (verified against the law register).
　●◦　As it has always been His Lordship's wish that all people should have hearts of benevolence and compassion, repeated edicts have been issued concerning the compassionate treatment of living creatures (生類憐みの令). On this occasion, Hashimoto Gonnosuke has been found guilty of the outrageous act of injuring a dog, and has been sentenced to death. So that people may all the more cultivate hearts of benevolence, all persons, whether of high or low rank, must observe these rules and ensure that they are firmly communicated to all those down to the lowest level. Tenth month, Year of the Horse.
　Regarding the above, the inspectors (目付中) conveyed instructions that this be communicated to all within the domain's retainer band, and that it be notified to the towns and villages as well through the administrators.
　　　　　◦　On this occasion, the Senior Councilors (御老中) in Edo have issued instructions as set forth in the attached written notice. Accordingly, it has been decreed that the contents of said notice be observed. The foregoing.
　　　　　　　Twenty-seventh day of the tenth month. The Inspectors.
　　　　　　Addendum: All those under the command of unit supervisors (組支配), as well as those of the lowest ranks, are to be strictly instructed. The foregoing.

Item 8: Third month of Shōtoku 2 (1712, Year of the Dragon). For the directive concerning the road network (道中筋), please refer to five folios hence. Furthermore, supplementary materials concerning the Hōei, Shōtoku, and Kyōhō eras and others are appended at the end.