【Right Folio】

...those who have fled or absconded, as well as persons being sought by the magistrate's office (bugyōsho), may be found residing in such rooms. It is said that gambling and the like are also taking place [in these rooms]. Henceforth, in both the upper and lower residences of samurai households, the rooms are to be carefully investigated, and persons who have not been formally employed must not be kept there under any circumstances.

Item: In recent years, many persons have been fashioning hoods (zukin) to conceal their faces and wearing them in public. As this is easily confused with persons being sought by the magistrate's office, no hoods other than those traditionally permitted—namely the round hood (maru-zukin) and the square hood (kaku-zukin)—are to be worn. The above is to be proclaimed accordingly.
　　　　　10th month, year of Boar (亥)

Item:延享 1st year, year of Rat (子) [in vermilion]: Regarding the matter of the person being sought, as handling this is difficult, no hasty actions are to be taken. Should the person appear of their own accord, detain them and report the matter. If that is not the case, but someone resembling the suspect is found, attach a me-akashi (informant/detective) and send them to the domain border—whether to the upper (border area) or lower (inland) regions—keeping this understood privately. This was communicated to the department heads (shihai-gashira) by the Senior Councillors (okaro-chū). 17th day of the 4th month.
　　　　〇During the 2nd month of this year, a man approximately six shaku in height was found wandering in Tanba Province calling himself "Tokugawa So-and-so." A proclamation was issued in the 4th month that such a person should be detained and reported.
　　　　〇The above-mentioned person was reportedly arrested in Kyoto. A proclamation was issued in the 5th month that any similarly suspicious persons encountered in the future should likewise be detained and reported to the appropriate parties.

　　　　　Entry recorded on the 4th day of the 7th month

〇In recent years, there are those who purchase various goods from samurai households, lend out gold and silver, hold the purchased items as collateral, and when repayment is delayed, petition the magistrate's office by means of written contracts. This is considered improper. Henceforth, even if petitions are submitted, such matters shall be adjudicated in the same manner as loans of gold and silver, on a bi-annual (two-season) basis. This is to be proclaimed and made known.
　The above is to be proclaimed by the magistrate's office to both the townspeople (machigata) and the rural areas (zarigata), and is to be communicated to the relevant parties for their awareness. 5th month.

●〇Even after the recoinage (fuki-kae) of gold and silver, it appears that old gold and silver coins still remain in circulation in the world. In accordance with the ordinance of the 1st year of Genbun (元文元辰年), old gold coins are to be exchanged at a rate of 65% premium and old silver coins at a 50% premium, and old gold and silver coins are to remain in mixed circulation.
　　Note: "Old gold and silver" here refers to the gold and silver of the Keichō and Genna eras, as well as the gold and silver that was re-minted from the Shōtoku era and continued in circulation until the recent year of Horse (午).

Item: Beginning with the annual tribute (nengu) and various levies (un-jō), items to be paid to the Shogunate (kōgi), as well as allowances (gōryoku), servants' wages (hōkōnin kyūkin), payments for commercial goods (shōbaibuttai), and other gold and silver [continued on the next folio]

---

【Attached Slip on Left Folio】

Item:延享 1st year, year of Rat (子)
　　　Copy of Circular from the Senior Inspectors (Ō-metsuke)

Since the population registers (ninbetsuchō) of the various provinces are to be submitted this year of Rat, the procedures for examination and documentation shall be the same as before. The population register records (ninbetsu-aratamechōmen) are to be submitted to one's own office by around the 8th or 9th month of this year. Furthermore, once all colleagues of equal rank have been notified, this should be reported accordingly. Individual acknowledgements are unnecessary; the circular is to be returned from the last recipient. That is all.
　19th day of the 2nd month　　Matsunami Chikugo-no-kami

　　　Copy of Circular from the Senior Inspectors (Ō-metsuke)

In those provinces using the scales of Jin Zenshirō: when Zenshirō's agents make their rounds to inspect the scales, those who possess a large number of scales must bring them all out without concealment to be inspected. Additionally, suspicious scales are to be confiscated. This directive is to be strictly observed.
The above applies to the thirty-five provinces of the Kinai (Five Home Provinces), San'yōdō, Nankaidō, Saikaidō, and from the San'indō: Inaba, Hōki, Izumo, Iwami, Oki, as well as Iki and Tsushima—totaling thirty-five provinces. In Shogunate territories (goryō), the local magistrates (daikan) are to issue the proclamation; in private domains (shiryō), the domain lords (jitō) are to issue it. 2nd month of the year of Rat. The above is to be proclaimed accordingly.

As Jin Zenshirō's representative (naijo) is making rounds to the thirty-three western provinces for the scale inspection, a certificate (shōmon) from the Commissioner of Temples and Shrines (Jisha-bugyō) regarding the use of post-horses (denma) has been issued, so arrangements should be made for post-horses to be provided without delay. For matters concerning these provinces, please inquire with the Commissioner of Temples and Shrines. 2nd month.

　　　Supplementary Note

A copy of the circular from the Senior Inspectors regarding the scale inspection has arrived. This matter concerns the thirty-three western provinces. As for our domain (Fukui domain), as previously communicated, the inspection by Morizui will suffice. However, since Zenshirō's agents may possibly pass through this area, it has been directed that the content of the attached circular should be understood and communicated to those under one's supervision. Please be aware of this accordingly. Last day of the 2nd month.