【Attached paper on the right page】
○The yoriai physician Taki Yasumoto petitioned that since the Medical Academy was destroyed by fire and he wishes to rebuild it and resume medical lectures as before, but lacks the means to do so on his own, he would like to solicit donations from Edo town physicians. This is reasonable, and since even those who do not currently attend the academy may have descendants who will attend, he requested that all contribute two monme annually. His petition was granted as requested. Regarding the total amount of these donations, the portions from御医師(御physicians) shall be at their discretion, while disciples of御physicians, retainer physicians, town physicians, and physicians throughout Edo shall contribute the limit of two monme annually. The above shall be communicated to all relevant parties. Fifth month

○Regarding rice disbursements from various domain warehouses in Osaka, concerning the matter of adding empty rice records, etc., there have been recent misunderstandings, hence this proclamation. Sixth month

○In recent years, during busy times at gates, there are those who ride their palanquins right up to the main gate, which was not done previously. Although this matter was addressed in the second year of Enkyō (1745), Year of the Ox, palanquin bearers and other attendants push and shove without consideration for each other. During busy times, they should be instructed to show consideration and not push. Also, since palanquins are lined up making passage to the gate difficult, entry and exit become inconvenient. If everyone properly instructs their people, such situations should not occur, so mutual consideration should be shown to avoid such problems. The above shall be communicated to relevant parties. Fifth month

▲○Regarding boundary survey maps with approval endorsements, approval documents, and subordinate approval certificates held by villages in imperial lands, private domains, and temple/shrine lands that received adjudication at the Council of State and magistrate offices in the past: for imperial lands, the代官(daikan), and for private domains, the domain lords and地頭(jitō) shall have those villages submit copies along with the originals, collect them during this Year of the Snake, and upon arrival in Edo, report to the monthly rotating temple and shrine magistrate for instructions. Since these approval certificates were historically recognized as exchange documents, they should likewise be collected and submitted. The above shall be proclaimed. Sixth month

◎Since charcoal and firewood prices have become high recently, the town magistrates have investigated and ordered price reductions for sales. However, while purchases at market rates are acceptable, there are charcoal and firewood dealers conducting sales at exceptionally high prices. If individuals encounter difficulties when purchasing, they should investigate the names of such dealers and report them to the town magistrate. The above shall be communicated to all sectors as guidance. Sixth month

◎Although it has been repeatedly proclaimed that retinues should not be ostentatious, the instructions seem to have become neglected again, as ostentatious displays are observed. Moreover, regardless of whether domains are above or below ten thousand koku, foot soldiers maintain excessive spacing, and some carry先挟箱(advanced portable chests) with gaps between them, taking up width even in narrow thoroughfares, causing mutual discourtesy among the retinues themselves, which is problematic. Henceforth, even more strict instructions shall be given to avoid ostentation and not occupy excessive space, keeping retinues compact. Not only foot soldiers, but also先挟箱bearers and other retinue processions should maintain intervals of approximately five to six shaku. The above shall be strictly enforced. Seventh month

　　　Documents received from government officials
○Item: Those possessing residential compound lands, town residences, or row house properties must submit investigation reports covering all individuals down to dependent men and women. Above. Eleventh month