One, Anei 3, Year of the Horse - Appears at the end of the Supplementary Section
　○Proclamation regarding the exchange of two-shu coins and gold in the same manner　
　　　　　　12th month of the Year of the Snake　○Order issued to reduce emergency rice reserves by one thousand bales per ten thousand koku and to reduce Edo transport rice by two parts across the board　1st month
　　　　　　　　　　　○Additional labor service ordered for people of all provinces　10th day, 2nd month
One, Anei 4, Year of the Sheep
○Recently there are those who make head coverings to hide their faces and wear them while traveling, but since they resemble those sought by the magistrate offices, only the round and square head coverings that have existed from before may be worn. This matter was proclaimed in Kanpo 3, Year of the Boar, but recently again there are those heard to be making and wearing strange head coverings that hide their faces while walking about. This is improper. Hereafter, if there are those who make and wear head coverings that hide their faces while walking, even at residences, if patrol members notice suspicious behavior, they should remove the head covering and question them, and if they are suspicious persons, arrest them without need for notification and deliver them to the town magistrate. Of course, mistaken cases are acceptable　12th month of the Year of the Horse

【Attached paper on the left page】
▲○Proclamation regarding various scales - Same intent as Horeki 2, Year of the Monkey　2nd month
　　　　　Memorandum
One, Regarding the number of retainers when various daimyo perform sankin duty not becoming excessive, this has been proclaimed in the regulations of successive generations. However, since guard duties at Edo guard posts and fire watch duties are assigned, many people are being dispatched. Therefore, from now on, general personnel limits appropriate for Edo residence are proclaimed.
One, In recent years, when official duties are assigned in Edo, it is heard that hired workers are added among the servants to perform duties. Hereafter such practices are strictly forbidden. Especially now that personnel matters have been proclaimed, the prescribed number of personnel must be strictly maintained. Even if there are slightly excess personnel, they must not be dispatched. Of course, inappropriate assignments will not be made. In the unlikely event of personnel being needed for official duties, personnel must naturally be summoned from the domain and duties performed strictly according to military service obligations.

　　Over 200,000 koku　　　　　　　　　　　　100,000 koku
　Mounted　《Marginal note: From 15 to 20 riders　　　　
However, the same applies when personally leading》　　　Mounted　10 riders
　Foot soldiers　120-130 men　　　　　　　　　　Foot soldiers　80 men
　Servants and laborers　250-300 men　　　　　　Servants and laborers　140-150 men
　　50,000 koku　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　10,000 koku
　Mounted　7 riders　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mounted　3-4 riders
　Foot soldiers　60 men　　　　　　　　　　　Foot soldiers　20 men
　Servants and laborers　100 men　　　　　　　　Servants and laborers　30 men
One, Service with small numbers up to now and ■■ are naturally as they should be
One, For stipends below 200,000 koku and other stipend levels, understanding should follow the above regulations
　Although the above was proclaimed in previous years, recently among those serving gate guard and fire watch duties, some reportedly employ hired workers among their servants. Ultimately, since they are unfamiliar with handling personnel, there are apparently major misunderstandings about ■utilizing them. While inadequate management is acceptable, the previous year's proclamation must be strictly observed. The above shall be communicated to those with stipends above 10,000 koku　4th month
○Regarding the waiting areas and duty rooms within the compound behind the Otemon guard post and the accounting office: these are places where retainers of the accounting office should be present, but recently it is heard that outside retainers, porters, etc. are privately entering and causing confusion. This is problematic. Hereafter, those without official business and other retinues should be prevented from entering by the Otemon guards, so this should be understood and masters should also give strict instructions.
　　The above shall be communicated to relevant parties　6th month