●Regarding gambling, there have been repeated proclamations, but it is heard that it still continues in rural areas and such, which is negligent. Therefore, from now on, officials under the town magistrate will be dispatched irregularly to arrest those who gamble, regardless of whether it is shogunal or private domain. If these patrol officers arrest many people, it would also correspond to negligence by local officials, governors, lords, and stewards, and depending on the degree, they may receive admonishment from the shogunate. Therefore, pay even more careful attention without negligence and strictly control according to the directive issued in the previous Tiger year.
Also, evil parties may impersonate patrol officers under the pretext of controlling gambling, which is incalculable, so pay close attention and if there are suspicious persons, detain them at that location and report immediately. Issue the above directive. Sixth month

○Please understand the purport of the directive issued by the shogunate in the separate document. Although there have been repeated directives, this time it has been issued more strictly, so family retainers down to the lowest ranks should be instructed not to be negligent. Above
July 25th To each group Additionally to groups Inspector

▲Regarding peasants and townspeople taking surnames and wearing swords, receiving permission from their respective lords and stewards is exceptional, but under the pretext of communicating official business, allowing people from shogunal domains and especially other domains to arbitrarily take surnames and wear swords should not happen, so this is strictly prohibited. Issue the above directive. Seventh month
However, on September 28th, Kanazu magistrate, town magistrate, three-county magistrate and other officials were told by the senior councilors to keep this in mind from beforehand, so it was communicated to each respectively.

The supplementary directive in Edo is as follows:
○Please understand the purport of the directive issued by the shogunate in the separate document. Instruct strictly down to the lowest family retainers. Also, those who are heads of quarters should be especially vigilant and ensure proper implementation without misunderstanding. If there is any negligence, the quarter heads will receive admonishment. Above December 3rd To each group Additionally to groups Inspector

●Various gambling and betting have been prohibited from before, but recently everyone has become lax, and it is heard that there are those who commit such improprieties in samurai residences, temples and shrines, or teahouses and street corners. From now on, if such things occur, after investigation and inquiry, we will thoroughly investigate even to related parties and impose punishment without mercy. If such things occur, report to the magistrate's office and you will definitely receive a reward. Even among accomplices, if they report and reform their own past misdeeds, they will also receive a reward.
This directive was issued in Tenmei 8 (Monkey year), but recently it is again heard that there are those committing such improprieties in samurai residence compounds or temples and shrines and rural towns, and some are being arrested one after another. Such negligence is problematic. From now on, strictly order down to the末々 long houses in samurai residence compounds and control without negligence. Temples and shrines, rural towns, etc. should also understand similarly and apply themselves carefully. The above to shogunal domains, private domains, temple/shrine domains, and town areas. Eleventh month

First year of Kyōwa 2 (Dog year)

▲This year many provinces experienced flooding and rice prices have risen, so if prices continue to rise further, it is heard that common people will suffer hardship. Therefore, until further notice, conduct sake brewing using half of the sake brewing rice amount recorded during the Tenmei 8 (Monkey year) inspection. Regarding this inspection method, understand as repeatedly announced previously. If there are those who engage in hidden brewing or increased brewing, after investigation, even the local officials will be strictly punished, so do not misunderstand. Also, inspections of incoming cargo at Uraga and other ports have been ordered more strictly, so this is appropriate. Issue the above directive to shogunal domains, private domains, and temple domains without omission. Dog year, seventh month

▲In recent years there have been continuous floods in various provinces, and annual construction and maintenance expenses have been considerable. This time, due to major flooding of Kanto rivers, regular construction sites suffered major damage. Even in shogunal domain villages with construction sites, private domains and temple domains cannot uniformly be ordered to conduct official construction even if they cite precedents and make requests. After inspection, if there are locations along major rivers that are particularly severely damaged and beyond the village's capacity to repair, or where lords' and stewards' arrangements are inadequate and would obstruct shogunal domain areas, after investigation, official construction may be ordered depending on the circumstances.