【Left page pasted paper】
〇Recently, many people have been making head coverings to hide their faces and wearing them while traveling, which causes confusion with wanted persons sought by the magistrate's office. Therefore, except for [...unreadable...] head coverings and square head coverings that have been [permitted] from before, no other head coverings shall be worn at all. This matter was previously proclaimed, but recently it has been reported that there are people wearing unusual head coverings that hide their faces. This is an improper state of affairs and such things must not occur. Therefore, from now on, if there are people walking around wearing head coverings that hide their faces, even within residential compounds, patrol officers shall remove the head coverings immediately upon sight, inquire about their names, and if they are suspicious persons, arrest them and deliver them to the town magistrate without need for prior notification. It is acceptable if mistakes are made in punishment. Proclaim this accordingly. December

【Continuation of left page pasted paper from frame 64】
There should be no [requests for repairs to] damaged areas, or damage to inner villages, districts, highways, bridges, water pipes, etc. Since villages' frivolous requests for government construction work will not be accepted, they must absolutely not submit such petitions.

This was proclaimed during the floods in the Kanto region in Kansei 3 (year of the boar) and Kansei 5 (year of the ox), but it appears that some villages have submitted mistaken petitions. Regarding the current floods in Kanto, Tokaido, Koshu, Noshu, Seshu, and Kamigata regions, the construction of embankments and river maintenance will be enormous undertakings, but since they cannot be abandoned, respective government construction projects will be carried out. However, regarding river construction projects, while construction of embankments and river maintenance in locations that cannot be abandoned is naturally necessary, it is a misunderstanding when villages affected by floods, including districts and inner villages, assume that even areas without significant damage should uniformly receive relief construction and submit petitions accordingly. During this construction period, even if such petitions are submitted to supervising officials making village rounds, they will definitely not be accepted, so understand this point and do not submit mistaken petitions. This directive shall be transmitted without exception from government representatives to private domains, and from domain lords and local administrators to villages in Musashi, Shimosa, Kozuke, Shimotsuke, Hitachi, Kai, Suruga, Totomi, Mino, Ise provinces and other Kamigata regions. Proclaim this to all relevant parties. 7th month, year of the dog