[Right-side pasted paper]
○It has been prohibited since ancient times for Japanese coastal vessels and fishing boats to fraternize with foreign ships at sea. Now it has been newly ordered that foreign ships should be repelled immediately upon approach to any harbor. Therefore, ship crews and fishermen must observe this more strictly than ever, and vessels should take care to avoid encounters with foreign ships as much as possible on their routes. Those who conceal fraternization with foreigners and are later discovered will be severely punished. However, those who report honestly will be rewarded even if they initially consented to such contact, so they should report without concealment. Second month
Post notices in all harbors with the above instructions and circulate to all relevant authorities.
[Written in red] The above was delivered to the district magistrates of the four districts under direct administration for appropriate handling
Third month, 11th day

Two copies of documents directly transmitted from Senior Inspector Iwase Iyo-no-kami
○Regarding procedures for dealing with foreign ship arrivals, orders have been issued numerous times in the past, and regarding Russian ships in particular, new instructions were circulated during the Bunka era. British ships committed outrages at Nagasaki in previous years, and recently have been approaching various locations in small boats requesting firewood, water, and provisions. Last year they went so far as to land arbitrarily and seize rice from coastal vessels and wild cattle from islands, showing increasingly lawless behavior. Furthermore, they are heard to be promoting heretical religions, making their actions doubly intolerable. Generally speaking, not only Britain but all Southern Barbarian and Western nations are prohibited heretical countries. Henceforth, when foreign ships are sighted approaching any harbor, use whatever manpower is available to repel them without question. If they flee, there is no need to pursue with ships—let them go. If they force a landing, capture or kill them without concern. If the main ship approaches, destroying it is also acceptable depending on circumstances. This has been newly ordered to be communicated down to the lowest-ranking personnel at all harbors, with reports to follow. Understanding this, harbor defenses should be appropriate to local conditions, emphasizing practicality, being neither overly elaborate nor negligent, and arranged for long-term sustainability according to each location's discretion. Of course, Chinese, Korean, and Ryukyuan ships can be distinguished by their vessel shapes and people, but Dutch ships may be difficult to identify. If such ships are mistakenly attacked, there will be no blame, so focus on repelling without hesitation and take measures not to lose the initiative—this is of paramount importance, so implement without negligence.
Second month

○Regarding reports from various authorities about foreign ships arriving in different regions or encountered at sea, many contain only rough approximations and make it difficult to understand the actual circumstances. Henceforth, instruct even the lowest-ranking harbor personnel not to conceal anything and report honestly, making factual accuracy in reports the top priority. The current order to repel foreign ships is not issued out of desire for conflict, but because recent circumstances cannot be overlooked. Therefore, implement with the utmost care.
[Written in red] The above was delivered the same day to Monthly Duty Officer Nonaka Kenzo, with instructions that it be communicated for reference to all authorities assigned foreign ship countermeasures as well as to the Kanazu Magistrate and District Magistrates.