【Pasted Paper on Left Page】
　　Copy of Proclamation from the Senior Inspectors

○Although this year appears to be a good harvest throughout the provinces, given the consecutive poor harvests of recent years, until further notice is given, sake brewing shall continue at one-third production as proclaimed in the 7th month of last Monkey year. However, for those who have been reducing their production at their own discretion from their previously reported quotas up until the previous Snake year, the one-third production quota naturally applies, but depending on location, production may be reduced even further within the one-third quota, or sake brewing may be completely suspended at the authorities' discretion. To ensure there is no misunderstanding of these provisions, strictly inform all sake brewers, and submit written records of rice quantities used and reduced amounts from brewing up until the previous Snake year. For government territories, local magistrates, deputies, and administrators should submit these; for private domains, feudal lords and local administrators should submit them to the Finance Office promptly. However, for temple and shrine territories, the temple and shrine magistrates should collect them, and for group-administered areas, the respective heads should collect and submit them.

1. Regarding sake shipped from various provinces to Edo and other locations: as proclaimed in the 11th month of last Monkey year, understand that approximately one-third of the previous barrel quantities should be the limit, and do not ship as domain cargo. Since production quotas are being strictly reviewed this time, barrel quantities need not be specifically reported. Inform all sake brewers of this. For this year, as with last Monkey year, unexpected inspectors may be dispatched. If overproduction or hidden production is discovered, the perpetrators will be severely punished, and even local officials will be strictly dealt with.

Understanding these provisions, strictly implement supervision measures for each individual. Any negligent handling will be considered a serious offense. Proclaim as stated above.
　　9th month

○On the 16th day of the 11th month in our domain, the following written instructions were given to the administrative heads:
　▲Message from Finance Group Head Hada Ryūsuke. Template for sake brewing rice quantity ledgers to be submitted. Sake brewer names and records, production amounts up to Tenpō 4 Snake year, reductions for this Rooster year, amounts brewed in the same year, and also sake brewer names and records for those conducting brewing in other territories, Tenpō 4 Snake year etc., same provisions.
　　　　Total