Therefore, hereafter, when there are those who walk about wearing head coverings that conceal their faces, even at residences, those on patrol duty should remove their head coverings as soon as they are spotted, inquire about their names and such, and if they are suspicious persons, they should be arrested and handed over to the town magistrate without need for prior notification. However, minor violations are acceptable.

As stated above, this was announced in Kyōhō 1, year of the Rooster, but recently both men and women wear head coverings and additionally cover their nose and mouth with hand towels, tying them behind and hanging them down to conceal their faces while traveling. This custom seems to have spread even to the warrior class, which is quite improper regarding public morals. Hereafter, if such persons are spotted, act according to the previous article, and if they are suspicious, arrest them and hand them over to the town magistrate. Eleventh month

○ Previously, it was announced that copies of judicial decision endorsements, diagrams, promissory note copies, and similar documents from court proceedings at the Council of State (Hyōjōsho) and magistrate offices should be collected from private domains and temple/shrine lands by the tenth month of the previous year of the Rat and submitted to the monthly rotating temple and shrine magistrate. Since some urgent matters have arisen, submit them immediately. Furthermore, those territories that have made no declaration regarding the absence of judicial documents within their domains and fiefs should report this matter to the said magistrate. This matter should be announced without omission.
Twelfth month of Ushi [year]

1. Tenpō 13, year of the Tiger

○ Fishing is prohibited in the Kanda River shipping route from upstream of Kawara Bridge to Suidō Bridge. If there are those who catch fish, strict punishment shall be imposed.
Second month

●○○ Regarding His Lordship Kōdai-in, he shall be addressed as "Ichi-i-sama" (First Rank). Second month

○○ Although the prohibition of gambling and all forms of wagering is of course [established], this should be constantly enforced even within the residences of yoriki and gokenin retainers. However, we hear that gambling still continues, and moreover, since the edicts issued during the Kyōhō era have been in effect for many years, we announce this again. Each person should exercise even greater care and there should be no negligence whatsoever. Strict prohibition should be imposed on servants, and when they do not comply, even if outsiders are involved, they should be arrested without exception and reported to the magistrate's office or the nearest fire and theft investigation office. Depending on circumstances, they may even be killed. Although this was announced during the Kansei era, we recently hear that there are those conducting gambling in samurai residences, so strict enforcement should be communicated to all relevant parties.
Second month

○●○ Some young attendants accompanying messengers and caretakers of various houses tend to line up extensively in front of palanquins. Although the palanquins have carrying poles, their construction resembles formal conveyances with black lower sections, and some are seen using wide fur materials and black velvet on the curtain borders. This is merely decorative ostentation and is quite improper—a misunderstanding of proper conduct. Henceforth, they should be made as inconspicuous and modest as possible, and the use of fur materials and black velvet should be discontinued. Furthermore, since it was previously announced that lower-ranking persons should not use long-handled umbrellas, careful attention should be paid to prevent such practices from becoming rampant. The above applies to [domains of] ten thousand koku and above, as well as alternating attendants (kōtai yoriai) and other relevant parties.