【Slip pasted on the right folio】
　　　　Copy of the official notice to the Senior Inspectors (Ōmetsuke)

Among those who have received loans from the Bakuro-chō lending office, there are many who have been delinquent in repayment for several years, and in particular, those who have been granted installment repayment plans have not infrequently been negligent in their annual payments. This is a most troubling state of affairs.

While it may be said that each individual's household finances are in hardship, this situation has its origins in the lack of proper diligence on the part of the borrowers themselves. Nevertheless, it has been reported that, out of a desire to further delay the repayment deadlines, retainers have been seeking improper connections and submitting written petitions claiming hardship, thereby requesting inappropriate accommodations. This is most reprehensible conduct.

On this occasion, through extraordinary benevolence, half of the outstanding loan amounts are to be cancelled (kien), the remaining half is to be made interest-free, and furthermore, new loans are also to be extended. This represents an immense act of virtue and is received with the deepest gratitude. It goes without saying that each individual must henceforth observe greater frugality and economy and continue in their duties of service. Even in cases where one must inevitably apply for a new loan in the future, one should do so only after having made adequate preparations for repayment. If anyone should sink back into the old bad habits and fail to repay, the measures of debt cancellation and interest-free loans granted on this occasion will have been in vain. Therefore, all must take care to ensure there are no arrears on future loans issued.

Even after the above notice has been delivered, should anyone continue to follow past corrupt practices and engage in improper conduct, not only will that person themselves be punished, but their master will also be held accountable. Therefore, this must be strictly communicated to all retainers as well. The foregoing is to be circulated accordingly.

　　　　Sixth Month　　In Edo: to be circulated only within the Accounts Office (Gokanjōsho)　In the home domain: to be understood only by the Magistrate (Bugyō)