【Pasted note on the left page】

▲〇Due to the recent fire in Edo, when merchants dealing in timber and other various goods send orders to rural areas (zakata), they should sell their goods at prices as low as possible relative to the original cost. Should there be any merchant who raises prices without justification, this shall be treated as a criminal offense.
As stated above, in the villages of the Kantō Eight Provinces (Kan-hasshū) as well as Kai and Izu provinces, the above shall be proclaimed by the magistrates (daikan) for shogunate-controlled lands and by lords and estate heads (jitō) for privately held domains. The above shall be communicated to all relevant parties. Twelfth month.

▲〇In the Kantō Eight Provinces, falconers (otakajō) and their attendants (dōshin) who have come to capture wild geese, skylarks, and other birds have been heard to behave in an arbitrary and self-serving manner at their various field locations, and furthermore to indulge in food and drink beyond what is appropriate at their lodgings, causing considerable difficulty and expense in the rural areas. This is a most improper state of affairs. After the reforms, such conduct must not occur; however, should such incidents arise in the future, causing hardship in the rural areas, the lords and estate heads shall report without hesitation to the relevant authorities. The above shall be duly communicated to all parties.
　　Twelfth month.

Regarding the above, on the eleventh day of the fourth month of the following year Tatsu (辰), the following was proclaimed to each party at the Council of Adjudication (Hyōjōsho):

〇Officials dispatched to rural areas on official business who make arbitrary demands, or who indulge in food and drink at their lodgings, will inevitably incur expenses. At a time when reform is of primary concern, such conduct must not occur. However, should any such persons be found in the future, as this causes hardship to the rural populace, the matter shall immediately be reported without hesitation to the relevant authorities, or to the agents of the inspectors (metsuke).

The reason for the above proclamation is as follows: the shogunate (kōgi) has issued an order to the villages of the Kantō Eight Provinces as described in the accompanying document. Therefore, should there be any persons within this domain who are similarly in violation, and who impose unreasonable demands upon others by virtue of their official authority, this could cause hardship to those of lower status. This order is issued out of the deep benevolence (jinkei) of our lord, to ensure that no unnecessary miscellaneous expenses are incurred. All parties shall be thoroughly mindful of this.
　　　〆