November 5th, 7th year of Kaei, Year of the Tiger (1854)
Account of the Great Tsunami in Settsu Province

▲From around 4 PM on the 5th, there was a roaring sound like thunder from offshore, which became a tsunami. Great waves over 1 jō (approximately 3 meters) in height came crashing in. The areas around Terashima, Kansuke Island, Namba Island, and Tenpōzan were all hit by the great tsunami. Everyone climbed onto rooftops or borrowed boats to carry their families, but all the boats were lost and lives were taken. The number of deaths among sailors, boat captains, and other women and children was countless. Due to the tsunami, four bridges from Hiyoshi Bridge downstream on the Dōtonbori River to Karakane Bridge (another name for Shiomi Bridge), Saiwai Bridge, and Sumiyoshi Bridge were swept away. About 100 rice ships of various sizes flowed in as far as Daikoku Bridge. Kensaki ships, tea boats, and those from Tenma were all crushed underneath. In the lower Horie River, Mizuwake Bridge, Kurogane Bridge, Takabashi in Nagahori, and Ajigawa Bridge were all swept away. Everywhere there were dead bodies - three here, five there - the number of deaths among women and children was immeasurable. The tsunami receded around 8 PM on the 5th night, and all bridges around Ajigawa collapsed. The chaos was indescribable and truly terrifying.
　　The earthquake has not yet
　　　　　　　settled down
　　　　This is an unprecedented rare event in history

[Illustration caption]
　　Rough diagram of the great earthquake
　　Morning of November 4th
　　From around 5 AM, and again
　　Around 4 PM on the 5th, a great
　　earthquake caused houses everywhere to collapse
　Places already damaged by the previous earthquake
Were crushed beyond count
▲From within Tenma Tenjin Shrine to Nishi-Teramachi, Fukushima Tenjin, Gohyaku Rakan temple, the gate of Gankyō-ji collapsed, torii gates in the Awaza and surrounding town areas fell, the main hall was damaged, and in Junkeichō, Donburikike, and Shiomachi areas, and around Sanoya Bridge there were 2 deaths. Kōzu temple town, Ajigawa,
　　Kamei Bridge
　　　　Sakai city center
　　　　Nara
　　　　Minami-Kawachi
　　　　Amagasaki Tatsumi
　　　　　　ferry crossing
　　　　　Others abbreviated here

[Map illustration labels]
　　　North Ajigawa River　　Ajigawa Bridge
　South Ajigawa River
　　Terashima　Ebisu Island　Kamei Bridge　Tenjin Otabi　Guard Station　Enokojima　
Kizu River　[Following roughly along the river from right to left in the diagram]
Maitare Island　Dōtonbori River　Saiwai-chō　Sakae Bridge　Namiyoshi Bridge
Hiyoshi Bridge　Karakane Bridge　Minami-Horie　Saiwai Bridge　Sumiyoshi Bridge　Kanaya Bridge　Nishi-Yokobori　Daikoku Bridge　
Mizuwake Bridge　Kurogane Bridge　Kita-Horie　Kame Bridge　Horie River
Nagahori
Takabashi　Tamatsukuri Bridge
Tachiu-ribori
Takabashi