Paramount Pictures News Team Special Production Short Talkie News
Sound News "Paramount Pictorial" Volume 4, Issue 11
Limited to those who wish
Asahiza News Presented
To Taishokan Publicity Department
・・・This Week's Program・・・
"Under the Neighbor's Roof"
Shochiku Kamata Nonsense Film
Original Story/Screenplay・・・・Kimura Yoshikatsu
Director・・・・・・Naruse Mikio
Camera・・・・Ikai Sukehachiro
・・・Cast・・・
Aoyama・・・・・・Ogura Shigeru
Hamako・・・・・・Naniwa Tomoko
Machida (colleague)・・・Ichiki Kan
Company employee・・・・・Okuni Ichiro
・・・・・・・・Sakai Keinosuke
Typist・・・Kiyokawa Taeko
Section Chief・・・・・・Sakamoto Takeshi
In salaryman Aoyama's household, disputes between his wife Hamako and their boarder Machida never ceased. And Aoyama became so indignant at the spiteful attitude of his wife Hamako and Machida toward him that an unprecedented domestic dispute unfolded... As a result, his wife Hamako invited Machida to move with her to the vacant house next door. Now, Aoyama's heart was far from peaceful. He still longed for his wife Hamako...
Although Aoyama was a married man, he was attracted to Chieko, a typist at his company. When his wife discovered him buying expensive gifts for her with as much of his salary as he could sacrifice, a commotion arose at home and his wife moved to the vacant house next door. Feeling lonely after his wife left, he devised various schemes and snuck into the ceiling of the neighboring house, but got his foot caught in a mouse trap, tangled his foot in electrical wires, and his foot protruded through the ceiling. Hamako thought it was a burglar, but when she discovered it was unexpectedly her husband, the two reconciled as before...
"Jinnai the Sudden Official"
Ichikawa Utaemon Productions Super Special Period Drama
Novel published in "Asahi" magazine
Original Story・・・・・・Shimomura Etsuo
Director・・・・・・Shirai Sentaro
Camera・・・・Matsui Ko
・・・Main Roles・・・
Tsukigata Jinnai・・・・Ichikawa Utaemon
Komadori Otan・・・・Oe Michiko
Kawabe Kenmotsu・・・・Takado Kunisuke
Wife Michiyo・・・・・Ozaki Shizuko
Son Fukuma・・・・・Takei Ryuzo
Yoshimura Tango・・・・Umeda Kikuzo
Daughter Ruriko・・・・Katsura Junko
Matsuda Jintaro・・・・Amano Jinichi
◇Synopsis◇　A quiet street where even foot traffic had ceased. The townspeople, terrorized by a group of six rogue samurai who ravaged the Edo streets nightly, kept their gates tightly shut and maintained constant vigilance. Suddenly, a man stops in front of a large merchant house and posts a piece of paper. The paper reads as follows:
　"Tonight at midnight, six ruffians will visit your honorable house, so urgent precautions are essential.
Righteous Thief　Tsukigata　Jinnai"
The night watchman who saw this immediately knocked on the house and reported to the magistrate's office. Thus the investigation gradually became more severe-- So the righteous thief, though still a thief nonetheless, Tsukigata Jinnai said:
　"With things getting so strict, I can't stay in Edo anymore. I think we'll go on a trip to clear our heads..."
　And so he set out on a journey with Komadori Otsubo, a female accomplice who followed him like a shadow. After several days, they entered the Nakasendo road--
　The two, who appeared to others as an affectionate married couple, continued their extremely optimistic journey. When they reached near Tsuwano on the Ogori highway, they rescued a fine young lady from the hands of porters. When they asked about the circumstances, this woman was the daughter of magistrate Kawabe Kenmotsu, named Natsuko, who had been attacked by porters on her way back from making vows at a nearby Kannon temple. Since their destination was Tsuwano, the two decided to escort the woman there.
"Tears in Her Eyes"
Shochiku Kinema Kamata Studio Super Special Production
Original Story/Screenplay・・・Yanai Takao
Director・・・・・・Nomura Hotei
Camera・・・・Nagai Shinichi
・・・Role and Actor・・・
Minagawa Yoko・・・・Yakumo Emiko
Harada Ryo・・・・・Oka Joji
Yoko's child Michiko・Ichimura Mitsuko
Murashima Matsuo・・・・Takeuchi Ryoichi
Father Shinzo・・・・・Iwata Yukichi
Mother Tatsuko・・・・・Toshikawa Mitsuko
Haraguchi・・・・・・Nara Shinyo
Bar woman Fumiko・Date Satoko
◇Synopsis◇　Near Itako, the flow of the Tone River was also leisurely and quiet. The beautiful country girl Minagawa Yoko was waiting by the river for a steamship to arrive. The captain of that steamship was Yoko's lover, Harada Ryo.
　"I have some business, I think I'll go to Tokyo."
　Yoko is innocent.
　"Well, why don't you go and see, that's fine. You're sure to come back soon."
　"Then, Ryo-san, will you wait for that matter until I return?"
　"Well, I might wait, or I might come to meet you-- depending on how I feel at the time."
△
　Tokyo and the country girl・・・・・
　This is the story six years later.
　Yoko now works faithfully as a maid in the house of Murashima Shinzo. Her master Shinzo was the captain of a great ship on the European route, possessing the generosity and gentle heart of the vast ocean. In contrast, the mistress was so strict that she was active externally as a member of the Women's Moral Society. Therefore, the master spent most of his life aboard ship and the house was often empty, and Mrs. Tatsuko was also frequently away from home.
Ghost stories from talkies, the vengeful flames of an alluring woman become pale cursed shadow fires and an eerie atmosphere approaches terrifyingly・・・・・
Shochiku Kinema Kyoto Shimogamo Special Production Sound Horror Drama
Dobashi-style Shochiku Phone Third Period Drama Talkie
Original Story/Screenplay and Direction・Otsuka Minoru
Camera・・・・・・Tsuburaya Eiji
Sound Recording・・・・・・Dobashi Haruo
Musical Accompaniment・・・・・・Shochiku Orchestra
・Yanagi Sakuko・Onoe Eigoro・
・Iizuka Toshiko・Koizumi Kasuke・
・Chikuma Satoko・Takiguchi Shintaro・
Co-starring
・Opening Next Week・
All-Talkie Horror Drama　Evening Calm Chronicles
Bewitching　Featuring Yanagi Sakuko and Iizuka Toshiko, along with new star Onoe Eigoro and special guest appearance by Takiguchi Shintaro from Kamata for this film. Japan's first ghost story period drama all-talkie.
Please look forward to it! Grand opening simultaneously with the masterpiece "The Cuckoo"!!