【Right folio】
It is said that passage will become possible without worry, and privately, those with spirit and determination can travel even on foot along the mountain road that continues along the coast. [Places such as] Terawa, Akkeshi, Menashi, Keikoku, Osarubetsu, Kayaman, Heususan, Kiitatsuf, and Nochifу — these places extend for hundreds of ri in ways that cannot be fully known, and it is said that there are considerable gold, silver, copper, and iron-tin mines. The people there hold Japanese rice in high esteem, and while there are cultivated fields in the direction of Oku-Ezo (inner Ezo), within five hundred ri of Kuchi-Ezo (outer Ezo), farming can be done freely. It is rumored that they weave cloth and even brocade, but in truth it is said that these come from the direction of Kita-Kōrai (Northern Korea/Manchuria). It is said that Kita-Kōrai is closer to the Oku-Ezo region than Japan is. It is said that considerable trade has been arranged by the lord of Matsumae, and this has been to his benefit. It is certain that if the gold, silver, and copper mines were worked, a considerable amount would be produced, as has been said from earlier times—

【Left folio】
— though those who have passed this down do not say so openly, it is said that out of deference to the Bakufu (the shogunate), the mines have not been worked. Nevertheless, the local people produce alluvial gold through their own efforts. In Oku-Ezo in particular, it seems that considerable amounts are mined, and gold thread is woven into their textiles. In the direction of Kuchi-Ezo there are places where flat land continues for hundreds of ri, and if turned into fields, tens of thousands of koku could be harvested, but again, out of deference to the Bakufu, no orders have been given to send large numbers of people there for development. If the Bakufu were to dispatch officials and have the gold and silver mines worked and order the development of fields and farmland, then Matsumae, the Tsugaru region, and other eastern provinces would flourish, and even we ourselves would benefit from this prosperity. Altogether, there are many varied trading activities between Matsumae and Ezo, and there are countless matters that are to the benefit of the lord of Matsumae, but since ancient times especially—