[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Battle of Sekigahara) - 188

[Main Text]
At this time, at the initiative of Yamauchi Kazutoyo, it was decided that each castle along the route would be surrendered to Ieyasu, and hostages would be sent to demonstrate their loyalty. Therefore, Matsudaira Ienori came to guard this Yoshida Castle, and the hostages of the various generals along the route were also to be gathered and kept in this castle.

Now, regarding the situation in the capital region at this time, let me explain: Initially, when Ieyasu finally decided to depart for the conquest of Aizu, Mitsunari heard this and rejoiced, thinking his strategy had succeeded. He immediately reported this to Kagekatsu in Aizu and busily sought to rally his allies to raise their banner. However, someone like Ōtani Yoshitsugu, who had been Mitsunari's close friend for twenty years, was one who strongly opposed this plan and intended to follow Ieyasu and join the eastern expedition. But since Mitsunari's resolve was firm, he eventually joined his cause. For such reasons, many among the western daimyo found themselves having to join Mitsunari's faction against their true intentions, out of necessity.

Mitsunari and others further established checkpoints at the Echi River in Ōmi to block the eastern expedition generals. Those who departed late were stopped here, and many had no choice but to return to Osaka. Meanwhile, Mitsunari and others sent envoys to Mōri Terumoto, who had returned to Hiroshima, eventually drawing him out to Osaka to place him in the position of leader of their alliance. They enumerated Ieyasu's crimes and sent proclamations to the various lords. The number of troops that gathered in Osaka at that time actually reached 93,000.

With this force, they first pressured Sano Tsunamasa, the caretaker of the western castle, to surrender it, and also sought to take the wives and children of the various lords into the castle as hostages. This caused great upheaval among the families of the eastern expedition generals and those whose hearts belonged to Ieyasu's side - even Hosokawa Tadaoki's wife, Lady Akechi, took her own life. On the 18th day of the 7th month, they finally deployed troops to besiege both Tanabe Castle in Tamba and the aforementioned Fushimi Castle.

This Tanabe Castle was at that time being held by Hosokawa Tadaoki's father, Yūsai, as Tadaoki was naturally absent, having joined the eastern expedition. Since the crisis arose suddenly, he gathered all his retainers in the castle, but had only about 500 men.

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Newspaper No. 3955 Supplement (Published January 9, 1912)

[Main Text]
However, this Yūsai was a master of poetry, so eventually the siege of this castle was lifted by imperial command - though this is a troublesome story, I won't go into detail here as it has little relevance to our topic.

As for Fushimi Castle, as I mentioned before, with only about 1,800 men they fought against a great army of over 40,000. The brave and righteous spirit displayed by Mototada and the other officers and men at this time was truly a fine example of Mikawa warriors.

Initially, Shimazu Yoshihisa also received a request from Ieyasu to enter Fushimi Castle and join in its defense, but Mototada suspected this was a trick and would not listen. Then Yoshihisa sent his retainer Niiro Ryōan, who was on friendly terms with Mototada, to negotiate this matter, but Mototada again suspected him of being a spy and had him shot. Thus Yoshihisa had no choice but to join the western army.

Kobayakawa Hideaki was also one whose heart belonged to Ieyasu. At this time he not only sent an envoy requesting to join in defending the castle, but also came personally to the castle walls, met with Mototada face to face, spoke at length of their old friendship, and made this request. However, Mototada would not agree at all, saying that if he truly felt this way, he should obtain permission directly from Kantō.

Even before this, Masuda Nagamori had sent an envoy to gently persuade Mototada to surrender the castle peacefully, but Mototada angrily replied: "I guard this castle for the Tokugawa clan. I should not leave upon hearing others' words, so if you come with such talk again, I will cut you down!" This truly shows his determination to die and his loyal character.

For these reasons, completely refusing all outside assistance and fighting a large army with few men, the castle finally fell on the 1st day of the 8th month. Mototada, Ietada, Ienaga and the other generals, along with almost all their men, fought valiantly and died in battle - truly a courageous end.

From then on, the Osaka side, that is, the western army, deployed troops to the Ise region to attack various castles, and also advanced into Mino to observe the movements of Ieyasu's forces, the eastern army. The generals who formed the vanguard of the eastern army assembled at Kiyosu in Owari on the 14th day of the 8th month

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Battle of Sekigahara) - 189