[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Battle of Sekigahara) - 196 Appendix

[Main Text]
existed, so from these perspectives, the defeat of the western army was truly an inevitable matter.

Now, although the western army was thus completely defeated, Ieyasu quickly had Kobayakawa Hideaki and others capture Sawayama Castle, and on the other hand, had Masanori, Nagamasa and others send letters to Mori Terumoto in Osaka to communicate his intentions. He himself also advanced to Otsu on the 20th to communicate with Hideyori's mother and child. At this time, Hidetada arrived at Kusatsu, so the military prestige of the eastern army became increasingly powerful.

Moreover, imperial messengers were sent from the court, and Ieyasu's reputation rose even higher. Fortunately, Terumoto decided to surrender the western castle of Osaka, so on the 27th, Ieyasu entered it and placed Hidetada in the second bailey.

Ultimately, the eastern army thus successfully occupied Osaka without fighting. In bringing about this settlement, Ikeda Terumasa, along with Masanori, Nagamasa, Yukinaga, Takatoraand others, undertook various mediating efforts.

As described above, Osaka came under the eastern army's sphere of influence, and at this point, as a natural consequence, all real power in the realm inevitably fell to Ieyasu - this was, so to speak, an inevitable result.

Therefore, Ieyasu greatly implemented rewards and punishments for the various generals and retainers. Those main conspirators like Mitsunari, Yukinaga, and Ekei who were captured were executed, and many others were subjected to exile, confiscation of domains, and other punishments. On the other hand, investigations for merit-based rewards began on September 27th, and the major portion was announced on October 15th.

To describe each case individually would be too complex, so I will omit them here, but as a result, Ikeda Terumasa, lord of this Yoshida castle, was elevated at one stroke to 520,000 koku and transferred to Himeji in Harima Province. As mentioned in the previous chapter, Terumasa moved to Himeji and undertook construction of Himeji Castle and urban improvements, traces of which can still be seen in that area today.

Therefore, if Terumasa had remained in this Yoshida for several more years, I believe that urban reforms, beginning with the relocation of Goshinjitemple as mentioned earlier, would have been carried out quite thoroughly. This was truly a regrettable loss for our city.

Although there is much more that should be said about Terumasa's lifetime, unfortunately it has little relation to our city's

[Left Page]
[Header] Sanyo Newspaper No. 3967 Supplement (Published January 23, 1907)

[Main Text]
history, so I would like to move on to later events.

Subsequently, Terumasa died of illness in Himeji on January 25th of Keicho 18 (1613) at the age of 50. He was given the posthumous name Kokuseiin Taisou Genko and buried at a temple called Ryuhojitemple, but was later reburied according to Confucian rites at Atsuchiyama in Wake District, Bizen Province, as mentioned earlier.

Today there are temples called Kokuseijiin both Okayama and Tottori, which were obviously built later for Terumasa's spiritual benefit. The one in Tottori is said to be this Ryuhojitemple relocated from Himeji.

⦿Matsudaira Ieyasu is Enfeoffed at Yoshida

As described in detail in the previous chapter, Ieyasu won at Sekigahara and thereafter came to hold all political power of the realm in his person in practical terms, which was a natural development given the circumstances.

Therefore, Ieyasu's first urgent task was the positioning of the various lords throughout the realm. In November of Keicho 5 and February of Keicho 6, he personally implemented rewards and punishments related to the Sekigahara campaign, and thereafter continued increasing the domains of his hereditary retainers or transferring their castle holdings almost continuously through the following 7th year.

This method of positioning lords by Ieyasu was even more advanced compared to Hideyoshi's era and was quite skillful. First, since the Tokaido was the vital route connecting his stronghold of Edo with Kyoto and Osaka, he positioned exclusively hereditary daimyo along it to maintain communication between both ends. Particularly for the Mikawa region, being his ancestral domain, he took special care in enfeoffing his hereditary retainers there.

For Toyotomi Hideyori, he allocated only about 657,400 koku from within Settsu, Kawachi, and Izumi provinces, while all the income from what had traditionally been called "shogunal lands" in other provinces was transferred entirely to Edo or to the various lords, thus removing it from the Toyotomi clan.

Thus Ieyasu left Osaka in March of Keicho 6 and resided in Fushimi, from where he [managed affairs between] Edo and Osaka.

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Matsudaira Ieyasu Enfeoffed at Yoshida) - 197