【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Toyohashi before castle construction)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2
【Main text】
　　　　　　the 'Engi-kyaku' in twelve volumes. This collection of decrees from three reigns was organized by subject categories - what is called a classified compilation (ruijū). Of these thirty-four volumes,
　　　　　　some have been lost over time and not all survive today, but the National History Series (Kokushi Taikei)
　　　　　　published in recent years by Keizai Zasshisha includes twenty volumes. As for what 'kyaku' (decrees) means: after the government issued the ritsuryō codes, they compiled
　　　　　　collections of imperial edicts and official documents that modified the established laws of the ritsuryō or established temporary new regulations. I believe you are already familiar with this, so I need not explain in detail.
　　　　　　In this 'Ruijū Sandai-kyaku' there is a section titled "Matters of Ferry Stations, Floating Bridges, and Charitable Lodges." Floating bridges
　　　　　　naturally refer to bridge structures, ferry stations (funase) to ferries, and charitable lodges (fuseya) were government-operated lodging facilities
　　　　　　where ordinary travelers could stay free of charge, often established near ferry crossings. In this section is recorded a Grand Council of State decree issued on the twenty-ninth day of the sixth month of Jōwa 2 (one thousand and
　　　　　　seventy-seven years ago). In that document it states:
　　　　　　　"Additional ferry boats, sixteen vessels... (omission) Mikawa Province, Akumi and Yahagi rivers, four vessels each"
　　　　　　The text then records the following explanation: The aforementioned rivers have such wide banks that bridging them is entirely impossible.
　　　　　　    Therefore their ferry service is to be increased. According to reports, although these rivers are located at crucial points on the Tōkaidō highway, they lack bridge
　　　　　　facilities, and because ferry boats have been insufficient until now, porters transporting tribute goods gather at the riverbank, spending days and even weeks
　　　　　　unable to cross. Eventually fights and quarrels break out, tribute goods are lost, and sometimes even human lives are endangered -
　　　　　　this is unacceptable, so provincial governors and others should take care to prevent such occurrences. This is roughly the meaning. From this record, we can see
　　　　　　that the present site of Toyohashi was, over a thousand years ago, a crucial location on the Tōkaidō, and the river width must have been quite broad. What is now
　　　　　　the Toyokawa River was apparently called the Akumi River at that time. There is also a work called the 'Wamyō Ruijūshō' which
　　　　　　you are probably already familiar with. It was compiled by Minamoto no Jun and is said to have been written during the Enchō era.
　　　　　　If this is true, it dates from about nine hundred and eighty years ago. In this work's section on Atsumi District,

Place name Akumi　various village names are listed, among which appears the name Atsumi (Akumi). This clearly corresponds
　　　　　　  to the name Akumi in "Akumi River" found in the 'Ruijū Sandai-kyaku'. That the place name Akumi still remains as a district name within Toyohashi city today
Place name Hata　is indeed an interesting vestige. Also recorded in the same work and section is the place name Hata, but
　　　　　　whether this actually corresponds to the current place name Hada in Ōaza Hanada, Toyohashi city is questionable. However, according to the research of Elder Hadano Takao,
　　　　　　the ancient Hata is indeed the present Hada. This is also recognized in the recent geographical dictionary by Yoshida Tōgo.
　　　　　　There are other theories suggesting it might refer to a place called Hata in Fukue town in Oku district, or other places connected to the Hata clan,
　　　　　　but on this matter I follow Elder Hadano's theory. In the same 'Wamyō Ruijūshō,'
Watazu　　　　under Hōi District appears the place name Watazu (Watamutsu). This place called Watazu was directly across from Akumi on opposite banks of the river, with
　　　　　　ferry service operating between them - this is a fact. As for where this place called Watazu corresponds to today, it apparently encompassed the area from south of Kosakai
　　　　　　to the vicinity of Hirai and Maeshiba, and west to the area of the former Shuku village. A temple bell from Jōan 3 at Ukaru Shrine in former Kosakai village
　　　　　　also bears the inscription "Watazu-gō." It is also said that there was a ferry crossing at Muro,
　　　　　　with service from Watazu, which may well have existed. However, it certainly was not on the main Tōkaidō route.
　　　　　　The state of Toyohashi a thousand years ago was as described above, but there are also later works that wrote about this period.
　　　　　　These are very valuable for research reference, and among them I particularly wish to introduce to the world Elder Hadano Takao's work titled 'Study of Mikawa Historical Sites
Study of Mikawa Historical Sites　(Mikawa Koseki-kō).' This work comprises ten volumes total: 'Study of Historical Events of Mikawa Province Through the Ages' (four volumes),
　　　　　　'Study of Ancient Poems and Famous Sites of Mikawa Province' (two volumes), 'Study of Districts and Villages of Mikawa Province in the Wamyōshō' (one volume), 'Private Study of Official and Private Shrines of Mikawa Province' (two volumes), and 'Study of the General Provincial Topography of Mikawa Province' (one volume).
　　　　　　Most cover research from ancient times through the early Kamakura period. Originally, Hadano Takao was a Shinto priest at Hada Hachiman Shrine
　　　　　　and a National Learning scholar who, in the difficult pre-Restoration era when reference materials were hard to obtain, conducted research sufficient to produce such scholarly works.
【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Toyohashi before castle construction)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　32