【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Construction of Imahashi Castle and Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　10
【Main text】
《Interlinear note: Ashikaga Yoshinori's Mt. Fuji Excursion》　　　Yoshinori made a journey down from Kyoto for the purpose of viewing Mt. Fuji. At that time, his entourage included two men named Fujiwara Masayo and the monk Gyōkō.
　　　　　　 Both men wrote travel records. Masayo's is called 'Fuji Kikō,' and Gyōkō's is called 'Ran Fuji-ki.' Both have largely similar content with minor differences, and the place name Imahashi is recorded in both the outbound and return journeys, but the question here is the degree of development of Imahashi at that time. In the 'Ran Fuji-ki' entry for September 14th it states "spending the night at the lodging in Imahashi, watching the moon as dawn breaks,"
　　　　　　and includes the poem "Night and moon shine clearly over Imahashi, I shall stand here until past dawn." From this record some argue that the shogun stayed one night in Imahashi on this day. Particularly since they had departed Yahagi that morning, it seems appropriate in terms of travel distance to lodge in Imahashi. However, the 'Fuji Kikō' shows no evidence of lodging there, and moreover there is a one-day discrepancy in where it records Imahashi. Also, on the return journey they passed through here on the 24th but did not stay overnight. However, the 'Yoshida Meishō Sōroku' quotes the poem from the aforementioned 'Ran Fuji-ki' and argues regarding Yoshinori's lodging that "if this place did not have at least some fortified walls if not a magnificent castle, how could the shogun have casually stayed overnight," claiming there were already substantial fortifications.
《Interlinear note: Degree of Imahashi's Development》　　　But isn't this argument perhaps overstated? However, I think it is clear that around 500 years ago this place had already developed to the state of a post station. What I have described above pertains to the period before the construction of Imahashi Castle, but now I will discuss the time of castle construction.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　⦿Construction of Imahashi Castle and Makino Kohaku
　　　　　　 Imahashi Castle was completed in Eishō 2 (407 years ago) and was built by a man named Makino Kohaku.
　　　　　　To discuss the circumstances of that time in detail, I think it necessary to first explain the general situation of the realm at that time.

　　　　　　 In those days, Shogun Ashikaga Yoshizumi had retired from office and Ashikaga Yoshitane had resumed the shogunal position. In the west, Ōuchi Yoshioki wielded authority,
Competing Warlords　　and in the east, Imagawa Ujichika and of course Hōjō Sōun were beginning to assert power in the Kantō region - it was an era of so-called competing warlords on the verge of entering
　　　　　　 the bloody Warring States period. At that time the shugo (military governor) of Mikawa was the Kira clan, whose stronghold was in present-day Nishio in Hazu District. About one ri from Nishio town there is a place called Madarame village, where the branch family had separated,
　　　　　　 and these two houses were called the Tōjō and Saijō houses. These two houses had tremendous friction and frequently caused disturbances, so the country could never be unified. The Ashikaga shogunate further appointed Hosokawa Sanuki-no-kami Shigeyuki as shugo of Mikawa, but this person also remained in Kyoto and
　　　　　　 made no attempt to pacify the province, nor could he have done so. The country became increasingly disordered, with powerful clans establishing themselves in various places and causing military conflicts.
　　　　　　 Since these disorders could not be suppressed, Ise Sadachika of the Ashikaga shogunate sent a letter dated the 26th day of the 5th month of Kanshō 6 (447 years ago
《Interlinear note: The Matsudaira and Toda clans》　　　 from now) requesting help from the Mikawa magnates Matsudaira Izumi-no-kami Nobumitsu and Toda Danjō Munemitsu. Indeed,
　　　　　　 copies of these documents remain reliably preserved today. This "Jūda" refers to the Toda who were at Tahara at the time, and Matsudaira Nobumitsu was the sixth-generation ancestor of Tokugawa Ieyasu. From this point the Matsudaira and Toda clans came to prominence in the world. Matsudaira Nobumitsu in particular had many sons whom he established as separate branch families, and I think we can say that the foundation of the Tokugawa clan was
Isshiki Castle　　　actually laid at this time. At that time there was a castle called Isshiki in Hōi District, corresponding to present-day Ushikubo. Looking at old maps,
　　　　　　it was located in the area south of the present Ushikubo station, but no castle remains are preserved there now. There is a place near the station that appears to be castle remains, but that must be from after it became Ushikubo Castle. This Isshiki Castle was originally where a retainer of the Kamakura Ashikaga clan, one Isshiki Gyōbu, had come and established himself, but during the Bunmei era it was usurped by his retainer Hatano Zenkei.
　　　　　　Isshiki Gyōbu's grave still exists at Daiseiji temple in Ushikubo. Later, in Meiō 2 (419 years ago), Makino Kohaku arose from Makino village in Hōi District, killed this Zenkei, and seized control of Isshiki Castle.
【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Construction of Imahashi Castle and Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　11