【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　20
【Main text】
Mamizuka　　　Whether it was called Mizuka or not is naturally questionable. However, this account rather serves as reference that when "Ushikubo Mitsudan-ki" was written during the Genroku era,
　　　　　this area belonged to village land under Mamizuka within Yoshida and was not part of the town area,
　　　　　which can be believed. Also, there is a theory passed down that at this time the place was named Yoshida by taking the character "yoshi" (吉) from Kichijō-zan and the character "da" (田) from Taguchi, the original surname of the Makino clan, but this is completely wrong, and the renaming of Imahashi to Yoshida came
　　　　　later. This is something I intend to discuss in detail later. Since then, Kohaku moved to Imahashi Castle himself, and
Makino Narikatsu　　the fact that he transferred Isshiki Castle to Makino Narikatsu is also recorded in both "Ushikubo Mitsudan-ki" and "Miyajima Denki." This
　　　　　person called Narikatsu was initially called Shinjirō, and later Minbu-no-jō or Uma-no-suke, and "Miyajima Denki" states he was Kohaku's son,
　　　　　but from his names Shinjirō or Uma-no-suke, he appears to be related to Narisada, the ancestor of the Nagaoka Makino clan.
　　　　　That is, Narisada was also called Shinjirō and Uma-no-suke. Therefore, I believe he was not Kohaku's son,
　　　　　but according to research by the Tanabe Makino family, there was indeed a Narikatsu who was Narisada's adoptive grandfather. And this person Narikatsu
　　　　　first changed Isshiki to Ushikubo in Kyōroku 2nd year (383 years ago from now), making him
　　　　　a historically significant figure for Ushikubo town.
　　　　　　　　　⦿The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku
　　　　　For these reasons, Makino Kohaku became lord of Imahashi Castle, but in the following year, Eishō 3rd year, the castle finally fell and Kohaku and
《Marginal note: Date of Kohaku's death in battle》　many of his clan died in battle. However, regarding this battle there are conflicting theories making it quite difficult research,
　　　　　but first, regarding the date of Kohaku's death in battle, there are three theories altogether: November 3rd, November 4th, and
　　　　　November 12th. The November 3rd theory is found in "Kansei Chōshū Shokafu" and the Maki-

【Left page】
【Margin】
San'yō Shimbun No. 3706 Supplement　　(Published March 14, Meiji 44 [1911])
【Main text】
Yoshida Castle Lord Study　no family genealogy among many written sources, but the November 4th theory comes from a book called "Yoshida Castle Lord Study."
　　　　　This book "Yoshida Castle Lord Study" is part of a book called "Toda Family Genealogy Correction Supplement," which is
　　　　　research on the family lineage conducted by retainers of the Toda family of Niregi-Toda, namely the Toda family that was lord of Matsumoto in Shinshū before the Restoration. It was written during the Tenpō era and
　　　　　was quite thoroughly researched with many points worthy of reference. Why this book
《Marginal note: Kōki-an death register》　concluded that Kohaku died on November 4th was based on the death register of Kōki-an temple in Ushikubo, which recorded "Getsuyo Ko-
　　　　　haku Koji" under the November 4th entry. Therefore, when investigating Kōki-an temple, the existing
　　　　　death registers with prefaces and postscripts from Genroku 4th and 7th years are the oldest, and indeed they record it as stated.
　　　　　However, upon close study, the same date lists posthumous Buddhist names given by the Jōdo sect to Kohaku's sons Shigekazu and Nobushige.
　　　　　Regarding Shigekazu and Nobushige, I intend to discuss this in detail later, so it will be understood then,
　　　　　but they certainly did not die in battle on the same date as their father Kohaku. Moreover, under the 6th
　　　　　day entry, posthumous Buddhist names given by the Sōtō sect to the same Shigekazu and Nobushige are recorded. Given such circumstances,
　　　　　if the death register investigated by the author of "Yoshida Castle Lord Study" was indeed this existing one, it would hardly serve as adequate evidence.
　　　　　The source for the 12th day theory is "Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō."
　　　　　This book uses as its main evidence something called notes by Honma of Sanshū, but whether these notes
　　　　　should be trusted immediately is highly questionable. Therefore, until I discover other reliable evidence,
　　　　　I believe we must follow the widely accepted first theory, namely the November 3rd theory. However, "Ushikubo
《Marginal note: Error of non-death theory》　Mitsudan-ki" records that Kohaku did not actually die in battle but escaped to Segi in Hōi District, and what's interesting here
　　　　　is that both "Miyajima Denki" and at the request of the Makino Iyo-no-kami family in Kyōhō 16th year, the authors of "Futaba-matsu," Sano Kenmotsu and Watanabe Jikyū,
【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　21