【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　22
【Main text】
　　　　　there is a document written by these two people titled "Makino Family Origins," and these books use the ridge tablet of Kohaku at Yahashi Shinmei
　　　　　Shrine in Toyohashi city as evidence to affirm the theory in "Ushikubo Secret Discussions." The source of this
　　　　　error is that while the aforementioned ridge tablet is from Meiō 6th year, it has been mistranscribed and passed down as Eishō 6th year since ancient times,
　　　　　and this mistake exists not only in "Miyajima Records" and "Makino Family Origins" but in many other sources as well. Since they claim the ridge tablet shows Eishō 6th year
　　　　　and use this as evidence to argue that Kohaku could not have died in Eishō 3rd year, thus denying Kohaku's death in battle,
　　　　　the theory of Kohaku's non-death in battle is already fundamentally flawed. Regarding the date of Kohaku's death in battle,
　　　　　it is as I outlined earlier, but now regarding who Kohaku's opponents were in this battle, strangely
　　　　　this is also questionable and has been a difficult problem to resolve since ancient times. That is,
　　　　　there are two theories:
《Marginal note: Imagawa Ujichika attack theory》　　1. Those who claim it was an attack by Imagawa Ujichika due to slander by Toda Danjō Norimitsu of Tahara
《Marginal note: Matsudaira Nagachika counterattack theory》　　2. Those who claim it was a counterattack by Matsudaira Nagachika
　　　　　These are the two theories. Even in the genealogies of the Makino Iyo-no-kami family, the older ones adopt this second theory while the newer ones
　　　　　conversely record the first theory, and although "Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō" and "Tokugawa Jitsuki" were supposedly created in the same era under the supervision of the same person,
　　　　　their theories still differ, with the former taking the first theory and the latter containing the second theory.
　　　　　While "Kan'ei Keizu," also compiled by the shogunate, records the first theory, "Kansei Chōshū Shokafu" adopts the second
　　　　　theory. Works like "Hankanfu" cite "Sōgyōki" to adopt the first theory, while works like "Yashi" give weight to old Makino
　　　　　genealogies and affirm the second theory. Given such circumstances, various other records
　　　　　present different theories. However, what requires great investigation in connection with this matter is that the Imagawa and Matsudaira clans had a

【Margin】
　Toyohashi Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling Toyohashi city history for over a year, and now as his draft nears completion

【Left page】
【Main text】
《Marginal note: Battle between Imagawa and Matsudaira clans at Yahagi River》　battle at Yahagi River from August 20th to 22nd. Originally, this Matsudaira Nagachika was the grandson of Nobumitsu
《Marginal note: Battle》　　　　　and son of Chikatada, and from Tokugawa Ieyasu's perspective was his great-great-grandfather. This person had considerable popular support and resided
　　　　　at Anjō Castle, but the generals of western Mikawa gradually submitted to him and his power grew daily. Under these circumstances, Imagawa Ujichika of Suruga
　　　　　sent out troops to attack him, and Ise Shinku̧rō (Hōjō Sōun) as his general first attempted to attack Iwazu Castle.
　　　　　Therefore, Nagachika could not ignore this and came out from Anjō to rescue it, finally leading to the battle at Yahagi River. This
　　　　　battle is recorded in detail in Hikozaemon's "Mikawa Monogatari," and the accounts in various records are roughly consistent.
　　　　　Ultimately this battle ended unfavorably for the Imagawa side, but Ise Shinku̧rō, hearing that Toda Danjō Norimitsu, lord of Tahara Castle, would turn his allegiance to Naga-
　　　　　chika and raise the banner of rebellion, hurriedly withdrew to Imahashi Castle, and this matter is also recorded in the same "Mikawa Monogatari."
　　　　　Also, the same book lists the names of Imagawa forces in this battle, among which is mentioned "Yoshida forces." That is, this
　　　　　likely refers to Kohaku's forces from Imahashi. Of course, at that time there was no place name Yoshida yet and it was certainly Imahashi,
　　　　　but I believe without doubt that when Hikozaemon wrote this book, he recorded it without deeply investigating past matters.
　　　　　Particularly, the Makino family genealogy states:
　　　　　　"Eishō 3rd year, Ise Shinku̧rō representing Imagawa, led troops from five provinces, advanced toward Sanshū, Kohaku served Imagawa, 20th day 8th month, Shinku̧rō led forces from eastern Mikawa
　　　　　　province, fought a great battle with Matsudaira Nagachika near Yahagi River, victory undecided, day ended　promised to fight again tomorrow, at nightfall Shinku̧rō returned to Yoshida Castle, established
　　　　　　control over eastern Mikawa, withdrew troops and returned to Suruga"
　　　　　but "Kan'ei Shinden Chakuryūfu" clearly states "Nagachika led over 500 horsemen across Yahagi River in battle, Imagawa's troops were defeated and fled
　　　　　as night fell, withdrew from Yoshida Castle, had Makino Kohaku guard it, led all forces back to Suruga,"
　　　　　so considering these points, however much this was wartime, it seems unlikely that Ujichika would have had an enemy collaborator just three or four months earlier

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　23