【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　24
【Main text】
　　　　　would believe Toda's slander and suddenly attack Kohaku, whom he had previously trusted, seems somewhat unacceptable.
　　　　　I think so. When we consider this, the first theory mentioned earlier appears to be wrong and the second theory of Nagachika's counterattack seems more reasonable.
　　　　　However, there is also what can be seen as counter-evidence to this, as it appears in "Mikawa Monogatari" and other books that Nagachika had no such aggressive intentions for a counterattack at the time, and having successfully
　　　　　won a battle he was worried he could never win, he had no thought of pursuing the enemy but folded his wings and withdrew to Anjō Castle.
"Okazaki Koki"　　Moreover, in a book called "Okazaki Koki" it is recorded that "Imagawa Ujichika advanced to subjugate Mikawa, there was a battle at Imahashi in eastern Mikawa,
　　　　　the castle lord Makino clan died in battle, and Ujichika then advanced further toward western Mikawa. Due to this, there were battles at various places including Yamanaka Myōdaiji and Yahagiji temples. At this time, through the mediation of Myōgenji temple in Kuwako village, peace was made, and on November 15th of the same year, Imagawa Ujichika issued
"Myōgenji Documents"　a prohibition tablet to Myōgenji temple in Kuwako village, which they still possess." So when I went to Myōgenji temple in Kuwako, Ōaza, Yahagi town, Hekikai district,
　　　　　there was indeed a prohibition tablet dated November 15th, Eishō 3rd year. However, this tablet does not have Ujichika's name but only has one monogram seal,
　　　　　and this monogram differs somewhat from Ujichika's in a book called "Kaōsō," though I believe it is certainly not a later fabrication. Then we must accept that Ujichika came here on this day as fact. "Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō"
　　　　　and "Yoshida Castle Lord Study" believe the theory in "Okazaki Koki" based on this point and adopt the so-called first theory. However,
　　　　　depending on how one looks at it, it could also be like this: when Ujichika heard that Kohaku was being troubled by Nagachika's counterattack,
　　　　　he immediately led troops from Suruga, but since Nagachika had already withdrawn, he pursued him and
　　　　　reached Kuwako on November 15th. This reasoning also makes sense. In essence, these two theories are, as I mentioned before,
　　　　　questions from ancient times, so until new reliable evidence is discovered, they remain unclear. I personally
　　　　　tentatively follow the account in Kohaku's genealogy in "Kansei Chōshū Shokafu" which states:

【Left page】
【Margin】
San'yō Shimbun No. 3712 Supplement　　(Published April 21, Meiji 44)
【Main text】
　　　　　"Eishō 3rd year, Ise Shinkurō Nagauji, representing Imagawa Ujichika, led troops from five provinces of Sunen-San and Tōsō and advanced to Mikawa province. At this time
　　　　　he served the Imagawa house. In the 9th month, Nagachika led several dozen horsemen to attack Yoshida Castle. On November 3rd, the castle's morale collapsed and soldiers scattered, with remaining troops
　　　　　of only sixty to seventy men who came out of the castle to fight and all died in battle."
　　　　　For further reference, among those belonging to the first theory, the account from "Hankanfu" is as follows:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Makino clan section)
　　　　　　　Initially, Makino Kohaku the monk was in Imahashi Castle and did not get along with Toda of Tahara. Imagawa Jibu-dayū Ujichika helped Toda and attacked Imahashi
　　　　　　　Castle. In November of Eishō 3rd year, the castle fell and Makino the monk committed seppuku and died. The castle was taken by Toda.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Toda clan section)
　　　　　　　His son Danjō-tadanori Norimitsu was in Tahara. He disputed territory with Makino the monk Kohaku, a resident of Imahashi in the same province. Imagawa Jibu-dayū Ujichika helped Toda.
　　　　　　　In July of Eishō 3rd year, he left Suruga province and on August 26th of the same year besieged Imahashi Castle, fighting for over sixty days. Makino was finally defeated
　　　　　　　and committed seppuku and died.
Kohaku's Character　Next regarding Kohaku's character, originally Kohaku was, as I mentioned before, a master of linked verse who had quite
　　　　　deep relations with Sōchō. However, nothing written by Kohaku remains today, so there are almost
　　　　　no materials to know what kind of person he was. Only at Ryūnenji temple in Yoshiya, Toyohashi city, there is a portrait of Kohaku's wife, which
　　　　　was undoubtedly offered by his son Shigekazu, and judging from the dignity and clothing of the figure, we can infer that the position of the Makino
　　　　　clan at that time was quite high. And if at Shinmei Shrine in Yahashi, Toyohashi city
【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(The Death in Battle of Makino Kohaku)　　　　　　　　　　25