【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　42

【Main text】
This is the general outline of the facts regarding sending them to Kyoto. Since it becomes too complicated, I will not present all the related documents here, but I have described the main points because many family genealogies contain errors about the true facts of this matter. For more detailed information, I believe it would become naturally clear through direct study of the documents in Chikamoto's diary and others. Regarding the matter of writing Munemitsu's clan name as "Jūda," the Kansei Chōshū Shokafu and other sources record that it was initially called Jūda and later changed to Toda. However, I think this is too rigid an explanation. At that time, people paid little attention to such matters and freely used phonetic characters. There are examples of Imagawa Yoshimoto being written as Yoshimitsu, and even later, Ikeda Terumasa being written as Terumasa. This is probably of the same type. The Kōsei Yoroku also adopts this theory.

I would like to make a brief correction here regarding the section "The Construction of Imahashi and Makino Kohaku," where I briefly mentioned this matter, stating "this Jūda refers to the Toda who were in Tahara at that time." However, as I mentioned before, at that time Munemitsu was still at Ueno Castle in Hekikai District, so I would like that "at that time" to be corrected to "later."

Now, regarding the year and month of Munemitsu's death, this is questionable. The Kansei Chōshū Shokafu and various other genealogies generally state that he died at Tahara on the nineteenth day of the sixth month of Eishō 5, but this is an error. According to the Kōsei Yoroku theory, he died sometime between the third day of the fifth month of Meiō 8 and July of the following ninth year. The reason for this is that there is still a document issued by Munemitsu to Chōkōji temple on the third day of the fifth month of Meiō 8, so it is believed that Munemitsu was still alive at that time. However, in July of the following year, in the postscript to the woodblock-printed Lotus Sutra that his son Norimitsu donated to the same temple, it says:

"The late Zenkyū had long cherished the wish to create woodblocks of the Wonderful Sutra, but passed away before completing this work. Norimitsu succeeded to the family business and fulfilled his father's will, thus repaying infinite kindness."
(Abbreviated below)
July, Meiō 9　　　　　　　　Danjōchū Fujiwara Norimitsu respectfully records

【Margin】
□Toyohashi Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling the history of Toyohashi City for over a year, and now as his manuscript is nearly complete

【Left page】
【Main text】
And there is also a ridge-beam inscription at Hanezu Shrine in Chita District, Owari Province that reads:
"Meiō 9, year of Kōshin, eighth month, twelfth day　　　Patron　　Fujiwara no Ason Tahara Danjōchū Norimitsu"

From this, it can be proven that by July of Meiō 9, Munemitsu had already passed away and Norimitsu had succeeded him. Although I have not yet had time to personally examine these sutras and ridge-beam inscriptions, this theory certainly seems reliable. Therefore, I believe the theory that Munemitsu died in Eishō 5, nine years after Meiō 9, is incorrect.

Now I would like to discuss the matter of the temple called Zenkyūin. The temple called Zenkyūin still exists in Ninrengi today, but since Zenkyū was originally Munemitsu's Buddhist name, it can be inferred that this temple was built after Munemitsu's death for the repose of his soul. There is no disagreement about this, but there is considerable debate about when it was built. The Kansei Chōshū Shokafu attributes its founding to Yoshimitsu, and some records of Zenkyūin state that it was established by Toda Zenkō in Kōji 2. Zenkō is Yoshimitsu's Buddhist name. However, great doubt must be cast on this theory because if a temple were to be built for Munemitsu's spiritual repose, it should first have been done by his son Norimitsu. Particularly during Norimitsu's succession, the Toda clan was quite prosperous, and building a single temple would not have been an especially difficult undertaking. For his great-great-grandson to first build it over fifty years later is quite unacceptable. Moreover, some records of Zenkyūin state that it was founded on the eleventh day of the first month of Daiei 3. This is also an unbelievable theory. Now, the head priest of this Zenkyūin was initially Zen Master Kōkoku, who called himself the second generation and referred to his teacher, Priest Kokuho, as the founding abbot, but Priest Kokuho never actually served as head priest. After Kōkoku came the third generation, Priest Kōan, and after him the fourth generation, Priest Eisai. The third generation Kōan died on the first day of the tenth month of Tenbun 21, as recorded in the death register. Tenbun 21 is earlier than Kōji 2

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　43