【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　50

【Main text】
In any case, the commonly accepted Shiomizaka in Tōtōmi Province would be completely unreasonable. The Hankanfu also describes the circumstances of this time in detail, including one theory that it was Masamitsu who seized Takechiyo, and similar accounts appear in the Nami no Ue Toda Genealogy. However, this is also questionable, and judging from the period, I believe the theory naming Yasumitsu is factual.

However, the Kōsei Yoroku argues that Yasumitsu had retired by that time and transferred the house to his eldest son Takamitsu, so while Takamitsu was the actual perpetrator of this incident, Yasumitsu was still the mastermind behind it. This theory seems more accurate, but there is also a prevailing theory that this person called Takamitsu was the former name of Yoshimitsu and they are the same person. Works like the Kansei Chōshū Shokafu, following the genealogy presented earlier, list Yasumitsu's eldest son as Yoshimitsu, so no person named Takamitsu appears.

However, Takamitsu and Yoshimitsu are definitely different people, and there is various evidence for this. Indeed, there is a document preserved at Taihei-ji temple in Oitsu village, Atsumi district, stating "Tenbun 13, Year of the Wood Dragon, 12th month, 16th day, Magoshirō Takamitsu." This title Magoshirō was traditionally used by successive eldest sons of the Tahara Toda clan, while Yoshimitsu was called Jingoro from the beginning, so these must naturally be different people.

Particularly since Yoshimitsu initially lived in Kaji village of Ushikubo and later renovated and moved to Ninrengi Castle, while Tahara Castle was inherited by the eldest son Takamitsu and Yoshimitsu was the second son, the theory in Kōsei Yoroku becomes increasingly plausible.

There is also a theory that Yasumitsu transferred Tahara Castle to his younger brother Mitsutada, but Mitsutada was called Sōzaemon and belonged to a branch family line that became extinct with Uemon Mitsutaka, so I think the error of this theory is clear. Many sources record this Mitsutada as being called Shōzaemon, and Kōsei Yoroku follows this tradition, but the one called Shōzaemon was Tadamasa, who was Mitsutada's elder brother and Yasumitsu's younger brother. I believe the genealogy in Kansei Chōshū Shokafu is correct.

Given that the Toda and Matsudaira families were related as in-laws at the time, why did they undertake such an act as seizing Takechiyo, even considering the customs of the Warring States period? The Chōya Kyūbun Hōkō records under the Tenbun 15 Yoshida Castle battle: "Having exhausted their strength at this time and surrendered to the Imagawa house,

【Margin】
Toyohashi Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling the Toyohashi city history for over a year, and now as his draft is nearly complete...

【Left page】
【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion

【Main text】
the seizure of Lord Takechiyo the following year, Tenbun 16, should be considered as arising entirely from the resentment of this time."

However, the Kōsei Yoroku explains that Yasumitsu had observed that the Imagawa clan could not be relied upon at all, and not only for himself but somehow wanting to make the Matsudaira clan also depend on the Oda side, he finally undertook such an action.

In any case, for the reasons stated above, seizing Takechiyo and sending him to the enemy Oda clan could not be left unpunished by the Imagawa clan, so they again had Amano Aki-no-kami attack Tahara in the ninth month of that year, with battle occurring on the fifth day. Tahara finally fell, and among the Amano documents there is a letter sent by Sessai, the elderly advisor who was Yoshimoto's chief strategist, to Aki-no-kami at this time. As I have mentioned this repeatedly before, the full text is as follows:

"I have not communicated for a long time since then. Therefore, hearing of your activities at Tahara this time, it is truly an incomparable matter. Accordingly, a letter of appreciation has been sent. Also regarding your devoted efforts at Yoshida Castle last year, I have reported everything I know about this to the abbot. Your hardships serving on garrison duty in Mikawa Province are beyond description. As there remains only a little more, I believe loyal service is essential. I will speak of this again later. With fear and respect, humbly stated.
　　November 14th　　　　　　　　　　　Abbot of Rinzai-ji Temple in Suruga Province
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Sessai
　　Lord Amano Aki-no-kami
　　　　　　At your lodgings"

This document also lacks a year designation, so there are various theories about it as well, but the fact that the attack on Tahara occurred on the fifth day of the ninth month of Tenbun 16 and that Amano Aki-no-kami participated in it can be proven by a separate letter of appreciation that Yoshimoto sent to Amano at this time. However, as it would be too complicated to include, I will not reproduce that letter of appreciation here, but there are other reliable primary historical sources as well.

【Margin】
Toyohashi Historical Discussion　(Ninrengi Castle and the Toda Clan)　　　　　　　　　　51