[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Decline of the Imagawa Clan and the Invasion of the Takeda Clan) - 108

[Main Text]
allowing [the hostages] to be sent and finally deepening their friendship. Prior to this, Shingen had already established good relations with the Satomi clan of Awa and the Satake clan of Hitachi, so at this point he further conspired with them to prepare for any contingency involving the Hōjō clan. Thus his policy toward the Hōjō was established. Now, as for his strategy toward Uesugi Kenshin in the north, he made great use of Hongan-ji Temple. Originally Shingen and Hongan-ji had deep connections, but for various other reasons as well, he borrowed their power to incite Ikkō-shū uprisings in Kaga and Etchū, and further allied with the Shiina and Jinbō clans to oppose Kenshin, thereby attempting to block his westward advance. Moreover, he allied with the Asai of Ōmi and the Asakura of Echizen to check Oda Nobunaga, and through Matsunaga Hisahide sought to ingratiate himself with Shōgun Ashikaga Yoshiaki while plotting to drive a wedge between Yoshiaki and Nobunaga. Matsunaga Hisahide, for his part, thinking to make this his own backing, skillfully mediated between Shingen and Yoshiaki, with frequent exchange of documents, so that Shingen eventually came to grant land in Suruga to Yoshiaki and Hisahide.

Such was the situation, but Oda Nobunaga from the beginning seemed to greatly fear Shingen, and had hitherto sought to win his favor, but this time too he earnestly advised Ieyasu to withdraw from Hamamatsu and return to Okazaki. However, Ieyasu not only refused this but instead formed deep ties with Uesugi Kenshin and devised strategies against the Takeda clan. Thus in the seventh month of Genki 1, he sent an envoy to Echigo, and from then on there were frequent exchanges, so that in the following second year, the Tokugawa sent Kanō-bō Jōzen of the Akiha-san Gongen-dō in Enshū with Kumagai Naotaka as his assistant to Echigo as envoys to strengthen their alliance. Nobunaga too, on the twentieth day of the eleventh month of the following third year, finally submitted a written oath to Kenshin, and their alliance became increasingly solid, so that a three-way offensive and defensive alliance was established. This was entirely a reaction to Shingen's divide-and-conquer strategy, and at this point it became inevitable that a great collision would soon occur between the Takeda clan and the Tokugawa-Oda alliance.

I would like to add here that in Yoshida at that time there was a man named Hayashi Jū-

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3842 Supplement (Published August 22, Meiji 44)

[Main Text]
emon who was a master archer, and during the Takeda invasion in the fourth month of Genki 2, he joined the Yoshida forces and distinguished himself with special merit. This man was the ancestor of Hayashi Yajirō-emon (who went by the name Ichijiken), author of the "Record of Yoshida in Sanshū," and the above story is recorded in that Yoshida Record. The Hayashi family served as elders or village headmen of Yoshida for generations, so their descendants remain in our city today and still possess old records.

◉ Circumstances Before and After the Battle of Mikatagahara

As described in the previous chapter, Takeda Shingen in the third month of Genki 1 sent forces to Tōtōmi to attack Tokugawa territory, and further in the fourth month subdued the mountain districts and invaded northern Mikawa, turning from the Asuke region to eastern Mikawa and finally penetrating even to this Yoshida castle town. This was primarily a reconnaissance in force, and Shingen's westward plans were increasingly advanced from that time on. The Tokugawa side did not neglect countermeasures, forming deep alliances not only with the Oda but also with the Uesugi. In the fifth month, Ieyasu himself invaded Suruga and set fires near Shimada, and in the third month of the following second year, Kenshin too sent forces to Musashi to attack the Hōjō, who were allied with the Takeda, and further entered Shinano to attack Takeda territory. At this point Ieyasu gave distant support by sending forces to northern eastern Mikawa in the fifth month to attack the vicinity of Nagashino Castle held by the rebel Suganuma clan, while also reinforcing Okazaki's defenses and building fortifications near Kaketsuka in Tōtōmi to guard against Takeda naval forces - in short, neglecting no aspect of defense. However, when Takeda Shingen's preparations were finally complete, with the determination to achieve his long-cherished goal of westward advance, he decided to take the route through Tōtōmi and Mikawa, and on the third day of the tenth month of Genki 3, he finally led 20,000 troops himself, plus over 2,000 auxiliary troops from the Hōjō, departing Kōshū and crossing Aokuzure Pass from Kami-Ina District in Shinano, then entering Tōtōmi via the so-called Akiha Road. Additionally, he assigned 5,000 troops to Yamagata Masakage on the twenty-ninth day of the ninth month to

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Circumstances Before and After the Battle of Mikatagahara) - 109