[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Circumstances Before and After the Battle of Mikatagahara) - 112

[Main Text]
However, at this time an argument arose that they should go ahead and attack Hamamatsu Castle as well. But Takasaka Masanobu alone opposed this, considering it best strategy to advance troops to the capital as quickly as possible, and since Shingen's original intention lay there, he deeply agreed with this opinion. So on the twenty-fourth day he moved his forces to Osakabe, and they ended up spending the New Year there, resting their troops and horses. The following year, Tenshō 1, in the first month they finally invaded Mikawa and on the eleventh day began attacking Noda Castle. At this time Yamagata Masakage entered Mikawa in early first month as the vanguard as usual, and the prohibition notice issued by Masakage on the third day of the first month for Daion-ji temple in Mito village, Hōi District, is still preserved at that temple today - something I think should be considered truly precious.

Now, at this Noda Castle, as I mentioned before, Suganuma Sadamitsu was defending with auxiliary general Matsudaira Tadamasa and others with only about 400 troops, but while firmly defending this position, he also sent urgent word to Hamamatsu. So Ieyasu came to assist, advancing as far as Yanai in Yana District and taking position on Mount Kasagashira, but with so few troops there was nothing he could do. Therefore he sent an envoy to Gifu requesting aid, but Nobunaga declined and would not respond. With no other choice, he sent a letter to Kenshin requesting that he deploy troops to Shinano to check Shingen. Meanwhile, as the castle could no longer hold out, Sadamitsu and others had no choice but to request of the Takeda forces that they be allowed to commit seppuku themselves in exchange for pardoning their subordinate soldiers. Shingen granted this, so on the tenth day of the second month, Sadamitsu and the other general left the castle intending to commit honorable suicide. However, Shingen persistently urged them to surrender, but the two generals would not comply, so they were finally imprisoned at Nagashino. But the hostages from the mountain districts mentioned earlier were still in Hamamatsu, so these people approached Shingen requesting to exchange themselves as hostages for these two generals. Negotiations were concluded with the Tokugawa side as well, and on the fifteenth of that month a prisoner exchange was accomplished, so Sadamitsu and the others fortunately preserved their lives and returned to Hamamatsu. I truly always express indescribable admiration for this loyalty of Sadamitsu

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3848 Supplement (Published August 29, 1911)

[Main Text]
Indeed, I believe the adverse circumstances of the Tokugawa forces at this time were extremely severe, but Shingen also contracted illness during this siege of Noda Castle, and this became the cause of his eventually becoming one who would not return home despite harboring great ambitions. In any case, Sadamitsu taking on a great army of 30,000 with merely 400 troops, holding up in tiny Noda Castle for over thirty days - this was an enormous achievement. From Shingen's perspective, I think he really did something unnecessary and suffered unexpected great harm. The "Mikawa Monogatari" states:

"(Shingen) withdrew from there and entered Ii-no-ya, emerging at Nagashino. From there, intending to work in the inner districts, as he was advancing, here in the bamboo grove there was a small castle. When he asked 'What castle is this?' they replied 'Noda Castle.' Shingen said, 'Is this the Noda I have heard of? If so, trample it down in passing,' and he pressed the attack."

From this it appears that he intended at minimum to capture this Yoshida Castle and then advance westward. Of course, I think it's difficult to confirm whether this account is actually factual, but in any case the text seems to show Shingen's character and his confident, spirited manner, while also indicating how small Noda Castle was. If circumstances were indeed like this, then regrettably we must conclude it was only natural that Shingen, despite harboring great ambitions, was ultimately unable to succeed.

Now regarding Shingen's death, there have been various theories since ancient times. The "Matsudaira-ki" states:

"Though Ieyasu also advanced to Mount Kasagashira as reinforcement, those in the castle did not know this. After several days without drinking water, the troops and horses could endure no more. The Suganuma side sent an envoy to the enemy saying, 'We will have one person come out and commit seppuku, so please spare the troops.' Hearing this, Shingen said, 'This is indeed an admirable proposal,' and made a firm agreement to spare the troops. When Suganuma Shinhachirou left the castle, Shingen's men were waiting and captured him alive. During this time, more than half the men in the castle were coming out, and the Kōshū forces tried to stop them. In this struggle, Shingen was shot by a musket"

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Circumstances Before and After the Battle of Mikatagahara) - 113