[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (Circumstances Before and After the Battle of Mikatagahara) - 114

[Main Text]
was hit. Since it was in the mountains, who could have shot it? He was struck by a stray arrow. From then on there was various medical treatment, it is said."

However, the "Butoku Hennen Shūsei" records a legend from that time:

"Here there was a man named Muramatsu Hōkyū, a resident of Yamada in Ise Province, who happened to be inside Noda Castle and played the flute every night. Because the sound was exquisite, the enemy forces enjoyed listening. One day a soldier came and raised paper on a bamboo pole, placing it on a hill. Torii Sanzaemon in the castle noticed this and suspected it might be a signal for the commander to secretly come and listen to the flute. Taking that bamboo pole as a target, he prepared a cannon and waited. That night Hōkyū indeed played his flute, so Shingen came to that hilltop to listen to the flute. Torii fired the cannon, grazing near his ear and striking him down, causing him to lose consciousness immediately. The enemy was greatly alarmed and carried him back to camp, exhausting all medical efforts."

However, scholar Watanabe Seyū in his "Azuchi-Momoyama Period History" evaluates both theories:

"The former is too poetic; the latter is an unreasonable impossibility. Originally both theories are legends from that time, so they cannot be immediately denied, but the theory in Mishuku Daikenbutsu's writings recorded in the 'Buke Jiki' is more accurate as historical material than the previous two and seems closer to actual fact. In Kenbutsu's writings it states: 'Originally Duke Shingen harbored ambitions for the realm, his heart swallowing the four seas, his tongue encompassing the nine rivers, establishing his family name throughout the land, leaving a name for posterity. His aspirations penetrated to his very bones, but from suffering in his heart and liver, illness suddenly sprouted, his abdomen and heart became uneasy. Therefore, though he exhausted the arts of Cang Gong and Hua Tuo and used medicines of sovereign, minister, assistant, and envoy, his illness did not improve and day by day he sank into his sickbed.' From this we can know that he was ill."

This seems to be quite the correct theory. Now, after falling ill, Shingen moved to Hōrai-ji Temple on the sixteenth day of the second month for treatment. At that time, Shogun Yoshiaki was at odds with Oda Nobunaga and plotting to remove him, so it was urgent to encourage Shingen's advance to the capital. Moreover, even Kitabatake Tomonori of Ise had sent word that he would send ships as far as this Yoshida for Shingen's advance to the capital. So Shingen once intended to have Katsuyori engage the Tokugawa forces while immediately advancing the main army westward, but when his illness worsened again, though it must have been extremely regrettable, he finally had to return to his domain, and on the way, on the twelfth day of the fourth month, he died at Komaba in Shinano Province. However, there is also an old theory that he died at Namiai, but now the former theory seems to be generally accepted as correct.

◉The Battle of Nagakute and the Fall of the Takeda Clan

As stated in the previous chapter, Takeda Shingen died in the fourth month of Tenshō 1, and his son Katsuyori succeeded him, but following his father's dying instructions, he kept the death strictly secret. However, when Tokugawa Ieyasu finally saw that the Takeda forces had left eastern Mikawa, in the following month he deployed troops to Suruga and set fires near Okabe, and furthermore personally stationed himself at this Yoshida Castle to scout enemy conditions in northern eastern Mikawa. He also established fortresses at places called Yashiroyama, Aishirojima, and Dondo to defend against the enemy castle at Futamata in Enshū, and in the seventh month attacked Nagashino Castle. This Nagashino Castle, as I mentioned before, was where Suganuma Saburozaemon Mitsunari first resided, being a branch of the Tamine family, though the exact date is unclear. However, it is estimated to be around the Bunmei era. Though there is a theory that the castle was actually built in the fifth month of Eishō 5 during the time of his son Motonari, at that time it belonged to the Imagawa clan. However, in Eiroku 4, Mitsunari's fifth-generation descendant Sadakage first came to serve Tokugawa Ieyasu. This man died in battle at Mount Tennō for the Tokugawa in the first month of that twelfth year when Ieyasu was attacking Imagawa Ujizane at Kakegawa Castle in Tōtōmi Province. But his son Shinkurō Masasada responded to Takeda Shingen's inducements in Genki 2, rebelled against Ieyasu and came to serve Shingen, so this time he instead came under attack by Ieyasu. At this time the Tokugawa forces tried using fire arrows to attack the castle, which succeeded beyond expectations, and the castle garrison finally could not hold out and surrendered. The "Mikawa Monogatari" states that the Tokugawa forces took possession of the castle on the nineteenth day of the seventh month. However, Takeda Katsuyori sent his clan generals Takeda Nobutoy together with Baba Nobuharu and Koyama

[Left Page]
[Header] This Toyohashi City Historical Discussion is published once weekly (Tuesdays) and presented to readers of the San'yō Shimbun

[Main Text]

[Header] Toyohashi Mayor Ōguchi Kiroku has devoted his extensive knowledge and inexhaustible energy to compiling Toyohashi city history for over a year, and now as his manuscript nears completion...

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Battle of Nagakute and the Fall of the Takeda Clan) - 115