[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Oda Clan After the Honnōji Incident) - 136

[Main Text]
Since Yoritaka and others followed with approximately 30,000 troops, Nobutaka could not possibly withstand them and sent out his elderly mother and Sanpōshi to request peace. Hideyoshi granted this and moved Sanpōshi to Azuchi as intended, bringing this phase to a temporary conclusion. However, this alone could not settle matters, so in the first month of the following year, Tenshō 11, Hideyoshi further consulted with Nobuo and advanced plans to attack Takigawa Kazumasu in Ise. He personally led troops into Ise and was about to advance on Nagashima Castle, Kazumasu's stronghold. But at this time urgent news suddenly arrived that Shibata Katsuie had led troops from Echizen and invaded northern Ōmi. Hideyoshi hastily stationed garrison troops to guard against Kazumasu and immediately returned to Ōmi to settle the contest with Katsuie.

Initially, when Katsuie led troops with Maeda Toshiie, Sassa Narimasa, Sakuma Morimasa and others into Ōmi and took position near Yanagase, it was on the first day of the second month. When Hideyoshi reached Shizugatake and took position at Tenjinyama was on the 17th. However, since Katsuie held his position firmly and would not engage in battle at all, Hideyoshi adopted a strategy of endurance for the time being, withdrawing to Nagahama on the 27th and remaining there until mid-fourth month. At this time Nobutaka was in Gifu, breaking the previous peace agreement and responding to Katsuie and others in an attempt to attack Hideyoshi from behind. So on the 17th of the fourth month, Hideyoshi entered Mino from Nagahama and on the 19th attempted to capture Gifu in one stroke, but heavy rains from the night before caused severe flooding of the rivers, and he was unable to achieve his objective. Meanwhile, Katsuie's side, watching for this absence of Hideyoshi, attempted a surprise attack on the Ōiwayama fortress at dawn on the 20th, and Hideyoshi's commander Nakagawa Kiyohide was killed in the battle. Originally this attack was carried out by Sakuma Morimasa, and though Katsuie had been wary of it from the beginning, Morimasa was carried away by momentum and penetrated ever deeper without regard for Katsuie's orders. However, Hideyoshi was in Ōgaki when he heard of this around noon on the 20th, and immediately rushed back to Ōmi. His retinue at that time consisted of only about fifty selected troops, but gathering soldiers along the way, by 9 PM that day he had already reached Kinomoto and ascended Tagamiyama, having his men raise loud war cries.

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3883 Supplement (Published October 10, Meiji 44)

[Main Text]
Indeed, such swiftness is nothing short of astonishing. Morimasa, reconnoitering the situation, was greatly alarmed and decided to quickly withdraw his troops, beginning retreat around 11 PM, but was ultimately pursued by Hideyoshi and by around 6 AM on the 21st fierce fighting ensued. The famous story of the Seven Spears of Shizugatake occurred at this time. Riding his momentum, Hideyoshi launched a general assault on Katsuie's main camp at Yanagase, and at noon that day Katsuie suffered a crushing defeat and fled to Kitanoshō Castle in Echizen, where he was ultimately cornered and on the afternoon of the 24th set fire to the castle and committed suicide. At this time Hideyoshi made peace with Maeda Toshiie at Fuchū Castle in Echizen, accepted the surrender of Sassa Narimasa, sent envoys to Echigo to secure an alliance with Uesugi Kagekatsu, and returned to Nagahama on May 5th.

Now regarding Nobutaka, at Gifu he had already received news of the defeat at Yanagase, his officers and men had scattered, and his position became increasingly desperate when Nobuo attacked from Ise and surrounded him. With no other options and his situation hopeless, he was eventually lured to sail down the Nagara River to Chita District in Owari and landed at Utsumi, where Nobuo sent his retainer Nakagawa Taketada to demand his suicide. He too came to commit suicide, which occurred on May 2nd. Later in mid-June, Takigawa Kazumasu also exhausted his strength and surrendered, but Hideyoshi, particularly valuing his military prowess, stationed him in Echizen with a stipend of 5,000 koku. From then on, Nobuo moved to and resided in Nagashima Castle.

⦿ The Komaki Campaign and Makino Narisato

As described in the previous chapter, after Nobunaga's assassination various disturbances occurred in the capital region and Hideyoshi's prestige alone grew ever stronger. During this period, what actions did Tokugawa Ieyasu, who controlled Mikawa, Tōtōmi, and Suruga, take? This too must first be described here.

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Komaki Campaign and Makino Narisato) - 137