[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Komaki Campaign and Makino Narisato) - 140

[Main Text]
...and thus came to assist Nobuo based on these considerations of old friendship and neighboring domain status. This can be said to be the beginning of the Komaki Campaign.

Ieyasu personally departed Hamamatsu for Owari on the seventh day of the third month of Tenshō 12 (1584). He left Ōkubo Tadayo as caretaker in Hamamatsu, and though he had recently established marriage ties [with the Hōjō], he was most suspicious of the Hōjō clan, so he stationed Makino Uma-no-jō Yasunari at Nagakubo on the border between Suruga and Sagami provinces, and placed Amano Yasukage at Kōkokuji Castle, showing careful attention to these matters. Moreover, he sought to establish friendly relations with the Satake clan, who were enemies of the Hōjō from their perspective, but the Satake were also receiving courteous treatment from Hideyoshi and found themselves in a situation of being pulled from both sides.

Furthermore, on the eastern army's side, diplomatic policies were conducted quite broadly: first communicating with Sassa Narimasa to have him scheme in Kaga and Echizen, allying with Chōsokabe Motochika to plan an attack on Osaka from Shikoku, and inducing the Kishū Saika Party and Honganji faction to strike at Hideyoshi's rear. Against this, Hideyoshi also skillfully employed countermeasures, persuading Ikeda Nobuteru of Ōgaki and Mori Nagayoshi who was at Kanayama to become his allies, and furthermore raising Takigawa Kazumasu, granting him five districts of Ise, having him gather former Ise retainers, and first having them plunder Nobuo's territory.

The fighting thus began first in Ise. On the ninth day of the third month, Nobuo had his general Sakuma Masakatsu and others attack Kameyama Castle where Seki Nobumori and his son had taken refuge, and separately rebuilt the old Minejo Castle to prepare for Hideyoshi's attack. However, Hideyoshi had Gamō Ujisato, Takigawa Kazumasu and others quickly attack this Minejo Castle, so Nobuo had the lord of Inuyama Castle, Nakagawa Sadanari and others reinforce Masakatsu, but ultimately they could not hold out and all attempted to retreat to Nagashima Castle. However, the pursuit was fierce and Sadanari was ambushed by the enemy en route and fell into a desperate battle. At this time Sakai Tadatsugu, following Ieyasu's orders, led various forces from eastern Mikawa as reinforcements and advanced to Kuwana, so Ujisato, Kazumasu and others temporarily withdrew their troops. From this point there were numerous battles large and small in southwestern Owari and the Ise region, but additionally fighting broke out separately in northeastern Owari, because Ikeda Nobuteru, who had now joined Hideyoshi's side...

[Left Page]
[Header] San'yō Shimbun No. 3889 Supplement (Published October 17, Meiji 44)

[Main Text]
...attacked Inuyama Castle. Originally, as I mentioned before, Nobuteru was stationed at Ōgaki, but since Nakagawa Sadanari, lord of Inuyama Castle, had left his castle in the care of his uncle, the monk Sei Zōshu, and departed for Ise to reinforce Minejo Castle, Nobuteru, learning of this situation, decided to seize the opportunity. Particularly since Nobuteru had once resided in Inuyama Castle and knew it well, on the night of the thirteenth day of the third month he personally departed Ōgaki and immediately attempted an assault. The castle indeed fell quickly, Sei Zōshu died in battle, and Nobuteru entered the castle with his son Yasunosuke. On the fifteenth day he advanced further toward the vicinity of Komakiyama and set fires in the surrounding villages.

At this time Nobuo had moved from Nagashima to Kiyosu Castle, and Ieyasu also arrived there on the thirteenth day to meet with Nobuo. Upon receiving the above reports, he immediately summoned Tadatsugu and others from Kuwana to serve as his guard. As I mentioned briefly before, at this time Nobuteru's son-in-law Mori Nagayoshi also responded to Hideyoshi's call, emerging from Kanayama Castle in Mino Province to raid Haguro in Owari. Ieyasu accepted Tadatsugu's counsel and first had him attack this force. Tadatsugu led Okudar Nobumasa, Matsudaira Ietada and other retainers from eastern Mikawa against them and greatly defeated Nagayoshi's army.

At that time Nobumasa's brave actions are recorded in various documents, but here I wish to limit myself to describing only the main points. When Nobuteru heard of Nagayoshi's defeat and tried to assist him, there were those who remonstrated against it and he did not act. Moreover, Ieyasu also immediately recalled Tadatsugu and others.

Ieyasu then first established his position at Komakiyama, where he had Honda Hirotaka as commanding general with thorough preparations. However, at that time Hideyoshi was in Osaka constructing a castle there. He departed Osaka on the nineteenth day of the third month intending to head for Owari, but the Kii Saika and Negoroji rebels responded to the inducements of Nobuo and Ieyasu and threatened to attack Osaka, so things did not proceed as planned. Finally on the twenty-first day he departed Osaka, arrived at Inuyama on the twenty-seventh day, inspected the Gakuden and Haguro areas, and had fortifications constructed facing Komakiyama. At this time Hideyoshi's military strength was said to number 125,000.

[Header] Toyohashi City Historical Discussions - (The Komaki Campaign and Makino Narisato) - 141