The lots for determining positions among the ten-handed groups from various estates, with Kanatsu and Tsuchida assigned to one location
Takehara Assistant Head Priest, Same Priest, Shingu Head Priest and above at one location, household retainers serving as riders, especially on April 5th
The matter of determining assignments by drawing lots at the deputy's residence
On the appointed day, early morning offering of daily imperial provisions《prepared by Taguchi as usual》arranged by the duty shrine officials《however, for morning provisions, there is the usual direct banquet; for evening provisions, there is a riders' direct banquet, therefore》
《This ceremony is not required, but for the priest side, the direct banquet within the head priest and five officials proceeds as usual》Around the hour of the Dragon (7-9 AM) at the horse grounds《from the head priest down to Sawada priest》twenty riders along with the three offices and deputy administrator
The deputy, Taguchi and others gather for celebratory sake ceremony《coordinating through consultation, reaching three rounds, wearing ritual robes, but for riders, one subordinate《wearing hakama》is made to carry a document box and accompany them》
《At the horse grounds, one court cap and two sets of silk trousers《for clear and rainy weather》etc. are received. The host accompanies in hunting dress. Also for horses, two days prior in the early morning, two subordinates are sent to gather two loads of pine needles from the sacred mountain《however, in previous years cypress leaves were used by each, but using pine needles is better. At Shidori estate stables, they still use them, it is said》stables are built within the house gate compound, and on the appointed day》
《around the hour of the Dragon, horses are led into the stables. Especially horse owners, grooms, rope handlers and others accompany them. Particularly, the day before, one load each of human walkway grass is cut and brought, all brought to the horse grounds, and from the head priest to Kifune both officials, two days prior, one load each of butterbur, actually four bundles each are brought. The aforementioned from seven districts as walking service for grass》
《twenty grass walkers and nine butterbur walkers are provided. Also Goro and Taro are assigned. The same for the 5th day》Next, when Shidori estate《sent from various deputy administrators》enters the head priest's residence, the first
large drum is struck《urged at the council place, administered by the supervisor》On the same day, Taguchi《in ritual robes, Taguchi's retainer wearing hakama, carrying document box》enters the horse grounds and privately records horse coat colors

and measurements etc. in kana script《at this time, celebratory sake is served at the horse grounds》Next, the second large drum is struck. At this time, twenty riders along with the deputy administrator,
head priest, deputy, Taguchi and others gather at the horse grounds《shrine attendants announce the imperial visit. Especially there is announcement from the horse grounds. At this time, each puts on court caps, wearing ritual robes, large silk garments, collar robes, silk trousers, and for riders, blue-colored dew garments》
《and colored sashes. For the deputy administrator and Shidori riders, purple large-crested silk trousers are worn, each accompanied by two white-robed attendants. However, for Shidori riders and the deputy administrator, one plain robe wearer and two white-robed attendants are assigned. Taguchi wears court dress accompanied by two white-robed attendants. The deputy administrator, head priest, deputy and others each wear short swords when visiting the head priest's residence》
There is a celebratory sake ceremony《the host wears hunting dress, for the head priest, light blue large-crested silk trousers are worn for direct service. Court dress and plain robe wearers one each, two white-robed attendants, one sword bearer《upper and lower garments》etc. are accompanied. For the first offering ceremony, at the head priest's residence, it is handed over and placed on the right side with cod》
《five cuts placed on raised small horns, on the left side seaweed the same, one set of chopsticks etc. placed on large wooden pieces, for the head priest using the usual small horns placed on three-sided stands, next three times three earthenware vessels placed on three-sided stands, sake server《ritual-robed head priest》adding upper and lower garments, beginning the offering from the head priest, passing in order until reaching Taguchi then withdrawing, for the rest at the horse grounds, three-sided stand arrangements》
《dried abalone, kelp, pounded chestnuts, five each placed on small horns and loaded on three-sided stands, honorable sake《cold sake》using tin《without addition》. Especially during morning meals, offering ceremonies are held as convenient. At such times, for the head priest, officials and song officials are excluded from offerings, it is said》
Next, the third large drum is struck. At this time, each rider departs from the horse grounds for service《especially first the horses from behind, riders serving in provincial style, but for Shidori horses, grooms and below each accompanied by one white-robed attendant, two shrine representatives leading as guides, for the rest》
《two grooms, two rope handlers, staff bearers accompanying, for Kanatsu, four rope handlers, it is said》gathering at the office building
The procedure first for horses passes through the sake hall bridge, enters the second torii gate, ascends to the eastern lawn area, and lines up near the west side of the purification river
《the sequence is shown in the diagram》For riders, from the bathhouse earthen walls near the log storehouse area, making one bow to Nara shrine and entering the office building