Arriving at the front of the second torii gate, they release their stirrups, make one bow, come to the western turf of the imperial residence, take the reins, and then resume their seats《The procedure: the left horse faces northeast, the right horse faces southeast next to the left horse in alignment, then passes through the cut-through passage and repeats the same on the southern turf. Everything is shown in diagrams. At this time Taguchi unties his shoe laces《now abbreviated and not untied》At this time they dismount and take seats at the imperial residence》There is a ceremony to examine missing teeth《Regarding this ceremony of the head priest's colleagues, the Seisoku Record states: it is between the first and second pillars from the north of the western courtyard of the imperial residence. First one bow, next hang the reins from the left side over the right shoulder and pull both ends. Next left and right, next left, next right, three times in total. Finished with one bow, withdraw and lead into the horse quarters》

《The stables are all the same as before》Next, the tenth round finishes running《However, the deputy administrator finishes pairing the tenth round, sticks small swords and hair combs etc. into small swords, and stores the assignment lists, inkstones and other items below in viewing boxes and document boxes to be carried by plain jackets》The head priest and below withdraw from the imperial residence《the routes of advance and retreat are as at first》and take seats in the office《The head priest faces east in the center, the deputy administrator faces south with west as superior, the deputy administrator and substitute face north with west as superior, next the riders, especially with Shidori riders as the highest seats, and below seated by age order》Divine offerings and direct banquet《The items are: one set of chopsticks, rice placed in earthenware vessels piled high three times, side dishes cut in two pieces filled in small earthenware, outside the divine offerings are sake cups, one earthenware vessel three times, five pieces of cod and seaweed placed a little at a time on small stands. This portion is prepared by the sword bearer under orders from the chief administrator. Especially outside the divine offerings, one complete set is prepared by the administrator. However》

《The head priest uses a three-legged stand. Next, after seating is determined, the sword bearer presents the chopsticks, next sake in a pitcher, especially the sword bearer passes it to left and right with the pitcher several times, next small utensils as usual, next the sword bearer passes items. However, first among the riders, two of the first-time riders, or if there are no first-time riders, two young riders are sent to the exit supervisors for greetings, and there are arrangements for this to be indicated. Also, regarding the deputy administrator, deputy administrator, and substitute, they accompany up to the head priest's gate. Especially when the head priest does not take a seat in the office, the deputy administrator, deputy administrator, substitute etc. similarly do not take office seats but accompany up to the gate》

Finished, they withdraw

Riders' Celebration Menu

Appetizer: Daikon radish　　　　　　　　　　　　Chisa (lettuce)
Raw fish: Dried squid　　　Octopus piled high　　Soup: Sea bream
　　　　Black roe　　　　Shaved items　　　　　Appetizer　　　White chopsticks
　　　　Salted sea bream
　　　　Garnish
Grilled: Mackerel sushi　　　Pickles piled high　　Rice
　　　Water pepper
Second soup　　　　　　Simmered appetizer: Bamboo shoots　Bonito
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Pickled plums　Kelp
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Butterbur　Sansho pepper
Grilled: Fresh items
　　　　Appetizer　　　　Soup: Appetizer　Clear broth
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Salt-cured bird
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Burdock
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Daikon radish
　　Three kinds of side dishes　　Other various items
　　　　　　　　　　　　Senior Fourth Rank Lower Kamo Kaneyuki County Governor's Record
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Seal