When the matter is finished, the Noh performers gather at the Gosho-ya (Imperial Pavilion) 《Using the Gosho-ya as a dressing room》. However, in case of rain, use the south side of the Gosho-ya as the stage and the north side as the dressing room.

Next, the shamusdai (shrine affairs deputy) and betto (deputy administrator) proceed 《Two shrine servants carrying torches come to the residence of the shamusdai and betto. At this time, the shamusdai wears court dress (ikan) and the betto wears purification robes (jōe) as they proceed》
They cross the sake hall bridge, enter through the first torii gate, and arrive at the curtained pavilion at Nishi-kiri-shiba 《The shamusdai to the west, the betto to the east. In case of rain, they go to the Gosho-ya, the procedure being the same as before. This curtained pavilion is built by the head carpenter and is also used on the last day of the month》

During this time, the yatone priest brings hashiratsu-matsu (pillar pine torches) and burns them in front of the second torii gate 《However, they are burned when the musical accompanists proceed. The hashiratsu-matsu are three feet high and one foot wide, made of three bamboo pillars surrounded by boards and bound with thin rope. Two are prepared and offered, and one is sent to the head priest for Urui-yaku shrine. The two bamboo poles and two bundles of rope are provided by the shrine. For boards, when long they are about 2.2 shaku and number forty pieces, when short they number eighty pieces. These are provided by the hinoki bark craftsman Jūbei. For the hashiratsu-matsu, Oharashi prepares and delivers them to the yatone priest. In ancient times, not limited to the Mikado-shiro-e, pillar pine torches were erected in various places during night rituals, imperial visits, and imperial progresses, but this practice has ceased in recent times except for the Mikado-shiro-e. Though this ceremony is a surviving tradition, it differs greatly from the ancient form. The form used now is like a kubote (hollow container), with a small amount of pine needles placed inside, and only these needles are burned》

For the pine ceremony, torch brazier fires are placed left and right, with shrine servants standing nearby for security 《In addition, two chūgen from the council office stand guard under the pillar on the east side of the second torii gate》

Next, when the Noh beginning ceremony is finished, everyone withdraws.

Last Day of the Month
《Hour of the Dragon》The daily morning and evening sacred offerings are prepared by the duty shrine officials 《However, for the evening offering, since the shrine priests and below hold a direct feast (naorai) at the office building, the duty shrine priest does not have a direct feast. For the morning offering, the direct feast is as usual》

Same Day
There are five Noh performances. The six functionaries 《However, the scribe does not attend》and the betto 《Each wearing formal dress》 take their places in the temporary pavilion to oversee this. Shrine servants 《wearing yellow robes》, Gorōtarō and other laborers provide security.

Same Night - Nagoshi Purification Procedure
Time limit 《Hour of the Rooster》Shrine officials 《wearing court dress and accompanied by one attendant》 assemble at the attendants' quarters 《The three-time guidance by shrine servants is as in every precedent》
However, the two Kifune officials do not follow this shrine but proceed first to the wooden boat.
Five rotating offerings bearers, five purification leaders, the yin-yang diviner, betto, administrative officer, deputy administrator 《their attire as in every ritual》 and other various functionaries below
First proceed to the shrine precincts, offering hall, etc., and after completing matters as usual, the administrative officer waits within the threshold of the east room of the attendants' quarters and observes.