[Annotation sheet - Flute music notation]
〽Hiyaraui-ya-hī-u ri-hī-ya〳〵hi-yaū
　Ra-hi-hī-ya-hiyaraui-ya-hī-u ri〳〵
　Ra ri-ra ri-rorura ri-hiyariui-ya-hī-u ri
　〳〵ra ri-ra ri-rorura
〽Second tier
　Hiyari ri〳〵ri-ri ri-hiyari ri〳〵
　Ri-ri ri〽Same as before thereafter
◦Ōta Shrine sacred flute, all three tiers same as
　the main shrine
[The "〽", "ー", "ヽ" marks and the marginal notations "ri" are written in red.]

[Left page]
　First the wrapped sacred food, next the layered sacred food, next cucumber, next miscellaneous throat fish《remove together with two wooden pieces》, next fresh sweetfish《remove together with two wooden pieces》, next sacred raw foods《five throat fish》
　《remove five times》, next sacred birds and sacred carp, next sacred rice, next sacred sake, next sacred chopsticks《the above are removed by the head priest, but the offerings are placed in the inner sanctuary》, next Korean lion-dog offerings《head shrine priest》
　《properly remove these》and so forth. After removal is complete, present the sacred cloth《four sheets of hanshi paper, paperweights, and earthenware vessels placed on a round tray》
Next lower the sacred curtain, next the attendants return to their seats in order starting from the Wakamiya priest, after proceeding down the steps and performing one bow, they wait in the priest's corridor
Next the head priest exits the inner sanctuary and waits at the priest's section《under the eastern worship pillar》, next the chief priest exits the inner sanctuary and closes the sacred doors《everyone prostrates》. After completion, the deputy minister presents the sacred locked wrapper《at this time, the sacred key is handed to the deputy minister》. Next the shrine officials and clan members withdraw《particularly, the shrine officials withdraw from the priest's side as usual》. After the great circuit is completed, next at the front of the second torii, the Nagoshi purification ritual begins.
　　　Matters of the turf seat on the last day of the sixth month, Tenmei 2 [1782]【red ink】
The shrine officials and clan members take their seats. First, the shrine attendants pass through the sedge grass effigy《placed in the sacred chest》. Next, the yin-yang master《not wearing shoes》uses hemp leaves to purify the shrine officials【red ink】
and below. Next, the same person《same》holds the sedge ring and has each person pass through the ring twice. Next, the shrine attendants pass through the sacred high offering's withdrawal《placed in the sacred chest》【red ink】
Next they pass through the sitting purification. When shrine officials also enter the ring, they do not wear shoes【red ink】

[The main text of the right page is transcribed in frame 127]