《with an appreciative heart》the shrine priest makes offerings to the large eight-legged table《second-tier shelf》. Next, the ritualist division presents chrysanthemum cotton《same as the shrine maiden division. However, the two junior rotating offerings attendants wait with the ritualist division's rotating offerings as usual after the sacred doors are opened》

The head ritualist makes offerings to the large eight-legged table《second tier. Particularly placed close to the ritualist side》. Next, divine offerings are presented from the shrine maiden division. First, sacred chopsticks are presented《as usual. The shrine priest makes offerings to the first tier of the large eight-legged table. Particularly placed toward the center, with the shrine maiden division and shrine priest offering in the same manner》

Next, sacred rice《same as Tanabata, offered on the first tier》next, rice cakes, next the same, next shiitake leaf cakes《all the above are prepared by sword bearers. Particularly, the number of items and the superintendent's arrangement on paper stands follows usual procedure》

Next, carp, next sacred birds, next raw foods《five throats》《however, salted sea bream. Besides this, from sacred rice to sacred birds, same as Tanabata, each offered on the first tier》Next, stacked sacred offerings《usual number placed in sacred containers and offered on sacred serving trays》

Next, wrapped offerings《sacred sweets in usual variety of colors. In the outer sanctuary, the head shrine maiden holds the sacred container while the deputy shrine maiden unwraps and presents to the inner sanctuary as usual. At this time offered on the third tier》

Next, salted small fish《as usual. Details can be seen in the New Year's Day section below. Offered on the second tier》Next, Koma sacred offerings《one salted sea bream placed in sacred container, offered later by the head shrine maiden as usual. All the above fish-flavored divine offerings in usual quantities》

《The shrine maiden division's portion is prepared from within the shrine. However, regarding the preparation of Koma sacred offerings, the seasonal record from September 9th, Tenwa 4th year states that the superintendent master offered Koma sacred offerings《offered in sacred containers》the procedure was to offer by passing outside the ascending stair railings, etc. Now the head deputy shrine maiden prepares them. The above divine offerings, like every ritual, are all handled by the superintendent master from the deputy shrine side, progressively by the rotating offerings staff and auxiliary shrine maidens who advance through the left stairs to the inner sanctuary. At this time, round trays do not enter the inner sanctuary; after the shrine priest takes the divine offerings, they are handed to the deputy shrine maiden, then progressively removed. For the ritualist division, the ritualist division's rotating offerings are placed on the eastern sacred offering shelf. After all left and right divine offerings are completely presented, sword bearers bring them to the shrine maiden division》

Next from the ritualist division《announcing the advance guard》sacred rice《the head ritualist offers on the single-tier shelf of the large eight-legged table. All below are completely offered by the head ritualist》next rice cakes, next the same, next shiitake leaf cakes《same as shrine maiden division》

Next sacred carp, next sacred birds, next sacred raw foods《same as shrine maiden division, presented five times》next stacked sacred offerings《offered on sacred serving trays》

Next wrapped offerings《offered on third tier》next salted small fish《offered on third tier, same as shrine maiden division》next Koma sacred offerings《offered by deputy shrine maiden. The above sacred rice and below same as shrine maiden division. However, the ritualist division's fish flavors in one set are prepared by the superintendent master. Nevertheless, carp, birds, salted small fish etc. are prepared from within the shrine. The above sacred rice and below are handled by the superintendent administrators, proceeding through the right stairs to the inner sanctuary. Round trays are removed at the shrine maiden division. The procedure is as usual》

After the progressive presentation is completed, the rotating offerings staff《two junior attendants》administrators and superintendents return to the shrine maiden division. Next, sacred sake is presented《presented by administrator superintendents as usual. Details can be seen in the New Year's Day section below. Offered on first tier》Upon completion, the sacred curtains are lowered.

Next, junior attendants《starting from clan deity ritualists》advance to the bottom of the stairs, make one bow, then return to their seats《however, the Kifune shrine maiden, together with ritualists, takes seat at the ritualist division's Kataoka ritualist seat. After the main shrine ritualist prayers are completed, they withdraw, change to purification robes, and proceed to Kifune》

During this time, music is stopped, and chrysanthemum cotton, two stems《as with the main shrine》are offered to the deputy shrine. The superintendent master prepares this《the procedure is as on March 3rd》

Next, the deputy master presents sacred keys to the seven shrine ritualists《excluding Kifune ritualists》Next, the seven shrines' shrine maidens and ritualists proceed to their respective shrines, open the sacred doors, and offer inner and outer sanctuary divine offerings. The procedure is as usual.

However, the divine offering items are: chrysanthemum cotton《two stems》sacred chopsticks《one set, prepared by administrators》sacred rice《two cups, cedar-shaped》rice cakes《four》shiitake leaf cakes《four》salted sea bream《four throats》skate《four pieces》sacred cups《three times, earthenware with paper stands》etc. placed in sacred containers《inner sanctuary portion》etc. Outer sanctuary daily sacred rice and below as usual《details can be seen in New Year's Day section below》placed in sacred containers and offered《however, the two chrysanthemum cotton stems are stored in left and right scenic object boxes when divine offerings are removed after prayers are completed. Furthermore, rotating offerings staff consists of purification leaders and two from shrine grounds duty staff, totaling seven people, with one person assigned to each shrine participating as usual》