Koma provisions (offered by the chief negi). Next, from the hafuri side, from boat rice to koma provisions, the negi side follows the same procedure (however, eggplant is not offered. The above is offered by the chief hafuri on the hafuri side, with the ritual proceeding as usual, only with left and right distinctions). Next, sacred sake is presented from the negi side (directors and head priests transfer it as usual), and after this transfer is completed, the sacred curtains are lowered. Next, starting from the junior attendants, they return to their seats in order (bowing and saluting as usual). Next, the chief administrator passes the sacred keys to the hafuri of Kataoka and below. Next, the shrine officials of the seven shrines proceed to their respective shrines (with one rotating offerer accompanying each as usual). They open the sacred doors and arrange the inner and outer sacred offerings. The ritual follows custom, with Kataoka taking precedence.

However, the items for sacred offerings are: sacred chopsticks (one set), boat rice (two boats), boat rice cakes (two boats), one item (one throat, from among horse mackerel and mackerel), salted sea bream (four throats), ray fish (four pieces, including two flatfish), sacred cups (three times, earthenware vessels, stands, paper, etc. as usual), salted sweetfish (number indefinite), etc., placed in sacred chests (the above for the inner sanctuary). Besides this, provisions for the outer sanctuary follow custom (sacred lock wrapping as usual). Next, the deputy negi and hafuri return to their seats. Next, the chief negi, head priest, chief hafuri, etc. take their places at the prayer recitation building (order as usual). Next, the deputy two officials (first negi, then hafuri) rise and arrange the outer sanctuary sacred offerings. The ritual follows that of regular sacred events. After arrangement is completed, the deputy two officials take their places at the prayer recitation building. Next, the chief administrator goes to the drop veranda and announces the completion of the earth ritual. Next, the five officials complete prayers and clapping (the assembly responds). The deputy two officials remove the outer sanctuary sacred offerings (the ritual as usual) and return to their seats. The deputy shrine administrator goes to the subsidiary shrines and arranges sacred offerings.

The ritual: after the five officials complete their prayers, they first visit Sugio Shrine, then Tanao Shrine, then Hashio Shrine, then Yamao, then Fujio, then Kawao, then Suwa, then Hashimoto, then Yamamori (offerings for three shrines are arranged at Hashimoto Shrine), then Iwamoto, then Kajita, then Shojin-ji and Jingu-ji guardian shrines (two shrines are handled in conjunction with Kajita), then Komori (is this the clan deity served by both officials?), then Shirahige, then Hyakudaifu, then Guardian Shrine, then Fukutoku Shrine, then Ryuboku Shrine (handled in conjunction with Fukutoku Shrine). The above twenty-one shrines (however, Komori was added during the Shotoku reconstruction) receive sacred offerings, which shrine attendants (two people) place in sacred chests and transport (the items are detailed in the New Year's Day section). When this is completed, they withdraw (upon withdrawal, the head priest and deputy shrine administrator hold a feast).

Next, the returning shrine officials take seats in the corridor. Next, the head priest and hafuri enter the inner sanctuary. Next, the chief negi and below wait on the upper and lower steps (the hafuri of the new shrine forms one line on the negi side as usual). Next, the rotating offerers rise. Next, the sacred curtains are rolled up (however, if it is nightfall, a deputy advances to the small courtyard holding torches). Next, round trays are presented. Next, the inner sanctuary sacred offerings are removed: first the hafuri side's salted small fish, then sacred sweets, then accumulated provisions, then sacred fresh items (removed five times), then sacred birds, then sacred carp, then boat rice cakes, then boat rice (the above removed by the chief hafuri). Next, for the negi side portion, from salted small fish to boat rice, the order is the same as the hafuri side (however, since the negi side has eggplant, it is removed between the sacred fresh items and accumulated provisions; the rest is the same as above). Next, sacred sake and sacred chopsticks (the above performed by the head priest).