
　　"FRONTIER MARSHAL"
　　　(SYNOPSIS)
　To Tombstone, Arizona, wildest town of the Old West,
comes Wyatt Earp, famed law enforcer and Indian scout, to
establish a stage line. His arrival coincides with Indian
Charlie's shooting up of the Bella Union, rival dance Hall to
toughguy Ben Carter's Palace of Pleasure. The marshal of
Tombstone is afraid to stop Indian Charlie. Earp walks in,
beats Indian Charlie to the draw, and drops him. For this
Earp is offered the job of marshal, which he refuses. For this
also he is kidnapped by Curly Bill, friend of Indian Charlie,
and beaten up by the outlaw gang. Whereupon Earp says he
will take the job of marshal and establish law and order in the
town. He fights Curly Bill man-to-man and gives him a
terrific beating.
　Doc Holliday is the most-feared man in Tombstone, Crazy
about him is Jerry, volcanic dance hall entertainer, who hates
Earp because he catches her cheating at poker. Holliday and
Earp become great friends when Holliday saves Earp's life.
The occasion is the appearance in Tombstone of the great com-
edian, Eddie Foy, whom Ben Carter forces to perform in his
Place of Pleasure instead of in the rival Bella Union, until
Earp arrives to restore order.
　Following her former fiance, Doc Holliday, Sarah Allen
comes to Tombstone. Holliday is viciously rude to her, and
an intense rivalry develops between Sarah and Jerry. Holli-
day's motive is his incurable illness, which made him drop
his useful life back East to become a bitter, desperate man
waiting for death. Holliday orders Sarah to leave Tombstone,
When, at Earp's instigation, she refuses, Holliday himself
leaves. The stagecoach is carrying bullion that day, and Earp
is "riding gun," with Foy a passenger. Curly Bill holds up
the stage coach, and an outlaw whom Earp identifies as Ben
Carter is killed. Holliday is badly wounded. Earp knows
that Jerry tipped off the outlaws about the bullion, and he
orders her to stay away from Holliday. Earp knows that
Holliday really loves Sarah, who had been his trained nurse
back East. Jerry remains defiantly in love with Holliday.
　In an avening raid on Tombstone by Curly Bill's gang,
Pablo, a little boy, pet of the town, is shot, Sarah persuades
Holliday to perform an emergency operation. He has just
finished when he is shot by Curly. Jerry snatches a gun and
shoots Curly, avenging Holliday's death. In the terrific gun
battle that follows, the outlaws are defeated by Earp and his
men, and Tombstone knows law and order for the first time.
　Jerry moves on, because the town is too civilized for her,
but Sarah remains, and the beginning of a deep friendship
between her and Wyatt Earp is seen.
