【Title】
Lives Saved by the Teaching of the Water God
The Joy of Being Counted Among the Six Wandering Pilgrims

【Main Text - Upper】
On the night of October 2nd, Ansei 2 (1855)
Regarding the great earthquake and great fire
That struck Edo and the Kanto region,
Kashima Daimyojin returned home and
Spoke angrily as follows: "In this great world,
The land of Japan is under the protection of
Amaterasu Omikami and other deities,
And the earth is under the jurisdiction of Kenro Chijin and myself.
However, according to the annual custom, on the first day of this month
I went to worship at the Great Shrine of Izumo. The catfish, taking advantage of my absence,
Acted violently, shaking and crushing Edo and the neighboring provinces,
Destroying houses and stone walls,
Causing fires and many losses.
Not only that, but the number of injured is unknown—tens of thousands—
And I hear the dead number 276,800 people.
Is this not all your doing? Not only do you cause suffering to my keystone,
But forgetting the hardships of the great staff and gourd,
You slippery, elusive great criminals!
Even though I was away, now that such disasters have occurred,
I have failed in my primary duty.
Therefore, your crime is not light, so all you catfish
Shall be deboned and executed by grilling.
Come, eels! Strike down the catfish one by one!"

【Main Text - Center Right】
All the catfish trembled and said:
"Even when you were away, the great
Ichikawa Danjuro, the leader of the gourds,
Was present, so we behaved properly.
When making pilgrimages
To the rice fields,
He would pass through Kashima,
So we could not move.
But since that person is also absent,
Our fins gradually loosened.
We are truly
Sorry.
At least, let us become grilled fish
And fill the bellies
Of the craftsmen
Abundantly."

【Main Text - Lower Right】
The eels came forward eagerly:
"Because of these catfish,
The eel restaurants have lost business.
Forgetting even our kinship,
We who live here
Cannot even drop
Our fishing hooks
And lines..."

【Main Text - Lower Left】
"...They even
Destroyed
The stone walls.
Moreover, when
Rain falls,
Mixed with muddy water,
They continue swimming through the rice fields.
Being such creatures, there will surely be more
Mischief to come. Let us
Beat them and make them spit up the mud from their bellies."