1. According to the same person's story, Ishikawa Shinkyu accomplished meritorious deeds on several occasions, and his swordsmanship was extraordinary. In daily life, he was quite absent-minded. During the retreat at the Yahagi River, Udono Jūrōzaburō and Shinkyu retreated together. When the enemy pursued them strongly, Jūrōzaburō, being also a renowned tactician, took the lead in retreating out of concern for Shinkyu, thinking that if he called out to him, Shinkyu would respond, and while Shinkyu was competing and fighting, he could escape. When he called out "respond!", Shinkyu turned back, held his spear horizontally and said "Anyone come back, I too will come back." So [Jūrōzaburō] said "Oh, you fool!" and both fled together again. It is said he was praised as being different from his usual sharpness.

1. During the retreat at Irabu (Ii no ya), when the enemy pursued strongly, Jiuemon repeatedly turned back to fight them off and defend while retreating. At that time, he wore what was called a "curved hat" - a woven hat with curved edges - while retreating. When the enemy called out "You with the curved hat, splendid! Give your name!" he replied "I have no name" and did not identify himself. After crossing the Ōi River to the opposite bank, he gave his matchlock to Kurono Gorōdayū saying "Shoot this, you are more skilled than I. Be sure to hit the target," and told him "Use me as a rest to shoot," lying face down on the riverbank to let him shoot. When five enemy horsemen rode halfway into the river, he shot down the foremost enemy into the middle of the river. After that, the enemy did not approach and withdrew, so Naitō Shirōzaemon, Kakehi Sukedayū and others said "Why didn't Jiuemon give his name? If he had announced it, it would have been a feat worthy of the enemy's recognition." At this, he told his peers and elder colleagues, "In such situations, one does not give one's name. When the enemy hears your name and calls out 'Hey, so-and-so!' and says 'That's splendid, come and fight!', if allies don't follow and even one rearguard warrior is killed, it becomes a total defeat." Everyone who heard this said "Indeed, that's right." At that time, Lord Ieyasu bestowed upon Kurono Gorōdayū the matchlock he had been carrying, which [Kurono] continued to possess thereafter.

《Note: The breathing/timing of matchlock shooting》【written in red ink in the upper section】

1. During the retreat at Mitsuke, Ōkubo Kanshichi ran up onto a rock on the slope and came forward