He said that people generally listen lightly to admonitions and precepts that are established for guidance.

《Pardoning Thieves》
1. During the reign of Taitokuin-sama (Hidetada), there was a master thief named Kōsaka Jin'nai. Because he was skilled, he was pardoned and made to reform the thieves in society. Jin'nai said: "When sneaking in, one should not enter bamboo groves and such. If sleeping birds are disturbed, the master of the house will become vigilant."

《Knowledge for Pursuing Thieves》
1. When pursuing thieves, if you stand behind and chase them, when the one ahead turns back and strikes with his sword, it will surely hit your neck. One should pursue by staying to the left side of the fleeing person, he said.

1. When Jin'nai was shown a place where a thief had been, he looked at footprints in the snow that happened to be falling and said, "This is a thief who has stolen something." When asked why he said this, he replied: "The depth of the footprints can be seen in the snow. He cut through and entered from the top of the storehouse. Seeing this, he then somehow brought things inside." He said, "It is customary to cut into storehouses from above, but one must not let it be known that other things are being taken in this manner."

《Thieves' Precautions》
1. The same person said: "Thieves' precautions are 'before Yakushi, after Jizō.'" Yakushi is the 8th day, Jizō services are the 24th day. From the 25th to the 7th, the moon is dark and it is pitch black. Generally, where night watch lasts long until past the fourth hour [around 10 PM] is difficult to rob. If one does not sneak in from evening and finish before the birds crow, one will be discovered later, he said.

1. There is something called "bell rope" - about ten hawk bells attached to thin rope. When traveling, if you string this across the entrance, it becomes difficult to enter, he said.

1. People generally think thieves are fearsome, but "it is the work of cowards. Even when chased by women, they only think of escaping. Even with supernatural beings, they think them frightening and dangerous two or three times, but once they become accustomed to sneaking, they only think of stealing. They forget fearful things. The proof of this is that when chased by thieves, they would have no will to turn back and fight," he said.