【Endpaper】
【Red Stamp】Tokyo Gakugei University Library
２９１，３６
Ｓａ２５

【Left Page】
【Upper Red Square Stamp】Ozaki Collection
【Red Circle Stamp】Shimizu Sai【Central character unclear】
【Square Stamp】Tokyo Gakugei University Takehaya Branch Library 01390

【Main Text】
Yotsuya - The general name for the area from outside Yotsuya Gate westward to the vicinity of Naito-Shinjuku.

According to elders, this place is called Yotsuya because there were valleys (tani) in all four directions (shiho). 《According to Nankotei, in ancient times there were valleys in the areas of Kojimachi 6th and 7th districts and Shiomachi, but during the construction of the outer fortifications in Kan'ei 13 (1636), both eastern and western valleys were filled with earth excavated from the moats, making it flat land. However, the old name was not lost, and the entrance to Shiomachi is still called Sakamachi for this reason. Also, when it was still a slope in ancient times, there was one house where a married couple lived, so it was called Meoto-zaka (Couple's Slope). According to one person, during the time of [Tokugawa Ieyasu's] entry into the country, the areas on both sides of present-day Kojimachi, extending to Bancho and Nagatacho, were granted as lower residences to the Honda Yahachiro and Takagi Kyusuke families. However, because they were close to the castle, the Ichigaya plateau and this plain were granted by eternal decree, and with only four people stationed along the 480-ken frontage, it was called Yotsuya (Four Houses).》

This area is said to have been called Kasumi Village around the Eiroku period (1558-1570). Alternatively, it is said that in ancient times this area was an open plain connected to Musashino, with four houses of local people scattered here and there, hence called Yotsuya (Four Houses). 《According to the Shiseki Gokko, in ancient times there were four houses at the present site of the front gate of the Bishu Lord's residence and at Sakamachi and two other places, and travelers would rest there, calling it "Yotsuya" when coming from Naruko and Takaido.》

Gozu Tenno Shrine - Located about two cho west after entering the side street on the left between Tenmacho 1st and 2nd districts of the same area. 《Therefore, this small street is commonly called Tenno-yokocho.》 The enshrined deity is Susanoo-no-Mikoto. 《The honji-butsu (corresponding Buddhist deity) is Yakushi Nyorai, a single-wood purple sandalwood statue made by Kobo Daishi. It has been the tutelary deity since Yotsuya's residential area developed.》 The head priest is from the Shibasaki family 《who are also head priests of Kanda Myojin》. The temple administrator is called Hozoin. 《Shingon sect, branch temple of Hosenji in Nakano.》 The festival is held annually on June 18th. Ishikirimachi in the same area 《refers to the side street of Tenmacho 1st district》