Sprinkle a little salt and mix, discard that vinegar, add ark shell, abalone, sea bream, etc., and dress with wasabi vinegar. Can also be made with bird-vinegar.

'Sake Lees Dressing' Whether quail or small birds, coat with soy sauce and grill, cut finely, and dress with mustard vinegar.

'Water Dressing' Add vinegar to irizake (seasoned sake). Cut burdock, tazukuri (small dried fish), dried squid, roasted fish, grilled small birds, karazake (Chinese liquor), cucumber, wood ear mushrooms, burdock. Combine and dress from the above ingredients. Good to add chopped sansho (Japanese pepper) leaves.

'Green Dressing' Boil roasted fish well in hot water, simmer well with tamari (soy sauce), grind green beans, season with salt and dress.

Chapter Eight: Sashimi Section

'Shimofuri (Frost-covered)' Fillet sea bream, cut at the right time, put in boiling water, when it turns white remove it, cool and arrange. Irizake is good. Place mustard, etc.

'Scratched Sea Bream' Fillet sea bream into three pieces, slice thin and pile up to serve. Irizake is good. Place mustard. For garnish, bonito, kelp, mandarin orange, kumquat are good.

'Ogawa Tataki' Fillet fresh bonito and pound well, place on cedar board, pour boiling water over to blanch and arrange. Good to serve together with the above scratched sea bream. Can also be made with carp. Same with irizake.

'Sea Bass' Blue vinegar, ginger vinegar are good.

'Fresh Bonito and Spanish Mackerel' Irizake, ginger vinegar are good.

'Whale' Slice thinly, pour boiling water over, serve with sansho miso vinegar.

'Shark' Remove skin, prepare, pour boiling water over, blanch well, good with ginger vinegar. Good to blanch quickly.

'Shark' Same as above.

'Flathead' Peel skin, slice thinly, with ginger vinegar, irizake, or plain vinegar.

'Anglerfish' Blanch and serve with ginger vinegar.

'Carp, Crucian Carp, and Sweetfish' Irizake.

'Eel' Grill plain and serve with blue vinegar.

'Duck and Wild Goose' Same as pheasant. Also remove bones, cut across the grain, good with wasabi vinegar or ginger miso vinegar.

'Domestic Chicken' Same as pheasant.

'Small Duck' Serve pheasant sashimi with blanched sea bream flakes, good with wasabi miso vinegar. Garnish with nori seaweed, kumquat. Pluck all birds.

'Steamed Bamboo Shoots' Cut off roots, place vertically with skin, steam in a steamer, cut in various ways, good as sashimi with white vinegar. Good to serve together with sea lettuce shell, abalone, similar shellfish, also shiitake mushrooms, wood ear mushrooms.

'Turban Shell' Night-grilled, sea lettuce shell, bird shell, ark shell intestines, etc., prepare by blanching, good with wasabi miso vinegar.

'River Lettuce' Indian lettuce, scallion, or chrysanthemum flowers, peony varieties, all good with vinegar miso.

'Sake Appetizers' Sea bream, abalone, cod, salmon, salt-cured sweetfish, karasumi (dried mullet roe), fugu bones, wild goose, crane, duck. From the above, prepare those with good saltiness and serve. Garnish with kelp and other ingredients as desired. Good to pour pure sake over.

Chapter Nine: Simmered Dishes Section