'Seared Sea Bream and Fish Roe Mixture' Cut slightly thicker than for sashimi. Whether sea bream or carp, pick and cut half the roe, crush the other half, add to irizake with vinegar dropped in to make a white dashi-like broth, add both the fish and roe and serve tender. If overcooked, it becomes bad.

'Sea Bream Suruga Style' Grill sea bream plain, simmer well in dashi soy sauce with a little vinegar added, then serve. Also grill and deep-fry in pork fat, then simmer - this makes it even better. This is called "Southern Barbarian cuisine."

'Sukiyaki' Cut sea bream thick and set aside, buy miso with dashi. Put in a standing pot, when it boils use chopsticks to add ingredients - first add bones and head to simmer. The flesh can be added immediately. Good to add tofu. Add oysters, clams, tofu, green onions, and other ingredients as desired.

'Pot-Grilled' Make with miso soup in a pot as is. Combine sea bream, conch, flathead, whatever is available.

'Pike Conger Roe Sauté' Drop salt or seasoning into dashi. Also add a little vinegar to prepare. Cut pike conger thicker than for namasu, good to add roe and intestines too.

'Octopus Suruga Style' Wash octopus well and as is, add vinegar to dashi soy sauce and simmer well until the suckers become tender.

'Cherry Sauté' Only octopus tentacles, slice very thinly, simmer quickly in dashi soy sauce.

'Vinegar Sauté' Put only salt in dashi and simmer. When serving, add vinegar. Good for horse mackerel, mackerel, bonito varieties.

'Small Sea Bream Simmered' Grill Spanish mackerel plain and simmer in dashi soy sauce.

'Puffed Sauté' Cut fish roe large, soak in dashi soy sauce, add to dashi-like broth and serve as is. Good with abalone and squid.

'Shunkan (Spring Cold)' Boil bamboo shoots well and cut in various ways, add abalone, small birds, kamaboko, ark shell, eggs, grilled wheat gluten, bracken fern, kelp. Add from the above ingredients and simmer in dashi soy sauce. Also stuff bamboo shoot joints with kamaboko, simmer and slice to add.

'Nobe-itō (Field Well)' Prepare duck like seared bird, simmer in dashi soy sauce. When it comes to a boil, adjust seasoning, mix udon flour with dashi until sticky, add when simmering and serve. Mountain snipe is also good, as is quail.

'Fresh Skin' Whether wild goose or duck, peel the skin and prepare, pour vinegar over twice with white dashi and set aside. Also prepare the meat, pour vinegar over once for base seasoning, adjust dashi soy sauce and when simmered add the bird for soup and serve as is. Top with water dropwort and other ingredients as desired. Good to blanch sea bream flakes and set aside.

'Thousand Feathers' Whether small or large birds, drop seasoning into dashi.

'Simmered and Soaked' Grill crucian carp plain and simmer in dashi soy sauce.

'Tofu' Simmer in dashi soy sauce for one or two bubbles and serve quickly - this is called "fluffy."

'Cooking Tofu' Add dashi to miso paste. For toppings, place dried bonito flakes, chestnuts, ginger, black sesame, walnuts, etc.

'Lark Tumble' Good to put soy sauce kamaboko inside. Grind tofu and egg tofu, dye lightly with gardenia, add a little kudzu starch, make fluffy like eggs with dashi soy sauce. Like real eggs.

'Crucian Carp Jelly' Drop seasoning into hanging miso, simmer until bones become soft, place in a windy area and it will gel within an hour. In summer, add like heart-grass jelly.

'Crucian Carp Field Well' Deep-fry crucian carp in oil, cut large, like duck cuisine.