Good. 'Boiled Bird' Simmer for a long time with bones in dashi soy sauce. To make seared bird or duck, first sear the skin, then add the meat, adjust with seared dashi soy sauce and simmer. Sometimes add irizake (seasoned sake). Good to add water dropwort, green onions, wood ear mushrooms, etc. For garnish, wasabi and yuzu are good.

Chapter Fifteen

'Udon' Even if made thick when kneading. For salt ratio, in summer add 3 measures of water to 1 measure of salt, in winter add 5 measures, knead with salt water to proper consistency, pound well with mortar and set aside. When ready, roll very beautifully without streaks, form into balls and put in a wooden container, cover with moistened cloth to prevent air from getting in. Take out one at a time and roll. For boiling, taste-test while eating to judge doneness. For broth, use clear broth or hanging miso. Pepper and plum are good.

'Keiran (Egg Dumplings)' 6 parts glutinous rice, 4 parts regular rice, grind well to powder and sift through silk many times. When ready, knead with water, wrap black sugar inside and form into pieces the size of kumquats, then boil. Broth same as udon. However, for rice preparation, soak in water briefly then remove immediately and put in tub, press down well in waves. If too quick, flour becomes coarse; if soaked too long with weight, flour gets wet and cannot be properly sifted.

'Kirimugi (Cut Wheat)' Salt ratio and kneading method same as udon. For broth, use clear broth or hanging miso with mustard in hot water.

'Kudzu Sōmen' First dissolve kudzu in a little water, heat to the temperature of rice cooking water, transfer to tub and cool, then knead flour with this. Proper consistency is when lifted and dropped it forms threads that don't break. Too fast to hang or cut is bad. Make holes large enough for fingers to enter. Small bowls are good. Thick or thin depends on the drinker's preference. Heat pot water well. When it resembles sōmen and changes color, scoop up with ladle, put in water to cool and wash well. If you change the water frequently, it becomes whiter and more beautiful. Same as kirimugi - only good kudzu will work.

'Soba-kiri (Cut Buckwheat)' Good to knead with rice cooking water. Or with warm water, or sometimes grind tofu and knead with water. Make small portions. Bad if there's too little water for boiling. When cooked, scoop with ladle, put in warm water and rinse lightly, then put in ladle, pour hot water over, cover so it doesn't cool and has no excess water when serving. Broth same as udon. Additionally, good to add daikon radish juice. Dried bonito flakes, grated scallions and such, also mustard and wasabi are good to add.

'Mugi-kiri (Cut Barley)' This is barley flour. Knead and cut short like kirimugi, broth and toppings like soba-kiri are good.

'Nyūmen (Hot Sōmen)' First cut sōmen short, boil and rinse lightly, then set aside.