Add dashi to hanging miso, bring to a boil and add. Put in small eggplant, green onions, eggplant, etc., and can also prepare with thin miso. Pepper and powdered sansho are good.

Chapter Sixteen: Storage and Preservation Methods

'One-Night Sushi Method' Wash ayu (sweetfish), season rice more salty than usual and stuff into fish, wrap in tea cloth, roast while making fire in the garden, wrap with straw mat 2-3 times, place over the fire, and apply strong weight. Or wrap tightly in bamboo blind, which is also good. It will be ready in one night. Salted fish won't work.

'Whale Preservation' Boil 1 measure salt with 1 measure water, cool well, pickle for three days, then remove and wrap for long-term storage. There's also a method of keeping it pickled in the tub. Also very good to pickle in sake lees with added salt in a jar. Red meat doesn't keep long.

'Bamboo Shoot Preservation' Boil well, add salt to sweet sake to taste - make it quite salty with double or triple salt, and it will keep its color indefinitely. Remove salt when using.

'Shirakawa Sweet Sake' Take 3 measures of white rice, crack and steam well, cool, add 5 measures koji with 5 measures water, knead well, strain through cloth bag, discard the lees, make with that water, stir occasionally. Good in 3 days in summer, 5 days in winter.

'Vegetable Salt Ratio' Summer: 5 parts salt to 10 parts vegetables; winter: 3 parts salt to 10 parts vegetables.

'Carp in Sake Lees' Salt overnight, pickle in lees with strong weight. Good within 5-6 days. For cucumber preservation: heavily salt snow from the cold season, boil and put in jar, cut cucumber in half, remove seeds well and pickle. Lasts until next summer. Also preserve green onions and beans this way.

'Dried Cut Bamboo Shoots' Cut any way, boil in salt water with light salting, dry well and store in jar - color unchanged until next year. Take out and dry again in September-October.

'Dried Cut Eggplant' Dry raw and store in jar. For color, dry 3-5 times in September-October.

'Making Dried Shiitake Fresh' To make fresh, soak the whitest undersides in sugar water and they become fresh.

'Keeping Yuzu Green Until Next Year' When plum-sized, pickle in 1 measure rice bran with a little brass coin shavings. Salt well when using.

'Ice Konjac' Boil well then expose to snow and it will freeze. Same with tofu.

'Kera Sushi Method' Fillet salmon, make flesh flat and large, season rice with salt and mix, simply apply weight. Also make with Ise carp, mullet, etc. salted overnight.

Jōkyō 1st year, Year of the Rat, Auspicious Day, Hirano-machi, Honya Gohei