【Right Page】
Three earthenware vessels (small angular vessels with legs placed on a teapot stand) (sake flask, sake)

Rules for small angular vessels
One small dish, main tray, rice
One namasu (fish, daikon radish, ginger, chestnut soup), thick soup (skewered mashed potatoes, daikon on skewers, abalone)
Two sardines (wrapped in paper, belly to belly, tied with mizuhiki cord, with one center fold) (One pickled vegetables, One small tub of dressed vegetables)
Rules
One shellfish arrangement

Two Soup (tsukagobou, wheat gluten, mushrooms, greens)
Earthenware vessel
One sushi dish (earthenware vessel - one octopus, earthenware vessel - one jellyfish, one kamaboko)
Three Rules
Soup, nori seaweed, clams

Small angular vessel
One leaf arrangement
Wheat gluten, wheat gluten cakes

Small angular vessel with gold and silver broth
One boat arrangement (small angular vessel - one turban shell, regulation small angular vessel - one small dish) Soup, carp

Small angular vessel arrangement
One umbrella body Five Soup, cod, kelp One clam

【Left Page】
Cooking Secrets Manual
Chapter One: Raw Sauce and Broth Section

"For raw sauce" - Add three shō of water to one shō of miso, knead and strain through cloth. "For dripping miso" - Add three and a half shō of water to one shō of miso, simmer until it becomes about three shō, then put in cloth bag and strain. "Ninuki" is raw sauce with bonito added, simmered and strained. "For broth" - If you have one shō of good quality shaved bonito, add one and a half shō of water and simmer. Taste it and remove when the sweetness is just right. If overdone it becomes bad; use second brewing. "For seasoned sake" - To one shō of bonito add 15-20 pickled plums, two shō of aged sake, a little water and a little tamari, simmer down to one shō, strain and cool. Alternatively, add one shō of water to two shō of sake and simmer down to two shō. "Broth sake" - Add a little salt to bonito, simmer with new sake in equal parts, strain and cool. "For vegetarian broth" - Use dried gourd strips and kelp, combining these ingredients well. "Vegetarian seasoned sake" - Cut tofu into dengaku-sized pieces, grill them, add chopped pickled plums and dried turnips, simmer with aged sake. Alternatively, just pour over sake alone. There are oral traditions for this. "For wasabi and miso vinegar sauce" - Grate wasabi, add miso, grind well and thin with vinegar. "For ginger miso vinegar sauce" - Same as above. "White vinegar sauce" - Add tofu to mustard seed, season with salt and thin with vinegar. For white dressed salad, do not add vinegar but mix well. "For blanching" - Cut tai (sea bream) and put in hot water, then immediately in cold water