【Right Page】
This means to chill. "Shirameru" (blanching) means the same thing. Also "yugaku" means to quickly boil anything.
"Kake wo otosu" means to add a little tamari to clear soup. "Tobu" refers to a state like always squeezing sake lees.

Chapter Two: Soup Section

"For tai (sea bream) with beaten egg" - Add salt at the right time, leaving some salt, put the fish in the heated part of the pot, add enough aged sake to cover the salt, and when the alcohol comes up, add third-grade white water, adjust salt seasoning, balance the taste and serve. The garnish should be seasonal items. Note that this uses backbone-cut sea bream. "For Korean-style sea bream" - Sprinkle a little salt in the pot, put the sea bream in as is, add white water to aged sake so the fish is just covered, cook until the alcohol evaporates, add rice cooking water, drop in kake, adjust seasoning, balance taste and serve. Add mushrooms, leeks, etc. as desired. Other additions as preferred. For this, fillet the sea bream and cut it in. "For sea bream mock-fugu soup" - Use medium miso for the base, add cloudiness, put in sea bream and cook, adjust salt seasoning, balance taste and serve. If it becomes too thick, add cloudiness several times. However, it's good to add dried fugu skin. It's good to grill and peel dried fugu. "For sea bass soup" - Clear soup with kelp broth is good. Put the top part in mica, add cloud intestines is good. Can also be prepared with thin miso. "For carp soup with bile" - First remove the bile, finely chop the intestines and pound well, put in pot and fry to fox color, remove the dregs, rinse the pot with sake or broth and discard, then add broth and cook. Fillet the carp into three pieces and cut with scales, though adding scales in summer is

【Left Page】
not good. There are oral traditions about this. Salt seasoning is crucial. There's also a method of grinding the bile, thinning with sake, setting aside, adjusting the bitterness, balancing taste and serving. Various such traditions are the same. For carp miso soup, prepare like funa (crucian carp). "For crucian carp soup" - Use miso from medium to thick and add broth. Whether with wakame or kajime seaweed, wrap the crucian carp and cook. When sweetness is lacking, add ground bonito. In any case, it's good to make the miso with broth. Cook well, add sake and salt, garnish with powdered sansho pepper. "For small fish soup" - With mixed small crucian carp and shrimp, the seasoning is as above. Add tsuma-gobo (fine burdock), daikon, bamboo shoots, whatever as desired, sake and salt, same garnish. "For cod soup" - Clear soup with kelp broth is good. Indeed, it's good to leave the kelp skin. Also place ogakatha nori seaweed. It's good to add broth. Sometimes clam stuffing and sea lettuce are added. Similarly, dried cod is also good for soup. "Whale soup" - Make clear soup with kake added. Can also be prepared as miso soup. Tsuma-gobo, daikon, stem vegetables etc. are good. Bamboo shoots and myoga as desired. For whale, sometimes pour hot water over the prepared meat. Also good to quickly boil the whale. This should be understood. For fugu soup, peel the skin, discard the intestines, carefully remove the return liver from the head, wash thoroughly until no blood remains and cut, first soak in cloudy liquid. Also add clear sake. Then make the base a little thinner than medium miso, bring to a boil, add the fish, cook briefly, add cloudiness, adjust salt seasoning, balance taste and serve. Garnish with garlic. "Kochi" (flathead) also