Serve as follows. Put three cups of sake with one egg, this is good.

'Yam Sake' Grate very white mountain yams finely, mix well with cold sake, add a little salt, and stir until properly warmed.

'Pigeon Sake' Pound pigeon well, mix with sake, put a little miso in a pot, fry until fox-colored, then add pigeon and sake. Add a little sansho powder, pepper powder, wasabi, etc. Can also fry with soy sauce.

'Pheasant Sake' Pound the tips beyond the joints in pheasant feathers finely, add a little salt and fry, add any of the above seasonings, and serve with sake in good proportion. When eating the meat, add a little soy sauce.

'Kneaded Sake' Mix egg with white sugar, knead well with cold sake, and warm.

'Ginger Sake' Grate ginger into miso, fry, add sake and warm. Also add ginger juice. For miso sake, fry only miso.

'Quick Sweet Sake' Wash one sho of domyoji rice with hot water and set aside. Mix one sho of koji with one sho of water, strain through a cloth bag, put in a pot and simmer until thick. It will be ready quickly. Good to add white sugar.

《Chapter 6: Side Dishes》

'Fluffy Eggs' Break eggs, add sake with tamari equivalent to one-third the volume of eggs, and boil well. If it becomes hard from the broth, it's bad. Adding chicken or thin bird leg meat makes it stretch.

'Rolled Kamaboko' Attach kamaboko to grilled egg fu, arrange kelp on top, roll tightly, tie the top, add a little salt, and boil before cutting.

'Rolled Surume' Wash surume, sprinkle a little seaweed scraps, tie with straw, put in hot water, cool, and cut.

'Pounded Surume' Grill the outside and tear apart on a board.

'Fresh-Grilled Salmon' Cut fresh salmon vertically like shell-shaped pieces, soak in salt water for a short time, then dry and grill.

'Sake-Included Hanging Items' Cod, surume, opened salmon, squid, sillago, kelp, green seaweed, rokujō. However, rokujō should be used when there is no moon.

'Butterbur Sprouts' Boil, skewer, coat with sansho miso, and grill. Can also be boiled.

'Egg Lotus' Pour only egg yolk into lotus root, press the opening, boil, and slice.

'Chilled Items' Daikon radish, melon, lotus root, black melon, apple, peach, plum, apricot, chestnut, pear.

'Minced Items' Sea bream roe and intestines, mackerel back intestines, puffer fish eyes, sardines, sea urchin, japanese anchovy, silkworm roe, herring roe, fish intestines, salmon intestines, white fish, pounded bonito, skylark, quail.

'Vinegar Pickles' Myoga ginger, plum, ginger, mountain peach, bamboo shoots, coastal glehnia, aralia, lotus root, carrot, scallop, perilla, sansho, silvervine. Various others. Use 2 gō of salt to 1 shō of vinegar.