The previous day, arrangements were made through the monthly duty officer to have the town magistrate give instructions to Hōkōji temple. Attire: field haori jacket, field hakama, lacquered hat, on horseback. Retainers: tube sleeves, fire hats, leg coverings. Group administrators and attendants were instructed by the monthly duty group leader. However: administrators, two assistants, attendants on both sides, spear bearers. However, one attendant □□

1. Bunsei 4, Year of the Snake, 10th month, 5th day - sword inspection duty Ōsaki Shichinadayū
1. Same 7th year, Year of the Monkey, 9th month, 29th day - same, Imadate Gorōdayū
1. Tenpō 7, Year of the Monkey, 9th month, 16th day - same, Nara Gondayū
1. Kansei 2, Year of the Dog, 6th month, 28th day, Suzuki Seizaemon: Tsuchiya Gorōdayū reported that tomorrow the 29th there would be an execution, so the people of Kōmyōji's three villages submitted a petition requesting that the irrigation water not be polluted, asking for appropriate handling. This matter was communicated to Kobayashi Mataemon for his information. Since there was nothing polluting on my side, and since there would be a sword inspection, Mataemon's side requested that this be communicated. When this matter was reported to the sword officials, Niwa Ichizaemon reported that it was understood. Monthly duty: Nara Tarōemon

1. Same day: Tomorrow the 29th there will be an execution at the site, so as before, the foot inspectors should attend, and six group members should be dispatched as instructed to the group leader. Also, since there will be a sword inspection, it was arranged for Saburōbei to attend.

1. Same day: There was an execution which was completed without delay, then there was a sword inspection. Saburōbei attended with foot inspector Nishimura Tōshirō and group members. It was completed without delay before 4 o'clock, and this was reported to the senior councilors. Note: Twelve duty group members.

1. Kansei 4, Year of the Water Rat, intercalary 2nd month, 21st day: The sword magistrates reported that on the coming 23rd there would be punishment, so sword inspection duties were ordered, as reported to monthly duty officer Sanada Chikara.

1. Same day: Ichihashi Man'emon reported that similarly, capable persons would go to the site. They would wait at Gotō Den'jūrō's place in Katamachi until the execution was completed, then proceed to the site upon notification of completion. He requested guidance to Den'jūrō's place in Katamachi when fellow officials were on duty, and also requested to know the names of attending pages. It was replied that Nishimura Kohēji would attend.
　Note: These details were also communicated in full to duty officer Kohēji.

1. Same 22nd day: If tomorrow the 23rd the execution is completed, notification should be sent to duty officer Kohēji's residence, as communicated to Kobayashi Mataemon, who acknowledged this and further communicated it to Kohēji.

1. Same day: Due to the execution and sword inspection, as before, fellow official Kohēji would attend and foot inspectors would attend. For group members: fifteen for site security, two Kohēji administrators, total seventeen to be dispatched as instructed to the group leader.
　Note: For Kohēji's duty, one attendant carrying rain gear was requested from the magistrate and a borrowed person was provided. Although this year there are circumstances of general reduction in personnel and horses making it difficult to provide, if there are future such duties and the magistrate is again consulted, since it is a matter of one person, it should be provided.

[Red notation] △Three pages later, Kyōhō 20 proclamation
1. Kansei 5, Year of the Ox, 7th month proclamation: Regarding punishment exclusion months and days
　1. In the shogunate there are no punishment exclusion months
　1. In our domain, inquiries should be made following shogunate practices
　1. His Lordship's, Young Lord's, and Lord Yoshimaru's birthdays are excluded
　1. Matters concerning auspicious days for Her Ladyship should be deliberated at the time
[Upper left red notation] C