The delay in completing the hut would not matter, but regarding the heads, they should keep both men stationed there and display them at the execution ground once the hut is ready, as instructed, and this was communicated to Jūrōemon. Regarding the notice boards, the duty group reported that they should be erected on the western side of Shimpo village compound. It was also instructed by the [senior councilor] that similar notice boards should be posted in Akasaka.

1. Kansei 2, Year of the Dog, 6th month, 26th day: The following was ordered to Town Magistrate Kobayashi Mataemon and the Three District Magistrates:
Regarding cases where there are deliberations at the office and after investigations are completed, inquiries are made through punishment documents, regardless of severity, even for punishment cases that correspond to death penalty according to recent practices, inquiries are made whether tattooing and banishment should be ordered out of compassion. However, there may be cases where lighter punishments are ordered by His Lordship's will. From that direction, investigations should be conducted, and appropriate punishments should be inquired about in the future based on the established codes and ancient precedents. The above.

[Red notation] This article should be included in the investigation and deliberation section

1. Same year, 11th month, 25th day: Office handling matters have been mixed up until now, so the following was ordered as per the separate document. Hereafter, such should be understood and handled accordingly. Town Magistrate Kobayashi Mataemon

1. When retainers are ordered to be investigated at the town office, an inspector must be ordered to attend
1. Regarding those handed over from various offices, there are investigations at those offices, and when there are witnesses to their crimes or evidence with seals, etc., but they do not confess and torture is ordered, after they are handed over to the town office, their supervising head shall conduct investigations, and at that time, the town magistrate and inspector shall be ordered to attend jointly
However, after investigations are conducted as above and matters are clarified, punishment matters shall be inquired about by the supervising head. Of course, when ordered, executions and above are ordered to the town office, and tattooing and below are ordered to that supervising head
1. Generally, for those handed over, there are investigations by their supervisors, and when there are doubts, investigations are ordered at the town office, so only inspectors are ordered to attend according to the crime
However, when investigations are conducted as above and matters are clarified, they are handed over to their supervisors with written statements, and punishment matters are inquired about by the supervising head
Subordinates and people from other provinces and domains are ordered to be treated the same way

1. When there are suspicious matters regarding men and women employed by retainer families, that matter is reported, the inspector communicates to the master, the master sends them to the office, and whether the office summons them is at the master's discretion

1. For the same type of cases requiring arrest, whether the master hands them over, or the master dismisses them and officials arrest them at the gate, is at the master's discretion when communicated by the inspector. Generally, officials should not enter retainer family compounds to make arrests

1. When there are fines, confiscated property, and seized goods, all such items must be delivered to the town office
However, when there are fines, confiscated property, and seized goods, such items must be reported to the monthly duty inspector
〆 Besides this, there were various orders regarding town matters and regulations for inns, lodging houses, etc., which are abbreviated. Also, various matters were ordered to district magistrates and others

1. Genroku 11, Year of the Tiger, 6th month, 5th day: Town Magistrate Atsumi Shin'emon communicated that a person named Shibutare Sukezaemon, a clerk contracted by Lord Shishikura Yohei, requested to test a wakizashi sword if there were any condemned criminals. When this was reported to the senior councilors, they said to send him to perform test cuts when there are condemned criminals

1. Kyōhō 12, Year of the Sheep, intercalary 1st month, 25th day: There was a beheading in prison, and members of the foot inspector group were sent to the prison

1. Same 18th year, Year of the Ox, 1st month, 22nd day: Custody guard Tamura Shichirōbei killed Riemon and Anzaemon of the same village, so an inquiry about punishment was made to Edo, where death penalty was ordered. Today the death penalty was carried out in prison. At this time, both the custody inspector and one surface inspector were ordered to attend by the senior councilors and did so. There are detailed records of this case

1. Same 20th year, Year of the Rabbit, 2nd month, 25th day: There was a condemned criminal at Akari, and sword ceremonies were also prepared, so one of the inspectors was ordered to attend as communicated by the Genban office

1. Same year, 10th month, 16th day: Ōmiya Hikoemon reported that a condemned criminal would be ordered executed on the coming 19th day. When inquired to Sazen's office whether to inform the sword ceremony office, he was told to inform them, and if ceremonial swords and tools are prepared, one of us should attend as before, as communicated by Sazen's office

[Red notation] △ Three pages ahead

1. Same year, 8th month, 29th day: Memorandum received from Edo
1. If there are those to be ordered executed, inform Town Magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon, prepare crime documents, and submit them again as ordered. Also, the month and day of execution are ordered, and a written notice comes
Memorandum: 1. 1st, 5th, 9th months 1. 7th month 1. Anniversary months 1. Shogunate abstinence days
1. Domain death anniversary days 1. Inauspicious days. Besides the above, no restrictions on death anniversary months hereafter. 7th month of the Rabbit year. The inauspicious days mentioned refer to tomobiki days, as later communicated [Up to here in red]

1. Hōei 7, Year of the Tiger, intercalary 8th month, 24th day: An execution was scheduled for tomorrow the 25th, but last night Castle Keeper Sakai Yosōbei died, and since he held an important position, everyone agreed it would be appropriate to postpone it for three days, so there was a delay

1. Kyōhō 13, Year of the Monkey, 6th month, 25th day: Seven people were ordered executed
However, regarding those sentenced to death, taking them to the execution ground incurs expenses, so at this time they were ordered beheaded in prison. Commentary? Recently there have been strict economy measures in all directions

1. Kan'en 3, Year of the Horse, 8th month, 15th night: In Edo, Gengōrō, son of minor official Shida ■■[Ikuno?]emon, went to foot soldier Yamaguchi Kanbei's place, and after an argument, it came to sword wounds, and Kanbei died from a wound to his right hand. On the 18th, Gengōrō was sent to Sugamo estate and ordered executed
However, Kanbei's corpse was granted to his father Manbei upon request

1. Genroku 8, Year of the Boar, 2nd month, 29th day: Inspector Nishio Denbei was ill, and Takada Kintayū had a conflict due to council day, so today for inspection of the execution ground, Yukifuki Kizaemon of the weapon bearers was ordered to attend. Yesterday through Kintayū, [instructions were given] to Kizaemon, and indeed Kizaemon attended

[Upper left red notation] C