1. In the 5th intercalary month of Shōtoku 3 (1713), regarding the classification of severity for banishment ordered by the shogunate, as received by the caretaker Ōseki Shingozaemon:

Heavy banishment: Musashi, Sagami, Kōzuke, Shimotsuke, Awa, Kazusa, Shimōsa, Hitachi, Yamashiro, Settsu, Sakai, Nara, Nagasaki, Tōkaidō route, Kiso route, Suruga, Owari, Kii

Medium banishment: Ten ri radius from Edo, Kyoto, Osaka, Sakai, Nara, Fushimi, Nagasaki, Tōkaidō route, Kiso route, Nikkō, Nikkō highway route, Nagoya, Wakayama, Mito

Light banishment: Ten ri radius from Edo, Kyoto, Osaka, Tōkaidō route, Nikkō, Nikkō highway route

Edo banishment: Ten ri radius from Edo

As stated above, ordered in the 5th intercalary month.

Regarding banishment and voluntary banishment:
1. For those banished, their swords (daishō) are confiscated and an ashigaru-metsuke is dispatched to hand over the swords at the provincial border.
However, when ordered to shave one's head for banishment, no ashigaru-metsuke is dispatched. Currently, all samurai have their status stripped before banishment, so none are dispatched. Previously, ordinary banishment was ordered, so ashigaru-metsuke handed over the swords at the provincial border.

1. On the 7th day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 5 (1720): Shell officer Nakazawa Monuemon had his head shaved for banishment at the picture room veranda. His hair was in the custody of caretaker Saburōzaemon, so Tōgō Saburōzaemon's group performed the head shaving.
At this time, the metsuke presided at the hyōjōsho for the head shaving because it was a matter concerning a monk, not samurai protocol. There was no written notice of restrictions; they took a pledge that he would not serve again and sent him directly from the hyōjōsho to the lower area on foot. The swords were not handed over, and on the 9th day he was handed over to Ōmiya Hikoemon. However, due to a painful condition, he was sent out on horseback from the kanjōsho. No ashigaru-metsuke was dispatched; four group members were sent to Hosorogi checkpoint. The banishment procedure was not samurai protocol, and confiscation of property was ordered.
Regarding Monzaemon's confiscation: wearing a rain cape and hat, bird coins were given from the kanjōsho for lunch.

1. On the 13th day of the 6th month of Shōtoku 5 (1715): Gold magistrate Atsumi Gonbee had his head shaved for banishment. His hair was considered to be handled by guards during deliberation. It was ordered to have ashigaru guards perform the head shaving.

1. In the 2nd month of the same 9th year (Kyōhō 9, 1724): Previously, even among samurai, when banishment was ordered, swords were confiscated for banishment according to precedent, so Jōsuke's swords were also taken and placed in a palanquin. Takezawa Jōsuke was banished from a three-ri radius of the castle town, sent out in a palanquin from the hyōjōsho, and reported to the magistrates.
Four porters carried the palanquin, with one additional person carrying the swords wrapped in paper. One ashigaru-metsuke and four group members were dispatched. At a place called Tomeki at the three-ri point, near Hanatani, he was lowered from the palanquin, and ashigaru-metsuke Kawamura Rokudayū handed over the swords. It was ordered that if he desired food along the way, it should be provided, and money would be received later to give to the group members. Confiscation of property was ordered.

1. Ganmon 4 (1739): Ōban group member Egawa Chūuemon was banished.

1. On the 9th day of the 11th month of Enkyō 1 (1744): Shoinban attendant Yukifuki Kantayū had his head shaved for banishment in Edo (gate expulsion). However, his hair was shaved by a new servant.

[Upper left red notation] 2