and personal effects were to be handed over to Sōzaemon through consultation with Hori Chōbē, the keeper of the meeting place, and this was ordered to foot inspector Yamura Jinzaemon.

　1. Kyōwa 3rd year (Year of the Boar), 10th month: Regarding the request to receive the swords and personal effects that were confiscated when Shikibu, adopted son of Nagami Rokurōemon, was banished some time ago, there was a private petition through Shizuma of the same name. When this was consulted with the senior retainers, they instructed to handle it as petitioned, so a letter was sent to Rokurōemon's residence instructing them to send someone to the accounting office at 4 o'clock the next day to receive the items. Accordingly, foot inspector Ban Gorozaemon was instructed to handle it well when they came to receive them the next day, and Hori Chōbē was also told to consult about it. When they immediately came to receive the items, he witnessed the handover of swords, personal effects, etc., as reported by Gorozaemon 《There was a receipt from Rokurōemon's retainer》

1. Regarding petitions by parents to recall banished sons
　1. Bunsei 12th year (Year of the Ox), 10th month: Regarding Yūsuke, son of Hababe Yasohachi, who was banished in Bunsei 10th year (Year of the Boar) due to being ill-behaved upon Yasohachi's petition, a verbal petition was submitted stating that his disposition seemed to have reformed and requesting to recall him this time. This was granted as petitioned. Note that the petitioner for this recall was Yasohachi's second son Kubē 《originally named Takichi》, who had become the family head.
　　However, regarding this Yūsuke, initially there should have been official punishment from above, but since the petition for banishment was submitted beforehand, pardon was granted this time. In reality, he had gone out as if absconding, was brought back, and the petition for banishment was immediately submitted.

1. Tenpō 2nd year (Year of the Rabbit), 7th month, 8th day: Sakai Gonzaemon submitted the following petition:
　Vertical document: Since my son Hisaya has committed improper acts, I petition to banish him from within the domain. Although there should have been methods of admonition beforehand, I failed to achieve this and am deeply ashamed. Please kindly convey this matter to the senior retainers. The above.
　　　　　　　7th month, 8th day
　　　　　　　　　　　　　To Imamura Gobē　　　　　　Sakai Gonzaemon

　This was submitted to the residence of duty officer Matsudaira Shuma, so colleagues were instructed to deliberate and report. Upon deliberation, since this was a petition, it was reported that it should be granted as requested. Until now, during residence in Edo, inquiries were made to Edo, but since this was a parent's petition and would not be in time, this time it was conveyed without making inquiry. Also, regarding whether Gonzaemon's self-restraint should be inquired about and how it should be handled, although colleagues reported that since no circumstances were heard from Gonzaemon, such measures were unnecessary and if circumstances arose later, punishment from above would be appropriate, after deliberation by the senior retainers, when Gonzaemon submitted his self-restraint inquiry, restraint was ordered for three days.

1. Tenpō 5th year (Year of the Horse), 6th month, 23rd day: Regarding self-restraint inquiries when children, younger brothers, etc. leave the domain upon petition, the following deliberation was decided:
　1. When I petition for children, younger brothers, etc. to leave the domain and then submit self-restraint inquiries out of shame, if there are no special circumstances, restraint shall be ordered
　1. When parents and siblings of the birth family submit self-restraint inquiries for the same reason, if there are also no special circumstances, immediate orders that such measures are unnecessary shall be issued
　　However, for those in close attendance, during absence years this shall be immediate as above; during residence in the domain, after conveying to His Lordship and inquiring about his intentions, orders that such measures are unnecessary shall be issued. For relatives of other families, even if they are uncles, nephews, or brothers, self-restraint inquiries need not be submitted - only the head of that family, whether adoptive or birth, shall submit inquiries. However, the current head of the birth family shall submit inquiries regardless of parent-child or sibling relationships, even if they are uncle-nephew or other family connections.

[Upper left red notation] 2