As stated above, when inquiries are made in the future, they should be answered accordingly, as decided through deliberation by colleagues after consultation with the senior retainers.

1. In Bunsei 9 (Year of the Dog): Minagawa Heiuemon's runaway son Tarōkichi was banished by petition. Details in the runaway section.

1. In the same 10th year (Year of the Boar): Inoko Tarōuemon's runaway son Genpachi was banished by petition. Details in the runaway section.

1. On the 5th day of the 2nd month of Bunsei 2 (Year of the Rabbit): Tagaya Saori had his samurai status stripped and was ordered banished. His adoptive father Gonsuke had 100 koku confiscated from his stipend and was ordered to self-restraint. Gonsuke's wife was stripped of samurai rank and ordered divorced for extreme impropriety, and was confined to the detention house.
　　Saori's birth family　　Self-restraint after inquiry　　Koma Takumi
　　Brother of Gonsuke's wife's birth family　　Self-restraint after inquiry　　Iida Oriei
Although Saori had no heir, since the adoptive family received particularly severe punishment that affected the house, self-restraint was ordered as inquired.

1. On the 16th day of the 2nd month of Tempō 8 (Year of the Rooster): Sakushi Shingouemon's second son Kinhachirou was stripped of samurai status and ordered banished.
　　Kinhachirou's elder brother　　Self-restraint inquiry unnecessary　　Katsuki Gondayū

1. On the 29th day of the 4th month of the same 12th year (Year of the Ox): Kishida Tōdayū's adopted son Hasaburō was stripped of samurai status and ordered banished, and Tōdayū was also ordered to self-restraint.
　　Hasaburō's elder brother in birth family　　Self-restraint inquiry unnecessary　　Kawai Hikojūrō
　　However, in this case there was no harm to Tōdayū's house, and since it was severe punishment for the individual alone, it was deliberated that the birth family need not observe self-restraint. Duty officer Okabe Sazen's section.
This was decided based on the previous case of Sakushi, and furthermore, for those not in active service, self-restraint inquiries from birth family brothers would not be ordered. However, close attendants may be a separate matter. Yaori considers this case differs from Sakushi's case.

1. On the 28th day of the 5th month of Tempō 15 (Year of the Dragon): When inquiring about mourning customs to Minagawa Tazaemon, the following was stated (among three articles, one other is in the marriage section and one in the permanent separation section):
1. Even after samurai status is stripped and domain banishment is ordered, followed by gradual pardons and residence permits, mourning customs should still be mutually observed.

1. On the 16th day of the 8th month of Bunsei 8 (Year of the Rooster): Sakai Geki's uncle Tsushima, who was ordered banished from the domain last year, had a chronic nervous condition that worsened recently. Fearing what might happen in another domain, a petition was approved to take him into Geki's custody for strict supervision during his illness. However, the circumstances of divorce from the Tagaya family mentioned earlier are detailed in the children's divorce section.

1. Regarding nose-cutting banishment: This occurred frequently during the Genroku era, as recorded in the general records. It was for gambling.
[Red notation] On the 21st day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster): Three people had their noses cut and were banished, all for returning from domain banishment.

1. On the 11th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 6 (Year of the Ox): The Kanazu town district magistrate was told by the senior retainers that henceforth banished persons should not use side roads beyond the two locations of Itatori (upper) and Hosologi (lower).

1. On the 29th day of the 2nd month of the same 11th year (Year of the Horse): Letters from Kondō Hachiuemon and Terasawa Kanzaemon in Kyoto requested notification of future banishments to Kyoto for their information, as they had difficulty responding when inquired by the magistrate's office. It was replied that those of ashigaru rank and above would henceforth be reported. Also refer to the permanent separation petition section.

1. On the 29th day of the 11th month of Kyōhō 5 (Year of the Rat): Since those banished from the castle town should not remain within a two-ri radius when passing through, although Matsuoka is within that area, it was agreed that they should still be placed in Matsuoka, and those banished from Matsuoka should not be placed in the castle town.

1. In the 7th month of the same 16th year (Year of the Boar): In Edo, the disgraced Kajūrō, Zengoro, Zenkichi, and Chōdayū were banned from entering various estates. They were naturally prohibited from entering the domain and castle town within a thirteen-ri radius.

1. On the 29th day of the 5th month of the same 20th year (Year of the Rabbit): Hair cut and banished from castle town to thirteen ri within the domain: Take, a female servant and thief of Sōuemon from Sanjūhachisha village.

[Upper left red notation] 2