However, when announcements are made at magistrates' residences, inspectors should also go.

1. When dismissal has been announced and completed, the residence magistrate should be promptly notified by the inspectors.

1. In Tenmei 7 (Year of the Sheep), when dismissal, domain confiscation, etc., were ordered, since there have been cases where people were not sent to other places or domains from before, when the senior councilors inquired whether there were established regulations for such positions from before, it was reported that no such established regulations from before were known, and it was believed these matters were ordered based on deliberations at the time. Subsequently, when such matters arise, inspectors should consult together and submit a record of official duties that make it difficult to send people to other domains or places. It was reported that generally it should be as follows, and matters marked with • would depend on the individual and deliberations at the time and would not be problematic:
　　Magistrates [Red notation] Shōtoku 2, Year of Dragon, Tanaka Jōzaemon　　　Inspectors and other officials [Red notation] Hōei 2, Year of Rooster, Kawagoe Uuemon　　　　　　　　　　・Construction magistrates
　　Financial officers　・Waterworks magistrates　　Foot soldier inspectors　　　Military equipment magistrates　・Military strategists
　・Painting magistrates　　　Warehouse magistrates　・Castle deputy assistants　・Accounting magistrates　　Estates minor accountants
　・Ninja group members　　District magistrates and their subordinate deputies [Red notation] Entrusted territory deputy Handa Kuzaemon, same group deputy Saji Kyūzaemon, Kan'en 1, Year of Dragon, 10th month, 21st day, stipends withdrawn and travel to other domains restricted　　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Accounting inspectors　Cleaning magistrates
Besides the above, those serving in personal attendance should be subject to deliberation. The above was reported to the senior councilors by Eguchi Genzaemon.

1. In Genbun 2, Year of the Snake: When senior councilors' secretary Ochiai Chōzaemon was granted dismissal, he was to remain within the domain territory and not go to other domains.

1. On the 27th day of the 3rd month of Tenna 3, Year of the Boar: By amnesty for the 13th memorial service of Lord Seichiiin, service to the domain was pardoned for Sasaoka Sōtoku. He was formerly a secretary chamber page, but due to violating domain regulations, his stipend was withdrawn and he was ordered not to go to other domains or places.

1. On the 16th day of the 9th month of Enpō 5, Year of the Snake: Koma Jūtayū's group member Ōno Rokuzaemon's unfilial conduct reached his lordship's ears and was deemed improper. Since his service would be problematic under such circumstances, he was granted dismissal.

1. Genbun 5, Year of the Monkey: Great guard group Sakamaki Jūuemon had his domain confiscated.
[Below] 1. Bunka 12, Year of the Boar, 7th month, 20th day　　　Shusai's adoptive father
　　　　　　　　　　　　 　　　　　　Former secretary chamber page　Gotō Eitaku
While serving as secretary chamber page, extremely improper conduct occurred, so he was banished from within three ri in all directions of the castle town. However, going to other domains was prohibited.

1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of Kanpō 2, Year of the Dog: Great guard group Kamimikawa Jitayū had his domain confiscated.

1. Same year, same month, same day: Court acupuncturist Yoshida Gen'eki had his domain confiscated.

1. On the 25th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 21, Year of the Dragon {margin note: Genbun 1}: Regarding court lady Koshikibu, also known as Shungyoku-in, when dismissal was granted, it was announced by the senior councilors that travel permits for Itatoriguchi should be examined and submitted. Until now, there have been no cases of issuing permits immediately upon women's dismissal, so from whom should guarantees be obtained for issuing permits? For banished women, permits are issued without guarantees. In such precedent cases, for wives of dismissed samurai, when they subsequently move to other domains, permits are issued with family guarantee documents - how should this be handled? When this was reported to Matsudaira Shume's section, it was announced that like banished women, guarantee documents are not required and permits should be issued, and this should be conveyed to Ōmiya Hikoemon. This was conveyed to Hikoemon with a record. However, since Shungyoku-in's brother Kuki Sazaemon was granted dismissal, Shungyoku-in was also granted dismissal.

1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of Kanpō 2, Year of the Dog: Assembly member Suganuma Yozō [Red notation] 500 koku　dismissal [Red notation] to remain within the domain, not to go to other domains

1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of the same year: Great guard group Takaya Gen'uemon [Red notation] formerly inner physician　Court physician Okabe Kōhaku　[Red notation] to remain within the domain, not to go to other domains　Great guard Ban Saiemon, foot soldier Ban Hanbei dismissal {margin note: record of the 19th day of the same month, error regarding surveillance group members recorded}

1. Enkyō 4, Year of the Rabbit: Great guard group Rikimaru Matazaemon dismissal

1. On the 25th day of the 11th month of Hōreki 2, Year of the Monkey: Great guard group falconry official Katsuda Hikojirō dismissal

1. 12th month of Hōreki 6, Year of the Rat: Great guard Yajima Satayū dismissal

1. On the 22nd day of the 9th month of Hōreki 8, Year of the Tiger: Shioya Kyūuemon, Yokoyama Kouemon, Ban Magonoshin, Takezawa Shinshichi, Miyazuka Saburōzaemon dismissal

1. On the 25th day of the 10th month of Kansei 4, Year of the Rat: Tsuchiya Shinnosuke was granted dismissal, but since his father Gorōtayū had served long and faithfully, his relative Ishihara Kurōzaemon's younger brother Torazō was granted the family succession with ten-person stipend. Since Torazō was 12 years old, when he reaches 15, should he also be granted the rice stipend of 25 koku and five-person stipend? ○ Torazō was reportedly 9 years old - due to his extreme youth, during the punishment period, he was taken into Kurōzaemon's household for custody by petition.

1. For visiting the residences of those granted dismissal at that time and giving various instructions, even if they are samurai, urgent petitions are not required to the inspectors.

[Upper left red notation] Ho