There were matters requiring consideration, so the father Kanemon was granted dismissal.

[Red notation] Hereafter, when matters are announced with such written orders, they should always be made available for viewing as stated above, by his lordship's will.

△1. On the 13th day of the 3rd month of Kyōhō 2, Year of the Rooster: Taki Kanbei was ordered to have his domain confiscated at Edo. The written order was to be shown to the presenters, attendants, leaders of front and side retainers, and public officials. [Red notation] To Masugi Shozaemon by his lordship's will. Confinement of five thousand koku or more. {Margin note: Your conduct on the 7th - going out and drinking heavily, repeatedly showing misconduct - is extremely inappropriate. There have long been regulations about exercising restraint outside the gates, but especially at this time during Prince Seiju's confinement period, such negligence and misconduct are considered extremely inappropriate. Strict punishment should be imposed, but considering the circumstances, domain confiscation is ordered instead. End.}

1. On the 25th day of the 10th month of the same 13th year, Year of the Monkey: Anonymous writing was posted at the Nanatsu-gura guard post. After investigation, three guard samurai - {Margin note: Written order - Kataoka Takebei, Mitera Shōhachi, Matsuo Motoshichi - Your services are no longer required and you are granted dismissal. End. Same text for all three} - and one substitute's son, Sakabe Sangorōemon's adopted son Kanroku, were granted dismissal and returned to their fathers.

　　　　　Written Order　Memorandum　　　Sakabe Sangorōemon's adopted son Kanroku
　　　　Regarding the aforementioned Kanroku:
　　　　By his lordship's will, he is given to his father Sangorōemon
　　　　and should be expelled from the domain. At that time, the
　　　　inspectors have matters to arrange, so he should be handled
　　　　according to the inspectors' instructions. This should be
　　　　announced to Sangorōemon. End.
　　　　　The above was announced to Suganuma Yoichirō.

1. On the 16th day of the 6th month of Tenpō 4, Year of the Snake: Urai Gohei's adopted son Nabeshirō was ordered to leave the domain.

1. On the 3rd day of the 5th month of Bunsei 13, Year of the Tiger: Ueda Gensaku was granted dismissal.
　　Gensaku's elder brother from his birth family - self-restraint after inquiry　　　　　Ōhira Shin'nai
　　Elder brother of the woman with whom Gensaku had an affair - confinement after inquiry　　Sasaki Ichiu
　　　However, regarding Gensaku, he had an affair with the sister of town doctor Sasaki, and both were on the verge of eloping when relatives brought them back
　　　　and kept them under restraint. Moreover, the woman involved in the affair was ordered expelled from the castle town.

△1. On the 22nd day of the 3rd month: Memorandum announced to Taki Ryōgi
　Regarding your son of the same name Kanbei: At Edo on the 7th, he went out, drank heavily, became intoxicated and violent, assaulted servants on the way, and was helped by a monk from elsewhere. When he returned to the gate, there were improper incidents. There have long been regulations that even minor matters outside the gates may be severely punished depending on circumstances. Given this behavior, especially during the mourning period, this is extremely inappropriate. Strict punishment should be imposed, but considering the circumstances, domain confiscation is ordered. Since you are from a family line that performed ritual suicide, considering this fact, you are granted a five-person stipend. End. 22nd day of the 3rd month.

1. Those granted dismissal should not enter the domain.
　　However, for minor offenders, they may directly reside in the castle town.
　　　Also, depending on their official positions, they may be ordered not to leave the domain.

1. On the 5th day of the 7th month of Kyōhō 15, Year of the Dog: Tanabe Koan, who had been granted dismissal, returned to Kida-machi last night and gave various orders. Town magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon reported this. Since he was granted dismissal and should not enter the domain, but repeatedly returned and was expelled multiple times, this repeated return is inappropriate behavior, so he should be imprisoned. This was announced to Hikoemon.

1. Record of the 21st day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 12, Year of the Sheep: Court physician Tanabe Koan, attendant to Princess Tomo in Kyoto, was granted dismissal. Instructions for handling were sent to Terasawa Kanzaemon in Kyoto, and Kondō Hachiemon announced various arrangements to Koan at the official residence.

1. On the 29th day of the 6th month of the same 19th year, Year of the Tiger: Inner secretary Ochiai Chōzaemon was granted dismissal for misconduct. The general roster, meal records, and keys to official boxes in Chōzaemon's possession were to be transferred to Takahashi Ban'emon. This was announced to Chōzaemon, and foot soldier inspectors were dispatched to receive them as announced by Honda Nuinodono's section, with monthly duty officer Shin'emon handling the matter.

1. On the 11th day of the 12th month of Kanpō 2, Year of the Dog: Okabe Kōhaku was granted dismissal this autumn and ordered to reside within the domain territory exercising restraint in all matters. He was under house arrest with his retired uncle at Shimpo Enkaiji temple, but as it became difficult to support his wife and children and they faced starvation, Enkaiji petitioned that he be allowed to work as a medical practitioner in the vicinity. As the petition was granted, the district magistrate Hori Kanzaemon was told by the senior councilors that he should exercise restraint in all matters while working in medical practice.

1. On the 9th day of the 11th month of Enkyō 1, Year of the Rat: At Edo, regarding Yukifuki Kintayū, he recently went out but the handling at his destination was inappropriate, he returned to the residence late at night violating regulations, and moreover given the current circumstances, his conduct was repeatedly inappropriate. His samurai status was revoked and domain confiscation was ordered. End.

[Upper left red notation] Ho