Places of Confinement　【Red notation】Memorandum　From around the Tennō era
　　　1. Owari, Kii, Mito
　　　1. Kōfu "Minister" sama【Red notation】Like this around Tennō era　　Tatebayashi Minister sama【Red notation】Not existing around Tennō era
　　　1. Kaga, Wakasa, Ōmi Hikone
　　　1. Senior Councilors【Red notation】From Genroku 4
　　　　　　　　　　　   1. Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami, Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami　1. Junior Councilors　　From around Hōei era 1. Samurai attendants and those of equivalent rank, other officials
　　　1. Members of the lord's family
　　Understanding the intent of the above places of confinement【Red notation insertion】Needless to say the shogunate, and even to minor officials, strictly　should not appear　For future reference, therefore as stated
　　　　　　Enpō 5
　　　　　　　9th month 16th day of the Snake year　　　　　　　Ōno Rokuzaemon seal
　　　　　　　　Inspectors【Red notation】Censors　From the end of Jōkyō

○1. On the 19th day of the 6th month of Genroku 4, Year of the Sheep: Inoue Jingorōemon dismissed. Confinement order: In addition to the established places of confinement, Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami, Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami, Junior Councilors, attendants, Lord Honjō Inaba-no-kami, and anywhere else with 5,000 koku or more, and even others with 5,000 koku or more should not be served. Same day.
　Shimokawa Yajirōemon same situation. Confinement order: In addition to the established places of confinement, Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami, Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami, Junior Councilors, attendants, Lord Honjō Inaba-no-kami【Red notation】It is assumed that afterward, standard confinement orders like that of Yajirōemon included "attendants and those of equivalent rank, other officials" from around the Hōei era

1. On the 5th day of the 12th month of Enpō 5, Snake year: Ueno Jiemon domain confiscation. Confinement order extending to domain-holding daimyo　1. On the 12th day of the 4th month of the same 6th year, Horse year: Tsuda Jūbei domain confiscation, same situation
1. On the 18th day of the same month of the same year: Tanaka Hanroku's stipend withdrawn. Confinement same as for those with domain confiscation. Domain-holding daimyo included, though this would not become precedent for later cases
1. On the 25th day of the 6th month of Genbun 1, Dragon year: Nakamura Sadahachi's brother Masajirō and entire family permanently expelled from the domain. In addition to the established rules, domain-holding daimyo also under confinement
1. On the 19th day of the 11th month of the same year: Aoyama Sen'emon's samurai status revoked and domain confiscated. Head shaved and expelled. Confinement from serving those with 10,000 koku or more

△1. On the 25th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 15, Dog year: Aoyama Sahyōe dismissed. Confinement order: In addition to the established rules, those with 100,000 koku or more included. On the 16th day of the 7th month of the same 17th year, Rat year:
　Upon the 100th day amnesty for Lady Seishin'in, within the confinement: the Three Houses, family members, Lord Shinano-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Kaga-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Ōi-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Aki-no-kami, Lord Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami, Lord Satake Ukyō-no-daibu, Lord Ogasawara Tōtōmi-no-kami, Senior Councilors, Junior Councilors
　Lord Ii Kamon-no-kami and all others exempted from confinement　1. On the 18th day of the 5th month of Kyōhō 4, Boar year: Ban Shingozaemon and his son Yatarō both had domains confiscated. Father and son both under confinement from those with 5,000 koku or more in addition to established rules　1. On the 29th day of the 10th month of the same 9th year, Dragon year: Karasawa Unai dismissed
　Since the above punishment was severe, in addition to established confinement, domain-holding daimyo were added and signatures obtained　1. On the 11th day of the 12th month of the same 17th year, Rat year: Finance magistrate Samue Kuzaemon dismissed. Regarding confinement, those with 10,000 koku or more in addition to established rules

1. On the 5th day of the 2nd month of Kanpō 1, Rooster year: Sakamaki Jūemon domain confiscated. Confinement same as dismissal　1. On the 13th day of the 8th month of the same 2nd year, Dog year: Domain confiscated, dismissed, banished persons. Confinement order according to established rules without distinction　【Red notation】It is assumed that afterward the same applied. If in doubt, from this memorandum the distinction between domain confiscation and dismissal seems to have been lost. Jinpei's consideration

1. In the 7th month of Genbun 2, Snake year: At Edo, Hashimoto Kiheiji was dismissed. No confinement. May reside anywhere, but should refrain from entering the domain and the Edo residence for the time being
1. On the 11th day of the 9th month of Kanpō 2, Dog year: Ōban Sakabe Masaemon had been ill for a long time, and though he should have consulted and petitioned about family succession, he neglected this and seemed unable to continue service, so his stipend was confiscated. This should be announced. The residence should be returned, but he may reside anywhere

1. On the 28th day of the 7th month of Genroku 11, Tiger year: At the time of Tateiwa Ichirōemon's domain confiscation. Regarding the confinement order, Koma Takumi announced it at Edo, and he remained at Edo. The censors reported this to their colleagues here.
　　Memorandum
　1. Regarding confinement, though it need not be announced, if it becomes known that he serves anywhere regardless of importance, strict punishment shall be imposed　1. Must not enter the domain
　　Understanding the intent of the above written order. For future reference, it is thus. End. 28th day of the 7th month of Genroku 11, Tiger year　　Censors　　Tateiwa Ichirōemon

【Lower section】
1. On the 18th day of the 7th month of Tennō 3, Boar year: Caretaker finance officer Nakamura Denbei had his position removed and during house arrest went to the inspectors, which was considered extremely inappropriate, so domain confiscation was ordered. To the inspectors, the places of confinement were established. More severe than standard confinement, with domain-holding daimyo added as one article to be announced

1. On the 16th day of the intercalary 12th month of Enpō 5, Snake year: Saitō Yagotayū and Mizui Yoichirōemon domain confiscated. Needless to say the domain, but also throughout Edo and elsewhere according to established confinement
1. On the 16th day of the 2nd month of Shōtoku 2, Dragon year: Nakarai Tamemoto domain confiscated, same situation
○1. On the 14th day of the 2nd month of Shōtoku 3, Snake year: Konno Shichizaemon domain confiscated, same situation
1. On the 13th day of the 3rd month of Kyōhō 2, Rooster year: Taki Kanbei domain confiscated. Confinement from those with 5,000 koku or more△
1. On the 2nd day of the 3rd month of the same 4th year, Sheep year: Egawa Chūzaemon banished. Confinement from those with 10,000 koku or more

　　　Regarding Confinement Orders
1. Regarding confinement orders, they should be prepared before dismissal is announced. Since this is a secret matter, senior councilors and secretaries should prepare them
　1. In the 9th month of Kyōhō 14, Rooster year: When Abe Uhachi was dismissed at Edo, regarding the confinement order being recorded in the register　Inner
【"regarding" crossed out, red notation inserted】Since this was communicated, confinement orders announced with censors present were previously prepared by secretaries, so hereafter this should be understood. To confirm if this is indeed the case, it should be inquired of Takahashi Ban'emon and Matsuda Yaichirōemon. This was communicated through Ashida Uemon to Kōzuki Buzaemon and Kobayashi Mataemon, so immediately

　Letters were sent to secretaries Takahashi Ban'emon and Matsuda Yaichirōemon with inquiries, and the following replies were received:
　　　Your letter has been read. Regarding samurai groups and even foot soldiers, when dismissals and confinements occur, whether we prepare such confinement documents was inquired and understood. Generally, such official matters ordered from above
　　　are secret official business before being announced, so we prepare them. Matters handled exclusively by head supervision have not been handled by us previously. This should be
　　　understood. End
　　　　　　9th month 11th day　　　　　　　　　Takahashi Ban'emon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsuda Yaichirōemon　
　　　　　　　　【Red notation】Lord Kaifuku Sezaemon
○Two marked places exist
　Example of foot soldier confinement order writing appears two pages later

1. On the 5th day of the 9th month【Red correction】13th day of the 8th month of Hōei 2, Rooster year: When Okajima Tarōbei and his two sons (three people total) were ordered domain confiscation. Confinement order: Those with 10,000 koku or more, attendants and those of equivalent rank, other officials
1. In Kyōhō 3, Dog year: At Ōkōchi Suketarō's banishment. Confinement order: Generally should not reside in prosperous places, this was included

1. On the 18th day of the 2nd month of Shōtoku 3, Snake year: Memorandum to be announced to Tanaka Hanroku　Regarding your matter, when your father Jōzaemon was dismissed last year, you should have been dismissed together, but since you were a hereditary retainer you were kept in service. However, not understanding this situation and having numerous instances of misconduct heard about, this is considered extremely inappropriate. Though there could be punishment, considering the circumstances, your stipend is withdrawn. End　However, since it was requested from Honda Shuri's office to announce the heavier confinement, the same confinement as those with domain confiscation including domain-holding daimyo was announced to the censors

1. On the 21st day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 6, Ox year　Memorandum　Those dismissed by family members《crossed out: from｜by》《crossed out: candidates｜》residing within the domain《crossed out: candidates｜》how is this considered
　Especially those dismissed from Matsuoka should definitely not be allowed to remain《crossed out: reason｜as stated in previous years also》announced【Red insertion】This hereafter should definitely be kept in mind. End　8th month 21st day　This was also communicated to Kanazu magistrate, town magistrate, administered territory district magistrates◦《crossed out: three｜》district magistrate Honda Kuranosuke's caretaker

【Red notation】However　This announcement applies to foot soldiers and above who should not be allowed to remain. For those below of lesser rank, if there is confinement it is exceptional. Ordinary dismissed persons have no confinement. If there are unavoidable circumstances requiring relocation, that matter should be reported. This was decided and everyone should understand this. Censor Yano Uemonnosaku should communicate this to Uemonnosaku, as announced by Ashida Uemon

【Upper left red notation】He