To be delivered

1. Kyōhō 14 (Year of the Rooster), 11th month, 16th day: Regarding the recent domain confiscation of ■■【Washiko?】Den'pachi, retainer of Lord Yamato-no-kami, since Kaifuku Sezaemon, Ōmiya Hikoemon, Iida Jūtayū and others have some connections and there have been those who have exchanged correspondence until now, hereafter even if letters are sent from their side, we will not respond from this side. This decision was communicated to the senior councilors.

1. The wording of sanctions documents is as follows. This is a standard sanctions document for those granted dismissal.

　　　Memorandum　　　　【Red notation】1. Tayasu, Hitotsubashi, Shimizu
See the next page regarding Shōtoku 2 (Year of the Dragon) for reference
　【1】Owari, Kii, Mito　【1】Kaga　【Below】Ōmi Hikone　【Above】Wakasa
　【1】Senior Councilors　【1】Jun【ior Coun】cilors (中方)　【1】Personal attendants and those of【equivalent】rank, and other officials
　【1】Domain lord families
　We humbly understand the intent regarding the above places of sanctions
　Needless to say the shogunate【above】and even to minor officials, strictly must not appear. For posterity, therefore as stated.
　　　Era name (zodiac) month day　　　　　　Name and surname seal
　　　　　To the Inspectors　　　　　　Kaei 2 (Year of the Rooster), 6th month, 16th day, Masugi Koheiji dismissal, as per blue notation
【Red notation below】Kansei 11 (Year of the Sheep), 7th month, 25th day, Tsuda Den'shichi, like this as per red notation, and the addressee is also as written
　　　　　　Bunka 14 (Year of the Ox), 10th month, 16th day, Hirao Tōkyū, same

△Two pages later, seal

1. Kyōhō 19 (Year of the Tiger), 6th month, 29th day: When senior councilor secretary Ochiai Chōzaemon was granted dismissal, as follows:
　　Memorandum
　As I have been granted dismissal【red notation】my stipend withdrawn and ordered to leave the castle town, I humbly understand that I should remain in the domain territory and not go to other provinces. For posterity, therefore as stated.【Left side blue notation】Must not go to other provinces, should remain in rural areas within the domain territory, and must not remain within three ri around the castle town
【Blue notation】Hōreki 11《marginal note: Year of the Metal Snake》year, 11th month, 29th day　　　Toda Yajibyōe, Yonai land survey magistrate
　　　　Kyōhō 19 (Year of the Tiger), 6th month, 29th day　　　　　Ochiai Chōzaemon
　　　　Era name month day　　　　　　　　　　　　　Name and surname seal
　　　　　　　To the Inspectors
　However, Genbun 2 (Year of the Ox), 3rd month, 2nd day, moved again to Furuichi village
　　　Report received from Kanazu magistrate
　　　Regarding Chōzaemon settling in Washizuka village, inquiry received from Kanazu magistrate Suzuki Hikotayū
　　　Upon further consultation with senior councilors, for now leave as is ■■ was communicated, record exists, 7th month, 2nd day

【Red notation】Bunka 8 (Year of the Sheep), intercalary 2nd month, 25th day, minor official Hirano Bunemon, as per this red notation, and no addressee
【Blue notation below】　　
　　　As we have had our stipends withdrawn, we have been ordered not to enter the domain territory, and we humbly obey. We will strictly not enter. For posterity, thus stated.　　
　　　　　　Hōei 2 (Year of the Rooster), 8th month, 5th day　　　　　　　Ashigaru commander Hayashi Sajibyōe　
　　　　　　　　　　To the Inspectors　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kuri Mokutayū

1. Those stripped of samurai status and banished《marginal note: same for those with heads shaved and banished》are not handled as samurai, so there are no sanctions documents; official seals are taken on documents as follows:
　　　Memorandum
　1. As I have been stripped of samurai status【red notation】head shaved and ordered banished, I will not serve in any province
　1. Hereafter I will not enter the domain territory
　I will not violate the above. For this purpose I submit this written pledge. Therefore as stated.
　　Era name month day　　To the Inspectors　　　　　Name seal
【Red notation below】Anei 5 (Year of the Monkey), 8th month, 11th day, Kumagai Shin'ichirō, Mogi Seikurō, Okada Kyūgorō, assistant Miyake Kumajirō, as per red notation　
　However, no addressee
【Red notation】1. Tenmei 7 (Year of the Sheep), 4th month, 29th day, Iwasa Zuiun, as above, stripped of samurai status noted, but no addressee
　1. Kansei 11 (Year of the Sheep), 7th month, 25th day, Tsuda Den'emon, as above, but no addressee
　1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), intercalary 8th month, 20th day, Kuno Eisaku, same, but same, and no mention of being stripped of samurai status
【Red notation below】Kansei 7 (Year of the Rabbit), 10th month, 5th day, cook Murai Yaichirōemon's son Yaichirō, same

1. When expelled from the gates in Edo, as follows:
　　　Memorandum
　1. As I have been ordered expelled from the gates, I will not serve in any province
　1. Hereafter I will not enter the domain territory or the three Edo residences
　I will not violate the above. For this purpose I submit this written pledge. Therefore as stated.
　　　　Era name month day　　　　　　　Name seal
　1. Bunsei 4 (Year of the Snake), 5th month, 25th day, ashigaru Tsubokawa Shōsuke, when expelled from the gates, ordered the ashigaru inspector as above and obtained the sealed acknowledgment

1. Sanctions documents should be delivered from senior councilors to the monthly duty inspector. Genbun 2 (Year of the Snake), 2nd month, 5th day, when caretaker group member Seo San'emon was granted dismissal, the sanctions document was delivered to Kaifuku Chūzaemon of the Okabe Sazen group.

【Upper left red notation】To