Regarding the Wives and Children of Those Granted Dismissal

1. When a parent is granted dismissal, sons who serve separately in official duties are also granted dismissal
　　However, those who have gone to other families as adopted sons are not subject to restrictions. Sons remaining at home who are 15 years or older must retire to other provinces along with their parents

1. Regarding fathers, sons, and brothers of those granted dismissal who have gone to other families: they are not granted dismissal, but must submit a petition for discretionary consideration and will be ordered to exercise restraint

1. Sons of those granted dismissal who are taken in by relatives due to their young age must be sent to other provinces when they reach 15 years of age
　　However, regarding those who become monks, townspeople, or farmers and do not maintain samurai status, they may remain in the domain without restriction. When such persons exist,
　　　instructions should be given after submitting a petition

1. Kyōhō 2 (Year of the Rooster), 10th month, 21st day: Henceforth, if sons of those granted dismissal are taken in by relatives, they should be cared for until age 15, and when they reach 15 they should be sent to other provinces. The group of senior officers should keep this in mind and communicate it accordingly, as instructed to Tsuneoka Yasuzaemon. However, at this time, under Ōban captain Tsuneoka Yasuzaemon's unit, Shibutani Gorōemon had petitioned to care for the young and sickly son of Kusakabe Gonroku, who had recently been granted dismissal. The son was to remain as is, and when he reaches 15, this should be reported to the senior councilors and Gorōemon should be instructed to send him to his parents, as communicated to Yasuzaemon

1. Wives and daughters of those granted dismissal may reside in the castle town without restriction. Male children under 15 are also without restriction

1. Regarding Hagiawara Kohachirō, youngest son of Kimameri Seizaemon who was granted dismissal in Kyōhō 9 (Year of the Dragon), there are records. Subsequently【red notation】Kyōhō 10 (Year of the Snake), 2nd month, 29th day　Pardoned and assigned to new guard unit
　【red notation】68 years old, no natural sons　Ishizawa Nakaemon【red notation】no hereditary status　Granted adoption as petitioned《marginal note: This was not an amnesty on the occasion of Lord Jōken-in's memorial service on the 11th month, 10th day, but permission not to send to other provinces. However, Kohachirō was 14 years old that year. This was based on Kojima Chūhachi's petition to establish Kohachirō as a samurai. Detailed records exist》

1. Same year 19 (Year of the Tiger), 8th month, 1st day: When Samue Kyūzaemon's son petitioned to become a monk, it was communicated during inner consultation with the unit captains that if he became a monk, townsperson, etc., he could remain in the domain without problem. Records exist《marginal note: However, regarding Atsumi Gonbei's two sons who gradually became disciples at Shingetsu Temple in Kyōhō 6 (Year of the Ox), 7th month, this was after investigation. Detailed records exist》

【red notation】△See the seal two pages later for reference

1. Enyō 5 (Year of the Dragon): Regarding Satō Hanzaemon, who had previously been ordered to have his domain confiscated but was granted permission to enter the domain, his son Zentarō who had been placed with new guard unit member Kuno Shirōzaemon was petitioned to be exempted from being sent to other provinces even after reaching 15 years of age, and this was granted as requested. Records exist

1. Kan'en 3 (Year of the Horse): Satō Hanzaemon's second son Jirōsaburō reached 15 years of age but was exempted from going to other provinces □ Kuno Shirō

【upper left red notation】To