Zaemon submitted a petition, and when the new unit captain reported to the senior councilors, Matsudaira Shume's office communicated that since the petition had been submitted through oral statement as described, it should be granted as requested. Henceforth, if similar cases arise, Tanabe Gotayū was instructed that the inspectors should take note.

1. Regarding taking in wives and children of those granted dismissal by relatives and family connections: the senior councilors should report to the monthly duty officer and arrangements should be made according to instructions.
   This matter should be communicated immediately and subsequently brought to official attention.
   However, for lower ranks outside the samurai class, notification should be given to the inspectors by their masters and supervisors.

1. Kansei 11 (Year of the Sheep), 8th month: Tsuda Denshichi's children were taken in at Uchida Sōzaemon's residence, and one daughter was sent to the Maruoka physician ■ya Gensen's residence. An oral statement was submitted at this time.

1. Kan'en 4 (Year of the Sheep), 3rd month, 22nd day: What was communicated to unit captain Shimada Seizaemon by Honda Minbu's office concerned Aoyama Kyūnai's nephew Kanjirō, whose biological father had been granted dismissal. Due to his young age, he was ordered to remain at Kyūnai's residence until age 15, but this year he turned 13. As he is truly someone who cannot be abandoned, a petition was made to adopt him directly. It was communicated that this could be done at their discretion.
   However, Kanjirō's biological father Aoyama Sen'emon had his head shaved and was ordered expelled from the domain in previous years.

1. Kansei 2 (Year of the Dog), 8th month, 6th day: Ōi Yajūrō petitioned regarding his relative Ogasawara Magojirō, who had been granted permission to enter the domain. When he came to my residence during this period, my actual nephew named Kikujirō accompanied him. Regarding this Kikujirō, as he is young, frail, and sickly, a petition was made through oral statement to care for him at my residence at this time. When this matter was reported to the senior councilors, they communicated that he could be cared for at their discretion.

1. Bunka 1 (Year of the Rat), 2nd month, 16th day:
   Hasegawa Gen'noshin petitioned regarding Eigo, the adopted son of his biological elder brother Tsuda Den'emon. 
   Having been granted permission to enter the domain upon petition in previous years,
   he now petitioned to be granted permission to reside in the castle town. Accordingly, as petitioned,
   permission to reside in the castle town was granted, and this matter should be communicated to Gen'noshin.

1. Regarding the matter of requesting to take in various household members due to the extinction of retainer family names: this appears in the section on retainer offenses.

1. Kyōhō 15 (Year of the Dog), 2nd month, 29th day: Ihara Jōsuke reported on Nagaoka Dan'ya, the son of Oka Han'emon's nephew-in-law Hanakada Shinshichi, who had been granted dismissal in previous years. The child, who was an infant at the time, was taken in at Han'emon's residence【red notation: In the office records, written as male】and this year reached 15 years of age. Although he should be sent to another province, after Shinshichi was granted dismissal, there were improprieties and he was ordered separated for a long time by higher authorities. Therefore, Shinshichi's current whereabouts are unknown. There is no way to send Dan'ya to another province. A petition was submitted through oral statement expressing the desire to make him a physician in the future, and when this was reported to the senior councilors, they communicated that making him a physician, monk, etc. could be done at their discretion.
   However, regarding Dan'ya, in the 6th month【red notation: 25th day】of the same year, during the great amnesty for succession, his punishment was pardoned upon petition. With the pardon of this punishment, it was communicated by the duty officer Shūri on the last day of the month that returning to lay status would be acceptable, and records exist. However, on the 29th day of the 4th month of the 17th year (Year of the Rat), a Maruoka physician named Takeuchi Gensada, who receives a seven-person stipend from Lord Saemon-no-suke, had a common-law relationship and wished to adopt Dan'ya. When Han'emon communicated his desire to allow this and consulted the senior councilors, they communicated that there was no need to submit an oral statement and that the inspectors should simply take note.

1. Same year 20 (Year of the Rabbit), 12th month, 16th day: Sano Matarō communicated regarding Kogengo, the son of Sakai Heinosuke who had been granted dismissal on the 16th day of the 11th month and was placed under the care of Sakai Tōshichi of my unit. When he petitioned the other day to send him to Hōseki-in, the head priest of Shinmei Shrine in Maruoka, Matsudaira Shōbei's office communicated that Tōshichi should be told to send him as a temporary placement. However, it was said that this was unnecessary and he should simply be sent. Therefore, when asked whether Tōshichi's office would need to report on sending Kogengo to other provinces in the future, Shōbei's office also communicated that this was unnecessary, so this should be kept in mind. However, since Hōseki-in was the younger brother of Heinosuke's wife, on the 29th of last month, the wife and three daughters were taken in by Hōseki-in upon Tōshichi's petition. The son Kogengo was also petitioned to be sent to the same temple together, but since the matter of Hōseki-in's petition was not resolved in Maruoka,

【upper left red notation】To