On the 9th of this month, regarding Kosango as well, when a petition was made to send him to Hōseki-in, it was communicated that he should be kept in temporary custody for now, and regarding the matter of permanently transferring and moving him, this would be communicated later.
Shōbei's office had communicated this to Sano Matatarou, and today the above was conveyed.

【Red notation】△Mark from two pages previous

1. Kanpō 2 (Year of the Dog), 11th month, 24th day: Kuno Shirōzaemon had previously petitioned Sakata Shichiemon regarding the wife and children of Satō Hanzaemon, who was ordered to forfeit his domain this autumn, being placed with Shirōzaemon.
Since a farmer from Kitagata Bay named Zen'emon was a relative of Hanzaemon, as petitioned, it was ordered that two of Hanzaemon's sons be taken in and raised by Zen'emon.
It was ordered that they could be sent at their discretion. However, if the males reach 15 years of age, this should be reported to the inspectors at that time, as communicated by Shume's office.

1. Enkyō 5 (Year of the Dragon), 5th month, 27th day: Ariga Gokujin reported regarding Iwasaki Tomouemon that at the time of the previous judicial decision, it was ordered that the matter of family members taking in his wife and children could be handled at their discretion. Accordingly, since my retainer Kimura Takuemon has connections, I petitioned to take in the wife and children. Since I was asked to handle this matter well, I reported to Honda Minbu's office. Since the wife and children are persons of no particular attachment [to the domain], it should be communicated that this can be handled at their discretion, and this was communicated to Gokujin.

1. Same year, 11th month, 6th day: Kanazu magistrate Hiramoto Tadami's office sent word that when Matsui Heibei was punished, his wife and children were taken in by assistant magistrate Yashiro Tōjirōemon, but with many people it became difficult. Since Morita village group leader Jiheibei is Heibei's nephew, they petitioned to send two people to this person's place for care. Accordingly, when Jiheibei submitted an oral statement wanting to take in and care for two of the children, they requested consultation.
This was immediately reported to the senior councilors, and Honda Yagara's office communicated that they could take them in and care for them at their discretion, and this was communicated to Tadami's office.

1. Kyōhō 15 (Year of the Dog), 7th month, 21st day: Ban Shingozaemon's youngest son Mitsui Genmin. When Shingozaemon was granted dismissal, since this person was young and moreover the youngest son, he was taken in by relatives. This year he turned 14 and became a disciple of Mitsui Kōan, a physician in Mikuni town, residing in Mikuni. Regarding Shingozaemon's sons, permanent separation was subsequently petitioned and communication was severed. Since this time Genmin is subject to the great amnesty, his uncle Sakai Kyūsaku petitioned that his punishment be pardoned. When the inspectors reported this, it reached higher authority and was granted as petitioned, so this should be communicated. Since Shingozaemon was of the castle keeper unit when granted dismissal, this was communicated to castle keeper monthly duty officer Tsuneoka Yasuaemon. Yamanaka Inobei's younger brother Tōshichi: When Inobei was granted dismissal, his father Kyūbei was also ordered the same, so when the father and son left the country, he accompanied them to other provinces. At that time, although no particular restrictions were imposed on him, he was told not to enter the domain and sent away. This time, with the great amnesty, Inobei's restrictions were pardoned. Regarding Tōshichi as well, Wada Chōzaemon petitioned to allow him to enter the domain. This was also reported by the inspectors, reached higher authority, and the pardon was previously communicated to Inobei's unit captain Suganuma Yoichirō.

【Upper left red notation】To