Pursuit and Expulsion from Temples, Retirement from Temples, Confinement Outside Temples

1. When there is a monk to be expelled (tsuiin), one inspector shall go to the town magistrate's office, and when the monk departs, two group members shall escort him secretly to the domain border.

1. Kyōhō 3 (Year of the Dog), 4th month, 13th day: Regarding Shōgen-in of Mount Atago 《Marginal note: Since this person does not obey the orders of the authorities, it is difficult to keep him in the domain territory. It was ordered that he may go anywhere at his discretion》, Inspector Ogawa Yoemon and one other went to Town Magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon's residence. Group members were assigned until departure, and when departing, two group members escorted him secretly to the domain border.

1. Retirement from temple (taiin) means leaving the castle town, without the attendance of inspectors.
　1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), spring
　1. Kōka 1 (Year of the Dragon), 10th month, 5th day
　　Regarding the misconduct of retired monk Ryōjun of Reisen-ji in Tōgō town
　　Retirement from both the castle town and Tōgō town was approved upon consultation

1. Confinement outside temple (jigai inkyo) means being expelled to the front of the temple.
　1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox): Confinement to the front of Tōkō-ji of Tenryū-ji in Matsuoka was ordered

1. Kyōhō 4 (Year of the Boar), 5th month, 18th day: The following was communicated to Fugan-ji and handed over to Temple and Shrine Magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon:
　　Regarding you, there have been improper practices that also violate domain law. Therefore, while you serve as head priest, no prayers shall be commissioned from you. Moreover, donation fees are also suspended. End 《Marginal note: Due to this communication, Fugan-ji retired from the temple, as reported by Hikoemon at the council on the 21st of the same month》

1. Same year, 9th month, 16th day: A monk named Rikkai, assistant priest of Saikō-ji in Okaho, committed improper schemes and was ordered expelled from the castle town. This also appears in the Castle Town Temple and Shrine Affairs section.

1. Genroku 14 (Year of the Rabbit), 6th month, 29th day: When Honkaku-ji father and son were ordered expelled from the domain, the sentence was pronounced at Atsumi Shin'emon's residence. Until they returned to the temple and departed, Foot Inspector Nagata Gihei, Kashio Jindayū, and four inspector group members were stationed at the temple, positioned near the front gate of Honkaku-ji. The senior councilors communicated that such arrangements were made anticipating that many followers might gather.

1. An'ei 6 (Year of the Rooster), 8th month, 7th day: Myōchō-ji of Soto-Nakashima was confined outside the temple and prohibited from entering within a seven-ri radius. There were other punishments for temple matters.

【Upper left red notation】Chi