Confiscation (Kessho)

1. When confiscation is ordered for samurai retainers, one messenger (ometsukaiban) and one accounting magistrate (okanjō-bugyō) [marginal note: previously it was two people] go to conduct the inspection, and the written report is received by the inspector (ometsuke) and handed over to the magistrates from our side.
[Red notation] The inspection ledger is to be stamped only by the accounting magistrate and brought to the inspector, who receives it and submits it to the senior councilors for review.
However, one foot inspector (oashi-metsuke) and two group members are to be sent along.
The ○ mark should be entered on the reverse side.

1. When Nakazawa Monzaemon of the conch shell role was subject to confiscation, one messenger, two (or one) accounting heads, and one foot inspector were sent, with lookout group members attached.

1. When Takezawa Jōsuke of the great guard unit was subject to confiscation, one messenger, one accounting head, one foot inspector, and lookout group members were assigned.
However, since his younger brother Daishichi of the same surname was living in the same house under house arrest, the residence was not vacated.

1. When miscellaneous affairs officer Nozawa Kyūdayū and his assistant Satō Ichizaemon were subject to confiscation, one foot inspector and two lookout group members were dispatched, and in connection with this, one town magistrate's assistant, one calculator, and two magistrate group members appeared.

1. When the townsman oil merchant Kaemon of Shironohashi was subject to confiscation, one town magistrate's assistant, one foot inspector, and one calculator appeared.

1. Genroku 2, year of the snake: confiscation of the storehouse of Kichizaemon, head of day laborers at Katsumi.

1. Enkyō 5, year of the dragon: Matsui Hyōbei, financial officer of the assigned territory, was ordered imprisoned and his various tools confiscated.

1. Kansei 5, year of the ox, 2nd month, 25th day: The remaining silver from the Shibahara upper water gate construction project of the year of the rooster, which former deputy construction officer Nanbu Rinemon had defaulted on, came to light in the 7th month of last year of the rat. Rinemon was ordered imprisoned, and today the construction magistrate and others involved were each punished accordingly. Nanbu Yasuji, son of the said Rinemon, was today placed under family custody and his estate was ordered confiscated.

[Upper left red notation] Ri