1. Bunka 2, year of the ox: Nodachi Sazaemon of the unit under advance commander (saki-mono-gashira) Hiraoka Kinzaemon was subject to confiscation, and six officials were assigned for the stock money portion. [marginal note: details of confiscation handling are in the seven-volume work]

To be entered on the front page

○1. Genroku 12, year of the snake, 3rd month, 21st day: Regarding deputy magistrate Tomezawa Kinemon, who was placed under the custody of Wada Sangozaemon and ordered to have his property confiscated, messenger Tochiiya Hanzaemon, accounting magistrates Yamanaka Kyūbei and Hibino Shichirōemon, foot inspector Nagata Sakubei, and two group members went to inspect his various tools. The accounting magistrates stamped the ledger and brought it to the monthly inspector Mitera Kyūzaemon. Since it was received late at night, the two accounting magistrates were told to appear before the senior councilors the next morning to report. The said ledger was brought by Kyūzaemon the next morning and submitted to duty officer Matsudaira Shume for review.

However, the handling of this confiscation case followed the precedent of ■no Shirōzaemon from previous years, with only the accounting magistrates applying their seals for inspection, while the messenger did not need to apply a seal.

1. Bunka 4, year of the rabbit, 4th month: The details of the confiscation following the flight of monk Shibata Densuke from Edo are contained in the seven-volume work.

1. Same year, 7th month, 4th day: Confiscation of household goods of Dekuraya Jirōemon of Ichijō-machi. His life was spared at the execution ground on the 23rd day of the 6th month due to his involvement in counterfeit money handling.

1. Same 8th day: Komeya Kiemon of Kōnya-machi, same as above. He was beheaded and his head displayed due to manufacturing counterfeit money on the 23rd day of the 6th month.

1. Same 22nd day: Ichikawaya Ichiemon of Katsumi Lower Town, same as above. However, he was under district administration. Same punishment as above.

[Upper left red notation] Ri