1. Same 12th year, horse year, 11th month, 6th day: Retainer (yoriai) Minobe Naori had his stipend of 300 koku confiscated and was sentenced to house arrest. Since the family name was granted to Kumatarou, the second son of Hori Kanzaemon, house arrest was imposed at Kumatarou's residence.
   The handling of this matter: Naori's relative Hayashi Matazaemon and family relative Takada Kin'dayū and their families were summoned to Koma Takumi's residence, and written orders were given to monthly duty retainer Sasaki Magoshirō.
   Matazaemon and Kin'dayū attended this meeting and received the orders conveyed through Magoshirō. [Red notation] See the ◇ mark for subsequent procedures.

1. Same 13th year, sheep year, 10th month, 11th day: The sister of retainer Hayashi Oriē, who had been sent to a pleasure quarter last year, was released from the quarter and ordered to be strictly confined at Oriē's residence.

1. Tenpō 5, horse year, 7th month: The matter of the private decision regarding pardoning from house arrest appears in the section on pardons.
[Red notation] ◇
   After the orders were given to Magoshirō, Kanie Zen'emon informed Matazaemon and Kin'dayū that when Naori later appeared to receive his sentence, both should remain at the next seat and accompany him on the way, as conveyed by the senior councilors. Matazaemon replied that he understood the senior councilors' instruction to accompany Naori on his return journey after sentencing. If this was a matter of entrusting Naori to them during the journey, he understood. However, if this was merely appointed as standard escort duty, it would be a misunderstanding by the senior councilors, and he would certainly need to express his opinion. Zen'emon and other inspectors clarified that this was definitely not such a matter, but rather an entrustment during the journey, so it should be understood as such. In that case, he would accept. When Naori's sentencing was completed, he should be handed over to them. They would receive and escort him to Naori's residence and then to Hori Kanzaemon's residence for house arrest at Kumatarou's place. However, Naori did not appear due to illness.
   Therefore, Sasaki Magoshirō and inspectors Sugiura Kōzaemon and Kasuya Hikozaemon were sent to Naori's residence, and Matazaemon and Kin'dayū were also to attend. These officials went, the inspectors sat in formation, and Magoshirō delivered the written orders. [Marginal note: In my opinion, this handling differs from the procedures recorded in the section on dismissal and discharge, specifically those applied to Sakai Tenden in Genbun 5, monkey year]

1. Meiwa 8, rabbit year, 2nd month, 25th day: Hori Kichidayū of the new guard unit with 28 koku and provisions for 4 men was sentenced to house arrest. His son Sukezō was granted 18 koku and provisions for 4 men and entered the new guard. This was due to improper handling of financial seal agreements with a draper named Yohachi from Gofuku-machi.

1. Same year, 5th month, 25th day: House arrest was imposed on Kitō, father of Ogawa Yoemon. Family members Senbon Chōemon and Kawamura Ichiji were summoned to the council chamber for the announcement, then both went to Yoemon's residence to inform Kitō. At this time, Yoemon's younger brother Daizō had his hair cut and was banished, while Yoemon was ordered to show restraint, but was pardoned from restraint on the 25th day of the 6th month.

1. Same day: House arrest was imposed on the father of Yamada Den'jūrō, with strict orders not to go anywhere and to remain in seclusion. This was conveyed by guard captain Isono Tamiya through chief Tsugi Iemon. Den'jūrō was ordered to show restraint but was pardoned on the 25th day of the 6th month.

1. Bunsei 12, ox year, 8th month, 8th day: Sakurai Sadaemon petitioned regarding the daughter of Nakayama Yojūrō's adoptive father Yoichiemon, who had been sent to a pleasure quarter last year due to misconduct. She was recently released from the quarter and sentenced to house arrest at Sadaemon's residence. However, Sadaemon humbly requested that since his younger brother, who had long suffered from a nervous condition that had recently worsened, had to be confined, there was no room available. He wished to temporarily place Yoichiemon's daughter with Ogawa Jin'emon (Sadaemon's uncle) of the Arima Saheiza household for disciplinary purposes. He submitted a written petition to the senior councilors, and on the 5th day of the 9th month, his request was granted. Consequently, she was sent directly to Maruoka on the 6th day, as Sadaemon informed his monthly duty colleague. Group members were not dispatched.
   Note: This daughter of Yoichiemon was formerly Yojūrō's wife, but around the 7th month of Bunsei 11, rat year, due to misconduct, Yojūrō divorced her and she was sent to a pleasure quarter. After being released from the quarter, since Sakurai Sadaemon was from the woman's maternal family and Sadaemon was her uncle, house arrest was imposed at his residence for disciplinary purposes. Originally, even at the time of the first divorce, she had been sent to Sadaemon's place as a family matter.

[Upper left red notation] Nu