Regarding Co-residence During Punishment

1. When relatives of those ordered into house arrest (enko) request to share in the punishment, it is stated that this is unnecessary. However, in cases where father and son reside together, even if one has inherited another family name, they should be ordered to refrain from activities.

1. On the 29th day of the 7th month of Kanpo 1 (Genbun 6, 1741), when Masugi Gotayu of the great guard unit was ordered into house arrest in Edo, his younger brother Ishikawa Kintayu, also of the great guard unit, requested to share the house arrest. However, he was told this was unnecessary. Since they resided together in Gotayu's residence, regarding guard duties and the comings and goings of retainers, he inquired through Otani Sukeroku whether he should seek permission from the inspectors each time. He was told through Otani Sukeroku that it was unnecessary to seek permission each time, that guard duties should of course be performed, and that private matters involving retainers and sick persons should be handled the same as during Gotayu's house arrest period. This was communicated by guard captain Inaba Kaname, as recorded.

1. On the 16th day of the 8th month of Horeki 3 (1753), guard captain Minagawa Tazaemon reported: Yesterday, Kaifuku Ihee's tenement burned down, so Togo Heijuro of my guard unit, who was residing with Ihee, had his house arrest status inquired about, but was told it was unnecessary. However, since Ihee was ordered into house arrest upon inquiry, regarding Heijuro's attendance during his guard duty shifts, and that private matters should be conducted with restraint, when this was inquired of the senior retainers, Ashida Zusho's office replied that this should be communicated accordingly. This was communicated to Heijuro through the senior officer, so please take note of this matter.

1. On the 22nd day of the 8th month of Bunsei 13 (1830), Yano Tetsunosuke was ordered into house arrest. Since Tetsunosuke had been residing with Urai Gohee, and there was no precedent for Gohee's gate restrictions, after deliberation among colleagues and inquiry to duty officer Okabe Sazen's office, the following was decided:
　Regarding Gohee's residence gate, it need not even be half-closed and should remain open. Also, regarding pathways, no special request need be made. Due to co-residence with Gohee, everything should be handled...