The same handling as for house confinement.

One: When there is a sudden illness at the residence of those under house confinement or house restraint, the liaison person must report directly to the monthly duty Inspector.

One: When someone under house confinement falls ill, the liaison person or the physician consulted should be called to the monthly duty Inspector to inquire about the condition of the illness. ▽There is an example two pages later.
However: When the lord is in Edo, the details of this handling should be reported.

One: When those under punishment become critically ill, they may be pardoned. {{Marginal note: On the 28th day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 13, Year of the Monkey, Denzaemon, son of Uchida Yasuemon who served as a foot soldier, was granted leave. Yasuemon, who was under house restraint, became critically ill and was pardoned from his restraint. Since Yasuemon had no son, he immediately petitioned to adopt an heir. A death report was filed on the last day of the same month.}}

One: When Yamakawa Uzen became critically ill, he was pardoned from house arrest.

One: On the 14th day of the 2nd month of Hōreki 4, Year of the Dog, Akita Hachirōbei, formerly of the council, who had been ordered into house arrest, became critically ill and was pardoned today. He died the following 15th day. However, this pardon was granted following the precedent of Yamakawa Uzen.

One: In the 10th month of Kan'en 3, Year of the Horse, during the house restraint of Deputy Toda Yajiemon, a sick person appeared and liaison person Yokoyama Jirōshirō requested to have town physicians and acupuncturists examine them. While calling doctors to those under restraint requires a petition from the liaison person, since this seemed to be a sudden illness, instructions were given with discretion. Two town physicians were to be consulted, and since there would be notification from the physicians, monthly duty Kanie Zenemon informed that if the Town Magistrate reported to this office, it would be sufficient. Accordingly, town physicians were called for examination. Later, this matter was reported to the Senior Councilors. Furthermore, when Jirōshirō petitioned again for continued treatment, it was granted as requested, and there is a record of this.

One: On the 7th day of the 2nd month of Hōreki 12, Year of the Horse, Financial Officer Tsuchida Zenbei was punished yesterday, the 6th, for debt issues, but died today. Inspector Yamashina Chūdayū was dispatched as examiner. On the 25th of the same month, the extinction of Zenbei's house was ordered through the Duty Officer.

One: In the 6th month of the 14th year of Meiwa, Year of the Monkey, during Kawasaki Tsuneemon's house confinement, his father Kyūemon died. Liaison person Katsuyama Tōgorō consulted with Captain Sakai Jūnosuke, who consulted with Duty Officer Sakai Geki, and was told to follow the Inspector's instructions. When instructions were sought from Kanie Zenemon, it was directed that the funeral should be conducted without musical instruments, as quietly as possible, with two palanquin bearers, one crested lantern, and two additional attendants permitted. Tōgorō should accompany them. Other relatives may not visit the temple.
However: Are minor musical instruments permitted at the temple?

One: In the 5th month of Meiwa 2, Year of the Rooster (originally Monkey?), Tōgō Saburōemon had his fifty-koku stipend confiscated and was ordered into house confinement. On the 2nd day of the 7th month, a maidservant died of illness, and at that time a retainer went mad and was expelled outside the gate. There is a record of the handling of these matters.

One: On the 1st day of the 4th month of Kansei 8, Year of the Dragon, during Hasegawa Zenbei's house restraint, Teishin, the concubine of his father Kōri Tazaemon, died of illness and was secretly sent to the requested temple, Ishiba Myōkokuji.

One: In the 5th year, Year of the Ox, during the inquiry restraint of court physician Ueda Shuntai, his wife gave birth and the infant died, so it was sent to the requested temple, Kyōenji. The 24th day of the 1st month.

One: On the 11th day of the 5th month of Tenpō 10, Year of the Boar, Misawa Sukejiō was ordered into house confinement. On the last day of the same month, an infant died of illness and was sent to the temple on the 1st day of the 6th month.

One: In Genroku 17, Year of the Monkey, Ideura {{crossed out: Gengōemon｜Fukuemon}} was granted leave and resided in Tochiizumi Village where he died of illness. This is recorded in the section on those granted leave.