One: On the 6th day of the 5th month of Meiwa 6, Year of the Ox, treated as house restraint from Edo, died of illness during restraint here and was pardoned, with his son Yasunosuke properly granted succession of the household after the 50-day memorial period ended. According to Happyakuri's consideration, this clause is difficult to understand.

One: Regarding illnesses of the wives and children of those under punishment, having them maintain restraint at relatives' homes is recorded in the "Various Matters Concerning Punishment" section.

One: On the 17th day of the 3rd month of Kyōwa 1, Year of the Rooster, Yoshikura Shigeemon reported that Seki Hikosuke had been ordered into house restraint and was maintaining discipline, but a maidservant currently employed suddenly became ill from last night and could not be left unattended, so today she was sent to lodge with her family home, one Yaoya Gohei in Keya-machi.

One: On the same day, Magistrate Kawai Tarōdayū reported that the elderly mother of Minor Accountant Iwasaki Kurōzaemon was ill and being treated by an acupuncturist, but since Murakami Hikohachirō, who had been living with them until recently, was ordered into confinement, treatment was stopped. However, since her condition is now poor, although Hikohachirō remains confined, they requested through a written statement to arrange treatment and, depending on circumstances, to consult regular physicians and administer medicine. After consulting with colleagues, since this concerned medical treatment, we conveyed that they could proceed at their discretion.

One: On the 10th day of the 7th month of the same year, Tsuda Tōzaemon reported that his father {{interlinear: currently under house arrest}} was suffering from eye disease, so he petitioned to request treatment from Murakami San'etsu, and also reported that San'etsu would visit.

One: On the 23rd day of the 8th month of the same year, while Yamamoto Seiemon was under punishment, his retainer became ill and he wished to grant leave and return him to his home quarters. Liaison Takeda Tarōzaemon made this request through a written statement, so we responded that he could proceed at his discretion.

One: On the 28th day of the same month, Takeda Tarōzaemon reported that during Yamamoto Seiemon's house restraint, a household member suddenly became ill causing difficulty, so they wished to consult neighboring physician Takabatake Chōtetsu. Since this was an urgent illness, we responded that they could proceed at their discretion. However, since there was no improvement by the following day, Tarōzaemon requested daily treatment, so we acknowledged this matter and mentioned it to the Senior Councilors when the opportunity arose.

One: In the 6th month of Bunka 3, Year of the Tiger, Nagami Shizuma reported that during Gonda Hikobei's house confinement, his daughter became ill and they wished town physician Egawa Daisuke to administer medicine, which was granted as petitioned by liaison Ōfuji Saburōbei. Therefore, Daisuke accompanied Saburōbei to visit Hikobei's residence, for which travel permission was reported.
However: The Town Magistrate also submitted Daisuke's written statement, reporting that the petition was granted as requested, and Daisuke also once reported travel to Hikobei's residence accompanying the liaison.

One: On the 16th day of the 7th month of the same year, Gonda Hikobei's liaison Ōkawara Sukeemon reported through a written statement that a maidservant employed at Hikobei's since this spring was affected by the season and unwell, so they wished to send her to some lodging. Since this was urgent, monthly duty officer Saburōbei responded that they could proceed at their discretion. However, when she departed, group members would see her off to the gate, so they should understand this. We ordered one gatekeeper to go to Hikobei's gate and return after confirming her departure. This maidservant was the daughter of Sonokura Yohei from Sugita Gonnosuke's group, definitely ill, and her father Yohei came to the neighborhood to take her home. We mentioned this to the Senior Councilors when the opportunity arose.

One: On the 20th day of the 8th month of Bunka 13, Year of the Rat, Advance Guard Captain Ogi Tōemon was ordered into house confinement, but a maidservant employed previously was ill and staying at her lodgings. Liaison Sakakibara Kotarō reported this, so we mentioned the matter to the Senior Councilors when the opportunity arose. However, on the 22nd, since the maidservant had recovered, Kotarō requested to summon her back to Tōemon's residence. On the morning of the 22nd, we mentioned this to the Senior Councilors, and when Kotarō came that evening, we sent the maidservant to Tōemon's residence. At that time, we dispatched a gatekeeper for confirmation, and after verifying it was indeed the maidservant and confirming her lodging and registration details, he returned and reported.

One: On the 22nd day of the 12th month of Bunka 8, Year of the Sheep, Tsuneoka Unakada reported that Kajidayū, the adoptive father of Iwagami Arajirō from his guard unit, had been ordered into house arrest in previous years, but having painful ailments, petitioned through a written statement to request treatment from court physician Funaoka Shūhaku and town surgeon Hara Dōtatsu.