This matter was consulted with the duty officer, and it was commanded as petitioned. Physician Shūhaku also reported these circumstances respectively.
【Red ink notation】Senior Councilors' records

One: On the 29th day of the 5th month of Genroku 5, Year of the Monkey, Naitō Muneuemon of the Castle Keeper Guard was ordered into house confinement in the 2nd month of this year. From the 23rd day of this month, his chronic chest congestion flared up, and his relative Tanabe Jidayū reported this to Tagaya Gondayū. Therefore, they reported to the inspectors and had town physician Hosoi Genshun administer medicine, but to no avail, and he died of illness this morning. Tagaya Gondayū went to the Council Chamber and reported this to everyone. Since this concerned someone who had been ordered into house confinement, the inspectors should examine the corpse and accompany the proceedings, which was ordered to Gondayū. Inspector Nishio Den'bei and Suzuki Hikodayū were also ordered to go to Muneuemon's house and examine the corpse. However, they immediately went to Koma Mokurō's residence where Tagaya Gondayū and the inspectors reported that Muneuemon's death from illness was certain. In that case, they could handle it at their discretion. Since Muneuemon was someone under house confinement and moreover had no son, the residence should be vacated immediately. This matter was conveyed by Mokurō to Gondayū at tonight's gathering at Mokurō's residence with Honda Sahyōe and Koma Taitō. Estate Magistrate Hikosaka Matabei was also to be informed to take possession of the residence, which was ordered to Nishio Den'bei. 【End of red ink notation】
The Town Magistrate reported that an inquiry also came from Honmyō Temple, so when we reported to the Senior Councilors, they said to handle it at discretion, but to deal with it secretly, so we conveyed this to the Town Magistrate.

One: On the 7th day of the 7th month of Kanpō 2, Year of the Dog, Magistrate Kumano Kakuemon 【insertion】was now ordered to retire, his son Toranosuke was granted succession and entered the Great Guard. There is a record that Kakuemon died of illness during house restraint. Regarding this, tomorrow evening they wished to send him to Honmyō Temple in Kimachi. On that occasion, they wished to provide four maidservants, four palanquin bearers, one lantern holder, and one additional man, which was petitioned through chief retainer Kumagai Kohei. This was granted as petitioned. However, they were ordered to handle it quite secretly, as reported by liaison Hori Heitayū.
According to Happyakuri's consideration, Kumagai Kohei was probably Hori Heitayū's chief retainer. Kumano Toranosuke was placed in Ōta Sannyanya's guard unit, with chief retainer Sanada Gentazaemon.

One: On the 14th day of the 1st month of Enkyō 1, Year of the Rat, Construction Magistrate Mizuno Tōhei died of illness during house restraint, as reported by liaison Ninagawa Heitayū. Following instructions from Ōtani Sukeroku's office, since there was no precedent for handling this, Inspector Nara Gonzaemon was ordered to go not as an official examiner but to investigate the death from illness and inquire about details from Heitayū. He went accompanied by foot inspectors and submitted a written report. Since there was no official pardon, the corpse should be sent to Antei Temple in Kidadōri for burial. 【insertion】On the night of the 15th, Heitayū entered the gate with two palanquin bearers, left three waiting outside, and accompanied by four for the palanquin, one lantern holder, and one assistant, Heitayū escorted the body to the temple. There were reports before and after, and two group members were ordered to observe from ■■ distance, and after arrangements were completed, they withdrew. Of course, it should not resemble a funeral ceremony, and son Isonosuke and household members were strictly ordered to maintain restraint through Gonzaemon. Details are in the extracts from the Senior Councilors' official records. 《interlinear: However, on the 20th day of the 2nd month, restraint was pardoned after Tōhei's death, and on the 5th day of the 3rd month, son Isonosuke was granted 100 koku from his stipend and entered the Great Guard, previously 200 koku》

▽Refer to two pages previous

One: On the 11th day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 16, Year of the Boar, Construction Magistrate Hori Shinzaemon had matters that did not meet expectations, his position was revoked and he was ordered into house confinement. On the 11th day of the 12th month, since Shinzaemon had been unwell recently, his illness and convalescence conditions were inquired about through liaison Habakabe Gennosuke, a memorandum was submitted and reported to Edo.
However, although he used medicine from Okabe Genhaku, only medicine was provided and Genhaku did not make rounds, so Genhaku was not consulted.

One: On the 15th day of the 1st month of Enkyō 3, Year of the Tiger, Matsubara Shikizen, who had been under house arrest at Matsubara Hikojirō's residence since previous years, committed suicide. The examiner was Tsuchiya Jinzaemon.
For matters concerning retainer communications, see the later Communications section.

One: On New Year's Day of the same 5th year, Year of the Dragon, during Sakabe Tasaemon's house restraint, Inaba Uneme reported that Tasaemon's grandson Yasunosuke was unwell and they wished to summon town physician Fujisawa Sadataka and blind acupuncturist Takezawa Juetsu for treatment. House administrator Sakabe Kyūzaemon petitioned this to me. When told to convey this matter, I reported to the Senior Councilors, who said since it concerned illness, they could proceed at their discretion, as conveyed by Honda Minbu's office, which I communicated to Uneme. On the same day, Kyūzaemon reported that as petitioned was granted, so both physicians were dispatched. Both physicians also made similar reports.

One: On the 16th day of the 4th month of Tenpō 12, Year of the Ox, Habakabe Hachizaemon was ordered into house confinement. Since unfavorable rumors were heard about his concubine named "Teru," he was ordered to dismiss her. However, there was a child of about three years who was ill, so they wished to send out this "Teru" together for convalescence, which was granted as requested.
However

One: On the 29th day of the 9th month of Kōka 2, Year of the Snake, Nomura Jirōtarō's adoptive mother was ordered to leave the castle town, and Jirōtarō was ordered into house confinement. However, a maidservant employed at Jirōtarō's residence had been sent to her lodging due to illness from some time ago, which was reported by relatives when the punishment was ordered. Since this maidservant recovered, they petitioned through relatives via written statement to the Inspector to summon her back for employment again. This was acknowledged, a gatekeeper was sent to confirm the entry, and the matter was later reported to the Senior Councilors.

One: On the 16th day of the 8th month of the same 4th year, Year of the Sheep, Kishi Rikitarō was ordered into house restraint. On the 23rd day of the same month, they petitioned via written statement through the chief retainer to send a sick maidservant to her lodging, bringing it to the Accounting Office assembly day. However, since sending down a sick maidservant did not require petitioning from chief retainers or captains to the Senior Councilors, if reported to the monthly duty Inspector, it would be acknowledged, a gatekeeper would be sent to confirm entry and exit, and later reporting to the Senior Councilors would be sufficient, so it was handled accordingly.

One: On the 25th day of the 5th month of Tenpō 2, Year of the Rabbit, Suematsu Monjirō was ordered into house restraint, with Minor Accountant Suematsu Hansuke serving as liaison. On the following 26th day, Monjirō's sister had been sent as wife to Kyōkaku Temple, a sub-temple of Senshō Temple in Kidanaka-machi, but being due to give birth this month, she had been brought back to her family home. Recently she became ill, and though they tried to send her to the temple yesterday, it was delayed, so they petitioned via written statement to send her today. Magistrate Imadate Gorotayū reported this to Koma Mokugata's office, and Gorotayū and Hansuke reported acknowledgment. Following precedent, one group member was dispatched to confirm departure.
【Upper left red ink notation】Rat