Handling of Matters Regarding Changes During Punishments

1. When unexpected incidents occur during punishment periods, the intermediary (tsūroji) must report to the inspector (metsuke). After hearing the circumstances, matters that can be resolved through discretion should be handled with appropriate instructions to each party, and difficult cases should be formally reported. Decided in Kanpō 2nd year.

1. On July 17th, Kyōhō 17th year, yesterday on the 16th, magistrates Eguchi Jirōbee and Sakai Rokurōemon were ordered into confinement (hissoku). The intermediary Jinemon requested to send his horse to the horse dealer and to have the attendants taken in by intermediary Jinemon and given leave. When consulted with the senior councilors, they replied "as you see fit." [Marginal note: On October 5th of the same year, Amemori Giemon's case was handled similarly]

1. In Meiwa 4th year, senior ashigaru commander Ogawa Jibee was dismissed from office and ordered into discretionary confinement. His former group had half-boxes (hankui), and intermediary Kaifuku Semon applied for and handled their delivery.

1. On July 25th, Bunsei 13th year, Akashi Nuinodono, who had been under house confinement, was pardoned today. However, during his confinement around the 5th of the same month, a servant named Yosuke climbed over the fence and fled. Therefore, although Nuinodono was pardoned today and allowed to open his gate and relax security measures, he did not go out for the thanksgiving ceremony and immediately requested discretionary confinement, which was granted as requested.
   However, when intermediary Honda Chikugo immediately requested discretionary confinement upon the servant's escape, he was told it was unnecessary. The intermediary position changed at that time.

1. On October 5th, Tenpō 2nd year, Sakai Gonzaemon, who had been under discretionary confinement since earlier, was pardoned today. However, during his confinement on the night of September 26th, a former maidservant who had become the wife of a current visitor, unaware of the confinement, came to visit. When the gate wouldn't open, she removed the lock through a gap in the boards beside the dog-hole and entered. Intermediary Hori Shōbee, being a neighbor, witnessed this and immediately went over to escort the woman out. Due to this negligence, after today's pardon and the opening of gates and relaxation of other security measures, Gonzaemon...

[Upper left red ink notation] Na