1. On March 2nd, Hōei 3rd year, regarding the dismissal of foot soldier Kawai Tarōbee, a report was made to the foot soldier commanders, and Namiba Hakubu Koemon conveyed this to his lordship's attention. The directive issued today was as follows:

　　　　　Memorandum of Instructions to Kawai Tarōbee
You have committed an extremely inappropriate act by submitting a resignation request despite knowing past precedents, even though your uncle Noda Heibee was subjected to punishment, and you arranged matters as if to have your resignation retained. Therefore, you are granted dismissal and are subject to banishment according to regulations. The above. March 2nd. The above Koemon recorded this in writing as magistrate, and Koemon conveyed the matter of instructions to foot soldier commander Nakamura Yagosaku.

　　　　　Matters Concerning Requests for Discretionary Confinement
1. When someone is ordered to commit seppuku, requests for discretionary confinement by relatives and connections shall be granted to fathers, sons, brothers, uncles, nephews, sons-in-law, and fathers-in-law.

1. Relatives of those subjected to dismissal from service or granted leave should personally report to the inspectors, and upon receiving instructions, should immediately go to that person's residence to handle affairs. Depending on the nature of family relationships, matters of discretionary confinement should be consulted with senior councilors through respective intermediaries. Decided in Kanpō 2nd year.

1. When there are persons subjected to dismissal from service, granted leave, or ordered into house confinement or discretionary confinement, relatives requesting discretionary confinement should make inquiries up to the level of cousins. Decided in Kanpō 2nd year.

1. When blood brothers of those granted leave and sons who have gone to other houses request discretionary confinement, discretionary confinement should be granted.
　However, it should be announced that uncles, nephews, cousins, and in-laws need not observe discretionary confinement even if they inquire.

1. In cases of house confinement and reprimands, if fathers and sons inquire about discretionary confinement, discretionary confinement should be granted and this should be reported to his lordship.
　However, brothers and others need not observe discretionary confinement. Nevertheless, if any brothers serve in close attendance, they should be told to inquire. Other relatives need not observe discretionary confinement even if they serve in close attendance, and this should be announced immediately. [Red ink notation] However, during house confinement, even brothers living together are ordered to exercise restraint.

1. When relatives of those under discretionary confinement inquire about discretionary confinement, they should all be told that such measures are unnecessary. However, in the case of fathers and sons living together, even if they have succeeded to other family names, they should be told to exercise restraint.
　However, those serving in close attendance should be told to exercise restraint regarding fathers, sons, and brothers even if not living together, and this should be reported to his lordship. Other relatives should be told that restraint is unnecessary according to regulations.
　The above treatment for those in close attendance is because they observe discretionary confinement due to having audiences with the lord, but during his lordship's absence in Edo...

[Upper left red ink notation] Ra