1. When sons of the same surname are punished, those of the same surname should submit inquiries. Second sons, uncle-nephew, aunt-niece, and wives should submit inquiries up to discretionary confinement.

1. On April 5th, Bunsei 6th year, when Amemori Hikozaemon's son Matgorō was ordered discretionary confinement, Amemori Genshirō submitted a discretionary confinement inquiry. On the same day, when Nishio Goemon's adopted son [corrected from "son"] Gentarō received the same treatment, Nishio Shichibee submitted a discretionary confinement inquiry. On the same day, when Kiuchi Ichirōzaemon's son Yosannosuke received the same treatment, Kiuchi Jinbee submitted a discretionary confinement inquiry.

1. On October 16th, Bunsei 6th year, when Sōma Genbee was stripped of samurai status, demoted to foot soldier, and ordered confined, his brother Hori Kyūemon was ordered confinement after inquiry, and all others up to cousins submitted discretionary confinement inquiries, but were immediately told such measures were unnecessary.

1. On November 28th of the same year, when Nakamura Hachidayū's son died of illness, Hachidayū's birth father Matsuda Zenemon observed one day of discretionary confinement and reported this to the senior councilors. When this was reported to the senior councilors, they inquired whether there should be grandson mourning obligations since Hachidayū had been sent as an adopted son to the Nakamura house. When the guard roster office investigated, they said discretionary confinement was unnecessary, so this was reported to the senior councilors. However, since this was also to be reported to Edo, they were told to submit a discretionary confinement inquiry. When the inquiry was submitted, they were told it was unnecessary.
However, when someone is sent as an adopted son, mourning obligations from brothers to grandparents and uncles/aunts are reduced by half, so grandsons, nephews, and cousins need not observe discretionary confinement even if under seven years old.

1. Regarding discretionary confinement inquiries due to errors in ceremonial attendance:

1. On August 15th, Bunka 9th year, when long spear magistrates Kuno Bunshirō and Masugi Koheiji made errors in ceremonial seating, they submitted discretionary confinement inquiries and were given one day of custody, but were told it was unnecessary. The inspectors did not submit inquiries at this time.

1. On November 15th, Bunka 11th year, when Kawasaki Heiemon made a seating error due to incorrect guidance from senior clerk Watanabe Gengozaemon [corrected from "right"], [red ink] on the 18th inquiry was made and restraint was ordered [red ink] pardoned on the 21st. When Heiemon and other senior clerks inquired about discretionary confinement, they were told it was unnecessary.

1. On May 15th, Tenpō 3rd year, during ceremonies, when senior guard Watanabe Sentarō made an attendance error resulting in five people, he appeared and fearfully inquired about discretionary confinement, but was ordered to refrain. When monthly duty officer Menju Denzaburō inquired about discretionary confinement due to negligent supervision, he was told it was unnecessary. Also, regarding inspector inquiries, on February 1st, Bunsei 8th year, when guard unit members Ihara Genbee and Hayashi Chūjirō were late and what should have been four lines became two, they inquired about discretionary confinement but were told it was unnecessary. Since the inspectors did not submit inquiries at that time, they did not submit inquiries this time either based on this precedent.

1. On June 1st of the same year, when ceremonial officers Naruse Sōemon and Kamisaka Tōsuke made seating errors, they inquired about discretionary confinement and received one day of custody, but it was deemed unnecessary. The colleagues did not submit inquiries at this time either.

1. Regarding town magistrates' discretionary confinement inquiries when jails are broken, this appears in the imprisonment section.

1. On October [red ink] 18th, Bunsei 6th year, when the senior councilors issued congratulatory notices to all monthly duty officers, there was an error in addressing the monthly banners magistrate, leading to investigation. Since monthly duty officer Masugi Koheiji submitted the monthly report incorrectly, when he inquired about discretionary confinement, he was ordered to refrain [red ink] pardoned on the 20th.

1. On February 15th, Bunsei 13th year, for his lordship's birthday celebration when the senior councilors were to have congratulatory audiences, the foot soldier inspectors should have reported for duty this morning, but yesterday's monthly duty officer Ōida Kinai failed to communicate this. When the senior councilors reported for duty, the foot soldier inspectors were not present, so they were summoned and appeared when the senior councilors departed, but since the failure to appear for duty was clear, Kinai submitted a discretionary confinement inquiry but was told it was unnecessary. Therefore, when scribe Fujita Shinzō's coordination failed to arrive properly and his superior also submitted an inquiry, the superior ordered Shinzō three days of confinement. Of course, during Shinzō's confinement, other scribes appeared and performed the duties.

1. When relatives who should submit discretionary confinement inquiries during punishment are in mourning, discretionary confinement should be observed through other family members...

[Upper left red ink] Ra