Regarding punishments for yoriki (assistants), minor officials, and all subordinate deputies

1. Even for those of official rank, when granted leave of dismissal, the metsuke (inspector) shall be present to take their seal on the written prohibition. When this is ordered at the magistrates' residences, the metsuke shall also attend.

1. For minor officials and below who are ordered to be dismissed or exiled, the metsuke shall not be present [red ink note] ◦Therefore the senior councilors do not order this either. However, depending on the case [red ink note] ◦there are also instructions, so there are also cases of attendance.

[Red ink note] Record of Kyōhō 16, Year of the Boar, 2nd month, 9th day, when cook Tani Tokuzaemon and Nishioka Seiemon engaged in light gambling with townspeople and were granted dismissive leave.

1. In Hōei 6, Year of the Ox, due to the misconduct of Kaeriyama Sazaemon, yoriki of town magistrate Atsumi Shinemon, dismissal and exile were ordered as per Shinemon's petition. At this time, two men from the watch guard were sent to the domain border.
However, while there was no precedent, this time our colleague served as intermediary, so watch guard members were dispatched as described above.

1. In the same year, when Ōmura Shichirōemon was to lose his stipend, it was communicated that metsuke Ogawa Yoemon should be present. However, when horse rider Saitō Danemon lost his stipend at the Edo residence in previous years, no metsuke was present. Last year, due to simplification measures, when officials of equivalent rank lost small stipends, attendance occurred, but this matter was considered exceptional. When this was communicated to Sakai Tenzen's office, they deemed it reasonable and decided attendance was unnecessary.

1. According to the same year's record, when ashigaru (foot soldiers) were granted dismissive leave, if there were no special circumstances, it appears watch guard members were not dispatched.

1. Kyōhō 9, Year of the Dragon, 10th month, 22nd day, ashigaru ー Kyōhō 12, Year of the Sheep, 12th month, 4th day, for Buddhist memorial service, permitted to enter the domain, mother meeting permitted, but entry to Edo residence forbidden. When Nozawa Shōsuke returned from Edo, the ashigaru commander sent out road greeters, immediately summoned him to the commander's residence, and announced that due to his father Kyūdayū's misconduct, both Shōsuke would be granted dismissive leave. A seal was taken on the standard prohibition document, and it had been previously ordered that this document be left with the ashigaru commander. He arrived just past the seventh hour, and at ashigaru commander Kawai Hikosaku's residence, the announcement was made to Shōsuke, his seal taken on the prohibition document, and Hikosaku notified the metsuke offices. Since Shōsuke had no residence, he went to Kōkenji temple's sub-temple Jun?ryū-in. At that time, unit members accompanied him, and from there unit members [escorted him] to the domain border.

[Upper left red ink] U