Matters proclaimed　　　Memorandum of oral statement　Purport
　Regarding the matter of Tsuchida Kyūzō's elder sister from my group: One Ishida Kichizaemon from among our colleagues broke into his residence during his absence and stole clothing. This became known, and all
　items were returned to Kichizaemon's household, so there are no issues with Kyūzō's conduct. Regarding the aforementioned sister, although she has long been known to be of foolish disposition, her misconduct is extremely
　inappropriate, so I humbly wish to request her banishment from the castle town, etc.

1. Tenpō 4 (Year of the Snake), 10th month: Gunsmith Wakabayashi Shūshirō was confined, with passage overseen by castle deputy yoriki Hori Otozaburō.

1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), 7th month, 25th day: Upon hearing of foot soldier Kondō Gensuke's misconduct, he was replaced and ordered to long-term confinement. Foot soldier Fujii Matagorō's
　father Bunemon was also ordered to long-term detention due to misconduct.

1. Tenmei 8 (Year of the Monkey), 8th month, 5th day: Minor official Nanbu Jinzaemon was ordered to leave the castle town at the council chamber, so watch group members were
　dispatched. They confirmed his departure as far as Katsumi Shinrakuji temple.

1. Same day: Deputy Takeuchi Jūemon received the same treatment, so for confirmation of departure, halberd bearers were sent as escorts.

1. Bunka 8 (Year of the Sheep), 7th month, 26th day: Tile department deputy Makita Sōemon had his stipend revoked and was ordered banished from the castle town. Since the aforementioned Sōemon was
　the brother of monk retainer Nakano Sōban of equivalent rank, when Sōban submitted an inquiry about showing restraint, confinement was ordered. Moreover, since Makita Yosanzaemon, deputy to Yoshida Heijizaemon, was also
　Sōemon's brother, after inquiring whether Heijizaemon should show restraint, confinement was ordered, and this was communicated as notification.

1. 11th month of the same year: When Nirazuka Yosuke was ordered confined, since he was the biological brother of metalworker Miyagawa Sajibei, Wakabayashi Shōgorō
　communicated that he would refrain and make inquiry, but he was told this was unnecessary.

1. Kyōwa 3 (Year of the Boar), 2nd month, 29th day: When foot soldier Nagayama Genpachirō's son Matsunosuke was banished, two watch group members were dispatched as far as Itadori.

1. Bunka 1 (Year of the Rat), 5th month, 6th day　　　　　　　Castle deputy yoriki　Yoda Sōemon
　　There was an incident of carelessness, and Matsuda Gonnosuke ordered restraint.
　　　However, on the 15th of the same month, exemption was granted, with notification given before and after.

1. Bunka 3 (Year of the Tiger), 11th month, 25th day: At the accounting office waiting room, regarding foot soldier Yasumi Jōemon, the supervising commander announced through written order that his foot soldier rank was revoked. We were made to attend in the drawing room, with foot soldier inspectors stationed in the next room. Subsequently,
　the aforementioned Jōemon was ordered to be placed in the detention house, so we attended in the waiting room, and Jūdayū announced this at the veranda. When completed, Nara Tarōemon's subordinates came and the transfer was completed without delay. At that time, the foot soldier inspectors handled their respective duties
　without incident. Subsequently, in the waiting room, Matsuda Zenemon announced that confinement was ordered for Jōemon's father Gonzaburō.
　We attended in the drawing room at that time.
　　However, when Jōemon was summoned from the Daiku-machi detention room to the accounting office, two group members were dispatched to escort him on the journey.

1. From the 4th month to 5th month of Bunka 4 (Year of the Rabbit): Records exist regarding the handling of foot soldier Satō Kiemon's case.

1. Same year, 6th month, 11th day: Records exist regarding the punishment of Saitō Taemon and others, beginning with the elder brother of Saitō Chōtarō who died violently recently.

1. Wada Yohei, who served as a foot soldier, was granted leave, and his household members were taken in by relatives for care. Regarding Yohei's house construction: Previously, Yohei had resided there for many years,
　receiving a land grant and residing there until now. If the house construction portion could be granted, it would enable continued care for the large household, as petitioned by his actual uncle
　Aizawa Shōsuke in the 8th month.

1. Bunsei 8 (Year of the Rooster), 11th month, 13th day: Regarding the matter of minor official Nakamura Matasaemon, the biological younger brother of foot soldier inspector Shimada Kurōzaemon, who had been residing with Kurōzaemon: On the 11th day before yesterday, there was a matter of suspicion,
　and when he was summoned to the accounting office, relatives reported that he committed suicide at dawn today. Therefore, while there should be matters that warrant punishment, out of compassion, it was ordered that the corpse be granted to the family.
　Since the handling of this misconduct occurred while residing with Kurōzaemon, he expressed deep remorse and wished to show restraint. Kurōzaemon communicated this, and restraint was immediately ordered. Since there was
　passage involved, he was pardoned on the 23rd of the same month.

【Upper left red ink】U