service was also discontinued, as reported by the head.
1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), intercalary 8th month, 29th day: Tōgō Kichizō reported that his group member Sugimoto Kisaburō had committed misconduct, and having been confined since earlier,
　subsequently committed further misconduct. Due to this impropriety, his stipend was revoked. Moreover, his adoptive father Sakuemon committed similar offenses and was
　confined, but showing no signs of reform thereafter, he was ordered to leave the group quarter. Sakuemon's wife was also previously barred from entering the group quarter,
　and she was further instructed not to enter in the future.
1. Bunka 9 (Year of the Monkey), 5th month: The following was communicated, and when reported to the senior councilors, they replied that it should be carried out as petitioned, so this was conveyed
　to Jūbee:
　　My group member Kawano Matazaburō has committed impropriety, so I wish to revoke his stipend and order him to leave the castle town. Please handle this matter appropriately. Respectfully,　　5th month　　To Murata Jūtayū-sama　　　　　　Hori Jūbee
1. Kyōwa 1 (Year of the Rooster), 5th month, 21st day: Imamura Denbee's group member Nakashima Asaemon's household conduct was disharmonious and his attitude was reported as improper, so
　his adoptive mother and Denbee ordered his confinement based on their judgment.
1. Same year, 7th month, 15th day: Shimoyama Seizaemon's group member Watanabe Tashirō was on guard duty at Reiganjima residence, Hachiman gate in Edo
　when he committed negligence and was confined. This was reported and conveyed to Seizaemon.
1. Bunka 2 (Year of the Ox), 8th month, 16th day: Yokota Sakutayū's group member Ōkubo Ritayū committed impropriety and was ordered confined, and Enami Mohachirō's divorced
　wife was ordered to be strictly confined. However, Kajikawa Hanbee's group member Ōkubo Yasuke, being her actual father and older sister, humbly requested
　to be allowed to exercise restraint themselves. Since they were also cohabitants, they were ordered to exercise restraint as petitioned, as reported by Hanbee.

1. When members of various groups are ordered punished, this is announced to the monthly inspector through the duty officer, so the respective heads are summoned to the monthly officer's residence for notification.
　When pardoned, it is similarly announced to the monthly officer, but this is communicated to the heads by letter.
　　However, for castle deputy groups, both before and after, assistants are summoned for notification.
1. After group members have their stipends revoked by their head's judgment and petition for personal employment afterward - this appears in the section on various groups.
1. When group members abscond but are brought back and have their stipends revoked, or when stipends are revoked by the head's judgment and personal employment is petitioned afterward - this appears in the same section.
1. Bunpō 3 (Year of the Dragon), 2nd month, 5th day: Atobe Shukei's group member Tsuchida Ichirōbee committed misconduct, and when this was reported to the senior councilors, replacement was ordered. Monthly officer Suzuki Jūzaemon summoned Shukei to
　his residence and conveyed this through explanation, also conveying that personal employment was ordered for the successor. Since this was ordered through transfer from the inspector, there was no official document. Regarding the head's restraint inquiry, the inquiry provisions should be consulted.
1. Bunka 1 (Year of the Rat), 5th month, 13th day:
　　Previously went to provide escort for ceremonial food from Eiheiji temple
　　but failed to arrive properly on the journey - confined　　Ōta Saburōbee's group　Morita Kansuke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōtsuka Kinsuke
　　　However, on the same (month, 6th month?) 15th day, they were to be released from tomorrow
1. Bunka 5 (Year of the Dragon), 9th month, 13th day: Vanguard commander Okabe Ichiemon's group member Tsuchida Kyūzō's sister's expulsion from castle town - this should be referenced under the provisions for punishment of minor officials and below.
1. Same [Bunka] 9 (Year of the Monkey), 5th month: Kaji Jūbee's group member Kawano Matazaburō ◦ stipend revocation and castle town departure by head's judgment - same as above.
1. Bunka 5 (Year of the Dragon), 10th month, 16th day　　　　Suzaki Saburōemon's group
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hasegawa Bunzaemon's son　Bunji
　　Previously served at Minagawa Toneri's residence, where a fellow servant
　　woman and two other women, totaling three people, at Chōjamachi Rihee's

【Upper left red ink】I