1. On the 13th day of the 1st month of Shōtoku 1, Rabbit year, regarding peasants from Fuchū domain setting nets within the falconry grounds, the senior councilors sent word to Magotarō's office, imprisoned them in Fukui town jail, and kept records of successive deliberations.

1. On the 26th day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 3, Dog year, during criminal proceedings, Hanbei of Honshōji gate, an accomplice of thieves, was sentenced to banishment from the domain. This person shall have no pardon even in any great amnesty hereafter, and such should be understood, as conveyed by the senior councilors to town magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon yesterday on the 25th.

1. On the 21st day of the 8th month of the same year, to Ōmiya Hikoemon: "Regarding banishment from the castle town, until now there was no interference even if they remained around Katsumi area since it was outside the castle town, but hereafter regarding castle town banishment, they shall be ordered not to enter within two ri (about 8 km) in all directions from the castle town."

1. On the 11th day of the 6th month of the same 6th year, Ox, it was announced to the supervising heads that banished persons shall not pass through side roads beyond Itatori in the upper direction and Hosorogi in the lower direction.

1. On the 21st day of the 11th month of the same year, Jinemon from Ōtani village, who had returned after banishment, was sentenced to have his hair shaved, branded, and banished from the domain while in prison. (This was ordered to town magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon, among other banished persons)

However, nose-cutting banishment occurred frequently around the Genroku era, appearing in various records. All were for gambling. In the 12th month of Kyōhō 7, Tiger year, there was a case of banishment from two ri around the castle town.
According to Jinpei's records, on the 21st day of the 6th month of Kyōhō 2, Rooster year, three people had their noses cut and were banished from the domain, all being persons who had returned from domain banishment.
Also, on the 22nd day of the 2nd month of Genbun 3, Horse year, Takaya Genemon was banished from thirteen ri in all directions after nose-cutting for operating a gambling house within the gate of the Edo residence caretaker's quarters.
On the 5th day of the 7th month of Kyōhō 6, Ox year, Matemon of Ikube village was banished from two ri around his home village.

1. On the 25th day of the 4th month of the same 7th year, Tiger, Eguchi Jirōbei reported that since there were many improper disputes in the villages of the custody territories causing much expense and trouble, if penalty silver were imposed on the unreasonable parties following dispute adjudication as in our domain territories, there would likely be fewer improper disputes thereafter. The group headmen submitted this proposal. When this matter was reported to the senior councilors, they were told that Suzuki Hikodayū and Inoue Handayū should discuss it.

1. On the 5th day of the 6th month of the same year, regarding Tōshirō of Tajima village in the custody territory severely beating Seizaemon of the same village, as a penalty for Tōshirō, the days from when Seizaemon was beaten until he recovered from pain and could go out were calculated, and rice for that period was provided by Tōshirō.

1. On the 29th day of the 4th month of the same year, since unauthorized pilgrimages were epidemic and discipline was lacking, it was decided after inquiry that penalties should be collected from the parents of those making unauthorized pilgrimages from custody territory villages, with this instruction given to group heads. On the 11th day of the 7th month, it was further decided after inquiry that parents' penalties should be 2 monme, and for servants, masters should pay penalties of 3 monme each. However, on the 5th day of the 7th month of the same 12th year, Sheep, it was decided to waive penalties for children 15 and under since they lack judgment.
Banishment from one ri in all directions is rare, so it is recorded.

1. On the 21st day of the 9th month of the same 12th year, Sheep, there is a record that Gonsuke of Ikeziri village, who had been banished from one ri in all directions in previous years, was pardoned upon petition this time.

1. On the 29th day of the 5th month of Kyōhō 6, Ox year, Buemon of Yoshie Nishiban village was banished from one ri around Yoshie, specifically including Fukui custody territory and Matsuoka.

1. On the 5th day of the 9th month of Genbun 1, Dragon year, Magistrate Ogawa Jiheiji conveyed that hereafter, when village people who hold rice stipends and serve in samurai households fall behind in tax payments and become delinquent, requiring village dismissal and banishment, the local deputy should report to the magistrates for consultation. The magistrates would then inform the district magistrates, discontinue stipends, and hand over handling to the deputy, as decided and conveyed by the senior councilors.

1. On the 27th day of the 9th month of Tenpō 2, Rabbit year, Asano Kyōsai conveyed by letter that since Naitō Riheiji was ill and wished to request medical treatment, and since he was currently under investigation, he made this request through intermediary Nunoya Tazaemon, asking to bring said Tazaemon this evening. Although such reports were not usually made during townspeople's investigations, this case involved an intermediary so it was reported. He also stated that such reports would not be made regularly hereafter, asking that this be noted.

1. On the 10th day of the 10th month of Genbun 5, Monkey year, for the 33rd anniversary memorial tea ceremony of Lord Jōkenin, amnesty was granted: prison release, tattoo on forehead, and banishment from thirteen ri in all directions within the domain for Chōzaemon of Higashi-uo town, a returned exile.

1. On the 10th day of the 10th month of Kyōhō 5, Rat year, for the amnesty of Lord Jōkenin's 13th anniversary memorial service, four prisoners who had committed arson were permanently banished from the domain with no interference with wives and children. However, they shall have no pardon even in future great amnesties, and this instruction was given to town magistrate Ōmiya Hikoemon and recorded at the end of the amnesty document.

1. On the 29th day of the 1st month of the same 10th year, Snake, Seijirō of Yutaniya Mohei's household in Matsumoto Yokochō was banished thirteen ri from the castle town, permanently expelled, and instructed not to submit petitions even during memorial services. According to records, there were others as well.

1. On the 21st day of the 10th month of Tenmei 1, Ox year, for memorial service amnesty: life spared, tattoo on forehead, and banishment from thirteen ri in all directions within the domain for Jiheiji, a masterless person born at Seigenji temple grounds.

1. On the 12th day of the 12th month of Kyōhō 9, Dragon year, for the amnesty of Lord Genkōin's first anniversary: prison release and banishment from six ri around the castle town for Ichibei, retainer of Nabaya Kanemon of Shimo-gofuku town.

1. On the 8th day of the 6th month of Enpō 7, Sheep year, finger cutting and domain banishment for Kizaemon of Ōtsu town in Ōmi province for pickpocketing in the marketplace.