Regarding Various Matters Concerning Punishments

1. For those of rank "bangai" (supernumerary) and above who are reprimanded with house confinement, self-restraint, etc., and later receive pardons, the notifications were previously delivered through the metsuke (inspectors). From now on, they shall be delivered through the monthly duty officers (nakama tsukiban), with the metsuke only attending to witness and confirm the proceedings.
   However, for those sentenced to dismissal from service (kaiekae), dismissal (hima), or house arrest (chikkyo), notifications shall continue to be delivered through the metsuke. This was communicated on the 14th day of the 12th month of Genbun 5 (1740) through goyōnin Namihaku-be Hachizaemon to goyōban Sakai Tenzen.

△1. When samurai commit misconduct and are ordered to self-restraint, confinement, house arrest, etc., if their supervising heads find it necessary to communicate matters regarding guards and other issues, but there are circumstances that make this inappropriate, communications regarding those under orders of self-restraint, confinement, or house arrest from above should be consulted with the Senior Councilors (karō) and handled according to their instructions. This was communicated to all monthly duty heads on the 1st day of the 6th month of Kanpō 2 (1742).

1. When those in permanent residence (jōfu) in Kyoto, Edo, etc. have their positions revoked or are ordered to self-restraint, and their wives and children return here, relatives should inquire about the date of return and post group members at the town's edge for observation.
   However, this should also be consulted with the Senior Councilors depending on circumstances.

△1. On the 1st day of the 6th month of Kanpō 2 (1742), the following written instruction was handed to metsuke Akita Sangozaemon at the main castle:
1. When samurai commit misconduct and are ordered to self-restraint, confinement, house arrest, etc., and are assigned to the ōban (great guard), if their commanding officers find it necessary to communicate matters regarding guard duty assignments during their punishment period and other matters, but circumstances make this inappropriate, such communications should be consulted with the Senior Councilors. Once this consultation is completed, the senior officer should proceed and handle each matter accordingly.
   However, the metsuke should also be informed of such communications.