Aside from the above, everything follows previous procedures.
[Red notation] This provision is a separate document. This makes two documents. Moreover, this provision should be at the beginning of the previous memorandum of oral instructions.

1. Relatives of those who receive dismissal from service (kaiekae) or dismissal (hima) should report personally to the metsuke, and upon receiving instructions, should promptly visit that person's residence to handle matters. Depending on subsequent circumstances, matters of self-restraint should be consulted with the Senior Councilors through appropriate intermediaries.

Happyakuri's note: The above provisions appear in various sections of the punishment provisions, but following the original sequence, they are presented here again.

[Red notation] On December 13th of the third year of Kan'en (1750), year of the tiger, the following matter was decided upon consultation, as recorded in the Senior Councilors' official records, copied as shown in red notation.

1. In the first month of Enkyō 4 (1747), year of the rabbit, the written directive given to Koma Taitō was as follows:

○1. When someone is ordered to commit seppuku, regarding the self-restraint of their relatives and in-laws [at such times], self-restraint should be ordered for fathers and sons, brothers, uncles and nephews, sons-in-law and fathers-in-law.

○1. For house confinement and reprimands, regarding fathers and sons, if they consult about self-restraint, self-restraint should be ordered and this matter should be reported to His Lordship's attention.
However, brothers and those of lower relation need not observe self-restraint. Nevertheless, if among the brothers there are those who serve as close attendants (kinshū), this should be consulted and communicated. Other relatives, even if they are close attendants, need not observe self-restraint, and this should be communicated immediately.

[Red notation] ○As this is stated in the formal regulations, following this precedent, when punishments are light and self-restraint is not ordered but individuals voluntarily observe self-restraint after consultation, if their relatives request self-restraint consultation, fathers and sons should first be told to refrain and wait, and this should be reported to His Lordship's attention. Depending on the nature of the offense, handling is done according to His Lordship's discretion. Also, for relatives of those ordered to observe self-restraint after reprimands, unlike house confinement, for relatives of those also ordered self-restraint, generally self-restraint is not ordered. Among these, for fathers and sons and brothers, depending on the circumstances, they may be told to "refrain" or "exercise caution," communicated immediately and reported to His Lordship's attention. This too is handled according to His Lordship's discretion.

○1. When parents and brothers of those granted dismissal consult about self-restraint, self-restraint should be ordered, reported to His Lordship's attention, and communicated subsequently.
However, uncles, nephews, cousins, and in-laws need not observe self-restraint even if they request consultation, and this should be communicated.

○1. When a parent is granted dismissal, sons who serve separately should also be granted dismissal.
However, those who have gone to other houses are not affected.

无 As per the above regulations
无1. For fathers and sons and brothers of those whose parents are granted dismissal, if they have gone to other houses, they should not be granted dismissal but should be ordered self-restraint.

无1. When relatives and in-laws of those under self-restraint request self-restraint consultation, fathers and sons should be told to refrain, and those who have gone to other houses are told this does not apply to them. Even if they have inherited another name, those who remain together as father and son should be told to refrain.

However, those who serve as close attendants, even if not residing together, should be ordered that fathers and sons and brothers refrain and wait, and this should be reported to His Lordship's attention. Other relatives, as per the formal regulations, should be told they need not refrain.

As stated above, since close attendants are subject to self-restraint from audience with His Lordship, with such handling, when His Lordship is in Edo or absent, fathers and sons and brothers who have gone to other houses should be told they need not refrain.

无1. Self-restraint ordered from above or self-restraint ordered after consultation from below should be handled the same way.

无1. Orders to refrain and wait, whether ordered from above or after consultation, should be handled the same way. In this case, gates are not closed and this does not apply to messengers.

○1. Regarding access to those under self-restraint, while not strictly stated in the formal regulations, following previous handling practices, when close associates make requests, one person should be allowed access, and it should be communicated that this must be reported to the metsuke. For those ordered to refrain, since gates are not closed, there are no access restrictions.

[Red notation] ○As marked with circles. Written and kept for reference.

Happyakuri's note: The intent of the above nine provisions appears in various sections of the punishment provisions, but following the original sequence, they are presented here again.

1. When samurai are ordered self-restraint, depending on the nature of the case, if the duration becomes excessively long and there is no discussion of pardon, there are cases where consultation is made from this side to the Senior Councilors.

However, in such cases, it is not appropriate to do this at the council hall (hyōjōsho) but rather should be consulted at the residence of the duty councilor (goyōban).

1. At the council hall, for house confinement, self-restraint, and all other matters, when business is concluded after the Senior Councilors' departure and one returns, the monthly duty officer should immediately visit the duty councilor and report.