1. On December 16th, Enkyō 1 (1744), year of the rat, since the assistance with repairs at Nikkō was successfully completed, pardons were granted to scattered field farmers in the four town districts as sake money, and this was communicated from the Senior Councilors to the Deputy Heads through written notice.

[Middle section] Tenpō 2 (1831), 6th month, 18th day, Rabbit year - Yūzaemon, vagabond with tattoos from Kawamasumura, life spared, both arms tattooed, banished with retrieval.

[Lower section] Kōka 1 (1844), 8th month, 1st day, Dragon year - Yosakich, vagabond from Maruoka Ishikido-machi, both arms tattooed, life spared, banished with retrieval.

[Red notation] There are precedents of tattooing those whose lives were spared and who were banished during pardons for Buddhist memorial services. A recent example: Kōka 4 (1847), 12th month, 1st day, Sheep year ○ Not retrieval - Ryūshōji former head priest Ryōkai. There are also precedents of tattooing both arms and banishment.

Pardons

△ See five pages later

1. There is a record stating that those pardoned in the domain in Enkyō 5 (1748), year of the dragon, may freely visit the Edo mansion.

1. Kansei 1 (1789), year of the rooster - Ōtani Magosaburō, through pardon during domain memorial services, was permitted to enter the domain. Since Magosaburō was usually residing in Edo, he visited the Edo mansion to express gratitude, appearing before the Inspector as well.

[Below]
1. Kyōhō 12 (1727), 12th month, 3rd day, Sheep year - Inaba Uneme conveyed the following to the Inspectors:
Since permission for leave has been granted, those who visit the Edo mansion are treated the same as in the domain castle town, so entering the domain is also acceptable.

1. Great Law regarding pardons and forgiveness of punishments

[Red notation]
1. Until the era of Lord Tangenin, pardons for stipend recipients and above during memorial services and such were not observed. Among townspeople and rural areas, from the memorial service for Lord Tangenin on October 3rd, Shōtoku 1 (1711), year of the rabbit, pardons were extended to stipend recipients and even samurai, continuing this practice thereafter.

For stipend recipients and above:
1. Samurai status revoked, domain banishment          In great pardons:
   7th year: entry permitted, 10th-11th year: residence    5th-6th year: entry, 8th-9th year: residence
1. Domain banishment and expulsion                    Same as above
   5th-6th year: entry, 7th-8th year: residence         4th year: entry, 7th year: residence
1. House arrest (including townspeople and rural)      Same as above
   3rd year: family meeting within household, 4th year: complete pardon    No change
   However, without pardon: 4th year family meeting, 5th year complete pardon as standard. Depends on severity of crime and quality of restraint. Further details marked with ○ on the reverse.

[Below red notation] Shōtoku 1, 10th month, 3rd day, Rabbit year - Great and small pardons, return to secular life ordered - Kikuchi Dōkuri. This is recorded as unusual.

1. Re-stipend
   Permission to become stipend recipient again after 6-7 years. Depending on circumstances, sometimes after 4-5 years.

1. Kansei 9 (1797), 4th month, Snake year - Border guard stipend revoked, later reassigned to checkpoint positions, detailed in the various units' checkpoint section.

[Upper left red notation] Ya