1. In the sixth month of Bunsei 7 (Monkey Year), Tagaya Gonsuke's second adopted son Tsushima was sentenced to banishment from a 13-ri radius due to misconduct, and subsequently divorced due to epilepsy. On the 16th day of the 8th month of Bunsei 8 (Rooster Year), he was permitted to return to his birth family, the Sakai Geki household, for medical treatment due to illness. However, in the 10th month, he petitioned for forgiveness of punishment due to illness, which was granted as requested, but he died the following day.

[Red notation] Recent precedents: when townspeople who received tattoo punishment and banishment petition for forgiveness of punishment upon dying of illness, it is granted: in Koka 2 (Snake Year) in Kanazu domain, in Koka 5 (Monkey Year) 2nd month in Shimoryō, and numerous other cases.

1. In the 12th month of Koka 3 (Horse Year), regarding the pardon to be announced for the seventh anniversary memorial service of Lord Bunkōin on the last day of the coming New Year, the following came to the residence of monthly duty officer Tsuchiya Jūroemon:

Draft of oral statement:
My retainer Shimizu Jūroemon's younger sister An received severe punishment last year, for which we are deeply ashamed. However, since there is word that pardons will be announced this time, we submit this petition. Please handle this appropriately. The above. 12th month, 3rd day. Ashida Takumi's messenger Takeuchi Genzaemon.

Memorandum of oral statement:
My younger sister An received severe punishment in previous years, for which we are deeply ashamed... [abbreviated] Important official memorial services are to be announced... [abbreviated] We humbly request forgiveness of the aforementioned punishment. Please appropriately convey this matter to the intermediaries. The above. Last day of 11th month.
To Kozawa Yūsuke-sama, Shimizu Jūroemon

The monthly duty officer received this and deliberated. Since not many years had passed this time, no pardon was granted. However, for the pardon during Lord Tenryōin's 13th anniversary memorial service in the 7th month, though no petition was submitted, family meeting permission was granted.

1. On the 14th day of the 10th month of Bunka 6 (Snake Year), Nagami Rokuroemon's adopted son Shikibu, who had been banished from the domain in previous years, was granted permission to meet with his parent and came, but became unwell from palanquin travel, so he wishes to stay temporarily. Naturally, he will report when departing, as Rokuroemon communicated, so this was acknowledged.

1. On the 25th day of the 8th month of Bunka 9 (Monkey Year), Nagami Rokuroemon reported that his former adopted son Shikibu had arrived this morning from Mino Province and would be staying temporarily.
Note: Since Shikibu had previously been granted permission to enter the domain, this was acknowledged as such a notification.

1. In the 4th month of Bunka 3 (Tiger Year), Ikoma Gozaemon requested permission for entry as petitioned by the ward as shown in the separate document. After consultation with colleagues, we instructed that permission should be granted at discretion.

Previously, a person named Yamada Moshirō from your unit committed improper acts, so he was dismissed and ordered not to enter the ward town, and has been in restraint accordingly. However, this time Moshirō has been employed as a stipend recipient by Lord Maruoka, so we humbly request permission for entry to the ward town. This petition is made after family consultation. We earnestly request that the officials deliberate and grant this petition. The above.

There are similar petitions from other unit officials and families.

1. On the 17th day of the 3rd month of Bunka 2 (Ox Year), Nishizawa Rinemon's younger brother, formerly adopted son Bunjirō of Mimura Kinzaemon, had committed misconduct and was placed in the custody of his brother Rinemon upon petition. When he became ill, a written request was submitted to the guard captain requesting medical treatment by physician Katō Genzō, which was conveyed to the duty officer and granted as requested. On the 18th, when Bunjirō became seriously ill, Rinemon and relatives submitted a petition of grief through the guard captain's supervisor. Honda Gemba conveyed that punishment forgiveness was granted. On the same day at the late hour of the Rooster, Bunjirō died of illness. Regarding this, for the funeral arrangements, Rinemon's household notified that the body would be sent to Katsumi Jōkoku Temple tomorrow on the 19th.

1. In the 2nd month of Bunka 3 (Tiger Year), regarding Lord Jōkōin's memorial service in the 4th month of that year (200th anniversary), if there are any under jurisdiction who wish to petition for pardons, they should be contacted, though not urgently, to each respective...

[Upper left red notation] Ya