The senior councilors ordered that this should be communicated, so it was conveyed sequentially to the following officials:

Castle deputy yoriki and below, monthly duty head of castle guards, monthly duty head of great guard, monthly duty chamberlain
Monthly duty head of library guard, Kanazu magistrate, town magistrate, head clerk of administered territories
District magistrate of administered territories, monthly duty magistrate, palace chamberlain, temple registry inspector
Split monthly duty, monthly duty head of advance guard, monthly duty assistant Sugigata magistrate, monthly duty district magistrate
Monthly duty head of foot soldiers, head falconer, head cormorant master, stable master
Head of cleaning staff - Total

1. On the 8th day of the 4th month of the same year, at Unshō Temple, among those imprisoned under Nara Tarōemon's jurisdiction, a person named Yagi Teijun, son of Nishiyama-chō's Kyūbei, was granted clemency and placed under house confinement in the custody of his father Kyūbei. After the pardon was announced to Tarōemon and the hungry ghost memorial service concluded, shortly before this he was brought into the temple compound (marginal note: reported to the gate guard advance guard head through foot soldier inspector), then brought out with ropes to outside the mountain stream in front of the main hall. At that time Tarōemon went down to below the mountain stream and announced this matter. After completion, the head priest came to that place, sat down, performed ten recitations, then untied the ropes. Teijun's relatives who were waiting outside the gate received him. We did not go to the place of this release.

However, regarding this released person, arrangements were secretly made with the town magistrate the previous day. The name and purpose were not communicated - only that there would be a released person.

1. On the 25th day of the 9th month of Tenpō 3 (Dragon Year), due to reports of extreme carelessness at the office during Edo duty, he was replaced.
On the 26th day of the 10th month of Tenpō 5 (Horse Year), permission to resume duty: Ikuta Kansuke, at that time called Junzaemon in Kōka 4
On the 21st day of the 7th month of the 6th year (Sheep Year), when his adoptive father Yūzō fell ill and was granted leave upon petition, the person called Kansuke petitioned for family name succession, so he was employed among the various deputy ranks and granted a stipend of 8 koku for 2 people.

1. In the 10th month of Shōtoku 1 (Rabbit Year), regarding the retirement blessing of Lord Tangenjiō, pardon notices appear in the official notice record.

[Attached paper]
1. On the 3rd day of the 9th month of Kyōhō 15 (Dog Year), the senior councilors communicated: Since a great amnesty was declared in celebration of this summer's domain entry, it seems acceptable for group members or deputy officials to be employed anywhere at this time. There are reportedly some who wish to be employed in temple registry office positions, which the magistrates have inquired about. When asked whether employment in this matter seems acceptable, indeed since those pardoned and granted unrestricted residence may become stipend recipients hereafter according to what has been issued, we understand that those of pardoned status may be employed anywhere without restriction. However, this time the head officials doing the employing should conduct examinations, and depending on the circumstances of their initial dismissal from stipend, there may be cases where they should not be employed. Though there is no restriction from above, we do not believe it can be resolved merely by petitioning for recall. It is difficult to determine that they should be employed. Depending on the circumstances of their dismissal from stipend, no matter how much the individual petitions, if the head official doing the employing does not consent, they should not be employed. [Characters unclear] Those employed should have no restrictions from higher authorities, we responded.

1. On the 11th day of the 7th month of Bunsei 11 (Rat Year), to the magistrate in Edo: Former deputy-rank falconer Okano Iwajirō, also known as Shindō Onozō
In previous years he committed misconduct and was banished from the gate, but later entered the residence. This time a person named Shinshirō, village headman of Sunamura who has business relations, petitioned that his residence be permitted. Accordingly, permission was granted as petitioned. Same year, 8th month, 2nd day: Falcon employee Shindō Onozō
He was employed and granted a stipend of 8 koku for 2 people, appointed to deputy rank.
He was placed under the supervision of residence magistrate Yamaguchi Heizaburō. However, on the 27th day of the 6th month of the 12th year (Ox Year), he was granted leave due to policy reasons. Additionally, uniform-rank falcon employee Shimizu Jibei received the same treatment.