[Bottom portion of paper attached to the left page of frame 111]

1. Record of the 22nd day of the 4th month of Kyōhō 15 (Dog Year)
Since pardons have been declared in celebration of this domain entry, regarding foot soldiers, deputies and others down to the lowest ranks who had their stipends withdrawn in previous years and who are deemed worthy, detailed records should be written up and reported to me within this month. The above.
Additionally, there should be notification to those with group supervision authority. This applies to those who had once received stipends. The above. [Marginal note: Monthly duty Ōtani Giemon, Hiramoto Sakunoemon] Kaifuku Sezaemon

1. For this domain entry, pardons have been declared for retainers, townspeople, and rural areas alike in celebration of succession. Regarding those under group supervision who had been subjected to banishment or other punishments toward superiors, or for personal matters, excluding minor offenses, it has been ordered that they be pardoned after examination. You should understand this intention. The above.
6th month, 26th day  All concerned    Additionally to group supervisors    Inspectors

1. 5th month of Hōreki 5 (Boar Year), pardons declared for celebrations. Same as previous item.

1. Meiwa 1 [corrected in red ink] (Monkey Year), 7th month, 20th day, pardons declared in celebration of succession upon domain entry. Generally the same purport as above - when pardoning group supervisors and below, this should be handled after notification. Also personal offenses should be pardoned after examination. Particularly, when pardoning those who were banished, notification should be made as per the official notice.

1. Last day of 5th month of Kansei 4 (Rat Year), pardons declared for the first domain entry of the Young Lord as representative.

1. 20th day of 6th month of Bunsei 1 (Tiger Year), great amnesty declared for domain increase. Same as Meiwa 1.

1. 24th day of 7th month of the 9th year (Dog Year), great amnesty declared for succession celebration. Same.

1. 8th day of 6th month of the 10th year (Boar Year), great amnesty declared for retainers, townspeople and rural areas for last year's safe delivery of Princess Asa, official appointment, and this domain entry celebration. Same.

1. 28th day of 2nd month of Tenpō 7 (Monkey Year), great amnesty declared for adopted son's transfer and succession. Same.

1. 20th day of 5th month of the 9th year (Dog Year), great amnesty for retainers, townspeople and rural areas in celebration of last year's appointment as Middle Captain and domain entry. Same.

1. 17th day of 4th month of the 10th year (Boar Year), great amnesty declared for retainers, townspeople and rural areas for celebration of adopted son's transfer and succession. Same as above.

1. 5th day of 7th month of the 14th year (Rabbit Year), the following was circulated to all departments. Though following precedent, this is recorded for reference.
A great amnesty has been declared for retainers, townspeople and rural areas in celebration of this domain entry. Therefore, it has been ordered that those under group supervision and retainers down to the lowest ranks who had banishment or other punishments imposed for misconduct toward superiors should be pardoned after examination. This should be handled after notification of such cases. Furthermore, those who had punishments imposed for personal matters should also be pardoned after examination. Particularly, when pardoning those who were banished, notification should be made. Since this has been ordered, you should understand the intention. The above.
7th month, 5th day  All concerned  Additionally to groups    Inspector

[Red ink notation in upper left] Ya