Seasoning is of primary importance, but presentation is also crucial. This determines whether a dish lives or dies. Furthermore, not losing the essence of cooking is the first principle of hospitality.

○Menu Planning
There is no difference from fish and poultry menus. However, there are no grilled dishes. Instead, side vegetables are increased, and later courses are served between the second and third courses. This is the only difference.

○About Vegetarian Cuisine (Shōjin)
The two characters of shōjin (精進) read in detail mean "to advance/progress." This appears in various places in the Lotus Sutra, where the principle is to put forth great effort in pursuing the dharma flavor. It does not appear to prohibit eating fish, birds, and meat. However, calling the abstinence from meat "shōjin" is an ancient practice. From the fifth day of the New Year, vegetarian offerings are made at Shitennōji Temple. This involves offering many foods with great effort and devotion. Since meat is never offered normally, there should be no reason to provide vegetarian cuisine only at this time. Also, it is not only monks and those seeking purity who abstain from meat. Hermits...

【Spring】
Hijiki seaweed, daikon radish
Dried persimmons, wood ear mushrooms  
Daikon radish, shiitake mushrooms
Fried wheat gluten, water dropwort
Water dropwort with ginger, sugar with ginger

Fried wheat gluten, udo (Japanese spikenard)
Sakurame, whole shiitake mushrooms
Pumpkin, ginger
Mitsuba (Japanese parsley), green vinegar
Chestnuts

Julienned daikon, thread-cut chestnuts
Small funori seaweed, bundled wheat gluten
Bundled wheat gluten, wood ear mushrooms
Ginger and water dropwort, mitsuba and ginger

Julienned burdock, needle-cut bamboo shoots
Thread konjac, fried wheat gluten
Shiitake, small-cut kumquats
Walnuts and water dropwort, water dropwort and ginger

【Summer】
Silver nori seaweed, white melon
Split kelp, grilled wheat gluten
Grilled tofu, rock mushrooms
Smartweed vinegar, smartweed vinegar

Small-cut quince, julienned Chinese yam
Grilled tofu, thin bamboo rings
Shiitake, chopped shiso
Vinegar soy sauce

Amaranth, firm-chopped
Hijiki, castella-style wheat gluten
Steamed citron, julienned Chinese yam
Chestnuts and ginger, smartweed vinegar

White melon with sesame-miso dressing, small-cut ornamental gourd
Shiitake, sugar
Needle-cut chestnuts, asparagus
Individual servings, hijiki

【Autumn】
Asakusa nori seaweed, dried melon
Split chestnuts, wood ear mushrooms
Kumquat wheat gluten, plum wrapped in shiso
Persimmon vinegar, myoga buds and water dropwort

Shiso wrapping: Split large green plums in half, remove pits, rejoin as before, wrap in shiso leaves, tie with chopped kelp, pickle with sugar and salt in equal parts. Ready in five to seven days.