Culinary Character Selection

Should be compared with fish and poultry cookbooks.

The Five Tastes are: sweet, sour, bitter, pungent, and salty - these are called the five tastes.

Sweet: sugar, candy, honey, ripe fruits
Sour: vinegar, plums, unripe fruits, sumac berries, wood sorrel
Bitter: liver of fish and birds, butterbur sprouts
Pungent: ginger, pepper, Japanese pepper, water pepper, red pepper, scallions, daikon radish

Squid tentacles, shiitake mushrooms, taro roots, pickled plums, green fruits
Simmered and cooled dishes

Wire-thin bean sprouts, wood ear mushrooms, ginkgo nuts, and other ingredients as available - season appropriately, bind with kudzu, wrap in flat kelp, tie with dried gourd strips, deep fry, cut into rounds, size as appropriate.

Wheat gluten packages, radish sprouts, green Japanese pepper, yuba flowers, etc.

For wheat gluten packages: julienned burdock, daikon, carrots, wood ear mushrooms - use whatever seasonal ingredients are available, season and knead with kudzu, wrap inside the edge of round wheat gluten, tie the opening. Deep fry before use.

Simmered and cooled dishes
Molded agar, fried wheat gluten or hiryozu (fried tofu balls), etc. - pour into bamboo tubes, cool, then split the bamboo and cut into rounds with mustard topping.

For molded agar: tear up stick agar, simmer thoroughly in three times the water until dissolved, strain through a cloth bag into a box, cool with water and cut. The firmness depends on preference. Before it sets, press in matsutake, bamboo shoots, shiitake, or other ingredients, cool and cut to appropriate size for use. For simmered cooled dish combinations, select ingredients that won't go inside to complement the dish. Red coloring is also good.

Ise rolls: boil long yams, remove skin, mash and add a little wheat flour, form into balls and deep fry. Steaming is also good. Combinations as appropriate.

Water caltrop rolls are the same as taro rolls. With soy sauce. Those with various ingredients wrapped inside are vegetarian dishes. Those made with tofu are standard cooking.