【Right Page】
The Story of King You and Baosi Watching Beacon Fires from Wangbian Tower and Laughing with Delight

Beacon fire platforms were used to raise smoke when great trouble occurred in the imperial city, to signal neighboring states. The various states would see this and rush to help. However, King You of Zhou favored a beauty named Baosi and playfully raised smoke. The feudal lords of all states led their troops to the capital. King You went out to Wangbian Tower with Baosi to watch this. Seeing there was no enemy to defend against and hearing it was merely the king's jest, they all became angry and returned to their home countries. The king clapped his hands with the beauty and laughed heartily. Later, when the Quanrong invaded China and attacked the imperial city, beacon fires were raised to summon the feudal lords, but thinking it was again the king's amusement, not one came. King You was finally destroyed by the Quanrong. The illustration of King Zhou's torture of roasting and King You's beacon fire platform form a pair. This is truly a cautionary illustration about how treating important matters as jest leads to one's downfall. One must not draw this carelessly.

The Book of Han states: At frontier fortresses, tall towers are built and wolf dung is stored to constantly guard against enemies. This is burned as signals. The smoke from wolf dung rises high and straight, not slanting. This is called "wolf smoke" (beacon smoke).

【Left Page】
Duke Xiang of Qi was killed by his retainer Guan Zhifu. At this time, Duke Xiang's younger brother Jiu was in the state of Lu, but hearing that Qi had no ruler, he was given five thousand elite troops by the Duke of Lu and commanded his tutor Guan Zhong to return to the state of Qi. Also, his younger brother Xiaobai led troops from the state of Ju with his tutor Shu Ya to return to their country. Guan Zhong intercepted and stopped them, saying: "My master is the elder brother and you are the younger brother, so why do you seek to usurp the throne?" He drew his bow and shot at Xiaobai. The arrow hit his jade belt and did not strike his body. The soldiers of Ju attacked Guan Zhong. Since Guan Zhong had few men, he withdrew...