【Right page】
　　　At the writing festival of this year of Hinoto-Hitsuji (1847), in late January, leading several monks I wandered around the Kan shrine (Tenjin shrine), reminiscing about last year's excursion - was it not like awakening from a dream? Overwhelmed with emotion, I wished to return by boat to Giyo but could not accomplish it, so I casually composed these forty words:
　　　　Moving steps with a single thin staff　In lingering cold, warblers rarely pass　Last year's minister's shrine　Today the old friend is no more
　　　　Old eyes watch flowers fall　Raising my head, I wonder if snow flies　Beyond a thousand ri to Giyo　The mountains may laugh at my delayed return

Kaizuka - This is the general name for the entire Kojimachi area. This place has been on the old Koshu Highway since ancient times, and the locals have customarily called the one-ri milestone beside the road "Kai-zuka." According to one theory, it is said to be the grave of one called Kaizuka Hoin, though this is uncertain.
　《Note: The south of the horse training ground in this area is the former site of Seishoji Temple in Shiba. According to Nanko-tei, Seishoji Temple was founded by a person called Seisho Kai, and the current Tamamushi family residence being called Kaizuka is because there is an ancient monument above, with no visible date, only mentioning "daughter of the Taira clan," now enshrined at Hachiman. Also, the slope in front of the Tamamushi residence south of Kojimachi 4-chome is called Kai-zaka. One theory says this is because there was a residence of the Kaisho family below this slope.》
　　《Note: Considering the place name Kaizuka, in ancient documents of the Odawara Hojo family, it states that a person called Ota Taizen-no-suke governed the land of Kaizuka within Hitotsugi, so this place name existed at that time as well. Therefore, Kaizuka was likely a small district name within Hitotsugi.》

Sonkozan Seigan-in - Located on the right side of Kojimachi 8-chome, it belongs to the Jodo sect and is affiliated with Chion-in in Kyoto. The principal image, Amida Nyorai, is the work of Eshin Sozu. The founding priest was called Myoyo Shinnyu Shonin. The founder was Ando Tsushima-no-kami Shigenobu. Formerly it was called Chofukuji and was located

【Left page】
　in Sanshū. At this temple is enshrined a sacred image of Sho-Kannon said to be Yoritomo's personal devotional Buddha. 《Note: The Kannon image installed before the shrine is said to be a sacred image revered by Kusunoki Masashige》 On July 10th, called the Thousand-Day Pilgrimage, there are quite many worshippers.

Tora Yakushi Nyorai - Located in the Zen temple called Josenji on the left side of the upper road from Kita-no-yokoji slope. This Yakushi Buddha image is the work of Gyoki Daishi. According to tradition, this sacred image stood at the foot of Mount Horaiji in Sanshū until around the Eiroku period. Long ago, when the temple's founding priest Shokan Sonkitsu Zenji was in Shinshiro, Sanshū, and was still a layperson 《Note: His secular surname was Yasuda》, this sacred image manifested as a tiger and helped him escape from wolves. Therefore, afterward he became a monk out of gratitude for this dharma grace, came to Edo, and resided at the Zen temple Myounzan Ryushoji in Yotsuya Shio-cho. At that time he established this temple and enshrined this principal image. There are many worshippers on the 8th and 12th of each month. 《Note: Because of this principal image, this lane is called Yakushi-yokocho》

Senju Kanzeon - Enshrined in the Pure Land temple called Joeisan Shinpoji on the right side of 9-chome. This sacred image is said to be the personal devotional Buddha of Hata no Kawakatsu. 《Note: Said to be a standing image of Jambu gold, one sun and eight bu in height》 This