[Right page]
One night, as a trial, he humbly requested a discussion on the Three Mysteries of Yoga and the Six Stages of Meditation. Saint Shinran responded to this as naturally as an echo responds to sound. Eventually they came to discuss the principle of rebirth through the nembutsu, and Master Ryōkai immediately converted to Saint Shinran's teachings, with their master-disciple bond being solemnly established. From this point, he changed his sectarian style and spread his teachings widely, both far and near. <<He is called one of the six direct disciples>> Later, on the 6th day of the 11th month of the 2nd year of Einin (1294), he achieved his long-cherished wish of "dying in the previous moment, being reborn in the next moment."

<<The above is taken from temple records and the Record of Twenty-four Sacred Sites. According to the actual records of Bukko-ji Temple, Saint Ryōkai died on the 28th day of the 1st month of the 2nd year of Gen'ō (1320) at age 82. He was called Zenpuku-ji of Azabu, Musashi Province. Born in the 1st year of En'ō, when the founder passed away at age 24... According to the Lineage Chart of the Transmission of the Lamp, he died on the 6th day of the 11th month of the 2nd year of Gen'ō. Also, according to the Record of Ōtani Sites, sixteen years after the founder's death, around the 1st year of Kōan when he was 40, he entered Kōshō-ji and became the fourth temple administrator. In the 5th year of Einin, he transferred the temple administration to Gannen Seikai and went down to Azabu in Musashi Province <<age 59>>. In the spring of the 2nd year of Gen'ō, in the 1st month, when his karmic connections were exhausted, on the 28th day he achieved his long-cherished wish of immediate rebirth in the next moment. However, there are discrepancies in the dates of his death that still need to be examined>>

Kōbō Daishi's Brush-written Sacred Name <<The year before Kōbō Daishi entered eternal meditation, he came again to this temple, and on the 15th day of the 3rd month of the 1st year of Jōwa, he wrote with his brush "Written by Kūkai." This is still preserved at our temple>>

Eight-Character Sacred Name <<After Saint Shinran returned to Kyoto, Master Ryōkai went up to the capital for a year and had an audience with the Saint. The Saint said, "You should teach the followers in the Kantō region," and brushed the characters "Namu Fukashigi Kō Butsu" (Homage to the Buddha of Inconceivable Light) and gave this to Master Ryōkai. Therefore, it is said to be a treasured possession of our temple>>

This temple is an ancient monastery that has existed for over a thousand years since its founding by Kōbō Daishi. Especially in the autumn of the 3rd year of Bun'ei (1266), Emperor Kameyama issued an imperial edict making it an imperial prayer temple

[Left page]
He granted it a court noble position, national teacher status, and stipend fields. There are many ancient tombs within the temple grounds, clearly indicating it is a most ancient site. Now the Pure Land exclusive practice sectarian style flourishes, and its teachings spread widely both near and far.

Ipponmatsu (One Pine Tree) - Located beside the road of Ipponmatsu-machi on the back street to the north of the same area. A shimenawa rope is hung on a single pine tree, with a fence built around its base. According to local legend, when Prince Rokuson'ō Tsunemoto passed through this area, he hung his court dress and cap on this pine, hence the name "Crown Pine," though there are various other explanations that are not clear. Now this area is called Ipponmatsu and has become a place name. Some say it was planted by Ono no Takamura.

<<Upon consideration, the Tokujo-in, which serves as the administrator of Hikawa Myōjin Shrine, never fails to replace the shimenawa rope on this pine tree. Someone said that this pine is a sacred tree of Hikawa, and this explanation seems correct. However, the old pine died and now a young tree has been planted>>

Hikawa Myōjin Shrine - Located on the left side from Ueno-machi road, to the south of the same street. It is the general tutelary shrine of Azabu, with its festival on August 17th. According to tradition, during the Bunmei era, Ōta Dōkan established this shrine by inviting the spirit of Hikawa Myōjin, the first shrine of this province. The old site was at Kiritōshi slope in Miyamura of the same area. The administrator is of the Shingon sect and is called Tokujō-ji. <<The elderly say that the old second torii gate was at Nagasaka in the same area, and the third torii gate was at what is now called Torii slope. That old site has now become the retirement place for the head priest of Enzan. The priest Rōhaku first took up hermitage at this site in the 9th month of the 2nd year of Kanbun (1662). Around that time the shrine was moved to its current location>>