《Note: This appears to be a copy. In the Genroku era Edo map, it is listed as Azabu Myōjin》

Seven Buddhas Yakushi Nyorai《Note: Also called Kanda Yakushi》is located within the grounds of Iōzan Tōfuku-ji Temple, a Tendai sect temple on the left side of the descent of Minami-zaka in Azabu Honmura-chō. According to the temple's origin story, the principal image of Yakushi Nyorai was carved by Dengyō Daishi and is one of the Seven Buddhas. Long ago, it was the devotional Buddha of Rokuson-ō Tsunemoto, and during the Eishō era, Yoriyoshi Ason moved it to Kamakura, after which successive generations of administrators venerated it. However, around the Chōroku era, Ōta Dōshin enshrined it in Kawagoe Castle in this province, and later during the Bunmei era, his son Dōkan moved it to Hirakawa in Edo. During Keichō 5, when the Great Divine Lord (Tokugawa Ieyasu) was at the Battle of Sekigahara, he commanded Jigen Daishi to pray to this principal image and dedicated scrolls《Note: Even now, following this precedent, sacred tablets are offered in the first, fifth, and ninth months》. In the same ninth year, it was moved to Kanda plateau《Note: The old site is in present-day Surugadai》. Later, land was granted at Shitaya Hirokōji《Note: The reference in "Murasaki no Ippon" to the Hirokōji Yakushi moving to Minami-yakuen after the fire in the year of the dog refers to this Yakushi. The year of the dog refers to Tenna 2, the year of Mizunoe-inu. When it was in Shitaya, it was said to have been built by Sūgen-in-den. Court records state that on the 28th day of the 12th month of Tenna 2, year of the dog, it was caught in a spreading fire, became government land, and was moved to Azabu Imperial Medicinal Garden》. Finally, in Jōkyō 1, it was moved to its present location. There exists a one-scroll origin story written in Jigen Daishi's own hand detailing these circumstances. This temple formerly belonged to Senba Kita-in, but from Jigen Daishi's time it has belonged to Ueno.

Kasumiyama Inari Myōjin Shrine is located to the right of Sakurada-machi road. In ancient times it was located at Sakurada Kasumigaseki, but when the castle grounds were established, it was moved to its present location. The administrator is of the Tendai sect, called Kasumiyama Sakurada-ji Kanmyō-in. The principal image of Dakiniten was the protective deity of Ashikaga Yoshikuni, carved by Gyōki Daishi and enshrined by Chichibu Shigeyasu according to tradition. This shrine was established by Shibuya Shōji Shigekuni and restored by Dōkan during the Bunmei era. Also in ancient times, Right General Yoritomo donated 570 koku of fine rice fields at Sakurada village, planted cherry trees as a mark of the donated fields, constructed fortifications, and had Edo Tarō Shigenaga regulate traffic. After many years passed, the shrine was moved to Azabu along with this land《Note: The present names Azabu Sakurada-chō and Hyakushō-chō derive from Sakurada》.

Asahi Kannon is enshrined in Senshō-ji Temple, a Pure Land sect monastery on the opposite side. The principal Kannon image emerged from a thicket at Chōja-ga-maru, so the sculptor is unknown. This temple was founded by Sankō-in nun Seishin-ni