【Right page】
Hikawa Myōjin Shrine - Located on the right side of the eastern street, below Sankō slope, south of the same area. It is the tutelary shrine of Shirokane. The festival is held on September 19th. According to tradition, this is the historic site where Prince Yamato Takeru performed distant worship of the deity of Hikawa, the first shrine of this province.

Raiden Shrine 《Located north of the same shrine grounds. According to tradition, during the reign of Emperor Shirakawa, when an epidemic spread through this province, there was an oracle from Hikawa Myōjin, so this deity was invited here. Senju Kannon serves as the honji-butsu (Buddhist manifestation)》

Tōrei-san Shōshū-ji Temple - Located about one chō to the east of the same area. It is a branch temple of Seijōkō-ji in Fujisawa, Sagami Province, and serves as a dōjō of the Ji sect. In the past, it was located in Takaido, Musashi Province, called Jōkō-ji, and served as a lodging temple for the traveling priest Yugyō. In Hōreki 2 (1752), it was moved to this location. 《From that time it became known as Shōshū-ji》 The restorer was the 50th Yugyō priest, Kaison Shōnin.

Enmei Jizō Bodhisattva 《Enshrined at this temple. Created by Master Tokuichi, it is very efficacious. Because those who pray set specific numbers of days for their devotions, both monks and laypeople call it Hikirigiri Jizō-son. Worshippers never cease coming》

Saishō-san Kakurin-ji Temple - Located to the right from Jumokutani road. It belongs to the Nichiren sect and is affiliated with Tanshō-ji in Kominato, Bōshū Province. Founded during the Genroku era, the founder was called Kakkan-in Nichien Shōnin. 《He was the 18th head priest of Kominato and retired to this place in his old age》 According to tradition, long ago Katō Kazue-no-kami Kiyomasa

【Left page】
During the Korean expedition, brought two princes from that country to Japan and made them Buddhist monks. The elder brother was called Kōrai Nichiyō Shōnin and became the founder of Honmyō-ji in Higo Province. The younger brother was Nichien Shōnin. This temple preserves one scroll painting of Kiyomasa. 《It was painted by himself during his lifetime, and memorial services are held on June 24th every year》

《On the 24th of the first, fifth, and ninth months, they recite the Thousand-Volume Dhāraṇī before the altar. It is said that those who pray for military fortune receive limitless benefits》 Also, the statue of Shakyamuni Buddha that Kiyomasa kept inside his helmet during the Korean expedition, along with military correspondence sent from Korea, were all collected at this temple by the founding priest.

Ryūgin-san Kōun-in Temple - Located on the hill in the same area. It is a Zen temple of the Sōtō sect, belonging to Kōgaku-in at Shiba Nihon-enoki.

Principal image: Eleven-faced Kannon 《Also called Mushikui (insect-eaten) Kannon in the world. It is the 25th temple of the western pilgrimage》 According to the origin story, during the reign of Emperor Shōmu, when Keibun-e Keishu-kun carved the Kannon of Hase-dera in Yamato Province, he used the remaining wood to create seven Kannon statues and enshrined them in various places. 《The principal image of this temple is one of them, measuring one sun and eight bu in height》 However, Uesugi Kenshin kept this principal image in his topknot, and because he achieved victory in numerous battles, his faith was extraordinary. Also, Kenshin received a standing statue from a traveling monk...