【Right page　Illustrated map】
Kamatsukuri Kannon (Kamatsukuri Kannon Temple)
　　Kannon
　　　　Inari
　　　　　　　　Kōfuku-in
　　　　　　　　　　　　Hachiman

【Left page】
Gyōnin-zaka (Ascetic's Slope)　At the same location, this refers to the slope descending westward toward Meguro. Around the Kan'ei era (1624-1644), an ascetic practitioner of Mount Yudono built a hall for Dainichi Nyorai and named it Daien-ji Temple. 《Note: This temple has now been abolished》

Hannya-zuka (Prajñā Mound) 《Note: Located on the side of the road halfway up the same slope. In Enkyō 3 (1746), the mokujiki (wood-eating) monk Shin'yo Ittō of Enzan Seirin-in copied 3,000 volumes of the Heart Sutra for the great spiritual achievement of passersby and buried them in this ground. This is the commemorative stone marker.》

Five Hundred Arhat Stone Statues 《Note: Located on the left side of the same road. These were erected by someone to console the lost souls of those who died in the great fires of the 28th and 29th days of the 3rd month of Meiwa 9 (1772).》

Shōju-san Myōō-in Temple　Located at the same place, beside the slope. It belongs to the Tendai sect and is affiliated with Tōei-zan. The principal Buddha is Amida Nyorai, with Kannon and Seishi enshrined as attendant bodhisattvas. The founding priest is called Ei'un Hōshi. It is an excellent dōjō for constant nembutsu practice. On the 4th of every month, there is a memorial nembutsu practice of one million recitations. 《Note: This constant nembutsu practice is said to have been initiated by the vow of a monk named Sairen.》

Koyasu Kanzeon (Child-protecting Kannon) 《Note: Created by Kōbō Daishi, this is a sacred statue that appeared at Dan-no-ura in Chōshū. In Genroku 1 (1688), a practitioner on the sixty-six sacred sites pilgrimage carried it as an oibutsu (portable Buddha), but after experiencing a sacred dream, it was permanently enshrined at this temple. The temple issues sacred talismans to help women with difficult childbirth. Among the temple treasures is something called the "child-protecting stone," which the temple's head priest Senjun is said to have spiritually obtained from Mitsuka Village in Saku District, Shinshū.》

Benzaiten Shrine 《Note: Located within the same temple grounds. The principal deity is said to be a sacred statue carved by Kōbō Daishi following an oracle from Benzaiten of Chikubu-shima in Gōshū.》