【Right page】
Nejakaka-dō (Reclining Buddha Hall)
　　　　　　　　　　　Inari
　　　　Fudō
　　　　　　Emma (Yama King)
　　　　Bell
　Main Hall
　　　Entrance　　　　Kitchen quarters

【Left page】
　Torii plaque (Calligraphy by Prince Myōō-in, Head Priest of Nikkō from Mount Taiei)
　Sutra Repository (Houses the complete Buddhist canon. Enshrines statues of Shakyamuni, Anan, and Kashyapa as principal images) Hachiman Shrine　Hayao Gongen (Deity: Sarutahiko Ōkami, also called Susanoo-no-mikoto. Festival held on May 15th. All these halls and shrines line up to the left of the main hall)　Ebisu-Daikoku Shrine　Bell Tower　Water Deity Shrine　Aizen Myōō
　Taigyōji Gongen (Local tutelary deity. Deity: Takamimusuhi-no-mikoto. Festival held on May 15th) Stone Fudō (All located to the right of the main hall)
　Inari Shrine　Jizō (Flanked by the two boy attendants Shōzen and Shōaku)　Holy Kannon　Founder's Hall　Prince Shōtoku
　Amaterasu Ōmikami Shrine　Original Ground: Dainichi Nyorai (Installed by cutting into the hillside behind the main hall. Commonly called the Inner Sanctum)　Kisshōten Shrine
　Tenman Shrine　Kishimojin and Ten Rakshasa Women Shrine　Kokūzō Hall　Shogun-jin Shrine
　(All built in a row behind the main hall)　Musubu-no-kami Shrine　En no Shōkaku (Located midway up the women's slope. Bronze statue with images of front and rear demons)　Three Buddha Hall (Enshrines the three honored ones: Amida, Yakushi, Shakyamuni, etc.)　Koyasu Myōjin (Kishimojin deity)　Smallpox Deity　Awashima Myōjin　Stone Jizō
　Akiba Gongen　Rokusho Myōjin　Kōjin Shrine (All located to the right after entering the Niō Gate)　Benzaiten Shrine (Copy of Enoshima Benten)
　Jizō Hall (Houses statues of Enma King, Datsueba, etc.)　Kannon Hall (Central image is Holy Kannon. Around it are installed the hundred Kannon from pilgrimage sites of Saigoku, Bandō, Chichibu, etc.)
　Seishi Hall　Inari Shrine　Front Fudō (Flanked by statues of the Twelve Devas. All located to the left of the tower gate)　Tower Gate (Houses Kongō-mishaku Niō statues on left and right. Divine messenger dog statues placed in the rear)　Dokko Falls (Purification site of this temple. Long ago in Jōwa 14, the temple's founder Jikaku Daishi, after returning from Tang China, came down to the Kantō region)