【Right page】
　During Lord Tadamasa's reign, in Kan'ei 18, year of Kanoto-Mi (1641),
　he was granted succession rights.
　　　Iijima Shinzaemon Yoshiin《birth province: Echigo》

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, in Genroku 1, year of Tsuchinoe-Tatsu (1688),
　he was granted succession rights.
　　　Iijima Shinzaemon Yoshiaki《birth province: Echizen》

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, in Genroku 15, year of Mizunoe-Uma (1702), he was granted succession rights.
　　Adopted son
　　Current: Iijima Shinzaemon Yoshinaga《birth province: Echizen, actual father: Shimasaki Ichirōemon Nobukazu》

【Left page】
　　　　　　　△　Katō

　During Lord Tadamasa's reign, in Genna 2, year of Hinoe-Tatsu (1616),
　he was summoned.
　　● Katō Den'nai (personal name unknown)《home province unknown, birth province unknown, family name unknown》
　　　　Initially he served as a ronin retainer under Tagaya Sakon. At a place called Yatabe in Shimōsa Province,
　　　　he fought with a spear and killed an enemy. During the attack on Yasutaka Castle, he served as rear guard, and the following year at the same location
　　　　he fought with a spear. At a place called Tamai, when Lord Sōma built a new fortification, an unexpected
　　　　battle occurred, and he attacked an enemy named Terada Den'emon with his sword. At a location called
　　　　Hachiki, he was stationed at Tagaya's auxiliary castle and worked actively during numerous naval battles. After becoming
　　　　a ronin at Shimotsuma, when he was serving under Mibu Kazusa-no-suke, during an attack on a mountain castle called Hikita,
　　　　he fought with a spear and was wounded in two places. Also, when enemies approached a mountain castle called Shimosawa,
　　　　he and another man named Honma Kageyuzaemon sallied forth together, pushed the enemies down
　　　　to the base of the mountain, and firmly defended Shimosawa. Later, when he was serving under
　　　　Oda Ujiharu, at a place called Komakukuri there was an auxiliary castle built by Ujiharu, and when there was
　　　　fierce fighting, he participated in battle. The following year, when there was a counterattack at the same location, he fought with a spear, and that