【Right Page】
　　　　and after going there, made him Hachirōbei's adopted son. Since Ichihei had sacrificed his life in loyal service,
　　　　Ina Bizen-no-kami recommended this, and Seibei was summoned to service
　　　　and granted 200 hyō. Later he was appointed to the position of district magistrate of Sagami Province Naka-gun, and subsequently
　　　　Shigeyuki's eldest son Seibei Shigetoshi was granted the family headship, and his descendants continue to serve as hatamoto to this day.
　　　　Gizaemon Tomonao was the second son of Seibei Shigeyuki.

　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, Kanbun 8, Year of the Earth Monkey (1668)
　Granted family succession
　　　Ōtani Gizaemon Yoshiyuki 《Note: Birth province is Echizen, original name Magokurō》

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, Genroku 7, Year of the Wood Dog (1694)
　Granted inheritance
　　Current Ōtani Gizaemon Yoshizumi 《Note: Birth province is Echizen, original name Kintadayū》

【Left Page】
　　　　　　　△ Nishio

　During Lord Tadamasa's reign, Genna 7, Year of the Metal Rooster (1621)
　Summoned to service at Takada in Echigo Province
　　● Nishio Jūnosuke Kiyonaga 《Note: Home province is Mikawa, birth province is Mino, family name Fujiwara》
　　　　Ancestor Nishio Izumo-no-kami Norimori, his son Nishio Gorōuemon Mitsunobu, his son Nishio
　　　　Bungo-no-kami Mitsunori was lord of Sone Castle in Mino Province, distinguished himself at the Battle of Sekigahara,
　　　　and received a grant of 10,000 koku from Gongen-sama (Tokugawa Ieyasu), being appointed
　　　　lord of Io Castle in Mino Province. He was the great-great-grandfather of Nishio Mondo, who currently serves as hatamoto. His
　　　　son Nishio Gozaemon Mitsunaga initially served Hideyoshi-kō and Hidetsugu-kyō, but after Hidetsugu-kyō's
　　　　forced suicide, he retreated to serve under Bungo-no-kami of the same clan. His son Nishio Kichizaemon Kore-
　　　　oki was summoned to service during Lord Hideyasu's reign and served as horo-yaku, and during Lord Tadanao's reign accompanied him to the Osaka
　　　　campaigns. Jūnosuke Kiyonaga was the adoptive younger brother of the aforementioned Kichizaemon Koreoki.
　　　　His biological father was called Yamauchi Sakuzaemon. His mother was the younger sister of Kichizaemon's father Nishio Goza-
　　　　emon Mitsunaga, so he was actually Koreoki's cousin but was made his adoptive younger brother.
　　　　His biological father Yamauchi Sakuzaemon served Hidetsugu-kyō, and after his forced suicide