【Right Page】
　　　　retreated to serve under Nishio Bungo-no-kami. Regarding the Yamauchi ancestors, for several generations they were
　　　　gokenin (direct retainers) of Kamakura, resided in Tsunohara in Asuwa-gun of this province, and later became
　　　　retainers of the Asakura family. During the Odawara campaign of Tenshō 18 (1590), at age eighteen, he accompanied
　　　　Watase Settsu-no-kami, who served as Taikō Hideyoshi-kō's intermediary. During the Battle of Sekigahara, he was under
　　　　Maeda Magoshirō-dono and participated in the Battle of Daishōji and other engagements. Later, as a tsukaiban, he
　　　　was selected among those with military merit and was granted permission to wear light yellow armor lacing. After
　　　　that, due to certain circumstances, Magoshirō-dono was confined to Kyoto, so his retainers attached themselves to
　　　　Maeda Toshinaga. During the Winter Siege of Osaka, he went with Nishio Bungo-no-kami, and during this (Summer Siege),
　　　　he was summoned by Maeda Toshitsune and accompanied him. After returning from the campaign,
　　　　having certain thoughts, he promptly left Kaga Province. Later, from Mizuno Takumi-no-suke, who was Toshitsune's military commander,
　　　　he received letters regarding his service at Daishōji and Osaka, which he still possesses today.
　　　　Jūnosuke Kiyonaga was a rōnin residing in this province when, due to Takaya Echigo's connections with Mino,
　　　　Takaya Echigo made arrangements through Nagami Shima to have him summoned by Lord Tadamasa. With a promise
　　　　of being granted a 1,000-koku fief, he was initially granted 700 koku, and after His Lordship's entry into this province, he received

【Left Page】
　　　　an additional 200-koku increase. Furthermore, his second son Jinbei was summoned and soon granted a new fief.
　　　　Jūnosuke accompanied His Lordship on trips to the capital and served in various duties such as assisting with
　　　　the construction of the Taan gate in Edo and the stone walls of Asakusa Masugata.

　During Lord Mitsumichi's reign, Keian 3, Year of the Metal Tiger (1650)
　Granted succession
　　　Nishio Jūzaemon Masakata 《Note: Birth province is Echizen》
　　　　When his father Kiyonaga was granted succession, his second son Jinbei received an allocated fief, and his third son Kansuke
　　　　received a stipend and rice allowance. Both of their family lines eventually became extinct.

　During Lord Yoshishina's reign, Enpō 3, Year of the Wood Rabbit (1675)
　Granted family headship
　　　Current Nishio Gentazaemon Norinaga 《Note: Birth province is Echizen》