1. Same year, 12th month, 10th day: Appointed as scribe for coordination affairs
1. Tenpō 4 (Year of the Snake), 5th month, 28th day: Promoted to the rank of ashigaru (foot soldier), granted 16 hyō and provisions for two people, appointed as inner court monk for corridor duty. Additionally, granted 1 koku of duty rice under the supervision of chamberlains
1. Same 6th year (Year of the Sheep), 4th month, 9th day: Died of illness ≪marginal note: ≪location: Takatō≫ at place of medical treatment≫
　　　　　Service record

Inagaki Heisaku
≪marginal note: Kinkichi | formerly Kinsai | Seiemon≫
During the reign of Lord Yoriyasu
1. Bunsei 10 (Year of the Boar), 4th month, 1st day: Appointed as apprentice assistant monk. Accordingly granted provisions for one person, to serve with tea whisk hairstyle
1. Tenpō 1 (Year of the Tiger), 12th month, 25th day: Called out as a branch family, granted 4 koku and provisions for two people, appointed to full service as domain financial affairs monk
1. Same 2nd year (Year of the Rabbit), 1st month, 15th day: Granted request to return to secular life
1. Same 6th year (Year of the Sheep), 6th month, 1st day: As requested by his late father Heisaku while still alive, appointed as family succession substitute, granted 5 koku and provisions for two people, appointed as chief clerk scribe for domain financial affairs. Announcement made in the domain
1. Same 9th year (Year of the Dog), 3rd month, 18th day: Marriage petition approved for Kobayashi Yaichibē's adopted daughter, youngest daughter of Yamashita Katsuemon
1. Same 12th year (Year of the Ox), 9th month, 18th day: Appointed as assistant for accounting duties at the chief clerk office. Scribe duties continue as before, ranked as head of the unranked
1. Kōka 2 (Year of the Snake), 1st month, 15th day: Due to financial matters requiring announcements throughout the domain territory, granted 800 mon as sake money for his efforts in investigation and documentation
1. Same 4th year (Year of the Sheep), 10th month, 6th day: Promoted to ashigaru rank, granted 16 hyō and provisions for two people, appointed to full accounting duties at the chief clerk office. Scribe duties continue as before for the time being