Then subsequently Irie Kichibei and Mano Hachirobei appeared and met with them, stating that they had come to present a highly confidential consultation regarding
　the matter instructed yesterday by the Transmitting Chamberlain. At the shrine, they were waiting for instructions from the Magistrate's Office,
　but perhaps it would be appropriate to report the content of the instructions from the Transmitting Chamberlain. When this was proposed,
　the answer was that it would be appropriate to report what was instructed at the Imperial Palace, and then instructions would be given from the government office.
　Regardless of what the precedent might be, given the current circumstances, as long as there are no obstacles within the shrine community,
　it would be appropriate to report. Since there are no obstacles for the shrine, they would inform everyone
　and report later. The names of those in charge are as follows:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　           　　Assistant
　　Irie Kichibei　　Maeda Tadajiro　　Mano Hachirobei　Kaga Gunzo
　　Yamada Sakuemon　Murayama Tomiemon　Iwamoto Heisuke　　Kitamura Teigoro
　In deliberation, since there was also the matter of the Transmitting Chamberlain, first the above matter should be reported to the Transmitting Chamberlain, then
　reported to the Magistrate's Office. A draft of the notification document was completed and given to the scribe.
1. After the Sheep hour, representatives Wahei and Shigen appeared. The purpose was, as decided in the small assembly, to report to the Magistrate's Office

　by first notifying the Transmitting Chamberlain about the notification matter, then appearing at the Magistrate's Office. They returned home after the Rooster hour. In the report,
　when they went to the Transmitting Chamberlain, Daizen appeared and said that regarding this morning's instructions, consultation should occur after notification from the military authorities.
　However, it seemed that at the government office, instructions would be given after the directive was reported, so
　since they intended to report today, they stated they would make the notification. When this was acknowledged, they were told to
　report at their discretion, so they went to the West Government Office and applied to the person in charge, whereupon Maeda Tadajiro appeared and
　received the document. The copy of the notification document is as follows:
　　　　Notification Submission Statement
　　Last night at the shrine, Transmitting Chamberlain Lord Kushige Dainagon issued instructions regarding
　　the reconstruction and restoration of this shrine and its temple buildings. Furthermore, it was
　　instructed that directions would be given from the Magistrate's Office. Therefore, we respectfully submit this notification. The above, Kamigamo Shrine Representatives
　　　Monkey Year, November 7th　　　　　　　　Minamoji Hitachinosuke (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Torioji Minonokami (seal)
　　To the Magistrate's Office