The matter of the court ceremonies for the wood-cutting commencement and other rituals that had been petitioned for was ordered to be conducted according to the Kanpō era precedent. However, since there was a slight error in what Kushige-dono had reported last night, the instructions were given again this morning. Furthermore, regarding the matter to be reported to the Imperial Liaison Office, acknowledgment and thanks were given to the Imperial Liaison Office before returning home, etc.

1st day of the 12th month, small month (Year of the Earth Boar) - Wind and snow
One: After breakfast, as representatives, Naruhisa and Kanemochi appeared at the West Administrative Office. The purpose was to bring a notification document regarding yesterday's directive from Magistrate Hamuro-ben-dono that court ceremonies for wood-cutting commencement and other rituals should be conducted according to Kanpō era precedent. The copy of the notification document is as follows:

　　　　Notification Report
　Yesterday, the last day of the month, when the shrine representatives appeared in response to a summons from our shrine's magistrate Hamuro-ben-dono, regarding the shrine reconstruction, it was announced that the court ceremonies previously petitioned for in writing had been approved as requested. We hereby submit this notification. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kamigamo Shrine Representative Yamamoto Miki
　　　12th month, 1st day of the Monkey year　　　　　Mori Tōtōmi-no-kami

　　To the Magistrate's Office
Returned home around the half-hour of the Monkey (around 3:30 PM), and in the briefing reported that today's notification document was received by Maeda Tadajiro.

7th day - Cloudy
One: Regarding ceremonial day attendance, shrine officials from Shingu and below came and should have made their request orally, but considering that there might be errors in sequence and other matters, they submitted their petition in writing and requested favorable consideration. The petition document is as follows:

　　　　Respectful Petition
　Regarding the formal and temporary enshrinement ceremonies of our shrine's subsidiary shrines, it has been the ancient established custom for the respective shrine officials of each shrine to conduct the enshrinement ceremonies. However, in medieval times, since the subsidiary shrine officials were not complete, the head priest also conducted the enshrinement ceremonies of the subsidiary shrines. From around the Manji era, twenty-one positions received imperial appointments and the shrine officials were complete. Later, during the Enpō era shrine construction, the subsidiary shrine officials requested to conduct the enshrinement ceremonies based on this precedent, but while discussions continued back and forth regarding the propriety of this practice, already...