Specifications for purification wands (heigushi) for the Onmyō purification ritual of the wood construction commencement:
1. Purification wands: 7 pieces　　Height: 1 shaku 3 sun 5 bu
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Width: 2 bu square　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Split section: 2 sun 5 bu　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Metal fitting　
The above has been ordered and should be provided. 
1st month, 24th day　　　　　　Onmyō-dayū

1. Regarding the matter of being instructed to submit a written list of tōne officials who would serve during the wood construction commencement, the copy of the submitted document is as follows:
Name listing memorandum
Ume-no
　Jinzaemon, Magoemon, Shirōbei, Hikonosuke, Sōzaemon
　Jūemon, Jinemon, Sadaemon, Sagoemon, Sukeemon
《marginal note: Year of the Rooster》1st month, 23rd day
The matter of being instructed by the responsible officials that those marked should serve

1. After nightfall, the responsible parties assembled, and carpenters, roofers, and stewards were summoned. The wood construction commencement of next month's 4th day would be conducted at the hitsuji hour (2-4 PM), so they should appear at the uma hour (noon) following the taiko drum sequence. There would be a rehearsal on the 29th at the mi hour (10 AM-noon), so carpenters and roofers should appear. The carpenters should wear kariginu court dress, roofers should wear tate-eboshi caps with jōe pure white garments and sashinuki trousers, and stewards should wear suō formal wear.

1. The matter of inviting the bettō, shoshi, mokudai, and onmyō officials and informing them about the rehearsal on the coming 25th day.

25th day: Cloudy

1. The matter of summoning head blacksmith Genbei and instructing that for the wood construction commencement at the hitsuji hour on the coming 2nd month 4th day, both the head and assistant blacksmiths should appear wearing tate-eboshi caps and jōe pure garments.

1. Today, as the imperial edict messenger came for preliminary inspection of the wood construction commencement, the following appeared at the shrine grounds: head priest Hirohisa《marginal note: jōe pure garments and sashinuki》, Kanetō, Kanemochi, along with bettō Kaneyasu, shoshi Yoshiyasu《marginal note: deputy Yasuhiro》, mokudai Taruaki《marginal note: deputy Fūsei》, and onmyō Yoriyasu《marginal note: each in jōe pure garments》, etc.

1. Those who came for preliminary inspection around the saru hour (3-5 PM) were: Yamana《marginal note: Harima-no-kami》Udaishi, Mushika《marginal note: Sado-no-kami》Udaishi, Murata《marginal note: Shikibu-no-jō》Sasashi, Yamaguchi《marginal note: Zusho-no-suke》Usashi, vice messenger Miyake Nakatsukasa, secretary Nakajima Danjō《marginal note: each wearing fukusa silk cloth and hemp formal wear》. These individuals rested at Kenken-tei pavilion before proceeding to the shrine.