1. Around the tori hour (6-8 PM), the group guiding the preliminary inspection by the imperial edict messenger withdrew from before the shrine and gave a briefing. First, they conferred with the onmyō officials at the first torii gate, then consulted with the head priest outside the bridge hall and Chinese-style gate, then accompanied them to the south of the office building where various consultations took place. Regarding the inspection box, they requested to use the inspection box they brought without replacing it, to which agreement was given. Also, when discussing whether to present the sword catalog at the office building or at the residential pavilion the next day, they requested to receive it at the office building. However, since it would be difficult to take and receive it while wearing sokutai formal court dress, they requested that even a subordinate official place the sword catalog in front of the seating area so they could receive it immediately. The head messenger's portion should be handled by the messenger's assistant, and the vice messenger's portion should be handled by a subordinate and passed to retainers. They also requested that the takadai (high stand) be taken to the rest area. If it became dark, they would like to receive two or three torches. They also requested to borrow one ladle at the sake hall's purification area, to which agreement was given in response, and then they dispersed.

26th day: Clear

1. The onmyō-dayū submitted a divination document for the Kibune wood construction commencement. The copy is as follows:
　　　　Divination petition
　　　　　Date and time for Kibune Shrine wood construction commencement
　　　　　2nd month, 8th day《marginal: kinoto-mi》　　Hour: tsuchinoto-uma　
　　　　　2nd month, 9th day《marginal: hinoe-uma》　　Hour: tsuchinoto-uma
　　　　　The above divination petition as stated
　　　　Anei 6, 1st month, 26th day　　Junior Fifth Rank Upper Grade Kamo Yoriyasu

27th day: Rain, clearing in the afternoon

1. Today at the mi hour (10 AM-noon), the ceremony of the main shrine's wood construction commencement formation was conducted at the court, after which the imperial edict messenger proceeded to the lower shrine, then came to this shrine. Accordingly, at the customary uma hour (noon), the shrine official on duty for presenting the morning offerings, Sawada negi Ujiō《marginal: wearing court cap and dress, with one hakuchō attendant》, performed his duties.《marginal: After the morning offerings were completed, the offering stand was removed to the main location, but one-legged stands were left in place to prepare for the later imperial edict ceremony》As for the evening offerings, these would be prepared and presented after the imperial edict messenger withdrew from before the shrine.