One hinoki bark craftsman and two blacksmiths were given stipends. These were folded papers with one roll of raw silk each (but with verification).
However, today regarding the stipends for the head carpenter and below, it is precedent that rice is given in exchange when they depart.
The two head and assistant head carpenters receive three to (measures) each, and the ten people from the head and assistant head master carpenters down to the blacksmiths receive two to each.
These are naturally distributed by the supervisors.

1. In the evening, as thanks for the successful completion of the wood construction ceremony without incident, representative Kisakae went to the imperial messenger and magistrate, reported verbally, and returned home around the hour of the dog.

Fifth day, clear weather
1. After breakfast, at the residence of Imperial Messenger Kushinoha Dainagon, regarding the bestowal of an imperial edict for the Kifune Shrine wood construction ceremony record, Kifune shrine priest Okinaga (in hunting dress) appeared and returned home around noon. According to the explanation, one person was summoned from among those who would receive the oral edict today and received the imperial edict, then reported to Magistrate Hamuro Ben and returned home. The same day, he visited Kifune in court dress and presented it for divine viewing. This was only for the inner shrine; for the outer shrine, only prayers were offered.

1. After breakfast, representative Shigeueki went to serve concurrently as palace administrator and to Western Magistrate Yamamura Shinano-no-kami regarding yesterday's successful completion of the wood construction ceremony. The record of the report document is as follows:
　　　　　Report Submitted Orally
Regarding the wood construction ceremony procedures of our shrine, it began yesterday on the fourth at the hour of the sheep and was completed without incident at the hour of the monkey. We hereby submit this report. End.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kamigamo Shrine Representative
　　　　Second month, fifth day　　　　Yamamoto Sake-no-kami (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hayashi Izu-no-kami (seal)
　　Magistrate's Office
However, when inquiring at the western office about thanks to the eastern office, we were told to visit, so we went to offer thanks and report.

Sixth day, clear weather
1. From the construction office, the sacred lumber for the Kifune wood construction ceremony was delivered and received by the supervisors. It was placed running north-south west of the second torii gate. Sacred ropes were erected and a sign reading "Sacred lumber for Kifune wood construction ceremony" was posted.