February 19th
　　probably. Regarding the temporary relocation of the main shrine, will it also be conducted around May? At that time, there will probably be the customary
　　greetings, but since this time it concerns subsidiary shrines, following precedent like the spring
　　greetings for ritual preparations, please understand it in this manner as well. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　General Representative of Kamo Shrine
　　　　To Assistant Master of Medicine Komori　　　　　　　　Hayashi Izu-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Awa-no-kami　
1. Today at the hour of the Rooster, for the transfer of sacred treasures to the temporary hall, the supervisors Hōshō, Kanetō, and chief administrator Juhō
 　will appear at the shrine precincts from noon, along with head priest Hakuhisa, senior negi Naruhisa, shrine priest Shigeueru, assistant negi
　Yasuhisa, shrine priest Hōrei, transfer attendants, first group Hōtatsu, second group Tameyasu, third group Seifuku,
　fourth group Ichiakira, fifth group Shizuuji and others will seclude themselves in the Bōshiya from the hour of the Horse. The transfer attendants will
　come from Ōta shrine. Lunch, dinner, etc. will be served by Jinbei of the shrine group, and bringing the two main serving tōne is
　one's own duty. However, one retainer of the head priest, one member of the shrine group, and
　two tōne, etc., are duties from the shrine group according to precedent. Other subsidiary shrines are at discretion, so from around half past
　the hour of the Monkey they will proceed to the shrine precincts (each wearing court dress and bringing one attendant). Those people are: negi Kataoka Isahisa, Kifu negi
　Ikihisa, Shingu negi Tsunekiyo (deputy Fumikiyo), shrine priest Hōtō, Ōta negi Tsuneyasu, shrine priest Hōdo,
　Wakamiya negi Chikaakira, shrine priest Motoyasu, Nara negi Sueta (deputy Suetoshi), shrine priest Kenaakira, Sawada
　shrine priest Kanetame, Ujigami negi Jūshun, shrine priest Kaneyasu, onmyōji Iakira, deputy Kanesuke, bettō Kaneyasu,
　administrator Yoshiyasu (deputy Yasuhiro), master carpenter, two tōne (assigned to temporary hall), two shrine servants, etc.
　　　　　　Procedure for Transfer of Sacred Treasures to Temporary Hall
　First, on the previous day, washing and cleaning are performed, and therefore sansun offerings are made to the main shrine's temporary hall (supervised by the tree-planting administrator), and the onmyōji
　master (Iakira) performs purification rites in front of the temporary hall. First of all, white curtains and drapes are hung around from in front of the temporary hall
　to in front of the temporary hall (double inner white curtains, single outer drape, directed by the supervisors)
　　For this ceremony, first the supervisors open the sacred doors and spread mats in the inner sanctuary (nine mats; the temporary hall's inner sanctuary is two
　　ken long and one and a half ken wide, equivalent to six tatami mats). When mat pathways are laid in the courtyard and ritual tables are set up, the onmyōji master (wearing court dress)
　　approaches and makes sansun offerings (placed on round trays, with washed rice and other foods as usual) and completes the purification rites (the onmyōji master withdraws and immediately)
　Until the day of the ceremony, daily offerings are presented to the main shrine's temporary hall and eight shrines (prepared by the duty shrine officials, and for subsidiary shrines by those on duty)