(duties of ujibito) as well as ujibito for the five officials' transfer service (one person each from the first through fifth groups) seclude themselves in the attendant
quarters (however, on the day itself, they seclude themselves around the hour of the Horse). Other shrine officials participate at will, from the transfer ceremony to
the appointed time (hour of the Rooster). The five officials (the head priest wears sokutai court dress and brings one person in hōi, one in suō, and two hakuchō - umbrella bearer, shoe bearer, etc. Those other than the head priest wear ikan court dress and each brings one attendant),
the ujibito for transfer service (wearing jōe purification robes and sashinuki trousers) emerge from the Imikoya and enter through the middle gate's side door. The five shrine officials
take their seats in the transparent corridor. The transfer attendants take their seats in the western offering hall
(round cushions are arranged facing east in order from north). Shrine officials participating at will proceed to the shrine precincts and take seats in the negi
quarters' crossing hall (when there are many participants, they sit in two rows facing east, proceeding from the guard station through the western offering hall to the crossing hall). Other ujibito
gather in groups at the western offering hall or the direct meeting hall, etc.

Next, the deputy master hands the key to the temporary hall to the senior priest (however, the key to the temporary hall is first passed from the supervisors to the deputy master)
Therefore he proceeds to the temporary hall, opens the sacred doors, and returns to his seat. At this time the deputy master hands the key to the main
temporary hall to the priest (exchanging it for the temporary hall key). Therefore he proceeds to the temporary hall, opens the sacred doors (everyone prostrates themselves), and
returns to his original seat

Next, the head priest, senior assistant head priest, and priest rise and perform hand purification (at the transparent corridor's lower veranda, at the place set up during daily offerings near the deputy master's seat, with the administrator master performing the role)
Next, the head priest (wearing ran court dress with face covering and gloves) and senior assistant head priest enter the temporary hall's inner sanctuary. The senior priest
enters the temporary hall's inner sanctuary. The negi priests Kataoka, Kifu, etc. wait at the left and
right of the temporary hall's great platform. Both officials of Shingu wait at the left and right of the temporary hall's great platform, both Ōta officials wait at the second
level of the temporary hall stairs. Both Wakamiya officials wait at the second level of the temporary hall stairs (this time only the second level of stairs). Both Nara officials wait at
the fifth level of the temporary hall stairs. Sawada priest, both Ujigami officials, etc. wait at the earthen
platform of the temporary hall's negi quarters (however, Sawada priest is north of the mat pathway, both Ujigami officials are south of the mat pathway. When all shrine officials participate, the seating arrangement is also different. This time, Kataoka priest, Kifu priest, Sawada negi, etc. do not participate)
The two senior transfer attendants wait at the left and right of the negi quarters' crossing mat pathway, and three junior attendants
wait in the courtyard of the temporary hall

Next, the head priest rolls up the sacred curtain
Next, the sacred treasures are transferred
In this ceremony, the head priest and senior assistant head priest emerge from the inner sanctuary, and the senior priest makes offerings at the temporary hall