1. Regarding the assignment of two tōne (shrine officials) from the meeting place

21st day, light rain
1. Regarding the seven-day religious retreat starting tonight by head priest Hirohisa, Shingu shrine priest (deputy Bunsei), shrine celebrant Hosū, and ritual attendants (sixth group) Bunko (seventh group), Seiman, and others

22nd day, light rain
1. Regarding the religious retreat starting tonight by Nara shrine priest (deputy Kisai), shrine celebrant Kenken, Sawada shrine priest Ujio, shrine celebrants, and others. Particularly, the ritual attendants for all the small shrines of Shingu, Nara, and Sawada will be served by both Bunko and Seiman

1. A divination document regarding the dismantling of the temporary shrine buildings was submitted by the Yin-Yang Master. The record is as follows:
　　Divination report
　　　Date and time for dismantling the old temporary shrine buildings of Kamo Imperial Grand Shrine
　　　　This month, 25th day (Mizunoe-inu), hour of the Dragon (7-9 AM)
　　The above divination report submitted accordingly

　　　　Anei 6th year, 2nd month, 22nd day　　　　　Yin-Yang Master, Junior Fifth Rank Upper Grade Iken

23rd day, alternating sun and rain with wind. Rain stopped at the time of the shrine relocation ceremony
1. Hodo went to the construction office and took this opportunity to bring a notification document about the date and time for dismantling the temporary shrine buildings. The record is as follows:
　　　　Respectful notification report
　　On the coming 25th day, hour of the Dragon, dismantling the old temporary shrine buildings. The above is respectfully reported.
　　　　Tori 2nd month　　　　　Seal of Kamigamo Shrine community

1. As the commencement of wooden construction was completed, celebratory gifts were bestowed according to precedent, as follows:
　　　　　　　(craftsman)　　　　　　　　(craftsman)
　　　1000 mon　　Gonbei　　1000 mon　　Genzo
　　　　　　　(laborer)　　　　　　　　(laborer)
　　　500 mon　　Shichisuke　　500 mon　　Tōkichi
　　　　　　　(hired craftsman)　　　　　　(hired laborer)
　　　500 mon　　Gisuke　　500 mon　　Minosuke
　　　　　　　(hired laborer)　　　　　　(caretaker)
　　　500 mon　　Uhachi　　500 mon　　Kaemon