Morning of the 24th

1. Regarding the assembly and dismantling of the temporary shrine, as the construction office requested that one carpenter be dispatched, the chief carpenter went out in formal attire (kamishimo). Therefore, sansun offerings were presented to the main shrine, Kataoka Shrine, and others.

1. Items requested by the Onmyō-dayū (Master of Onmyōdō) are as follows:
　One set of five-colored paper, one booklet each　　Five grains (rice, wheat, millet, proso millet, beans), one gō each
　Washed rice, two gō　　　　　　Small sea bream, five pieces  
　Kelp, five pieces　　　　　　　Dried squid and sacred sake, five sets
　Earthenware vessels, twenty pieces　　Small bamboo (with leaves), four pieces
　White curtains, four pieces　　　　Curtain stakes, six pieces
　Knee rests, two pieces　　　　　Spade, one piece
　　The above items are respectfully requested to be provided

　　　February 24th (Year of the Rooster)　　　Onmyō-dayū

1. Inviting the monk attendants, regarding the temporary relocations of Seishin-ji Temple, Fudō Hall, and Jizō Hall, we relied on the temple community. Palanquins, treasure canopies and platforms were not provided; instead, substitute silver was paid from shrine funds. To the temples were sent a complete set of offerings, sake, red rice, simmered dishes, etc., along with one tan of bleached cloth per temple. For laborers at both Kifune temples, seven to four shō of rice, one shō per person, provided by the supervising monks. In Kanpō 3, for three temples' temporary and formal relocations four times, about 400 me of silver for the three temples including rice costs were recorded. This time, from the contract, palanquins, treasure canopies and below, one complete set from the three temples must be brought out for inspection. From this one set, cloth coverings were removed and the remaining equipment was delivered to the temples. Regarding offerings and below, rice, sake, etc., a complete set, earnestly negotiating, five pieces of silver were delivered from the shrine as final payment. After temple consultation, they stated they were troubled by the shortage and requested a loan of fifty monme. Therefore, from the contracted provisions, cloth coverings were not delivered, but other equipment was delivered - however, only for one temple's portion. In addition to the five pieces, an increase of two hundred silver