(wearing court dress), same rank Hafuri Kaneyasu (wearing court dress). However, the matter of shrine officials in religious retreat wearing pure white robes and sashi-nuki was separate. Although the shrine priest had sent a circular notice to the shrine officials indicating that each should wear court dress, the communication had been omitted to the shrine officials in retreat, hence this situation occurred. In addition to the above were Kiyotari, Yasutake, Kiyotatsu, Kanemochi, Chief Suetsura, Shikihisa, and others.

First, the Onmyō-dayū (wearing court dress) purified the divine offerings and also purified the bodies of the shrine officials and rotating attendants.
Next, the hafuri opened the sacred doors of both halls (first the temporary hall, then the main hall. However, since the Shingu negi was attending by proxy, the hafuri performed the divine procession route duties, and therefore opened the sacred doors in place of the negi).
Next, Master Carpenter Arikiyō performed the lock ceremony.
Next, the shrine priest and negi (specifically Yasumune) washed their hands (the administrator's duty). At this time, they wore ran robes, face coverings, and gloves.
Next, they extinguished the sacred lamps, courtyard torches, etc.
Next, Negi Haraikiyo purified the temporary hall's inner sanctuary and the divine procession route.
Next, the shrine priest performed the sacred relocation (each person prostrated).
Next, they lit the sacred lamps, courtyard torches, etc.

Next, they removed the cloth strips, mat pathways, etc.
Next, the hafuri performed ablutions and put on face coverings and gloves.
Next, they presented the sacred treasures.
Next, the shrine priest offered sacred streamers (the rotating clansmen attendants escorted these).
Next, they offered longevity incense wine (the duty of negi and hafuri).
Next, the shrine priest, negi, and hafuri recited ritual prayers.
Next, they removed the longevity incense wine.
Next, they offered divine food to the inner and outer sanctuaries (the duty of negi and hafuri).
Next, the shrine priest, negi, and hafuri recited ritual prayers.
Next, they removed the divine food from inner and outer sanctuaries (the duty of negi and hafuri).
Next, the hafuri closed the sacred doors (each person prostrated).
Next, the shrine priest and others each rose from their seats.