First, the Tsuchi-no-ge Festival sacred ritual concluded after the Hour of the Rooster. Subsequently, all the sacred treasures from the inner sanctuaries of Nara and Sawada shrines were completely removed and transported to the taboo storehouse, with tags attached to each item. Those who participated in this work were: Chief Priest Hirohisa, Nara negi (deputy Suetoshi), hafuri Kenken, Sawada negi Ujio, hafuri Kanetame, sixth group offering-bearer Mutsuaki, seventh group Seiriman, ten tōne officials, one pine ceremony official, etc.

First, for the above removal work, the following participated: sacred treasure official Motoyasu, supervisor Narikyu, overseer Chikuaki, and other shrine officials assigned during the ritual including Shingu hafuri Hosuna, Ujigami negi Jūshun, hafuri Kaneyasu, chief administrator Suhō, etc.

First, the golden lanterns of Nara, Sawada and other shrines were removed the following day by the repair office.

First, tonight at the Hour of the Dog for Shōjin Temple, and at the Hour of the Rat for Jingū Temple, temporary enshrinement was conducted with Jizōin Yūzan as the head priest. For Shōjin Temple, according to precedent, one overseer (Chikuaki) and one steward (Suei) were seated (wearing hemp ceremonial dress), accompanied by one colleague and one servant. Since the monks had submitted this request in advance, when the time came and the head monk provided guidance, these people went and waited in the waiting room. When the monks announced that the enshrinement was completed after the Hour of the Boar, the two officials immediately inspected inside the main hall's shrine cabinet and found everything in order with the green blinds and door curtains remaining as they were. Cold sake, simmered dishes, red rice, etc. were served in the waiting room, after which they dispersed.

First, after the above temporary enshrinement of Shōjin Temple was completed, came the temporary enshrinement of Jingū Temple. For the Shōjin Temple temporary enshrinement, eight laborers were assigned from the shrine community.

Third Month (short month)
First day, clear (Hinoto-U)

First, the head monks Gyokusen'in and Kisshōin came to report that last night's temporary enshrinement of Shōjin Temple and Jingū Temple was completed without incident. They also requested that for the temporary enshrinement of Kyōsho and Kokyōsho the day after tomorrow, as before, notices should be issued to the police officers and farmers of the seven districts to be careful about fire hazards and to ensure no spectators watch from high places, and they also requested to borrow the necessary curtains.