Sawada Priest Ujio, same Ritualist Ken'tame, Ujigami Priest Jūshun, same Ritualist Ken'yasau (each in court cap and robes, with one white-robed attendant assigned). Besides these, Abstinence Leader Shikihisa.

First, General Supervisors Moriyasu, Toshimichi, Akitoshiyasu; Administrators Yasutake, Ken'tō; Sacred Treasure Officer Kiyotari; Yin-yang Master Aki; Deputy Ken'suke; Ōta Ritual Master (substitute) Narisue (however, accompanied by subordinate officials, in charge of sacred lamps).

First, eight sword bearers, eight shrine attendants, and four laborers came forward. Pine Ritual Officer reported for duty (wearing formal court dress).

First, after the temporary relocation of Ōta Shrine was completed, the sacred treasures of the inner sanctuary were removed and transported to Takakura for storage. Administrative officers Yasuaki and Chikaaki, Sacred Treasure Officer Kiyotari, and the General Supervisors made the arrangements.

First, the temporary relocation of Ujigami Shrine began after the Hour of the Boar and was completed after the Hour of the Rat. The procedures were the same as for Ōta Shrine. Those participating in attendance were Chief Priest Hirohisa, Ujigami Priest Jūshun, same Ritualist Ken'yasau, rotating officers Yasutaka and Kabu'aki. The dress and retinue arrangements were the same as before. The Yin-yang Master, Deputy, Assistant Head Priest, Administrator, Substitute Deputy, sword bearers, shrine attendants and below were the same as before.

First, those who attended voluntarily were Senior Priest Naruhisa, same Ritualist Shigeuye, Deputy Priest Yasuhisa, Kataoka Priest Isahisa, Wakamiya Priest Chikaaki, Nara Ritualist Ken'aki, Sawada Priest Ujio, same Ritualist Ken'tame, Abstinence Leader Shikihisa, etc. (however, the General Supervisors and administrators were the same as before, but Yasuaki did not attend).

First, after the above relocation was completed, the sacred treasures of the inner sanctuary were removed and transported to Takakura for storage. Senior Ritualist Shigeuye, Administrative Officer Chikaaki, and Leading Officer Ken'tame made the arrangements.

First, sacred offerings and ceremonial feast were held at the retreat quarters, then everyone dispersed (both shrines used the same location).

　10th day, rainy weather

First, today a document was submitted to the Construction Office (however, received by Mano Hachirōbei)

　　　　　　Memorandum

　　　Third month, 15th day
　　　　Kifune Provisional Hall Divine Procession

　　　Same night
　　　　Suzuka Shrine, Kawao Shrine, Gyūichi Shrine, Musubi Shrine temporary relocation

　　　Same month, 16th day
　　　　Hiyoshi Shrine, Suzuichi Shrine, Suikazu Shrine, Shiraishi Shrine, Umemiya Shrine,
　　　　Kajitori Shrine temporary relocation

　　　　　　The above was executed as stated. End.