The record:
From the Left Controller's Office　　　To Kibune Shrine
　Regarding the matter of conducting the pillar-raising ceremony for the current shrine reconstruction according to the appointed date and time
　　This month, 5th day, Kanoe-Ne　　Hour of the Snake
　The Right Acting Middle Counselor Fujiwara no Ason Tamehide declares and respectfully states
　By imperial command, it is proper to conduct the ceremony according to the appointed date and time. The shrine should take note.
　Acting according to the imperial decree　　　　　　　　　　　　Respectfully submitted
　　Anei 6th year, 4th month, 1st day　　　Senior Grand Historian Miyoshi no Ason (signature)
　Right Middle Controller Fujiwara no Ason (signature)

From the Left Controller's Office　Kibune Shrine
　Regarding the matter of conducting the roof-raising ceremony for the current shrine reconstruction according to the appointed date and time
　　5th month, 9th day, Kinoe-Inu　　Hour of the Snake
　The Right Acting Middle Counselor Fujiwara no Ason Tamehide declares and respectfully states
　By imperial command, it is proper to conduct the ceremony according to the appointed date and time. The shrine should take note.
　It is proper to carry this out　　　　　　　　　　　　Respectfully submitted
　　Anei 6th year, 4th month, 1st day　　　Senior Grand Historian Miyoshi no Ason (signature)
　Right Middle Controller Fujiwara no Ason (signature)

1. Regarding Kibune shrine servants Asaemon and Kanaemon appearing, since there will be nighttime hauling on the coming 4th day, as per precedent, those sixteen years and older in the valley should appear. Shrine servants should wear yellow robes, others should appear in hemp ceremonial dress. This was announced. However, due to confusion, some improperly entered and failed to appear, so the guard was instructed to convey this message.

1. From the御服女老 households, a list of names for this occasion's service was submitted:
　　From Hitachi-no-suke Fumiaaki's house　　　Kaneyasu's wife Isa
　　From Aki-no-kami Ujio's house　　　　　　　Ujio's daughter Michi  
　　From Matsuwakamaru-no-taifu Tatekiyo's house　Nawasue's sister Michi
　　From Higo-no-suke Narinaga's house　　　　　Hyoshi's wife Mio
　　From Tsunanosuke-no-taifu Sadaaki's house　　Sadaaki's mother Mio

3rd day (Tsuchinoe-Inu) Clear
1. For the inner shrine hall attachment and hauling on the coming 5th day at the Hour of the Ox, administrator Moriaki ascended the mountain today to handle provisions.