1　Regarding the above Tamabashi crossing ceremony and the temporary enshrinement of Yamamori Shrine and Nagareki Shrine on the same day, notice was given to the jitte officials that attendance is optional.
　　　For the temporary enshrinement, one attendant and members of the third group should participate in rotation as ordered
　　1　Regarding the participation of onmyōji, bettō, shoshi mokudai, two tōne, and four jinin: orders from the meeting hall
　　1　Orders given that one head carpenter and one pine ceremony official should participate
　9th day (Kinoe-tatsu) Clear weather, rain from about the hour of the sheep
1　For the Tamabashi crossing ceremony (hour of the snake) and temporary enshrinement of Yamamori Shrine and Nagareki Shrine (hour of the boar), daily offerings were presented to the main shrine and
　auxiliary shrines including Yamamori three shrines and Nagareki Shrine. The offerings were prepared by the duty gon-negi
　Yasuhisa. For Yamamori and Nagareki shrines, deputy shrine administrator Kiyu went to those shrines to prepare the offerings.
　However, since the main shrine's daily offerings coincided with the snake hour crossing ceremony, they were prepared earlier than usual: first
　the small shrine temporary enshrinement daily offerings, then the crossing ceremony morning imperial offerings, then after the crossing ceremony concluded, the evening imperial offerings were
　prepared
1　Regarding the timing of the Tamabashi crossing ceremony: yesterday the construction office reported that completion was uncertain,

　so while it was scheduled for the hour of the snake, orders were given to hold it at the hour of the horse. However, since everything was completed this morning, the ceremony began around the middle of the snake hour and concluded around the hour of the horse. The procedure followed that of the Kanpō era. However, whereas the leveling wood during the Kanpō period was
　set diagonally in front of and behind the Tamabashi, this time it was placed on the left and right at the base of the eastern balustrade pillars of the Tamabashi.
　　　　　Procedure
　Around the hour of the snake, the great drum was struck and everyone assembled at the shrine grounds. During Kanpō there was an imi-koya, but at this time due to
　ongoing repairs, they assembled at the negi's offering hall. After the carpenters had previously prepared the decorations for the Tamabashi offerings, the head priest and other shrine officials of the negi group positioned themselves under the south side of the gate tower eaves facing north and east,
　the shrine officials of the hafuri group positioned themselves under the north eaves facing south and east, the ten elders (seated separately on left and right according to rank), the bettō and shoshi mokudai sat
　in seats next to the ten elders. The construction supervisor sat at the armrest on the west side of Tamabashi (north corner facing south). Prior to this, the head carpenters and
　head master builders (each in white robes), and five officials (in plain jackets) sat in rows on the long platform under the north eaves of the bridge hall. Those attending
　voluntarily positioned themselves under the north and south eaves of the gate tower, in seats next to the shrine officials and ten elders, or with the shrine officials