13th day (Tsuchinoe-Tora) Clear weather

1. A divination document was submitted by the Yin-yang Master, with this copy retained:
　　Divination report
　　　The day and time for dismantling the old hall of Kamo Imperial Grand Shrine
　　　　The 17th day of this month (Mizunoe-Uma)　　At the hour of Tsuchinoto-Uma
　　　The above is respectfully divined and reported
　　　　Anei 6th year, 5th month, 11th day　　　　Yin-yang Junior Fifth Rank Upper Grade Yoraki

1. Regarding the above, a notification document to the Construction Office:
　　　　　Memorandum of oral report
　　On the coming 17th day at the hour of Mi, the old main hall will be dismantled
　　The above is respectfully reported
　　　　5th month, 13th day　　　　　　Seal of Kami-Kamo Shrine Community

　14th day (Tsuchinoto-U) Clear weather

1. To Komori Tenyaku-no-kami: white wood medicine chest, two white-robed porters, one supervisor wearing hemp formal dress, along with a formal document and one piece of silver from the representative were sent. This follows precedent exactly.
　The items prepared were toso medicine powder, white powder, ointment, spoons, red pouches, elevated cups, earthenware vessels, etc., placed in white wood boxes. The willow box was forgotten today so apologies were made, and it will be delivered tomorrow.

1. At the hour of Hitsuji, the head carpenter (wearing large katabira under purification robes) respectfully cut the sacred sliding door and comb door of the new temporary hall.

1. Regarding the metal fittings and hardware for the sacred sliding door, orders were given to Fujiya Gonbei, the shrine contractor, as a shrine community commission. The upper boards are hinoki cypress, one sun thick, eight sun square - these were provided by the Construction Office.

　15th day (Kanoe-Tatsu) Clear weather

1. Today the main shrine temporary relocation is at the hour of Inu. Accordingly, at the hour of Tatsu, Yin-yang Chief Official Yoraki and Vice-official Motomune, both in court dress, came and performed purification of the new temporary hall. They brought one sword bearer and one shrine servant. Eight sacred desks and other stands, white curtains, etc. were transported by shrine workers.
　The offerings were prepared at the Yin-yang family residence. Having carefully observed the proceedings, the sequence was as follows:
　　First, around the hour of Tatsu on this day, for purification of the newly built auxiliary hall, Yin-yang Master Yoraki (in court dress)