After the ceremonies concluded, a sacred feast (naorai) was held at the retreat quarters, and everyone dispersed. This was after the hour of the Rat (around 1 AM).

Article 1: After Kataoka Shrine's divine relocation was completed, around half past the hour of the Dog, an urgent messenger was sent to the imperial messenger (go-densō) with a report. Subsequently, general representative Suenaga went to the imperial messenger and magistrate to make the official report. A written report was submitted to the magistrate, with the following copy retained:

　　　　　Respectfully submitted
　　The temporary relocation of Kamo subsidiary shrine Kataoka Shrine commenced at the hour of the Dog and was completed without incident after half past the same hour. We hereby respectfully report this matter. The above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kamo Shrine General Representative
　　　　　Fifth month, 18th day　　　　Yamamoto Kazusa-no-suke
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Suenaga
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mori Shin-sanmi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Naruhisa
　　　　To Lord Hinoza-nin-ben
　　　　　　　　Among the administrative staff

19th day (Kinoe-Saru), clear weather

Article 1: The following was submitted to the construction office:

　　　　　Memorandum of oral report
　　　　Kataoka Shrine　　　　Wakamiya
　　The temporary relocation of both shrines above was completed without incident last night. We hereby report this matter. The above.
　　　　Fifth month, 19th day　　　Kami-Kamo Shrine Group (seal)

Article 1: Regarding the request from the shrine servant association to use the roof covering of Kataoka Shrine for the roof covering of Nishi-Kamo Daishōgun Shrine, permission was granted by the shrine, and today it was dismantled by Nishi-Kamo shrine servants.

Article 1: Kawaguchi Kumezō-dayū was summoned. The underpainting of the clothing rack and folding screen for Kifune auxiliary hall was completed and brought by the contractor. Orders were given to assign the painting work to Kanō Kuranozyō, and the clothing rack and folding screen were then handed over to Kiyohiro.

21st day (Hinoe-Inu), cloudy, rain and thunder at the hour of the Horse

Article 1: Kanemochi brought and submitted the following to the construction meeting place. This is under the supervision of Mano Hachirōbei:
　　　　Abbreviated procedures for erecting pillars of the main shrine