4 sho: for sacred sake to be sent to Lord Yamamura and other various places
3 sho: for construction supervisors and carpenters below, 2 sho for master builders

One item: The contractor transports the main hall foundation placement and 10 pillars, temporarily erecting them
One item: Cleaning of the small buildings has been assigned to the tōne
One item: At the hour of the Monkey (3-5 PM), the onmyoji will perform the ground purification ritual for the main hall - the required items are listed above

25th day (Kanoe-Tora) - Clear weather

One item: Today at the hour of the Snake (9-11 AM) is the main hall pillar-raising. Therefore, the chief administrator and general overseer will be dispatched to the shrine grounds from early morning

One item: Before the appointed time, morning divine food offerings are presented to the main hall (currently the temporary enshrinement hall), temporary hall, subsidiary shrines, and 36 small shrines in the outer sanctuary. However, for the main hall and temporary hall, the duty shrine official Kibune-no-miya Yoshiiku serves in this role (at this time musicians play music). For subsidiary shrines, the duty clan member serves. For small shrines, deputy shrine administrator Riyu serves. For Kibune small shrines, the daily attendant serves.

One item: Shrine visit announcements three times (shrine attendants serve in this role). Around the hour of the Dragon (7-9 AM), the large drum is struck and shrine officials and below gather at the council place. Carpenters and others gather in front of the council place gate. However, shrine officials may come at their discretion. After all have assembled, they proceed to the divine presence. Twenty-one shrine attendants go first, followed by Head Priest Hirohisa (in court dress and single robe) with attendants (one person in court dress, one in plain jacket and shoes, umbrella bearers), three officials in attendance (each with one commoner attendant), then shrine officials and below in group procession (each in court dress with attendants and one commoner attendant).

Passing through the first and second torii, the shrine maidens' bamboo bridge, jewel bridge, etc., entering the tower middle gate, from the Chinese-style gate they arrange themselves in two rows in the shrine maidens' corridor. The construction overseer enters Heiji Gate and takes his seat facing west on a round mat under the eaves of the priests' corridor. The duty carpenters take their seats on the long platform outside Heiji Gate (arranged north to south, facing west). The construction overseer takes his seat in the sacred registry building (the location has been set up since yesterday). Next comes the pillar-raising ceremony (as detailed in the separate record). Afterward, evening offerings are presented to the main hall, temporary hall, etc., as in the morning. At this time musicians play music. Afterward, there is the divine food offering and sacred sake direct meeting at the office building. Voluntary worship takes place at the direct meeting place. Other officials' direct meetings are as described yesterday.

One item: The spice boxes for divine offerings at the pillar base are transported by the treasury official

One item: Those who participated today are as follows: