[The damage was] particularly extensive. Around half a chō of Shibata-machi 7th district, in this area mountain roads collapsed and some passages were blocked. Around Takanawa and Shinagawa coast, all the brothels were destroyed. In the upland areas of Azabu and Shirogane, there appeared to be nothing particularly [noteworthy]. In the Tatsumi direction, the Yokkaichi government warehouse was knocked down, and around Zaimoku-machi and Kayaba-machi there was some [damage]. At Reigan Island and Teppōzu, the tide surged up at the river mouth, the rough sea drove ships ashore, destroying many storehouses and houses. At Fukagawa Kumai-machi and the seaside estates of Shinchi, waves drove ships ashore, with many places where houses were destroyed or washed away. At Hamaguri-machi, Nagashima-machi, and Saga-machi, most storehouses were damaged. In Naka-machi, the brothels and temporary buildings had all their roofs completely destroyed. Hachiman Shrine was safe, but all the exhibition stalls and shows were knocked down. Susaki Benzaiten Shrine survived. Around Irifune-machi, all the small houses were destroyed and swept away, [leaving the area] like an empty field. At the timber yards, lumber toppled and drifted, making everything indistinguishable. Eitai Bridge broke in the middle, blocking passage. Nishifune guardhouse suffered some damage, and two large sailing ships were driven ashore at the riverbank. Along the thoroughfares, four or five tea boats were driven ashore, and small houses in the area were damaged. Along Hama-machi riverside, estate walls and gates were struck by boats, large trees, etc., with much destruction, and boats were also driven ashore at various places along the roads. The area around Ōhashi bridge was completely destroyed, and all small houses on the opposite side of the bridge were destroyed. Rokken-bori suffered some damage. At Yanagawa, most of the new tenements were destroyed, and the roads were [piled high] like mountains. About four Atake government boat warehouses [were damaged].