**The 15th Day (Day of the Snake). Rain from midnight through early morning; clear from early morning.**

One item: Mutsu-no-suke Gakuken came to visit and reported the following: This morning, Suō-no-suke Okiaki came to visit and informed us that, regarding the matter requested earlier, he had gone the day before yesterday to meet with Kisaemon, the chief administrator (motoime) of Kobori Kazuma's office, and had a discussion with him. Kisaemon said: "Of course, I am available to meet at any time. If it is an official consultation or matter of business, please come to the entrance counting office (sanjō). If it is a confidential consultation, please come to my private residence. My home is located on the right-hand side after entering the gate on Senbon-dōri, at the outer gatehouse area — there is a nameplate at the front." As for the date, he should visit on either the 17th or the 20th. On both of those days he will be present at the counting office, and as soon as we arrive to call on him, he will return promptly to meet us. It does not matter whether one or two people come. If the matter is confidential, it would be best to go alone. He had consulted Hoshō roughly to this effect, and it was agreed that visiting on the 17th would be best. After the small gathering (shōkikai) this afternoon, a letter should be sent tomorrow once more, informing him that we will come on the 17th and requesting that he receive us; and on that basis, we should proceed to visit on the 17th.

One item: Last night, a letter arrived from Sansachi of Shinano Province, regarding the matter of Minami Tokuemon. Today, he went to Kanetame's residence, but Kanetame was out. Upon meeting Sueshū, it was confirmed that Kanetame had agreed, and that he intended to bring fifty monme of silver to Sansachi's place today, requesting that it be passed on to Tokuemon, and also wishing to pay a formal courtesy visit. Accordingly, Hodō went directly to Sansachi's residence and conveyed this development along with the previous day's reply.

**After the midday meal, Small Gathering (Shōkikai). Present: Hakkyū, Tetsuken, Kiho, Shiken, Hokaku, Hodō. Secretary (recording officer): Naoan. Held at the meeting hall.**

Gakuken presented the following: As previously discussed, Suō-no-suke Okiaki went to Soga Kisaemon's residence to make the request, and Kisaemon replied that he would of course be available to meet at any time. For official consultations, please come to the counting office via the front entrance, and our colleagues will arrange for you to be received. For confidential consultations, please come to my private residence. The date should be either the 17th or the 20th of this coming month. It would be better to go as soon as possible, so visiting on the 17th would be most appropriate. If it is indeed to be the 17th, it would be best to have Okiaki send a letter tomorrow using a messenger, informing him that we will come around noon on the 17th and requesting that he receive us. As for the number of people to attend — whether two or one — please consult Masahisa and Hoshō at the meeting hall and decide based on the outcome of your discussions. Regarding the coordination of arrangements, please finalize this before the 17th.

One item: The promissory note for the silver borrowed earlier through the mediation (kuchire) of Fusyun has been completed, and the seals should be affixed today.

　**Draft of the Said Bond**

　　　Certificate of Deposited Silver

　　　Total: Six kan-me

The above silver has been received genuinely and truly for shrine use (shayō). Repayment of principal and interest shall be made without fail by the end of the twelfth month of the coming Year of the Rat. The standing timber of this mountain is offered as collateral (shichimono). Should repayment of the silver be delayed, the said standing timber shall be used to negotiate a settlement directly. As proof for future reference, this receipt of deposit is issued accordingly.

　　　　　Hōreki 5th year, Year of the Kinoto-I (1755), 6th Month

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiki Mutsu-no-suke [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Harima-no-kami [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Minamiooji Hitachi-no-suke [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Umetsuji Daizen [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujiki Suruga-no-suke [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Matsushita Daizen [seal]
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Okamoto Kunai [seal]