(Continuation of the reply letter from Kawasaki Genzō to Matsushita Daizen and Okamoto Harima-no-kami)

We were informed in detail, following a petition from the villagers, that they wish to drive out the wild boar that have been hiding in the bamboo grove under our management. However, since the area to the south of Sainenji Temple is not under our jurisdiction, we informed your messenger of this situation. As the location is distant, we were asked to send a letter to the officials of the Kadokura household. We therefore sent a cover letter to the grove officials and dispatched your messenger directly. Please be aware of this arrangement. This is our report as above.
　　　Sixth month, sixteenth day    Addressee: Matsushita Daizen-sama    Kawasaki Genzō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 Okamoto Harima-no-kami-sama    Katō Onō-emon

One matter: Regarding the "semeko" (beaters/drivers) for the hand-hunt of the aforementioned bamboo groves, we heard that the people from the hut would be brought in with five hundred mon in coin as drinking money. We summoned the village headman Matasaemon and inquired, but he said he could not recall clearly. We therefore went to ask Sanzakeya Chōbei, who said: "If the villagers enter the grove and drive out the boar themselves, that arrangement will suffice. If the villagers are unable to do so, five to seven young men from the hut should be hired. In that case, please give me the order." We then asked the villagers, and they said they would enter the grove and drive out the boar themselves. Therefore, since it would be wasteful, it was decided that it would not be necessary to hire the hut workers this time.

Seventeenth day: [Weather] Unclear then clear; light rain shower in the afternoon; a heavy shower around the seventh hour (approximately 4 p.m.)

One matter: Today, a boar hunt was conducted in the embankment grove. Two officials were dispatched by Kadokura Yoichi, and one official by Kadokura Heiji. Both parties were reported to be of the rank of ashigaru (foot soldier) commanders. Regarding the matter that the general representative (sōdai) had not come out to inspect during the embankment fence work last spring — "It has been customary for you to attend every year; why not this year?" — Ichibei was asked. Ichibei replied: "We came out two or three times in spring, but perhaps due to bad weather, there was no attendance on those occasions. After that, when we came again, it appeared that [the officials] had already gone down from the Kurama Highway, and in the meantime, with the chaos of the pre-festival period at the shrine, there was no opportunity. We ourselves felt badly about this." To this, the reply was: "That may well have been the case; please bear this in mind in the future." However, it was added that "this is not something to raise with the officials, but merely a conversation between us." Because of this, the mood was not particularly good. Therefore, although it was not customary, Ichibei suggested that, later at lunchtime at Kubo-Midō, they should provide sake and some light refreshments. Two shō of sake and a tray of hors d'oeuvres (funoyaki and mizugai) were sent, and the officials were reportedly very pleased and gave a warm letter of thanks. Regarding today's boar hunt, the sole attendee for the grove and embankment from our side was Ichibei. He brought the names of the general representatives, and also brought along the letters written yesterday addressed to Kawasaki Genzō and Miyajima Yozaemon, entrusting them to those persons. The notification for today's event had been announced to the villagers the previous evening as "at the sixth hour of dawn (approximately 6 a.m.)," but they turned out this morning before the fifth hour (approximately 8 a.m.). Five workers from the lower hut were also hired to drive through the grove. In the "Zonke Grove," Jirōemon of Ikejiri-machi stabbed a four-year-old boar, wounding it deeply, but it escaped into the Yakichi Grove. Following the blood trail, the Yakichi Grove was also hunted, and Isaburō of Kawara-machi delivered the killing blow. Thus, the first spear (first to wound) was Jirōemon, and the finishing spear (killing blow) was Isaburō. There was reportedly no dispute over the credit, as it had been agreed upon in advance. The other groves in the area were searched, but no further boar were found, and the hunt concluded around midday. Not only the villagers of the seven towns, but also some young men from the upper division (kamibun) turned out. The sole attendee for the boar hunt from our organization was the intermediary Ichibei. As Hohō (保韶) and Hodo (保土) were attending to other business today, the meeting was postponed.

One matter: Around the hour of Mi (approximately 10 a.m.), the general representatives Hohō and Hodo attended first to the Western Office, where they informed the accounting section. After waiting for a considerable time, Kawai Rihei emerged, and upon presenting the accounting ledger for the festival rice allocation, they were told to "leave it here and return," whereupon they withdrew. They then proceeded to the Eastern Office and informed the duty section, where Hiratsuka Hikoemon emerged. They submitted the usual annual accounting for the festival rice allocation, stating that it had been "submitted and left at the Western Office accounting section," and were told "it has been received," whereupon they withdrew. They then proceeded to the residence of Soga Kizaemon, chief clerk of Kobori Kazuma-dono's household...