(Continued from previous page)
...since this has been established for so long, it would be quite difficult to order a reassessment of the yield (mitorikuchi). We will confer thoroughly, and if there is any way that might work in your favor, we will inform you of our intentions from this end—so they told us. Since you are so busy, and especially in the great heat of summer, it is quite a burden on you, but we asked them to please consult and look into the matter whenever you have a moment, and then we departed.

We rested at the middle lodging (nakayado). Afterwards, Hosho went to call upon the Shinju-in at Kawaramachi, while Hodo stopped at Hokyoji Palace on the way home, and then returned to the home district. From around Seizokuchi, a great evening storm broke out, and we waited a while before returning home past the seventh hour (around 4 PM). Shortly after, Hosho also returned home. The gist of the above was reported to Gakuken, and we withdrew. (Accompanying retainers: Gonbei and Hikoemon; attendants: Kihachi and Kinpachi.)

Item: Today at Hokyoji Palace, Hoju related the following. A letter had arrived from Shibata Gonzaemon in Edo, ordering that Yamamoto Kanai move to Hamamatsu with all haste. Since Terada Hikonoshin had coordinated with Kanai on all matters, it is said that Hikonoshin's position has been revoked. There is also a rumor that Kanai's position was revoked after his arrival in Hamamatsu. As Kanai's replacement, the rumor is that Iwaki Zenzaemon will be appointed as the Edo house elder (Edo-garō) and will proceed to Edo. Kanai's wife, Lady Otsu, is said to be gravely ill at this time. It is speculated that the recent setback has further sapped her strength, and there is concern that she may not recover this time.

Item: Hosho today also went to call upon Lord Tominosuke's residence at Sanbongi during the summer heat period (doyo), but as Goto Bannai happened to be away from home, he left a message, and accordingly has not heard anything further from there.

Item: San (a person's name), suffering from "Gama no Onbyo" (a type of fever illness), was sent home to her lodgings starting today. She has, however, been given herbal decoctions.

18th Day, Kanoe-Saru, Light Rain

Item: The monthly gathering (tsukiji no yoriai), which had been postponed from yesterday, was held today. Those in attendance were: Head priest Masahisa, Hosho, Hirohisa, Yasukiyo, Kanenori, Tomikyo, Tetsuki, Suenaga, Yasumune, Suetaka, Suekazu, Hoshoroku, Sueko, Kunikiyo, Moriki, Hofu, Tomitoshi, Fumiki, Hokaku, Hodo, Naoyasu. At the assembly hall (kaisho), Gakuken made the announcements.

Item: On the 12th of last month, Suonomi and Okiaki visited the assembly hall, saying that they intended to visit Sogō representative (sōdai) Kobori Kazuma's agent Soga Kizaemon in the near future, and they requested that the relevant parties be informally notified of this intention beforehand.

Item: On the same night, a notice (furejō) arrived from Igarashi Genzo. (Already mentioned before.) (Marginal note: [Name illegible], from Sanbonmachi Kashiwaya Ume's son Kameichi, age 10, had gone missing previously but has now been located, it is said.)

Item: On the 13th, a notice arrived from Igarashi, stating that Shimo, the adopted daughter of Osaka-ya Heibei of Uchino Aioimachi, age eight, has gone missing.

Item: On the same day, Kibei, agent of Kashiwaya Hikoemon, came to call and spoke at the assembly hall, asking approximately when this month's silver (payment) would be delivered. He also said he would come again around the 20th, when he would have occasion to visit this area.

Item: In the evening, Komaru-tayu came to the assembly hall and submitted a written statement (kōjōgaki). The record is as follows:

　　　Formal Written Notification

Regarding Sano, the second wife of the late Tonomo-no-shojo: After Tonomo-no-shojo's death last autumn, she continued in her position as successor's wife without complaint. However, this past spring, without a single word of consultation to the adopted heir Komaru-dayu or to any of the relatives, she sold off what little household property there was and left the home. Upon immediately inquiring into her whereabouts, we were told that she had married into a household in Kyoto. As a result, the continuation of Tonomo-no-shojo's lineage has been put in a very difficult position, and we asked her to return and take care of things, but she would not even meet with the messenger, and there is nothing to be done. Given such irresponsible conduct—that she abandoned our household of her own accord and married into another family—we consider this equivalent to a divorce from Tonomo-no-shojo's household, and that the parent-child bond of affection has been severed. Under these circumstances, whatever may occur hereafter regarding Sano's personal affairs, we believe it to be outside the purview of our household to interfere. We respectfully request that the shrine community take note of this matter. We submit this notification accordingly. Respectfully.