(Continuation of Mimasaka-no-kami Kiyoko's petition for construction)

We humbly request that you inspect the site and grant your permission, for which we would be most grateful. Respectfully submitted.
　　　　　22nd day of the 6th month, Year of the Boar　　Mimasaka-no-kami Kiyoko (seal)
　　　　　　　To the honorable Isha (shrine council)

The above was approved and forwarded to the construction party.

[Copy of a letter from the Kujō household]
Address: To the honorable Kamo Isha　　　Ishii Kawachi-no-kami

　Regarding the coming 21st day, being the birthday of Lord Kujō, please perform the customary prayers as in previous years. I am informing you of this in advance. With utmost respect.
　　　　　18th day of the 6th month　　　　Toshihiro

[Regarding the visit of Chikugo-no-kami Kotanao]
Item: Chikugo-no-kami Kotanao visited the residence of Mikiyoshi and conveyed the following: He is aware that the shrine council has repeatedly petitioned on behalf of the three individuals who were previously ordered into seclusion (enkyo/confinement), and is grateful for this. He stated that, as he and his wife have both reached their eighties and find their hardship unbearable, with little remaining life, he now appeals directly to the shrine council and requests that appropriate measures be taken. The copy of the petition is as follows:

　　　　　Oral Petition in Lamentation

Regarding the matter of Toriiōji Dewa-no-kami, Nishiike Ukyō-no-gonnosuke, and Fujiki Echizen-no-kami, who were previously ordered into seclusion, they have fallen into increasing hardship and poverty, and we understand that the shrine council has been petitioning on their behalf. Though we find ourselves all the more overwhelmed by gratitude in recent times, as we have barely reached our eighties with little life remaining, we find ourselves at the end of our endurance and, despite our trepidation, submit this lament. We most humbly request that you show them mercy and grant them a pardon. Respectfully submitted.
　　　　　6th month, Year of the Boar　　　Father of Fujiki Echizen-no-kami:　Shōchi Chikugo-no-kami (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mother of the same:　　　　　　　　Tsuma (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mother of Toriiōji Dewa-no-kami:　　Ren (seal)
　　　　　　　To the honorable Isha (shrine council)

Item: Head Priest Masahisa forwarded a message to Gakuken at the council office, requesting that the shrine council take appropriate measures. The petition submitted is as follows:

　　　　　Oral Petition in Lamentation

Regarding the petition for pardon of Toriiōji Dewa-no-kami, Nishiike Ukyō-no-gonnosuke, and Fujiki Echizen-no-kami, who were previously ordered into seclusion, we are grateful for the repeated efforts made by the shrine council on their behalf. As their hardship has become extreme, we humbly request that you show mercy and grant them a pardon. Respectfully submitted.
　　　　　6th month, Year of the Boar　　　　　Shōchi Chiyomatsu-dayū (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Shōchi Mikawa (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Toriiōji Shima (seal)
　　　To the honorable Isha (shrine council)　　Nishiike Etchū-no-kami (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Priest:　Tomino Ōkura-no-gonno-taifu (seal)