【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred and sixteen
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Eliminating Obstacles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】　
One hundred and sixteen

【Upper Section】
The true body exists due to sovereignty. To manifest this meaning, [the text] creates the third sentence.

"Depending on this general meaning... nine treatise commentary explanation": The four karmas of black, etc. are:
First, black-black maturation karma: namely non-meritorious karma, i.e., the general retribution karma of the three evil destinies and the particular evil karma of the five destinies. Second, white-white maturation karma: namely immovable karma, i.e., the general and particular wholesome karma of the form and formless realms. Third, black-white black-white maturation karma: namely various meritorious karmas, i.e., the general karma of humans and gods in the desire realm and particular wholesome karma conforming to the five destinies. Because wholesome [karma] becomes the enemy and opponent of unwholesome [karma], [it is] called black-white black-white karma. Because black karma has not yet been eliminated, that meritorious karma obtains this name. Fourth, non-black-white non-maturation karma: namely pure karma that permanently eliminates the three conditioned karmas of black, etc. and maturation karmic seeds. "As the Yogācāra ninth treatise commentary explains" refers to the treatise notes on Yogācāra [volume] nine. Because those notes extensively explain these four karmas. Why not say "treatise notes" but say "treatise commentary"? That is, within this chapter, sometimes [it] says "as in the Abhidharmasamuccaya notes," sometimes "as in the Abhidharmasamuccaya commentary." Now this is also thus.

"Within cognitive obstacles... subduing at the eighth ground": This section clarifies karma-fruits generated by cognitive obstacles. Among these, discriminated karma-fruits were already explained previously. This precisely explains innate karma-fruits. Innate karma-fruits within cognitive obstacles are distinguished according to the positions of the ten grounds, gradually eliminating obstacles and karma-fruits. "Elimination exists in separate paths, etc.": eliminating obstacle-essence exists in uninterrupted paths, abandoning karma-fruits exists in liberation paths, hence saying "existing in separate paths." Transforming and abandoning heavy [karmic residues] pervades the ten grounds. Cause perishing and fruit not arising exists only at the Buddha ground. "Subduing at the eighth ground": through previous path-power,

【Lower Section】
[one] analytically subdues the manifestation of cognitive obstacles of later grounds, making them not function - this is called subduing. From the eighth ground onward, which of the sixth and seventh consciousnesses still function? Those associated with the six consciousnesses do not function at the eighth ground. Because the two-emptiness pure non-discriminating wisdom and mind, and its fruits of cessation concentration and post-attainment, etc. continue uninterrupted and can contradict the two graspings of the sixth consciousness. Therefore [they] do not function. Regarding the seventh consciousness, [it] still functions at the eighth ground. Dharma-emptiness wisdom and its fruit then contradict dharma-grasping of the seventh [consciousness], but personal-emptiness wisdom and its fruit have coarse operational characteristics that do not contradict [it].

"Three-four obstacle divisions... consciousness chapter explanation": Speaking of four obstacles means: icchantika's dharma-slander, non-Buddhists' self-attachment, śrāvakas' fear of suffering, and pratyekabuddhas' abandoning mind. Regarding the distinction of two obstacles, there are two explanations in the Consciousness chapter. First explanation: Among the four obstacles, the first two are discriminated afflictive obstacles. The first obstacle's manifestation is subdued at the sixth faith of the ten faiths because of non-retrogression of faith. The second obstacle is subdued at the fourth abode (noble birth abode) of the ten abodes because bodhisattvas of this abode leave evil destinies. The seeds of these two are eliminated upon entering the first ground. The latter two are innate cognitive obstacles. Among these, the first obstacle is eliminated at the fifth ground, the latter obstacle is eliminated within the sixth ground. Second explanation: The first two are seeds of discriminated afflictive obstacles eliminated at the seeing path; the latter two are seeds of innate afflictive obstacles eliminated at diamond [mind]. As previously explained. The Compilation says: Following what people mostly give rise to, these four obstacles are established. The first is wrong view, or precisely as the name [indicates]. The second is mostly discriminated self-view, or pervades innate. These two are afflictive obstacles, hence follow the category of self-grasping. The latter two are discriminated grasping of aversion to suffering and longing for quiescence within cognitive obstacles, hence follow the category of dharma-grasping. Though there is this explanation, the stages of subduing and elimination

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred and seventeen
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Eliminating Obstacles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】　
One hundred and seventeen

【Upper Section】　
are still not clearly manifest. Hence the former [explanation] is superior.

"Two-again there are four... as explained above": Independent unshared: also called primary independent unshared. Meaning not associated with anger, etc. Only eliminated by the seeing path. Those bonds are subdued at the fourth abode of the ten abodes. Corresponding unshared: also called non-primary independent unshared. Meaning associated with anger, etc. Pervades seeing-cultivation elimination. Saying "following discriminated-innate, etc.": the second corresponding unshared precisely follows discriminated and also follows innate, hence saying "following discriminated-innate." Some texts say "pervading discriminated-innate." The meaning is also good. "Bonds and latent [afflictions], etc.": The stages of subduing and eliminating the existing bonds and latent [afflictions] of the first independent unshared were explained right here. The stages of subduing and eliminating the existing bonds and latent [afflictions] of the second corresponding unshared are as explained in the two-obstacle section above.

"Three constantly-acting not... afflictive obstacle explanation": Constantly-acting unshared, etc.: The Pivotal Essentials says below: "Unshared ignorance has two [types]. First, [that] associated with fundamental [afflictions], constantly acting in all parts. What other consciousnesses lack is called unshared. Second, not associated with fundamental [afflictions] is called unshared. This again has two [types]. First, associated with small, medium, and great secondary afflictions, not associated with fundamental afflictions is called unshared. Second, not associated with small secondary afflictions and fundamental [afflictions], associated with medium-great secondary [afflictions] is called unshared." Explanation: Among the first two, the first is constantly-acting unshared, the latter is precisely independent unshared. Among the latter two, the first is corresponding unshared, the latter is precisely one portion of corresponding unshared. Saying "one portion" means: excluding [those] associated with the ten small secondary afflictions like anger, etc. and fundamental afflictions, the remaining

【Lower Section】　
ignorance associated with the two medium secondary afflictions like shamelessness, etc. and the eight great secondary afflictions like restlessness, etc. This is called one portion of corresponding unshared. "When entering pure observation, also called subduing, etc.": When entering dharma-emptiness observation, dharma-grasping ignorance precisely does not manifest, hence called subduing. Saying "remaining three": the second corresponding, third bonds, and fourth latent [afflictions] constitute the remaining three. The above three unshared [types] are as explained in Pivotal Essentials below and commentary volume five.

"Four-five obstacle divisions... only previous subduing-elimination": "First arising, namely five manifestations, etc.": The five manifestations are called present arising; the five seeds are called dwelling-grounds. Meaning these five types of manifestations are the dwelling places of afflictions, hence called dwelling. Or because [they] can gather and maintain manifest afflictions, [they are] called dwelling. Hence Yogācāra [volume] forty-seven says: "Because of the meaning of gathering and maintaining, [they] are called dwelling." Saying "ground" means the meaning of basis. Within afflictive obstacles, view-eliminated seeds are called "seeing-one-place" because [they] see the principle of the four truths and are eliminated at one place. Though the three realms' nine grounds have nine grades, because true seeing path eliminates [them] at one place, eliminated delusions are called "seeing." Though there are love, etc., seeing is the chief. Making seeing the chief delusion, eliminating at one place is called "seeing-one-place." Desire realm cultivation delusions are called "desire-love dwelling-ground"; form realm cultivation delusions are called "form-love dwelling-ground"; formless cultivation delusions are called "existence-love dwelling-ground." Non-Buddhists mostly grasp the formless as nirvana. To counteract them, [it is] particularly called "existence." Within cultivation-eliminated, love is chief. Hence though there are pride, etc., [they are] all generally called love. All cognitive obstacles are generally called ignorance. Though there are views, etc., if ignorance is the foundation, [they are] generally