【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred and eighteen
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Eliminating Obstacles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】　
One hundred and eighteen

【Upper Section】
[called] ignorance. These five dwelling-grounds are as extensively explained in their characteristics in the *Śrīmālādevī Sūtra*.

"Question: If discriminated... five grounds eliminating doubt": The intent of this question reveals the following: If discriminated delusions are called "seeing-one-place" and are eliminated when entering seeing, then when entering the seeing path, seeing-doubt should already be eliminated. Why does the *Benevolent Kings Sūtra* say "the first ground eliminates greed, up to the fourth ground eliminating seeing, and the fifth ground eliminating doubt"? Why does *Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra* fifty-four also say "the fifth ground eliminates doubt-mind, etc."? Since it says "the fifth ground eliminates doubt," and doubt is only discriminated and does not pervade innate, how can all discriminated delusions be eliminated when entering seeing?

"Answer: Old person's explanation... hence fifth ground elimination": "Old person's explanation, etc." refers to the old Yogācāra master Daoji. Hence his chapter states: "In the *Benevolent Kings Sūtra*, eliminating greed at the first ground, up to eliminating seeing at the fourth ground and eliminating doubt at the fifth ground - this sūtra provisionally raises ordinary and noble [beings] to indicate the ascending and descending characteristics of grounds. The characteristics from the third ground down are the same as ordinary beings, hence it explains eliminating greed, hatred, and delusion at the third ground. The characteristics of the fourth and fifth grounds are the same as the first two fruits among the four fruits, hence it explains eliminating seeing and doubt. But in reality, the primary [afflictions] are eliminated before the grounds." Regarding that chapter, seeing-doubt primary [afflictions] are eliminated before the grounds, yet in this text it says they are actually eliminated at the first ground. How do [these statements] contradict? Explanation: Regarding manifestation, this concerns eliminating seeds, so there is no contradiction. The current explanation "seeing means body, etc." is precisely the chapter author's intent. The *Benevolent Kings Sūtra* saying "fourth ground eliminates seeing, fifth ground eliminates doubt" - "seeing" means self-view, because the fourth ground can eliminate self-view associated with the six [consciousnesses]. "Doubt" means factual doubt, not eliminating affliction-doubt.

【Lower Section】
Doubt associated with undefiled ignorance is explained and called "factual doubt." Such factual doubts are companions of self-view arising from self-view. If [it were] affliction-doubt, it would only be eliminated by seeing and already eliminated at the first ground. Now speaking of factual doubt, hence eliminated at the fifth ground. The obstacles eliminated at the first, second, and third grounds are the same as ancient explanations, hence not explained again.

"Fifth, there are again... sinking-agitation-savoring-attachment": Saying "distraction" means having the nature of mind flowing and scattering due to greed, hatred, and delusion. This has six types. These are precisely the first three. Natural distraction means the five consciousness bodies, because their nature has no capacity for inner calm concentration. External distraction means when properly cultivating wholesome [dharmas], the mind gallops and scatters toward the five fine desires. Namely, skillfully cultivating wholesome dharmas like hearing, abandoning those objects and letting the mind gallop and scatter externally, dwelling in fine desires. Internal distraction means sinking-agitation-savoring when properly cultivating wholesome [dharmas]. Namely, those cultivating concentration give rise to sinking-agitation and savoring, hence losing calm concentration.

"Fourth characteristic distraction... Abhidharma first": Characteristic distraction means falsely displaying cultivation of wholesome [dharmas] to make others take refuge and have faith. Namely, wanting others to believe oneself has virtue, hence manifesting this characteristic. Through this causation, the grasped wholesome dharmas gradually further decline and are lost. Heavy distraction means that due to the power of self and self-possession grasping and pride-category heaviness, when cultivating wholesome dharmas, regarding already arisen various feelings, [one] gives rise to self and self-possession and pride grasping-feelings, intermixing and taking characteristics. Namely, through the power of self-grasping etc. heaviness, in already arisen pleasant etc. feelings, either

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred and nineteen
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Eliminating Obstacles Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】　
One hundred and nineteen

【Upper Section】　
grasping as self, or grasping as self-possession, or giving rise to pride. Through this, the cultivated wholesome qualities permanently become impure. Intentional distraction means regarding other vehicles and other concentrations, whether depending on or entering, the existing flowing-scattering. Namely, depending on other vehicles to enter other concentrations, abandoning what was previously practiced and generating distraction. What this text calls "previously practiced other concentrations" means Mahāyāna concentrations. "Other vehicle concentrations" means Hīnayāna concentrations. Hence the *Madhyāntavibhāga* Supreme Vehicle chapter says: "Mental inferiority is precisely intentional distraction. Because [one] gives rise to intention depending on inferior vehicles." "Thinking means investigation-analysis" is precisely provisional. Because through wrong thinking [one] gives rise to the operational characteristics of seeking-investigation and observing-analysis, hence generating distraction. These six distractions are as explained in *Abhidharmsamuccaya* volume one.

"Again there are six roots... all as previously explained": The first volume Consciousness chapter previously [states]: "Or explaining six afflictions, explaining seven latent [tendencies], up to ten discriminations, etc. are as extensively explained in the Eliminating Obstacles chapter." Now this text says "all as previously explained." [They] mutually reference each other but all fail to explain. Hence now briefly explaining the six afflictions: namely greed, hatred, delusion, pride, doubt, and wrong views. The nature of these greed, etc. six is included in fundamental afflictions. Hence [they] obtain the name afflictions. One position [holds] these six are only affliction-obstacles, because [they] are explained as having defiled nature obstructing nirvana. One position [holds] these six also pervade cognitive obstacles, because cognitive obstacles have views, doubt, delusion, love, anger, pride, etc. If cognitive obstacles are not included in the six, then what dharmas include those views, doubt, etc.? Hence know that the six afflictions pervade and are included in the two obstacles. If so, why are [they] only called afflictions? Love, anger, pride, etc. included in cognitive obstacles, though not afflictions from the perspective of the two vehicles, are afflictions from the perspective of bodhisattvas. Because the treatise explains "discrimination is bodhisattva afflictions." "Again there are six fundamental delusions" - this character "six" should belong to the above text; relying on the convenience of explanatory text, [we] temporarily make [it] the lower sentence. [This] means citing and explaining the Consciousness chapter. This is the commentator's intent, not the chapter author's intent. Seven latent [tendencies] means desire-love latent [tendencies], hatred-anger, existence-love, pride, ignorance, views, and doubt latent [tendencies]. Among these, existence-love is precisely the heaviness of form and formless greed categories. The *Compilation* says: "Among the six afflictions, greed is divided into two: namely desire and existence. According to the previous six explanations, extensively as explained in *Abhidharmasamuccaya* volume six."

"Again there are seven leaks... as name explains meaning": Speaking of seven leaks: First, seeing leak - seeing path afflictions. Second, cultivation leak - cultivation path afflictions, also called thinking leak. Among the Hīnayāna ninety-eight agents, the three realm cultivation delusions are called thinking. Third, faculty leak - namely eye and other faculties. Because [they] can generate leaks. Fourth, evil leak - namely evil friends etc. who generate afflictions are all called evil leaks. Because [they] can generate leaks, [they] immediately obtain the name leak. Fifth, proximity leak - namely clothing, food etc. causations generating greed. [Being] near to generating leaks, [they are] called proximity leaks. Sixth, love leak - love for the three evils' awareness can generate leak causes. [It is] not called love leak by using the love [mental factor]. Seventh, mindfulness leak - wrong mindfulness gives rise to leaks, hence called mindfulness leak. "The first two leak-essence, etc." - in explaining essence and instruments, there are precisely two explanations. First explanation: Among the seven, the first two are leak-essence, the latter five are leak-instruments. Causations generating leaks are generally called leaks. Second explanation: The first one is leak-essence, the latter six are leak-instruments. The reason for this is that by having seeing delusions,