【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred eighty
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】  
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred eighty

【Upper Section】
on the thought-seeds" - named form from what is prevented. Those undisciplined thought-seeds do not prevent these evil bodily and verbal actions. Hence they obtain manifest activity. Because thought-seeds produce these manifest forms, form-nature is provisionally established on the thought-seeds. Though those manifest forms have indication, now we do not speak about manifest forms. Only the function of thought-seeds - because they are not evil bodily-verbal expressions, thought-seeds are called non-manifest. Speaking realistically, from prevented wholesome forms, one can also explain undisciplined non-manifest. Extensively as that master's *Abhidharma Commentary* explains. One should consult that.

From "those extremely subtle and extremely" to "what arises is also thus": "Extremely subtle" etc. refers to briefly indicating three forms among the five dharma-realm forms to clarify the state of creating. "Extremely subtle form" - "extremely" means reaching, exhausting. "Subtle" has two meanings: First, general meaning - generally summarizing various forms, analyzing down to atomic particles, called extremely subtle form. Second, minimal meaning - analyzing various sense-faculties and objects down to the most minimal locations, called extremely subtle form. The *Abhidharma Treatise* explains "extremely subtle form" as having atomic particles as essence - namely taking the atomic particles of the five sense-faculties, five objects, four great elements, and dharma-realm real forms as nature. "Extremely distant form" means dharma-realm distant forms, when separated from obstruction and manifested spatially, establish the name "distant." The *Abhidharma Treatise* says: "These forms separated from other obstructing tangibles, having space-realm form atomic particles as essence." "Discriminatively conceived arising form" means the three-nature consciousness can universally discriminate objects, arising from this, hence called discriminatively conceived arising form. The *Abhidharma Treatise* says: "Namely image forms. Sense-faculties and objects transformed by independently arising scattered mind, without sense-faculty functions. Water-moon mirror reflections. These are not one." "Following the greatness of original substance" etc. - in explaining the original substance of dharma-realm forms, various texts differ. According to the *Pramāṇasamuccaya*, distant objective support conditions -

【Lower Section】
when all minds arise, definitely all exist. The *Buddhabhūmi* etc. explain: when non-discriminating wisdom takes true-nature as object, it also transforms images. When minds arise, there are definitely original substances. Based on this principle, four of the five forms must have original substance. The first, extremely subtle form, takes the ten visible-matter locations of desire and form realms, and real forms of form and formless concentration fruits as original substance. The second, extremely distant form, takes form-realm form locations as substance. The formless realm has no separate locations. Hence what is explained here all arises from analyzing those coarse forms, hence taking them as substance. Not having those categories explained as original substance. Discriminatively conceived arising takes the ten visible-matter locations of the desire realm and forms arising from concentrations in the upper two realms as original substance. All can rely on those to transform images. Hence there are substantial forms. If there were no original objects, all would use names and teachings as original substance. Because consciousness's aspects are permitted to extend to both seeing and images. Know that objects definitely have image-substance. The *Vijñaptimātratā Treatise* explains: "Distant objective support conditions may exist for consciousness. Even separated from external objects of concern, they can also arise." If following this principle, extremely subtle, extremely distant, discriminatively conceived arising forms analyze the various forms of conditions. Those based on names and teachings - original substances are as before. Depending on one's own reflection, calculating various self-dharmas like sky-flowers, rabbit-horns, past-future, eon-exhaustion, permanence, atomic particles - not depending on others' teachings, all lack original substance. Extensively as the chapter master's *Abhidharma Commentary* explains. Now saying "following the greatness of original substance" - the analyzed coarse forms already extend to immediate-separate. The extremely subtle and extremely distant established based on this also extend to immediate-separate. The creating great elements that create original substantial coarse forms already extend to immediate-separate. The extremely subtle etc. established based on this

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred eighty-one  
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】  
One hundred eighty-one

【Upper Section】
forms also follow original substance, called immediate-substance creating and separate-substance creating. Discriminatively conceived arising should also be known by analogy.

From "the formless realm lacks" to "as in the non-manifest chapter, one should use what is created by the creating evil-precept great elements possessed by one's own past body":

Question: Do the forms of the three periods obtain suspended creating or not?

Explanation: Master Fan [says]: "In the Mahāyāna school, past and future have no essence, only having present essence, hence no suspended creating. If distantly mutually dependent, there also is [creating]. Through present great elements distantly inducing future created forms to arise, one can also provisionally establish this as suspended creating. However, this is not real creating. Present created [forms] can also be provisionally said to be created from past great elements. Speaking in terms of principle, there is no obstruction." [Above is master's text] The chapter master's meaning is also the same. "As in the non-manifest chapter" refers to the *Manifest and Non-manifest Meanings Forest* seventh section saying: "Even Buddha-body unconditioned non-manifest and formless concentration-associated [precepts] also arise from past desire-realm four great elements. Already provisionally calling the distant 'form' and also calling the distant 'creating.' Hence not calling what is produced 'form' and also not calling it 'creating' because of indefiniteness. There need not necessarily be produced bodily-verbal [actions]." [Above is chapter text] Now pointing to that text, hence saying "as in the non-manifest chapter." Master Fan says: "In mutual creating among three realms, like those in the desire realm who obtain divine eye - desire realm consciousness depends on upper-level eyes to see upper forms. The image-forms transformed by this eye-consciousness follow the consciousness that can take them as object, being only desire-realm included. However, using upper-level four great elements as distant creating agents, because desire-realm form-images lack separate-realm four great elements. Taking this as example, the rest are also thus. Also, the autonomous

【Lower Section】  
forms of form and formless concentrations take desire and form realm four great elements as creating agents. Hence upper-level forms distantly use lower-level great elements for creating." [Above is master's text] This meaning is also the same as the chapter master's intention. Extensively as that master's *Abhidharma Commentary* explains.

From "question-answer distinctions" to "how many things can be obtained": In this sixth section, there are altogether six sets of questions and answers. In the first set, the question is the chapter master's own question. The answer is text from *Yogācāra* third [fascicle]. The questions and answers of the second, third, and fifth sets are all question-answer texts from *Yogācārabhūmi* fifty-four. The questions in the fourth and sixth sets of questions and answers all come from *Vibhāṣā Treatise* fascicle 127. Among these, the fourth set's answer is from *Yogācāra Treatise* fascicle 66 and fascicle 3. The sixth set's answer is the chapter master's own answer - namely using *Viniscaya* section text to prove his own position. This is the first where the chapter master raises a question. "Various form aggregates" generally indicates creating and created forms. Among these various forms, all have increase and decrease. Now intending to clarify their particular characteristics of increase and decrease, hence first raising the question.

From "*Yogācāra* third" to "existing and non-existing dust and wind": In the answer below, first clarifying the increase and decrease of creating [elements], then from "or only having form" below, clarifying the increase and decrease of created [forms], afterwards from "like the above created forms" below, together clarifying the characteristics of increase and decrease where creating and created mutually do not separate. However, *Yogācāra* third only explains creating increase and decrease, not explaining created increase and decrease. Now in this chapter, based on texts like fifty-four etc., also clarifying created increase and decrease. This is initially clarifying creating increase and decrease. "Like stones, maṇi jewels" etc. - *Yogācāra* third says: "Also regarding mutual inclusion there are fourteen phenomena [namely five sense-faculties, five objects, four great elements - these make fourteen]. Immediately through mutual inclusion establishing phenomenal atomic particles. If regarding realm inclusion, following however many realms exist in this aggregate, immediately explaining this