【Right Page】
【Outside frame, upper right】
One hundred ninety
【Outside frame, upper right horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower right horizontal】
One hundred ninety

【Upper Section】
This text does not exist at all. Only fascicle sixty-six has this text. Hence that fascicle says: "Also, all great elements and created forms exist simultaneously and do not mutually separate. Because they are produced by causes of that type. Like a homogeneous mass mutually interpenetrating and pervading all places, not like aggregates of barley flour, rice flour, maṇi jewels, etc." [Above is treatise text]

Explanation: The original treatise text says "because produced by causes," but now this chapter says "because produced equally." This is probably because the grass script characters for "cause" and "equal" were confused. However, examining the compilation, taking the text below "existing simultaneously" as the chapter master's text and further quoting the sixty-five text, the text he quoted is completely dissimilar. Hence we know this is also incorrect. "Like a homogeneous mass further mutually interpenetrating, etc." immediately clarifies the meaning of same-place non-separation.

From "Also, this has three" to "mixed non-separation." Below, repeatedly quoting text to clarify the meaning of non-separation. These three types of non-separation appear in Yogācārabhūmi sixty-five. Saying "also this" immediately refers to the above text "existing simultaneously without mutual separation." That is, also within this non-separation there are three, hence saying "also this."

First, same-place, etc.: Master Zhizhou says: Examining Yogācārabhūmi sixty-five, there are three types of non-separable forms. First is one-place non-separation. That is, all great elements and created forms dwell together in one place. Explanation: One place is immediately same place. When creating and created mutually correspond, their large and small quantities equally interpenetrate without mutual obstruction, with no difference in location. This is called same place. There is no separate dwelling of different subtle particles in two places. This is called non-separation. For example, like one eye's seven phenomena mutually corresponding and interpenetrating dwelling in the same place. That is, eye, body faculty, form, and

【Lower Section】
fragrance, taste, tangible, and the creating earth great element - these seven each as subtle particles in the same place.

Question: The created has six, so why is the creating one? Explanation: There are two explanations. First: Though one earth great element, it universally creates six, hence the creating is one. Second: Because the created are six, the creating are also six. But separately saying "creating one" is based on the earth type being the same, speaking collectively. Like saying "one eye's seven subtle particles are formed," but actually one faculty has countless subtle particles, yet saying seven is discussing according to type. Creating is also thus.

Second, mixed non-separation: Like one eye faculty having many subtle particles, in one faculty's subtle particle place seven phenomena dwell together. Using these seven phenomena to correspond to those seven phenomena, though not same place, dwelling mixed together in proximity is called "mutual." Seven sets of seven being each separate is called "mixed." Because there is no spacing, it is called non-separation.

Third, harmoniously mixed non-separation: Also if there are aggregates, or sesame, beans, etc., held together by various glues, honey, and sugar, etc. Explanation: Two aggregates of different great elements and different created forms harmoniously combine. Like many beans, etc., though held together by honey, etc., harmoniously combining into one aggregate, yet not mutually interpenetrating, and being different great elements' created different aggregates mutually corresponding, hence called harmonious combination. Non-separation means no gaps. [Above commentary text] This first follows the treatise in first clarifying mixed, then clarifying harmoniously mixed. Now in this chapter, first clarifying harmoniously mixed. Though there are differences, the meaning is not contrary.

From "Also Yogācāra" to "mixed non-separation." Yogācāra third says: "Also non-separation has two types. First, same-place non-separation. That is, great element subtle particles with form, fragrance, taste, tangible, etc.,

【Left Page】
【Outside frame, upper left】
One hundred ninety-one
【Outside frame, upper left horizontal】
Dharma Garden Meaning Mirror - Great Elements and Derived Matter Chapter
【Outside frame, lower left horizontal】
One hundred ninety-one

【Upper Section】
in places without faculties there are those separate from faculties, in places with faculties there are those with faculties. This is called same-place non-separation. Second, harmoniously mixed non-separation. That is, immediately these great element subtle particles together with other aggregate collections of creating and created forms places. This is called harmoniously mixed non-separation." [Above treatise text]

Explanation: Now in this chapter, briefly quoting text. The chapter master's Yogācāra commentary explains this text saying: Same-place non-separation means following places without faculties, there are various forms without faculties; following places with faculties, there are various forms with faculties. The meaning that same-type great elements and created forms all dwell in the same place mutually interpenetrating, not the meaning that subtle particles dwell separately. Harmoniously mixed non-separation means same-type great elements and other-type great elements further mutually interpenetrate with the meaning of together in one place, hence the treatise below says "the former are shared great element aggregates, the latter are unshared great element aggregates." [Above commentary text] However, Yogācāra third does not explain mixed non-separation meaning; in sixty-five it later explains this. Hence this is a general abbreviation.

From "Same-place non-mutual" to "other faculties eleven." Below here the chapter master takes the treatise text's meaning to explain the two non-separation meanings. "Like one eye faculty aṇu form" generally indicates one aggregate's substance. "Four great element aṇu and created form aṇu, etc." below separately indicates the aggregate substance within one aggregate.

Saying "aṇu" is also called "aṇu." Master Guang's Abhidharmakośa commentary says: "In Sanskrit called aṇu. This is called subtle particle. The most minute among visible forms." [Above commentary text] Seven subtle particles form a minute particle. This minute particle is called aṇu. The two characters aṇu and ṇu have somewhat interchangeable sounds. Saṃyuktābhidharmahṛdaya second says: "The finest of forms extremely reaches one minute particle. Hence one minute particle is explained as form's limit." Also

【Lower Section】
that verse says: "Seven minute particles form aṇu, seven transformations form copper dust. Water, rabbit hair, and sheep dust should be known to arise from seven." Its self-explanation: "Seven subtle particles form one aṇu. That is the finest form. Divine eye can see it, and bodhisattvas and wheel-turning kings see it. Seven aṇu become dust on copper, seven copper dust become dust on water, seven water dust become dust on one rabbit hair, become dust on one sheep wool." [Above treatise text]

Explanation: Abhidharmakośa twelfth has the same meaning. The bodhisattva's seeing refers to final-body bodhisattvas. New Abhidharmakośa says "accumulating minute particles to seven becomes one gold dust." Saṃyuktābhidharmahṛdaya says "copper dust," old Abhidharmakośa says "iron dust." Master Guang says gold, silver, copper, iron are collectively called metal. The reason various texts differ is that they are all limited to one aspect. Because dwelling in metal with no obstruction to coming and going, it is called metal dust.

Question: Vijñānavāda commentary second says: "Like the Sautrāntika masters, aṇu form is a provisional dharma. The Sarvāstivāda says that is combination, hence not an object of five consciousnesses. Five consciousnesses necessarily arise depending on real dharmas." How can we now say "the finest among visible forms is called aṇu form"?

Explanation: The commentary saying "not objects of five consciousnesses" refers to the appearance of seven minute particles' combination. Appearance belongs to minute particles. Now saying "eye sees" refers to subtle particle substance. Hence the commentary says "individual subtle particles can generate five consciousnesses," so there is no contradiction. Now saying "aṇu form" indicates the substance of one minute particle form combining seven subtle particles.

Now in this text, the textual momentum has two aspects. From the initial "one rootless aṇu form" to "adding sound makes nine" immediately indicates "following rootless places there are various rootless forms." "Further adding body makes ten, following other faculties makes eleven" immediately indicates "following places with faculties there are various forms with faculties."