【Right Page】
Dōsan Bridge　This is the name of the bridge that crosses from the north street of the Hosokawa clan's domain residence toward Tokiwa Bridge. Long ago, there was a residence belonging to a younger brother of the Ima-ōji family, who served as a court physician in the Imperial Medical Bureau, south of this bridge. 《Therefore, this place is called Dōsan Riverbank. The Enpō map shows it as Uchi Riverbank, and during the Keichō era it was called Yanagi-chō, which was a pleasure quarter. The Keichō 12 map records it simply as a merchant district》

According to folk tradition, once when the Shogun summoned Dōsan, he arrived slightly late. When reprimanded, he explained that the route was long because he had to go around the moat, whereupon the Shogun had this bridge built. 《According to "Edo Famous Places Stories," both north and south of Dōsan Riverbank were lined with medical practitioners including Dōsan himself, covering internal medicine, surgery, and acupuncturists. The Kanbun Edo map records this bridge as Hikojirō Bridge. Also, according to Elder Daidōji Yūzan, during the early settlement period, Dōsan Riverbank was lined with lumber merchants, but in later years when the area became samurai residences, they were moved east outside the castle to what is now Hon-zaimoku-chō》

Zenikame Bridge　This is located between Tokiwa Bridge and Gofuku Bridge. Long ago, when this bridge was first built, a jar containing coins was excavated, hence the name. According to one theory, this place was formerly used for exchanging Eiraku coins, so it was called Zenikae Bridge (Coin Exchange Bridge). Also, according to "Edo Sōkanoko," long ago a coin market was established here with daily money changing, but later as coin dealers increased, they formed a guild to avoid harming each other's business. Therefore

【Left Page】
at that time it was called Zenikai Bridge (Coin Buying Bridge). 《Writing it as Zenikame Bridge in publications like "Edo Kanoko" and "Edo Suzume" seems to have no basis. In "Sosoro Monogatari," a book published in Kan'ei 18, it states that in the summer of Tenshō 19, a man named Ise Yoichi built a bathhouse near Zenikame Bridge with a bathing fee of one Eiraku coin, so writing it as Zenikame Bridge is also historically established》

Tokiwa Bridge　This is at the exit from the main castle's Ōte gate eastward toward Hon-chō, where there is a gate. A public notice board is erected on the north side of the bridge's eastern end. The name derives from an ancient poem in the Kin'yōshū: "Like the unchanging color of pines, wisteria waves hang over Tokiwa Bridge on the eastern road," combining the meaning with the Matsudaira family name to celebrate the reign.
《Upon examination, calling this bridge's former name Ōhashi (Great Bridge) is incorrect. The Keichō 12 Edo map shows today's Geshō Bridge at the main castle as Ōhashi, and the same map records Tokiwa Bridge as Asakusa-guchi Bridge. Thus we know that Tokiwa Bridge was not the Great Bridge》

Ichikoku Bridge　This spans the same river about two chō west of Nihon Bridge. Because the Gotō family residences 《Kinza Gotō Shōzaburō and Gofukusho Gotō Nuinosuke》 are located north and south of this bridge, it was nicknamed Ichikoku Bridge long ago as a pun on "go-tō, go-tō" (five tō each). 《The Kan'ei Edo map shows it as Gotō Bridge, and the pronunciation of "tō" is "tō." At that time it was probably called "go-tō"》 Also, from atop this bridge one can see Nihon Bridge, Edo Bridge, Gofuku Bridge, Zenikame Bridge, Dōsan Bridge, and Tokiwa