The time was the night of August 25th, Ansei 3rd year (Year of the Dragon),
from around 5:30 (approximately 9 PM), fierce southeast winds began to blow, and first
south of Nihonbashi, most of Shinagawa post station was damaged, while South
Shinagawa was completely destroyed. Shiba-ura town was flooded like a tsunami,
everything was swept away, and about fifty large ships offshore went missing.
Odaiba sustained some damage, and then the Takanawa area
needless to say, the Mita area and Tamachi area were greatly damaged, and then Shiba-ura was
also devastated by the tsunami, with the Satsuma domain's large copper ship
washed ashore at Shiba-ura. Around Kanasugi Bridge and Shin-ami town,
the entire waterfront area had about ten large ships washed ashore.
The fire broke out from Katamonzen 1-chome to Shinmei-mae,
burning everything, and stopped at one side of Shinmei town.
The Okubo residence, Mori residence, and Shinginza were mostly damaged,
and countless ships large and small were washed ashore. Ohama Palace and Tsukiji's
waterfront were mostly damaged, and Nishi Honganji's main hall was destroyed.

The temple grounds suffered major damage, and a large ship was washed up to the back gate. The Teppōzu
area entirely, Tsukudajima was greatly damaged, and around Reiganjima,
a large ship hit Eitai Bridge, causing it to collapse greatly from the middle, stopping all traffic.
The mast of this ship drifted to the Tayasu residence, and the stern
was washed up in front of the Andō residence gate. The long barracks collapsed greatly, and around there
about ten tea boats were washed ashore. Then the Fukagawa waterfront suffered
major damage from the tsunami, temporary buildings and pleasure quarters collapsed greatly, and a pleasure house called "Ōnoya"
was completely destroyed. The Susaki area and lumber yards were completely destroyed, and two locations of the government shipyards
were also damaged. Additionally, the Honjo area suffered major damage from extensive flooding.
Also in the north, all of Kanda area, Bakuro-cho, and Ryōgoku area were damaged,
while Asakusa Okura-mae street and Kannon Hall remained safe,
but all of the sacred mountain grounds were damaged. A pleasure house called Matsudaya outside Yadaijin gate
completely collapsed, and Hanakawado area, Sanya area, and the theater district with all three theaters
suffered major damage. The Senju area was also completely destroyed, and in the west,
all the daimyo residences in Marunouchi collapsed, and the Shitaya area
was entirely damaged. Fire broke out in the Sakamoto area, Yoshiwara was also burned, and Hon-
gō area entirely, Hakusan area suffered major damage, and besides that
the Yamanote area was completely destroyed. In addition to the above, the entire city center was damaged.