She sang the song and respectfully brought out a white wooden ceremonial tray, performing the ritual of becoming a parent.

Ōishi Yoshio said: "Now I have heard words of righteousness. There is just one daughter from a former wife whom you were about to kill, but seeing the virtue of this chaste woman, it would be unreasonable not to accept her as family. Out of compassion, I will let her serve as my daughter. This marriage ceremony should not be conducted like ordinary couples sharing the same cup, but should begin by first receiving the items on the tray. I don't know if you have preparations, but please push that stand forward."

Hearing this, Tonaose felt somewhat relieved and sheathed the sword, saying: "What you speak of as an extraordinary cup-sharing ceremony must mean receiving the betrothal gifts. These two swords are precious blades passed down from our ancestors to my husband - the long one (katana) was made by Masamune, and the short one (wakizashi) by Namihira Yukiyasu."

Before she finished speaking, Ōishi Yoshio said: "You look down upon my family's humble status and offer these expensive swords as betrothal gifts - isn't this implying that we should sell them when driven to poverty to make a living? What I desire is not such a thing."

Tonaose said: "Then what kind of betrothal gift do you wish for?"

Ōishi Yoshio said: "What I wish for is to receive your husband's head placed upon this tray."

Tonaose said: "Why is that?"

Ōishi Yoshio said: "My former lord, Enya Hangan, harbored resentment against Kō no Moronao and was about to kill him with one stroke in the palace at Kamakura, when your husband ran and stopped him, preventing him from cutting down that enemy. He only managed to wound him slightly, and my lord was ordered to commit seppuku. Though I don't say it aloud, how could the infinite hatred of that time not concern your husband?

[Marginal note: The words of the family head are very reasonable]

I intend to remember my lord's resentment in my heart and have your daughter marry my son. Unless your husband's head is placed upon this tray, only by seeing his head can we make a marriage contract. Will you consent to this?"

Being pressed repeatedly with such reasoning, the mother and daughter heard this and cried out "How painful!" with one voice, hung their heads in dismay, and made sounds of distress.