He drew his sword and pointed it at the child's throat, about to stab him to death. Gihei saw this situation and though his heart was troubled, he steeled himself even more and said: "Like interrogating women and children, taking hostages for investigation! I, Gihei, am a man. Out of love for my child, I will not confess falsely to things I don't know. If you want to kill the child, then kill him before my eyes."

The constable said: "You stubborn fellow! We already know you purchased and sent spears, firearms, chain mail, and forty-six sets of marked clothing. Even if you claim not to know, who would believe that? If you don't confess, we'll cut you into pieces and make meat sauce of you."

Gihei said: "Fine, how amusing! However you may cut me into thousands of pieces, I leave it to you. Generally speaking, regarding weapons, needless to say, from the caps of civil and military officials down to the straw sandals of servants, I accept all orders and conduct business - this is the proper work of a merchant house. If you investigate every shortage, you would end all human life in the realm. If I must die merely for the sake of business, even death would be my sincere wish. I don't cherish my life. Will you kill me piece by piece? Will you stab my arms? My chest, ribs, back, heart - stab and kill me from wherever you please. I'll show you that I'm not the type to cherish my child."

Just as they seized the child and were about to strangle him to death, a voice called from inside the chest: "Wait a moment! Don't move your hands!"

When Gihei looked, it was Ōboshi Yuranosuke. He was startled with surprise. But those constables also threw down their iron shackles and ropes and immediately bowed their heads respectfully. Yuranosuke, composed and dignified, joined his hands toward Gihei and said: "What admirable righteous courage! I troubled you with this important matter. I had no doubts whatsoever, but the forty-odd men didn't know you and harbored suspicions in their hearts, speculating wildly and saying: 'Tenkawaya Gihei is not of samurai birth. If by chance a flaw is exposed and he's captured and interrogated, our great plan might be leaked. Moreover, he has a beloved child, so we cannot rule out that he might have second thoughts out of concern for the child.' Everyone debated and