Rising early in the morning, the usual entourage of flatterers and tea house proprietresses who always accompany him send him off as a group. These people are all intoxicated, rolling the snow on the road into round snowballs, coming while rolling them along. Stumbling step by step, he finally returns home. There is a poem as evidence:

The white dragon's scales and armor scatter across the long sky, burying valleys and hiding mountains so paths are impassable
Heaven and earth separately open a silver world, the gates lovingly seat themselves before a jade fairy palace  
When the old servant sweeps the path it sticks to his shoe soles, when a young woman tries to peek over the wall it enters her sleeves
Riding on excitement, frequently producing childlike behavior, one round lump rolls in the cold wind

The flatterers and tea house proprietresses, fearing that Yuranosuke's heart might cool and he would no longer frequent the pleasure quarters, secretly brought up conversation saying, "Your lordship's residence has such scenery that even paintings cannot match it. One would think that seeing this scenery, you would not wish to go outside." Yuranosuke said, "You boorish fellows don't understand poetic sentiment. I shall now recite a good poem for you to hear."

The shores of Sumiyoshi bay are flat along the waterfront, also seeing Awashima island connecting clearly with the tide
Though the scenery of both mountains is all like this, when viewed in morning and evening there is no sentiment

Even true mountain and water scenery, having such fine landscapes, when seen morning and evening still lacks lingering emotion. Moreover, the artificial hills and garden ponds in small gardens, though having some charm, are not interesting for drinking sake." Having finished speaking, he rose and was about to go to the inner rooms, staggering and pretending to be greatly drunk, speaking nonsense. At that time, Yuranosuke's legal wife, called Ishi, knowing that her husband had returned from the tea house, worried only that his body might be chilled by the cold, without any jealous feelings, brought out a cup of sobering tea and gave it to him to drink. Yuranosuke took a sip and said to his wife, "You don't understand, spoiling my drinking pleasure and making me sober up. People who don't know refinement all have good taste