"For the expenses of constructing a grave monument, he sold all his household possessions, and in order to provide the money from selling himself into service, he killed his father-in-law. But that money was also returned and could not be used for expenses. With no other choice, he committed seppuku and died. How frustrated Kampei must have been at that time! He must surely harbor infinite resentment. Having that money returned was this Yuranosuke's great miscalculation. Pitifully, I caused him to die in vain. I have not forgotten this matter for even a moment, and for this reason I have kept that item in my breast, never separating it from my person. Even tonight when we attacked the enemy's house, I carried it with me to this place. Heiemon is your brother-in-law, so you should have him burn incense."

Having finished speaking, he immediately brought it out. Heiemon received it and said, "Surely Kampei in the underworld deeply appreciates this kindness." He wrapped the money pouch and placed it on the incense burner - this was the second incense offering. Hayano Kampei seemed to cry out with tears, and those who heard felt their hearts pierced with sorrow.

The forty-seven men each burned incense in turn until all had finished. Then they heard the ear-splitting sounds of men and horses, drums beating and war cries. Yuranosuke, neither flustered nor hurried, said, "It seems the enemy's relatives have brought troops to fight. We have already fulfilled our vow. There is no need to harm many other lives. Rather than die fighting here, it would be better for us all to commit seppuku together."

Just then, Momotoi Wakasa-no-suke leaped out from inside and said to Yuranosuke, "Those now rushing to attack the front gate are led by Moroyasu, Kō no Moronao's younger brother. If you commit seppuku here, it will be said for posterity that you feared the enemy and could not hold out, leaving only disgrace behind. Would that not be shameful? Go quickly to Kōmyō-ji Temple and settle matters there."

Yuranosuke said, "I humbly receive your instruction. We should indeed commit seppuku before the grave."

Just as he was responding, Shakushi Jirō Saemon and Sagisaka Ban'nai came running forward and shouted, "You, Ōboshi, do not give up yet!" While speaking, they wielded their swords and