Regarding this snow, if someone were to see me just returning from the tea house, they would surely not know that you show such consideration, and would think you are being jealous and feeling sour. The snow flies like cotton to become undergarments, and my wife is called an old woman who manages the household. I have been carousing at tea houses day after day, never entering your bedroom or inquiring about your silk undergarments. Please forgive me. Even the brocade curtains of the Inari shrine, like the shrimp sake cups, are not precious unless they are true crimson color. (Marginal note: Courtesans use red silk crepe as undergarments) Oh, the pain! My leg muscle has cramped - please bend my big toe." Having finished speaking, he sat down and rubbed it with his finger. Yuranosuke said, "Good, good, it's convenient," and immediately stretched out his leg to push open the old woman's white thighs in play. Ishi said, "Stop doing bad things. Since you've drunk so much sake, it can't be helped that you do foolish things."

Rikiya came running out from the inner room asking, "Has father gone to sleep?" and brought a pillow to let his father rest. Generally, the behavior of father and son, though it may appear different to outsiders, inwardly they both harbor the same feelings of seeking revenge. Rikiya said to the flatterers, "You should all go home now." Everyone said, "Then we humbly take our leave of the master," and also exchanged glances, showing their intention that the young master should also visit the pleasure quarters, but left after rather perfunctory farewells.

Yuranosuke, seeing that they had gone far away, raised his head and said, "That snow I pretended to playfully roll has an origin. What do you think?" Rikiya answered, "According to your son's humble opinion, originally snow drifts on the wind and falls to the ground, fluttering down piece by piece, light as feathers. But seeing the momentum when it's rolled up like that, splitting mountain rocks is the same as unwavering loyalty. Compared to heavy and solid loyalty, snow that has been rolled up will melt away if days are prolonged, and will not be durable." Yuranosuke said, "We father and son should go to Hara Gōemon's place, and forty..."