in accordance with established precedent. King Satto of Chūzan in the Ryukyu Kingdom received the mandate of my imperial father, Emperor Taizu, served as a screen for the eastern vassal state, and was able to maintain proper ministerial conduct. When I ascended the throne, he was the first to submit with sincerity, but now he has died. You, Bunei, are his heir apparent. I specially enfeoff you as King of Chūzan in the Ryukyu Kingdom to continue his lineage. Only through frugality cultivate yourself, through reverence nourish virtue, through loyalty serve your superior, through benevolence care for your subjects. Follow this way to serve as a stabilizing force in the maritime realm and perpetually extend your dynastic fortune. Be respectful!" In the fourth month, Ō Ōso, younger brother of the King of Sannan, also received investiture at court. Ōso was a cousin of the late King Shōsatto of Sannan. Since Shōsatto had no sons, by his dying command Ōso administered state affairs. In the first year, he regularly sent Chancellor Ō Shigeru to pay tribute, when it happened that King Hanan of Sanhoku sent the envoy Zenjū Koya to tribute local products and request the bestowal of caps, sashes, and clothing to transform national customs. Emperor Chengzu permitted this. At this time, Ōso sent the envoy Kaikoku Ketsuchi to come to court, tribute local products, and moreover petition to be granted caps and robes following the example of the King of Sanhoku. Emperor Chengzu thereupon sent an envoy bearing an edict to enfeoff him, granted what was requested, and had him return together with the envoy. In the third year, when Court Attendant Shi Zhong returned from his mission to Ryukyu, the king sent Sagorō-bi to present a memorial, tribute local products, and express gratitude for the grace of inheriting the investiture. He was granted clothing and silk and banqueted at the Huitong Hostel. Subsequently, he also sent Yōho Kessei and others to congratulate the Wanshou Sacred Festival. At this time, King Hanan of Sanhoku and King Ō Ōso of Sannan also sent tribute. Ōso also sent the son of a fortress official, Ri Ketsu, to attend the Imperial Academy to receive education and was granted clothing as customary. In the fourth year, the king as well as the Kings of Sannan and Sanhoku all presented memorials congratulating the New Year. The king sent six people including Seki Tatsuroku, son of a fortress official, to study and was granted clothing and paper currency according to rank. When the king presented several eunuchs, Emperor Chengzu did not accept them.

<<Note: According to the record of former envoy Ō Shū, the genealogical chart states that in Hongwu 29, the king