Ōso each tributed horses and were bestowed paper money and Yongle coins. In the twelfth year, the king sent envoys to congratulate New Year's Day, sent Sagōrō-bi to tribute horses and local products, and was bestowed paper money and silk. The Crown Prince bestowed upon two Ryūkyū students, Ekichimē and others, one set each of silk gauze robes, as well as formal robes, boots, socks, quilts, mats, curtains and canopies; all attendants also received gifts. Emperor Chengzu bestowed clothing and paper money upon U Dōshikyū and two others. In the thirteenth year, Emperor Chengzu sent Court Gentleman Chen Jifang (alternatively Chen Ruo) and others bearing an edict to invest Tarumē, heir apparent of Sannan King Ō Ōso, as King of Sannan of the Ryūkyū Kingdom. At this time, Ōso had been assassinated by his elder brother Tatsuboki. The various fortress officials joined forces to execute Tatsuboki and elevated Tarumē to manage state affairs. Tarumē memorialized requesting succession investiture, so [the emperor] dispatched envoys to go there, and also bestowed imperial mandate, official cap and robes, and 15,000 ingots of paper money. The king and Hanan King Han Anchi both sent envoys to tribute local products. Crown Prince Shō Hashi also sent envoy Gishiketsuse to tribute horses and local products, and was bestowed thirty bolts of patterned silk. In the fourteenth year, the king sent Sagōrō-bi to tribute horses and local products. Subsequently he again sent envoys to tribute horses, and Sannan King Tarumē also sent envoys to present tribute and express gratitude for the grace of succession investiture. In the fifteenth year, the king and Sannan King Tarumē both sent envoys to present tribute, and the imperial gifts were extremely generous. Subsequently, he and Crown Prince Shō Hashi each sent envoys to tribute horses. In the sixteenth year, the king twice sent envoys to tribute local products, and Emperor Chengzu bestowed official caps, sashes, paper money and silk upon the envoys according to their ranks. In the seventeenth year, the king thrice sent envoys to tribute horses and local products. In the twentieth year, the king sent envoys to congratulate New Year's Day, and subsequently again sent [envoys] to tribute local products. In the twenty-first year, Crown Prince Shō Hashi sent envoys to present a memorial and tribute local products, and the Crown Prince ordered the Ministry of Rites to host a banquet in their honor. In the twenty-second year, second month, news of the king's death