suffering like charcoal, and this minister Hashi could not bear the grief and lamentation. For this reason I raised troops against Sannan and Hokuzan, and now [the realm] has returned to great peace. I humbly beseech Your Majesty's sage judgment not to violate the old regulations and grant this minister investiture. I respectfully tribute local products of horses and regional goods." The Great Ming Emperor bestowed an edict saying: "Your Ryūkyū Kingdom has been divided and the people have suffered like charcoal for over a hundred years. That you raised righteous troops and again brought about great peace accords with my fundamental intentions. From now on, be prudent to the end as in the beginning, perpetually pacify the maritime realm, and let your descendants preserve it. Be respectful!" Thus he instructed. <<Marginal note: Shō Hashi's memorial and Emperor Chengzu's instruction are not>> <<Marginal note: recorded in the Ming Veritable Records. They are tentatively preserved here for reference>>

The Ming Veritable Records state: In Hongxi 1, Emperor Renzong sent the court eunuch Chai Shan bearing an edict to the country to invest Crown Prince Shō Hashi as successor to the Chūzan King. The edict said: "Formerly my august father Emperor Taizong Wen personally received the Mandate of Heaven and ruled all quarters, his benevolent governance was impartial and far and near submitted to his benevolence. Your father, Chūzan King Shishō of Ryūkyū Kingdom, was intelligent and virtuous, deeply loyal and sincere, respectfully serving Heaven and serving the great [empire] with ever-increasing devotion without slackening. My august father truly praised and commended this. Now I have succeeded to the great succession and think of how long it has been since your father died. You are his legitimate son and should properly continue the succession. I specially dispatch the palace eunuch Chai Shan bearing this edict to command you to succeed as Chūzan King of Ryūkyū Kingdom. You should establish filial piety and establish loyalty, respectfully maintain your vassal status, cultivate virtue and strive for goodness to bring fortune to your people. Extend this glory of rank and emolument to infinity. Continue to reverently accept [these responsibilities] without negligence or carelessness." He also bestowed a cap and belt, ceremonial robes, and patterned silks. Just when Renzong dispatched Chai Shan, tribute envoys had already arrived twice, with memorials calling [Shō Hashi] Crown Prince and congratulating Emperor Chengzu on his Longevity Festival. Only at this point did they learn of the reign name change. In this year, [Shō Hashi] sent envoys four times in total to tribute horses and regional products.

In Xuande 1, the king sent envoys to tribute regional products and thank [the emperor] for the grace of investiture, additionally memorializing: "This minister's grandfather formerly received the great favor of the court and was invested with royal rank,