was bestowed leather cap and court robes. In Hongxi 1, this minister received the edict and succeeded to the rank, but the cap and robes had not yet been graciously bestowed." Xuanzong commanded the Ministry of Rites at the traveling capital to examine and determine the regulations, manufacture and bestow them. Previously, when Renzong sent the investiture envoy, he had already bestowed a cap and belt, but since the king again made this request, Xuanzong specially bestowed the leather cap and court robes. The king sent the envoy Zheng Yicai to offer incense at Changling. Yicai said: "The sea winds damaged our ship, and we were able to reach [our destination] by attaching to the ship of Palace Eunuch Chai Shan. We request that one ship be bestowed for returning to our country and to facilitate tribute missions." Xuanzong commanded the Ministry of Works at the traveling capital to provide this. Subsequently, [the king] again sent envoys twice to tribute horses and sulfur, and [the emperor] bestowed ceremonial robes, boots, and socks with distinctions of rank.

In the 2nd year, the king sent envoys twice to tribute regional products. At this time, Sannan King Taromai also sent envoys to offer incense at Changling.

In the 3rd year, the king sent the envoy Zheng Yicai to tribute horses and regional products and thank [the emperor] for bestowing the leather cap and sea-going vessel. Xuanzong bestowed upon Yicai and others caps and belts as well as gold-woven ramie ceremonial robes, while the rest all received plain ramie ceremonial robes. Since tribute missions were increasingly respectful, Xuanzong sent envoys bearing edicts to commend [the king] and also bestowed upon the king ramie, gauze, brocade and satin. Subsequently he again sent Palace Eunuch Chai Shan and Vice Envoy Ruan Jian bearing an edict to bestow upon the king gold-woven ramie, gauze, and woolen brocade.

In the 4th year, the king sent envoys presenting memorials and tributing [gifts] to congratulate [the emperor] on the Longevity Festival. Subsequently he again sent envoys twice to tribute horses and regional products. Sannan King Taromai also sent envoys twice for tribute, and all were bestowed banquets and paper currency. [The emperor] also commanded the Sannan King's envoys to carry back edicts and paper money and silk to bestow upon the [Chūzan] king. <<Marginal note: Wang's Record states that from this point the Sannan King no longer sent envoys, presumably being absorbed into Chūzan. After Yongle 13, Shan->> <<Marginal note: -boku King Han Anchi no longer sent tribute, thus Hokuzan perished fourteen years before Sannan>>

In the 5th year, the king sent envoys four times for tribute, banquets and rewards were as usual, and [the emperor] additionally bestowed upon the king 21,760 ingots of paper currency.

In the 6th year, the king sent envoys twice for tribute, and also presented memorials tributing horses and gold and silver vessels to thank [the emperor] for bestowing brocades and currency.