The ministry permitted the construction of that one ship. In the twenty-second year (1486), the king sent envoy Cai Jin to tribute horses and local products.

In the twenty-third year (1487), he sent court minister Ma Shenli and others to tribute local products and express gratitude. Upon their arrival, Emperor Xiaozong had succeeded to the throne and ascended. In the fourth month, he bestowed caps, belts, clothing and silk, and commanded them to receive an edict granting brocade and silk to the king and queen.

In the first year of Hongzhi (1488), the king sent envoys Pi Yangna and others to present tribute through Zhejiang, but Emperor Xiaozong commanded that this be rejected, as the tribute route should properly go through Fujian, and moreover it was not the proper time for tribute. Pi Yangna and others submitted in detail the king's official document to the Ministry of Rites, stating: "In the twenty-first year of Chenghua, when our country's Senior Counselor Cheng Peng and others returned from presenting tribute, they reported the investiture of the Crown Prince's consort, so we sent envoys to present congratulatory memorials and tribute local products." The Ministry of Rites stated: "Although Ryukyu's tribute presentation does not conform to the prescribed limits, the feelings of distant peoples are pitiable, and moreover the memorial documents and local products have already reached the capital, making it difficult to reject them completely. We request that they be temporarily accepted, but hereafter the old precedents should still be used to regulate this. Should they take the Zhejiang route due to unfavorable winds and waters in Fujian, they should also be required to verify the facts and submit a request before being permitted to proceed. For the colored silk and other items to be given to the chief and deputy envoys this time, the old precedent should be followed, but the accompanying retinue should be reduced by half to show the intention of restraint." This was approved.

At this time, Cai Bin also arrived with the tribute mission, saying: "During the Chenghua era, I studied at the Imperial Academy in Nanjing, and the current Vice Minister of Personnel Liu Xuan, who was then the Director of Studies, showed special care and compassion. I request permission to present gifts and express gratitude to Xuan." This was permitted.

In the third year (1490), the king sent envoys Ma Ren and others to present incense, and separately sent the king's uncle Ma Bodu to present tribute, memorializing: "Our country's tribute personnel are recently permitted only twenty-five people to proceed to the capital, but with many goods and few people, we fear causing oversights. Also, when our country's tribute ships reach shore, the local officials provide rations for only 150 people, and most of the remainder do not receive provisions." Emperor Xiaozong commanded that the arriving...