[The provisions] followed the usual examples. In the sixth year (1511), the king sent Senior Counselor Liang Neng, and in the seventh year (1512), he again sent Senior Counselor Liang Kuan and others to present tribute, with feasting and rewards as customary. In the tenth year (1515), the king sent Registrar Chen Yi, and in the eleventh year (1516), he sent Senior Counselor Liang Long to tribute horses and local products, with feasting and rewards as customary. In the twelfth year (1517), the king sent Senior Counselor Chen Yi to present tribute. In the thirteenth year (1518), he sent Registrar Cai Qian, and in the fifteenth year (1520), he sent Registrar Jin Liang to tribute horses and local products, with feasting and rewards all following precedent.

In the first year of the Jiajing era (1522), the king sent the king's uncle Da Lu Jia Ni to present incense and tribute local products in celebration. An edict granted the king and queen brocade and silk currency, and commanded the king: "Continue to follow the old precedents of the previous dynasty, presenting tribute once every two years, with no more than 150 people each year." The Fujian Provincial Inspector was also commanded to investigate, examine, and authorize [the missions].

In the third year (1524), the king sent Registrar Jin Liang and nineteen others to present tribute. Jin Liang stated: "Our country previously had Senior Counselor Zheng Sheng who was carrying goods for expressing gratitude and crossed the sea, but was blown off course by winds and has not yet arrived. However, the memorial document is here. We request permission to present it first." This was granted. The following year, Zheng Sheng arrived and said the goods "were lost due to shipwreck." At this point, he presented them again. When the Fujian governor reported this, Emperor Shizong commanded that they be feasted and rewarded there and sent back. He ordered the relevant officials to transport the tribute goods, and also had Zheng Sheng carry an edict to convey to the Japanese king, commanding: "Capture and bind the instigators of rebellion and present them [to China]." In the fifth year (1526), student official Cai Tingmei and others requested to study at the Imperial Academy, and the Ministry of Rites was ordered to provide rice stipends, firewood, charcoal, and winter and summer clothing according to precedent.

The Chuzan Seikan states: "The king reigned for fifty years. His natural disposition was intelligent and perceptive, and he was also able to humble himself and accept benefit [from others]. He continued and elaborated upon his father's achievements, greatly clarified the way of governance, and both administration and criminal justice were complete. He died in the fifth year of Jiajing at the age of sixty-two."