Shō Sei

In the sixth year of the Ming Jiajing era, dinghhai (1527), Shō Sei succeeded to the throne.

Shō Sei was the fifth son of Shō Shin. 《Marginal note: Wang Lu states: "The term 'Prince Tenssan' is incorrect. There is no Chuzan king who was called 'Prince Tenssan.'"》 He was born in the tenth year of Hongzhi, dingsi (1497), and succeeded to the throne at the age of thirty-one. In the seventh year of Jiajing (1528), he sent Senior Counselor Zheng Sheng and others to present tribute and request investiture, but Zheng Sheng and others drowned at sea on their return journey. In the ninth year (1530), he again sent Cai Han to present tribute and repeat the previous request. The Ministry of Rites, considering investiture to be an important ceremony, commanded the Fujian regional and patrol officials to investigate and report. Cai Han requested to send back four student officials including Cai Tingmei to their home country, and provided rewards of silk currency and cloth with appropriate distinctions for marriages. Cai Han also stated: "On our way here, we passed through Japan. The Japanese king Minamoto Yoshiharu entrusted us to carry a memorial requesting pardon for his envoy Song Suqing's crimes, and also requesting new trading tallies and a gold seal to restore regular tribute ceremonies." The Ministry of Rites examined the documents and found they all lacked official seals, saying "Japanese intentions are deceptive and cunning and cannot be trusted hastily." They issued an edict to the Ryukyu king to send people to convey instructions to Japan, ordering them to capture and present the chief culprits and return the abducted military commander, requesting an imperial decision on the matter. In the eleventh year (1532), Senior Counselor Jin Liang brought a petition signed by the people of the country requesting investiture. Emperor Shizong appointed Chen Kan, Left Supervising Secretary of the Personnel Bureau, as chief envoy, and Gao Cheng, Secretary of the Court of Imperial Entertainments, as deputy envoy, to carry the imperial edict to the country.

The edict stated: "I respectfully received the Mandate of Heaven to become ruler of all under Heaven. In all governmental affairs that I implement, I must carefully consider ancient ceremonies. In the ceremony of granting noble titles, I have never made distinctions between domestic and overseas territories. Your Ryukyu kingdom is distant, located by the sea, but has long been civilized by our teachings. The former king Shō Shin early inherited the illustrious investiture and already exceeded four decades [in rule]. Now I have heard of his death, and the tributary state requests investiture. The virtue of Crown Prince Shō Sei is truly worthy of succession."