Or alternatively, this too is due to the difference between areas where the ground is firm and those where it is not. When a great earthquake first strikes, mud wells up from the open sea offshore, and tsunamis surge forward like mountains. The great flood of Ōshū (Mutsu Province) and the Imagire of Enshū are examples of this. Furthermore, the reason why tremors do not cease even after many months following a great earthquake is that the yang energy (*yōki*) has not yet been fully expelled. In the most extreme cases, it is said that mountains catch fire (i.e., volcanic eruptions occur).

Now, upon examining the earthquakes that have occurred in our land (Japan) since ancient times: three hundred and ninety-some years after the first human emperor (*Ninnō*), Emperor Jinmu, in the fifth year of Emperor Kōrei (the year of *kinoto-i*/*itsugai*), the land of Ōmi Province cracked open overnight and became a lake (Lake Biwa), and at the same time, Mount Fuji in Suruga Province emerged in a single night, and the four provinces of Izu, Sagami, Kai, and Musashi shook violently. However, the fact that both Mount Fuji and Lake Biwa existed from the age of the gods is already attested to in poems by Yamabe no Akahito and other poems within the *Man'yōshū*.

Six hundred and sixty-some years after that, on the twenty-fourth day of the seventh month of the fifth year of Emperor Ingyō (the year *hinoe-tatsu*), the twentieth of the human emperors, an earthquake struck, destroying palace buildings and houses. One hundred and ninety-some years after that, on the twenty-seventh day of the fourth month of the seventh year of Empress Suiko (the year *kinoto-hitsuji*), the thirty-ninth sovereign, the earth shook greatly. Some seventy-odd years later, on the tenth day of the eleventh month of the fourth year of the Hakuhō era (the year *kinoto-i*) under Emperor Tenmu, the fortieth sovereign, there was an earthquake. On the fourth day of the tenth month of the thirteenth year of the same era (the year *tsuchinoe-tora*), the land of Tsukushi Province (Kyushu) cracked open for more than three thousand *jō*...