There was a great earthquake, and stars fell like rain. Fifty years passed from that, and in the reign of the sixty-first emperor, Emperor Suzaku, on the second day of the fourth month of the second year of Tengyō, the year of *Tsuchinoto-I* (己亥), there was a great earthquake. At this time, the Emperor left his palace hall and had a five-mat temporary shelter (*akunoya*) erected in the garden of the Seineiden, where he took up residence—as recorded in *The Tale of the Heike*. Thirty-four years passed from that, and in the reign of the sixty-fourth emperor, the Retired Emperor En'yū, on the eighteenth day of the sixth month of the first year of Jōgen, the year of *Hinoe-Ne* (丙子), there was a great earthquake. It was an unprecedented calamity throughout all ages, and the trembling continued for more than two hundred days. Sixty-five years passed from that, and in the reign of the sixty-ninth emperor, Emperor Gosuzaku, in the summer of the second year of Chōkyū, the year of *Kanoto-Mi* (辛巳), there was a great earthquake. At this time, the great eight-sided, nine-storied pagoda of Hōshōji Temple in Okazaki, to the east of the capital, collapsed. Forty-five years later, it was rebuilt in the third year of Eihō during the reign of Retired Emperor Shirakawa. One hundred and thirty-four years passed from that, and in the reign of the eightieth emperor, Emperor Takakura, on the eighth day of the fourth month of the second year ofAngen, the year of *Hinoe-Saru* (丙申), there was an earthquake. Its sound was like thunder. Four years later, on the seventh day of the eleventh month of the third year of Jishō, the year of *Tsuchinoto-I* (己亥), there was also an earthquake. Nine years from that, in the reign of the eighty-second emperor, the Retired Emperor Gotoba, on the ninth day of the seventh month of the first year of Bunji, the year of *Tsuchinoto-Mi* (己巳), at the Hour of the Horse (around noon), there was a great earthquake. At that time, the Rokushōji temples of Shirakawa were toppled. The upper six stories of the eight-sided pagoda were shaken off and fell. Seventeen *ken* (bays) of the Sanjūsangendō hall collapsed. Beginning with the imperial palace, the sound of shrines, temples, and dwellings collapsing throughout the land was just like—