(Continued from the previous page) —like thunder; the dust and dirt rising up were like black smoke, covering the heavens so that the light of the sun could not be seen. Mountains crumbled and buried rivers; the sea surged and flooded the shores. The earth cracked open like lightning strikes, and water gushed forth; great boulders split apart and tumbled into valleys. The number of people and livestock that perished was beyond counting. At this time, the Retired Emperor Shirakawa was on a pilgrimage to Kumano, in the midst of offering flowers, when the incident of ritual defilement (*shokue*) arose. He hastily boarded his palanquin and barely managed to return to the Rokujō Palace in the capital. A temporary shelter was set up in the south garden as his residence. The reigning Emperor was carried in the imperial palanquin (*hōren*) and proceeded to the edge of a pond.

Nine years passed from that, and on the twenty-seventh day of the intercalary eighth month of the fifth year of Kenkyū, the year of *Kinoe-Tora* (甲寅), there was an earthquake.
Then sixty-one years passed, and in the reign of the eighty-eighth emperor, Emperor Gofukakusa, on the twenty-third day of the seventh month of the first year of Shōka, the year of *Hinoto-Mi* (丁巳), the Tsurugaoka Hachimangū shrine trembled. There was a great earthquake. Seventy-four years passed from that, and in the reign of the ninety-first emperor, Emperor Fushimi, on the twenty-third day of the fourth month of the first year of Einin, the year of *Mizunoto-Mi* (癸巳), there was a great earthquake. Those crushed to death numbered more than thirty thousand. Thirty-one years later, in the reign of the ninety-fifth emperor, Emperor Godaigo, on the fifteenth day of the eleventh month of the first year of Shōchū, the year of *Kinoe-Ne* (甲子), there was a great earthquake. At this time, Chikubushima Island in Ōmi Province split in half and sank into the lake. Fifty-seven years passed, and in the reign of the one hundredth emperor, Emperor Goen'yū, in the second year of Eiwa of the Southern Court calendar, the year of *Hinoe-Tatsu* (丙辰), on the twenty-fifth day of the fourth month—