(Continued from the previous page) —there was an earthquake, and some people's homes were toppled. Twenty years passed from that, and in the reign of the one hundred and first emperor, Emperor Gokomatsu, there were great earthquakes on four occasions: in the eighth month of the ninth year of Ōei, in the first month of the thirteenth year, in the second month of the fourteenth year, and on the twenty-first day of the first month of the seventeenth year, the year of *Kanoe-Tora* (庚寅). At this time, heaven and earth resounded together. Twenty-one years passed from that, and in the reign of the one hundred and third emperor, Emperor Gohanazono, on the eleventh day of the fourth month and the sixteenth day of the ninth month of the fourth year of Eikyō, there were earthquakes. On this occasion, they were especially severe. Seventeen years passed from that, and in the fifth year of Bunan, the year of *Tsuchinoe-Tatsu* (戊辰), there was an earthquake. That year saw floods, epidemic disease, and furthermore famine, making it a year of calamity rare in all of history. Fifteen years passed from that, and on the last day of the twelfth month of the first year of Kōshō, the year of *Kinoto-I* (乙亥), there was a great earthquake. Eleven years after that, in the reign of the one hundred and fourth emperor, Emperor Gotsuchimikado, on the twenty-ninth day of the twelfth month of the first year of Bunshō, the year of *Hinoe-Inu* (丙戌), there was a great earthquake. The following year, the great upheaval of the Ōnin War broke out. Twenty-three years passed from that, and on the seventh day of the fifth month of the second year of Meiō, the year of *Kinoe-Tora* (甲寅), there was an earthquake. In the eighth month of the fourth year of the same era, the year of *Kinoto-U* (乙卯), there was a great earthquake in Kamakura. Then fourteen years later, in the reign of the one hundred and fifth emperor, Emperor Gokashiwabara, on the night of the seventh day of the eighth month of the seventh year of Eishō, the year of *Kanoe-Uma* (庚午), there was a great earthquake. For seventy-five days thereafter, tremors continued one after another without ceasing. At this time, the number of shrines, Buddhist temples, towers, and dwellings that collapsed across the provinces was beyond counting. The stone torii gate and stone walls of Tennōji Temple in Settsu Province crumbled. Mountains across the land collapsed—