(Continued from the previous page) —the scale of the collapses was immense. On the twenty-seventh day of the same month, great waves struck the coastline of Enshū (Tōtōmi Province), and several thousand homes were swept into the sea along with the land itself; those who perished numbered over ten thousand. More than thirty *chō* of land became sea. It is recorded in the *Ōninki* that this place came to be called "Imagire" from that time. Thirty-seven years passed from that, and in the reign of the one hundred and sixth emperor, Emperor Gonara, on the night of the thirteenth day of the second month of the second year of Tenbun, the year of *Hinoe-Tatsu* (丙辰), there was an earthquake; it is said that at this time a star fell and sank into the sea. There was also an earthquake in the thirteenth year of the same era. Twenty-eight years passed from that, and in the reign of the one hundred and seventh emperor, Emperor Ōgimachi, on the twenty-ninth day of the eleventh month of the thirteenth year of Tenshō, the year of *Kinoto-Tori* (乙酉), there was a great earthquake. Nine years passed from that, and in the reign of the one hundred and eighth emperor, Emperor Goyōzei, in the fourth year of Bunroku, the year of *Kinoto-Hitsuji* (乙未), from around midday on the third day of the seventh month, the sky suddenly became overcast, whirlwinds blew repeatedly, and an extraordinarily large amount of fine misty rain fell. On the night of the twelfth day of the same month, tremendous earthquakes struck Yamashiro, Yamato, Ōmi, Tamba, Kawachi, and Settsu. Fushimi Momoyama Castle was also damaged in various places. The sound of shrines, temples, dwellings, and mountains collapsing elsewhere was as though hundreds and thousands of thunderbolts were striking at once. At this time, the Great Buddha of the eastern part of the capital collapsed. Thirty-five years passed from that, and in the reign of the one hundred and tenth emperor, Emperor Gomizunoo, on the seventh day of the first month of the seventh year of Meishō, the year of *Kanoe-Uma* (庚午), there was a great earthquake in Odawara in Sōshū (Sagami Province). Seventeen years later, in the reign of Emperor Gokōmyō, on the twenty-second day of the fourth month of the first year of Keian, the year of *Tsuchinoe-Ne* (戊子), there was a great earthquake. In the second year of the same era—