On the fourth day of the tenth month of the same year (the fourth year of Hoei, 1707), there was a great earthquake in Osaka, and it is said that the number of those crushed to death was like a mountain. At this time, blue mud welled up along all the bays and inlets of Kishu, Mikawa, Totomi, and Ise provinces, and tsunamis arose, with deaths numbering in the tens of thousands. On the twenty-second day of the same month, Mount Fuji shook and ash fell on the surrounding provinces. Eighteen years later, on the twenty-sixth day of the ninth month of the seventeenth year of Kyoho (1732) under the 115th Emperor Nakamikado, tremors occurred more than eighty times day and night in Nagasaki, Hizen Province. In the same era (the eleventh year of Kyoho, 1726), on the night of the nineteenth day of the third month, Benkei-ga-Take in Katsuyama, Echizen Province shook violently; two rocks of approximately eighteen ken square split apart and flew over a distance of two ri and eight cho, damming a great river. The resulting floods caused an incalculable number of deaths among people and livestock.

At that time, two villages with more than three hundred households at the foot of the mountain were turned into muddy pools. Twenty-five years later, on the twenty-ninth day of the second month of the first year of Horeki, Kanoto-Hitsuji (1751) under the 117th Emperor Momozono, there was a great earthquake in Kyoto, causing exceptionally widespread destruction, with aftershocks continuing until the seventh month. On the twenty-fifth day of the fourth month of the same year, there was an earthquake in Takada, Echigo Province, with more than thirty tremors occurring from the hour of the rooster (around 6 p.m.) to the hour of the ox (around 2 a.m.), causing mountains and houses to collapse, with more than sixteen thousand deaths. In the sixth year of Horeki (1756), at Umeda in Osaka (which is a burial ground), a memorial service with ten thousand lanterns (manto kuyo) was held by various Buddhist sects to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the deaths of those who perished in the fourth year of Hoei (1707). Twenty-one years later, on the twenty-eighth day of the first month of the third year of Meiwa, Hinoe-Inu (1766) under the 118th Empress Go-Sakuramachi, there was a great earthquake in the Tsugaru and Aomori area of Oshu Province, accompanied by a tsunami, causing deaths among the people.