The number of dead was beyond knowing. More recently, in the third month of the first year of Bunka, the year of *Kinoe-Ne* (甲子), there was a great earthquake in Akita in Ushū (Dewa Province), the mountains of Kisakata collapsed, and there were many deaths. Also, on the twelfth day of the sixth month of the fifth year of Bunsei, the year of *Mizunoe* (壬年), there was an earthquake in Kyoto. At this time, the Hachiman district of Ōmi Province suffered especially severe damage, it is said. On the twelfth day of the eleventh month of the eleventh year of the same era, the year of *Ne* (子), at the hour of明五つ (around 6 a.m.), a great earthquake struck an area of approximately ten *ri* square across Sanjō, Mitsuke, Nagaoka, Yoita, Wakinomachi, and other places in Echigo Province. At that time, fires broke out, and those who died violently numbered more than thirty thousand; livestock numbered approximately six thousand; and the damage to shrines, temples, large buildings, and commoners' houses was beyond counting, it is said. In general, there have surely been earthquakes throughout the provinces since ancient times beyond what is recorded here, but only those noted in written records have been set down. Should there be any errors in dates or times, I humbly ask your forgiveness.

Now, this year, the second day of the seventh month of the thirteenth year of Bunsei, the year of *Kanoe-Tora* (庚寅): from morning, the sky was neither clear nor cloudy, presenting what is vulgarly called an "oil-shine" (*abura-teri*) appearance, and the muggy heat was even more unbearable than the day before. Just as I was thinking that around the Hour of the Seventh Bell (approximately 4 p.m.) the heat would ease a little, a rumbling sound like thunder began to roll, and a fearsome earthquake started. Before the people could even recover from their surprise at what was happening, a great earthquake followed in succession; in an instant, houses and storehouses shook as though waves were crashing against them. Moreover, earthen storehouses, high walls, stone lanterns, and various objects and furnishings (continues on the next page)