Lacquered three-tiered serving trays are brought out, attendants wear eboshi caps and serve tea and tobacco,
　　sweets are arranged and served, attendants wear haori coats
1. When departing, escort them to the place where they were received
1. After their departure, send a foot soldier as messenger to the duty partners, requesting that they either come for courtesy visits or go out to Yamazato
1. When going together to pay respects to the castle deputy, the attire should be eboshi caps
　　Supplementary note
【Red arrow mark】Once the schedule for rounds of the guardhouses is known, matters of greetings and direct service should be arranged in advance through circular notices
　　　Memorandum
1. Request in advance that when the head guards go on inspection tours, they inform us of internal matters two or three days beforehand
1. When the head guards notify the monthly duty officer that they will definitely go on inspection, arrange all matters including lunch boxes
1. From the lunch box duty to the head guards: "We humble servants will also accompany you." Send a messenger with notification to the castle deputy the day before, and after further consultation, we will also submit our notification. Also, send a joint letter requesting information about what time departure will be, as well as a written list of the names of accompanying group leaders and inspection locations
　　Supplementary note　　　　　
【Red arrow mark】Regarding inspections, recently invitations come from head guards we haven't asked in advance
　　Supplementary note　　　　
【Red arrow mark】When both duty partners go out, one provides lunch boxes and the other takes care of rest breaks
1. After the head guards send a letter stating that they have completed arrangements with the castle deputy for the inspection tour, we also submit similar notification documents and a list of accompanying persons' names through one person from the lunch box duty as messenger
1. The master wears haori coat and hakama; for nearby locations the retinue follows usual practice, for distant locations the retinue uses momohiki (close-fitting trousers). Regarding the attire of retainers and physicians, consult with the head guards each time