【Right Page】
achievements) are just like the stars filling the sky that have no light during the day but emit radiance when night comes. What this story tells is of a certain judge in the land of Kaitō (Japan) who lost his life over a single brawl, truly perishing from a moment's anger. Later, over forty retainers avenged their lord, as will be seen. In that country, Emperor Kōmyō was on the throne, and in the second month of the first year of Ryakuō (1338), General Ashikaga (family name Minamoto, given name Takauji) destroyed the Southern Court generals including Nitta and others, established residence in the imperial land, and guarded the palace. His virtue was like wind over grass, and all four classes of people submitted. This goes without saying.

Now, in the region of Tsurugaoka in Kamakura County, Sagami Province, there was a splendid Hachiman Shrine, a deity revered by warrior houses throughout the ages. The general lamented the post-war devastation and completed its restoration. An ancient poet wrote well of this:

【Left Page】
The sounds of the golden palace hall have ceased, entrusted to smoke and dust / Who could have foreseen that doves would renew the generations
After the dance ends, a solitary crane grieves on the ruined platform / This is not politics where hens crow at dawn in empty pavilions  
Mourning the past in the mountains, like stars and moon / At the water's bottom, flowers now bloom mixed with duckweed
There remain only the wings of the eternal ornamental pillars / Whose mournful cry speaks of the spring of former times

It is also told that Ashikaga Shogun's younger brother, Left Military Guard Captain Minamoto no Tadayoshi, went in his stead to offer incense and had already arrived in Kamakura. The commanding administrator there, the Governor of Musashi Province, surnamed Kō and named Moronao, was in attendance below the steps. His eyes were fierce as he looked down on people, wielding his authority. There were also two others in attendance: one was the younger brother of the Governor of Harima, Wakasa-no-suke, surnamed Momoi and named Yasuchika; the other was the Judge of Hōki Province, surnamed Enya and named Takasada. They served respectfully on both sides. The jade palace was solemn, embraced by brocade curtains. There is a poem as evidence.