【Right Page】
《Small text: What comes is this. The Nyorai (Buddha) sculptures that the High Priest carved throughout his lifetime were all carved after worshipping this sacred image, which is why it bears this name. According to the temple origins, this was the transmission Buddha used by the founding Great High Priest when teaching pure practice and transmitting the dharma to believers. This should be confirmed with the temple monks.》

《Small text: The four characters "Amida Hall" on the plaque were written by High Priest Yūkai》Inari Shrine 《Small text: Located alongside the same. Serves as the protective deity of this temple》Jizō Hall 《Small text: Located alongside the same, to the left outside the Niō Gate. Of Great High Priest Yūten》

《Small text: Called the honchi Buddha (original ground Buddha). Created by High Priest Eshin, approximately 2 shaku 5 sun in height. Originally enshrined at Kōmyōin Temple in Matsumoto, Shinano Province, but disappeared from the 4th day of the 4th month of Kanei 14 (1637), the birthday of the founding Great High Priest, until Kyōhō 3 (1718)》

《Small text: Until the 15th day of the 7th month, the day of the founder's passing, this sacred image returned and appeared again at Kōmyōin Temple. In a dream of Lord Mizuno Tadachika, Governor of Dewa and lord of Matsumoto Castle, there was a divine revelation that the founder's original nature was Jizō. Therefore, he personally wrote about this matter and sent it to our temple》

《Small text: To the second-generation Yūkai. That letter is still preserved as a treasure at our temple. However, in the summer of Kansei 9 (1797), a person named Kurashina Shichirōemon from Matsumoto castle town, due to past karmic connections, petitioned the later castle lord, Governor of Tanba, Lord Matsudaira Mitsuyuki》

《Small text: And on the 23rd day of the 12th month of the same year, it was transferred to our temple》

On the left and right of the front of the Niō Gate are two images of Naraen and Misshaku, and on the back are the two heavenly kings Jikoku and Kōmoku. Plaque 《Small text: Meiken-zan》 Written by High Priest Yūkai

Mausoleum of Founding Great High Priest Yūten 《Small text: Located in the grove to the left when going from between the Sutra Hall and Amida Hall toward the back gate. There is a stone Jizō hall at the entrance》

Portrait of the founder at age 80 《Small text: From the meditation room at Azabu Ipponmatsu, painted personally by High Priest Ryōgetsu》 Also, deathbed portrait 《Small text: When the founder was 82 years old, Kyōhō 3》

《Small text: From mid-6th month of 1718, he stopped eating and his body weakened daily, passing away while chanting the nembutsu on the 15th day of the 7th month. On the 16th, his remains were moved to a chair for people to worship. This portrait was painted at that time by High Priest Ryōgetsu》

Founder's bone relics 《Small text: After the founder's death, when his body was cremated, it all became relics. Most are buried in the mausoleum pit. What is now kept in the treasure pagoda is what people worship》

Same, tongue root 《Small text: This also remained intact during cremation. According to the temple origins, there is no precedent for a tongue root not being destroyed by fire during cremation. That it remained thus is due to the merit of years of chanting the nembutsu and》

【Left Page】
《Small text: The reason being that there were no false words in his teachings》Six-character Name of Amida written by founding Great High Priest 《Small text: Miraculous benefits are most numerous. Among them, the seven-sword ordeal protective name, wolf fang protective name, fire》

《Small text: Emergence from fire unburned name, smallpox protection name, and other present benefits are widely known throughout the world. Therefore, avoiding repetition, we refer to the temple records and do not include them here. Still, the miraculous benefits of other names are most numerous》

Chōetsu image of founding Great High Priest 《Small text: When the founder was residing at Dentsūin in Koishikawa, during the Genroku years, there were dharma discussions and sermons before the Shogun》

《Small text: Lady Zuishunin was so impressed that she personally had it carved. When viewed by the Shogun, there was an imperial command that it should be called Chōetsu, and it was presented to Princess Tsuru and placed at the head seat of the Doll Festival. Later it was given to》

《Small text: High Priest Yūkai and kept at our temple. For this reason, every year in the third month, there is a Doll Festival ceremony at our temple》 Shu River Brocade Nine-panel Kesa 《Small text: When residing at Zōjōji Temple, the founding high priest offered blood lineage certificates to the Empress's palace》

《Small text: When presenting dharma names, etc., she personally made this》 Rui's salvation dharma robe 《Small text: Twenty-five panels. Rui was the wife of a man called Yoemon from Hanyū village in Okada district, Shimōsa Province. Her appearance was exceptionally》

《Small text: She was an evil woman with a most hateful heart, so Yoemon despised her and heartlessly pushed her into the river called Kinugawa on the 11th day of the 8th month of Shōhō 4 (1647), killing her. Afterward, he buried her body at a Pure Land temple called Hōzōji in the same village》

《Small text: However, afterward five wives died mad deaths due to Rui's vengeful spirit, and she even tormented the daughter Kiku of the sixth wife. Through the spiritual benefit of founding Great High Priest, on the night of the 10th day of the 3rd month of Kanbun 12 (1672), Rui's 26 years of vengeful attachment completely dispersed》

《Small text: And she achieved her original desire for liberation from life and death, which is widely known throughout the world. For more details, see the text called "Tale of Liberation"》

Founding Myōrensha Kenyo 《Small text: Also called Gushin》 Great High Priest Yūten was born in Niitsuma village, Iwaki district, Ōshū Province 《Small text: Son of a man called Nishimura Zenuchi, born on New Year's Day of Kanei 19 (1642). His childhood name was Sannosuke》 He followed High Priest Dantsū and studied at Mt. En. The fame of liberating Rui's vengeful spirit, known throughout the world, is most notable 《Small text: This happened when the master was 36 years old, at that time following Master Dantsū and residing at Iinuma in northern Sōshū》

《Small text: This was a present benefit during his residence there. It is detailed in a text called "Tale of Vengeful Spirit Liberation"》 Later, for certain reasons, he lived in seclusion at Ushijima in Musashi Province. Clergy and laypeople