【Right page】
Plaque (Hanshuba) written by Priest Kakei of this temple
The Large Nembutsu Calligraphy on Withered Grass, one scroll (13 ken long, 9 shaku wide. Made using ten bolts of white cloth sewn together. Written by Master Kaoku. Because it was written while dwelling in the principle that "all plants, trees, and lands can attain Buddhahood," when hung on plants and trees, the grass withers according to the six characters, hence the name)
Painted image of Amida Nyorai (Written by Master Kaoku, an image where the figure of the Tathagata is completely filled in using fine lettering of the six-character nembutsu)
Ten-念 Nembutsu (Said to have been written by Master Kaseki around the time of his death. Since his disciples, regretting their teacher's departure, requested and received it, it is also called the "Farewell Nembutsu." There are many other nembutsu written by highly virtuous priests)
Deceased person's summer garment (Long ago, the wife of a man named Tobaya Saburozaemon from Saioji-machi in Shiba died in difficult childbirth. Later, she received Master Kaseki's ten-念 pulse talisman, escaped the sufferings of the underworld, and attained Buddhahood. This garment is said to have been left behind by the deceased spirit as proof of this joy)
Letter from the deceased (The death spirit of the former wife of one Mr. Tsutsumi, through Master Kaseki's virtuous influence, attained Buddhahood and in her great joy, the former wife's spirit borrowed the hand of the illiterate second wife to write this letter)
Large tea kettle for hospitality (Stored at this temple. Every year during the thousand-sutra ceremony in the fourth month, this kettle is brought out to brew tea and offer it to all people. During the Kanbun era, a tea master from Uji in Yamashiro named Miyamoto Nizaemon fell ill due to his stepmother's resentful spirit. Through the benefit of this temple's founder Master Kaseki, the stepmother's death spirit attained Buddha-fruit and Nizaemon's illness was immediately cured. At that time, at the recommendation of Jōshō, the caretaker of the Jōnenbutsu Hall in Ōshima Village, Fukagawa, which Master Kaseki had restored, Miyamoto Nizaemon donated this in gratitude. The details are recorded in the temple records. The inscription reads:)
(Namu Amida Butsu. Respectfully donated: one kettle for the bodhi of two parents. At this time, Kanbun 8, 11th month, 25th day, on the 900th day, Musashi Province, Toshima District, Kasai Manor, Ōshima Village, Nenbutsu Hall permanent property, novice Jōshō, donor Miyamoto Nizaemon of Uji Village, Yamashiro Province, metalworker Kamaya Hachiemon)

The founding priest, Great Lotus Society Chōyo Master Kaseki, was called Shōro. His lay surname was Nomura, and he was from Musashi Province. He was born on New Year's Day of Genna 4 (1618), year of the Earth Horse. At Edo's Kakushin-ji temple, under Engan, he

【Left page】
took the tonsure and became a monk. At age eighteen, he received instruction from Priest Kazan (Priest Kazan resided at Taigan-ji temple in Narime, Shimōsa Province)
When the priest later became abbot of Reigan-ji temple in Buryō, the master also followed and moved there. Initially he resided at Taisō-ji temple in Echigo Province, later responding to the invitation of the local people. At age seventy-seven he returned to Musashi Province and lived in seclusion in Okusawa, Setagaya (this is the present temple). Finally, he passed away in the tenth month of Genroku 7 (1694), year of the Wood Dog. (The record in "Biographies of Pure Land High Priests of Japan" stating he died in Genroku 8 at about age 80 is incorrect.) The master's appearance was gentle and refined, his compassion extremely deep, and his miraculous responses were very numerous. In general, the miraculous responses during his lifetime were beyond counting. These events were most brilliant and are transmitted by people to this day. (The above is taken from "Pure Land Lamp Transmission Genealogy" and "Biographies of Pure Land High Priests of Japan")

This temple is a hall for continuous nembutsu practice and a pure hermitage of quiet seclusion and mysterious concealment. Every year from the 3rd to the 12th day of the fourth month, for ten days, they perform the practice of reciting one thousand Amida Sutras. From the 16th to the 18th day of the seventh month, during the insect-prevention period, the temple's treasures are displayed for all people to venerate.

This temple's grounds were once the site of fortifications built by Ōhira Sama (also called Dewa no Kami), a senior retainer of the Kira family, who were vassals of the Hōjō family of Odawara. Even now, from north to southwest...