【Right page】
Imai Valley (Imaitani)
【Scene of winter life】

【Left page】
The remains of embankments and dry moats can still be seen running around the perimeter. The area behind the rear gate was once a large marsh, they say, and is now cultivated fields.

Mount Ohira: Located in Okusawa Shinden Village. It is said to be the site of Ohira Dewa-no-kami's fortress.
(Upon examination, in ancient documents from the Tenbun and Koji eras held by Manganji temple in Todoroki Village, the name Ohira Seikuro appears frequently. The person called Ohira Sama may also refer to this same individual.)

Chikosan Manganji Temple: Located to the right from the Futako Highway via Todoroki Village road. It belongs to the Shingi Shingon sect and is affiliated with Daigo Hoon-in in Yamashiro Province. The time of its founding is not clear in detail. The restoration founder is called Joei Hoin. During the Keian era, they received a vermillion seal document for temple land donations. The principal image is Dainichi Nyorai. This temple was the prayer temple of Kira Sahyoe-no-suke Minamoto no Yoriyasu of Setagaya, and at that time it was quite a magnificent temple institution. (According to "Setagaya Private Records Addendum," at this temple, Keishun, son of Masatada, once served as head priest. The Kira genealogy held by Gotokuji temple also lists Keishun, son of Masatada, as Lord of Manganji. At this temple there are altogether about eighteen documents including certificates and letters from Kira Yoriyasu, Hojo Ujiyasu, Ujimasa and others dating from the Tenbun, Koji, and Tensho eras. In the text it refers to Manganji of Fukasawa Village in Setagaya, but the reason for this is unknown. Perhaps in the past Todoroki was a small place-name belonging to Fukasawa, or perhaps it was moved from Fukasawa to Todoroki - this is now unknowable. Also, in one document among the same ancient writings it is called Iozan Manganji, so it may have been later changed to Chikosan. This still requires further consideration.) The three large characters "Chikosan" on the plaque of the main gate are in small seal script and written by Master Kotaku. Also, what is hung in the worship hall of the main hall and written as Manganji is