【Right page】
Hitotsugi-hara (One Tree Plain)　Currently, only the name Hitotsugi-machi remains in the back streets of Akasaka Temmacho. In the past, this entire area was called Hitotsugi-hara, and it is said to be an ancient place name among the seven villages of Yamori Manor. 《Note: From medieval times》
　《Note: It was divided into upper and lower sections. Upper Hitotsugi refers to the area around Yotsuya Samegahashi, where there is currently a sacred site of Yakushi Nyorai called Zenkaku Yakuoji Temple on Yotsuya Kurayami-zaka. Long ago, there was a large zelkova tree in its precincts, which was called Hitotsugi (One Tree)》
　《Note: Lower Hitotsugi was in this Akasaka area, and at Seikanji Temple in the same location there is also a Yakushi statue by the same creator as the sacred image at Yakuoji Temple, both bearing the name Hitotsugi Yakushi. It is said that this temple also once had a large zelkova tree》
　《Note: It is said that what was originally written as "Hitotsuki" was later changed to be written as "Hitotsugi" (One Tree) because of that great tree》According to the Hojo Godaiki chronicle, on January 13th of Taiei 4 (1524), Hojo Ujitsuna defeated Uesugi Tomooki, inspected the enemy heads, raised banners at Hitotsugi-hara, and performed victory cries according to custom. 《Note: In the Hojo family's land registers, the place name Hitotsugi Kaizuka is added to Ota Taizen-no-suke's holdings. Kaizuka was》
　《Note: in Kojimachi, so the Kojimachi area also appears to have been within Hitotsugi. Someone says that this area became a commercial district around Tensho 19 (1591)》

Kano Koi's Tomb　Located in the precincts of Reihozan Shutokuji Temple at the bottom of Sanbun-zaka in the same area. This temple is a Zen temple of the Daitokuji sect that was formerly in Odawara, Sagami Province, but was moved to Kojimachi in Tensho 19 and later relocated to its current site. The founding priest was called Toko Chito Zenji. The medicinal spring water is also a sacred spring of this temple.

Imai Old Castle Site　Refers to the land of Lord Matsudaira of Geishu's middle residence northwest of Hikawa Myojin shrine.

【Left page】
This is said to be the castle site of Imai Shiro Kanehira. The manuscript called "Murasaki no Hitomoto" describes it as the castle of Saito Betto Sanemori, or alternatively as an outpost castle of Tago Sensei Yoshikata, but none of these accounts are definitive. 《Note: In the Hojo family's land registers, people such as Ota Shinrokuro and Watanabe Tango added this land to their holdings. Also Ushigomi》
　《Note: In the Ujiie genealogy, it states that Kunai-no-shoyu Katsuyuki received this place as a fief from the Hojo family》

Akane-yama (Madder Mountain)　Refers to the land of Lord Kishu's middle residence. Long ago, this area produced much madder, so it was called Akane-yama. The area now called Kinokuni-zaka was formerly called Akasaka, and since it was the slope of Akane-yama, it came to be called Akasaka.

Entsuji Temple Old Site　Located in the temple district of the same area. The slope that descends from the southwest to northeast direction in this area is called Entsuji-zaka for this reason. Currently there is a Nichiren sect temple called Butchisan Entsuji Temple at this site, but it is different from the ancient Entsuji Temple. The great bell of the old Entsuji Temple that was abolished long ago was erected by a monk called Entsubo, and the inscription was composed by Priest Gensai of Fukakusa. Though that bell has now been lost, to preserve the old records, I record here what appears in the Sanzanshu collection so that this historic site will not be forgotten.