[Right page]
Yahiroi Kannon (Arrow-Gathering Kannon) <<Located in front of the shrine. The principal image is said to be carved by Great Master Jikaku and is a sacred statue revered by Kon'omaru. According to shrine tradition, during the battles of the Hogen era, this principal image transformed into a soldier and gathered many enemy arrows, bringing them into the allied camp, hence the name.>>

Koyasu Yakushi Nyorai (Child-Safe Medicine Buddha) <<Located at the same place. Said to be a sacred statue that appeared from the Dragon Palace. It appeared from the Dragon Palace at Yoshitomo's birth and also provided protection when Yoritomo was born in Hataya, Owari Province. Prayer beads are placed on the Buddha statue, and common people call these the prayer beads for safe childbirth protection and greatly worship them.>>

Kon'o Cherry Tree <<Also called Usawasure-no-sakura (Sorrow-Forgetting Cherry). According to legend, in ancient times during the Kyuju era, Minamoto no Yoshitomo had planted it at his residence in Kamegayatsu, Kamakura, and after giving it to Kon'omaru, it was transplanted to this location and planted within the sacred fence of the tutelary Hachiman Shrine. Alternatively, according to shrine records, in July of Bunji 5, when Lord Yoritomo returned victorious from subduing Yasuhira of Oshu, he visited this shrine, dedicated a sword, and also stopped at Kon'omaru's memorial hall, feeling moved by his loyalty, and planted a cherry tree from Kamegayatsu, Kamakura, naming it Kon'o Cherry. Also, in a booklet called "Murasaki no Hitomoto," it records that Lady Yojuin, the mother of Lord Yorinobu of Kishu, had the seeds of this cherry planted in her garden, and when it grew and was about to bloom, the original cherry tree in Hachiman's shrine grounds had already withered, so retainer Shibuya Zen'nyu, being a descendant of Kon'omaru, was given this seedling cherry to plant in place of the withered stump, reasoning it would be more filial to ancestors than having others plant it. Zen'nyu respectfully received it and planted it to replace the dead stump. This is said to be the present cherry tree.>>

Chinza Pine (Sacred Residence Pine) <<Located to the left front of the main shrine within the precincts. On May 13, Taiei 4, when Hojo Ujitsuna and Uesugi Tomooki fought at Takanawa Plain, Ujitsuna's rear guard Daidoji Hachirobyoe circled around Kosugi to attack Shibuya and set fires. When the smoke covered this shrine, the divine spirit moved to and remained atop this pine tree, hence the name. Formerly there were 36 sacred trees in the shrine grounds, but now only 5 or 6 old pines remain around the shrine area.>>

Treasures: One Imperial Moon Banner <<According to shrine records, in May of Chogen 1 during Emperor Go-Ichijo's reign, Taira no Tadatsune raised military rebellion in Hoso and plundered neighboring provinces. Minamoto no Yorinobu, as a prayer for subjugating Tadatsune, dedicated 8 banners to the peaks of Chichibu. Among them, 2 sun and moon banners were given to Takemoto and stored at Myokenzan in Omiya, making it Hachiman Shrine. Later, Kawasaki Tosa-no-kami Motoie was given one white banner and single-handedly

[Left page]
captured Kanazawa Castle in Senboku. Therefore, Yoshiie Asomi summoned Motoie, showing that the victory in this battle was entirely due to Shohachiман's divine protection, and in January of Kanji 6, when Yoshiie Asomi returned victorious, he stopped at Yamori-no-sho and left the moon banner at this shrine. However, since there would surely be curses when people carelessly worship this banner, Abbot Nosho deeply hid it in the shrine altar and made copies available. What is shown to people during special exhibitions is that copy.>>

Kabuto-date Kannon (Helmet-Building Kannon) <<According to shrine records, this is a sacred Buddha that Minamoto no Yoshiie carried in his military camps, later given to Motoie and transmitted through Shigeie and Kon'omaru and others who revered it.>>

Shishimaru Sword <<Said to be given by Yoshiie Asomi as a reward when Kawasaki Tosa-no-kami demonstrated fierce power and conquered the castle at Kanazawa in Senboku.>>

Dokusha Naginata (Venomous Snake Halberd) <<Kon'omaru's display of power at Osada's residence in Noma Utsumi was entirely due to the divine power of this naginata.>>

Rokuson'o Tsunemoto's Hair Ornament <<Given from Tsunemoto to Gon-no-kami Okiyo, which Yoshiie Asomi dedicated to this shrine. The kogai comb is based on this.>>

According to shrine records, this shrine is connected to the hero Juro Taketsuna, son of Chichibu-no-betto Takemoto, who was the great-grandson of Muraoka Goro Yoshifumi, a fifth-generation descendant of Prince Takamochi. In June of Kanji 3, he crushed the fierce power of Kiyohara no Takehira and Iehira, wielded influence throughout Ou region, and brought honor shining throughout the realm. Therefore, General Yoshiie Asomi, feeling this merit, granted Yamori-no-sho in Musashi Province to his son Rokuro Motoie (called Kawasaki Tosa-no-kami according to shrine records) as reward. <<Yamori is also written as Yamori. This estate had 7 villages, namely Shibuya, Akasaka, Yoyogi, Azabu, Iikura, Hitotsugi, and Imai.>> Therefore Motoie achieved victory (continues)