(The previous page concluded:) ...this is the foundation of inviting hardship by going against the principles of Heaven. However, if the gentlemen of the realm trust my "Sei-u Kō" (Weather Almanac) and I announce predictions of good and bad harvests to the world in advance, it may conversely invite harm. For this reason, in this year's almanac, regarding the abundance or failure of the five grains, I have my own thoughts and will refrain from declaring fortune or misfortune. Yet, to record a year of abundance as one of famine, or to record a year of famine as one of abundance, is also not my true intention. It is truly a situation with no good solution. As I have stated in previous years, there is a saying known as the "admonitions of the elders," and being fearful and cautious in all things is of the utmost importance. Based on this consideration, a year of poor harvest will come before long. The current year is neither entirely a year of hardship, nor can it be called a great year of abundance. I have my thoughts but will not explain them. I ask the learned gentlemen to discern this for themselves.

　　First Qi: Lesser Yin, Sovereign Fire　《From the 2nd day of the 12th month of last year to the 4th day of the 2nd month of this year》

From the 2nd day of the 12th month of the year of the Ox (past), the Guest Qi of "Lesser Yin, Sovereign Fire" operates upon the Host Qi of "Absolute Yin, Wind-Wood." The cold is at its most severe — frost and snow fall, ice grows thick, and the piercing cold is difficult to endure — yet naturally there will be signs of warming. Around the 16th day (Setsubun), an earthquake may occur, it is considered. The 17th day is Risshun (Beginning of Spring), the first month of the Tiger year. The atmospheric conditions on this day are the same as New Year's Day. Cold winds will be fierce, and there will occasionally be snow and frost. Yet amidst the snow, tree buds will flourish and plum blossoms will open. As for the human body, colds, windborne ailments, cold injury, and deep cold invasion will be prevalent, along with headaches, coughing, eye diseases, flank and abdominal distension and pain, and also swellings and scabies will spread. Children are at risk of smallpox.

【Marginal note: ○】 First month, large month (30 days), jiǎng gēngyín, the lunar mansion Shēn (参宿) governs the month, the mansion Zī (觜宿), Fire day, first day of the month (朔日).

New Year's Day:己酉 (tsuchinoto-tori / Earth-Rooster day). It is predicted to be clear. However, if there is wind, there may occasionally be snow. If the morning sky's cloud formation is beautiful and yellow, it is an auspicious sign — the five grains will ripen in abundance. A red sky and southerly winds indicate a great drought.