(Black clouds and northerly winds indicate heavy rain and flooding. Blue clouds and easterly winds are auspicious, as they represent the appropriate color of spring energy. White clouds and westerly winds indicate cold, overcast conditions. If northerly winds blow all day, epidemics will spread and many people will die. If the weather is mild and warm with calm winds, people will be free from illness and the five grains will grow abundantly. By observing the atmospheric conditions (bōki) on New Year's Day in this manner, one can assess the weather, good and bad fortune, and illnesses for the entire year.

In general, this month will bring fierce cold winds, with occasional rain clouds. Amid the cold, plum blossoms will be in full bloom and plants and trees will begin to bud early. Pay attention to the 3rd and 4th days. There may be rain or snow. The 4th day marks "Usui" (Rain Water, the middle seasonal node of the first month) and is also the first day of the "Hassen" (Eight Specialists) period. The 7th day is called "Jinjitsu" (Human Day). It is said that if one sees a white horse on this day, the evil spirits of the year will be dispelled. The white horse is considered the horse in its essential nature. In heaven there is the white dragon; on earth there is the white horse. It is also said, "The use of heaven is the dragon; the use of earth is the horse." In the "Kun Wei Di" hexagram of the Zhou Yi (I Ching), it states: "It is beneficial to be steadfast like a mare." Furthermore, in the Book of Rites (Liji), it states that spring is welcomed at the eastern outskirts using seven blue horses. Pay attention to the 8th and 9th days — cold winds will be fierce and there may be rain or snow. Observe the four or five days before and after. Pay attention to the 11th day. The 12th day is Kōshin. Pay attention to the 13th day. This month is expected to have frequent wind and rain. In the northern provinces, there may be heavy snowfall.

15th day: This day is called "Jōgen" (Upper Prime/Lantern Festival). It is said that if one sets off firecrackers (firecrakers) today, evil spirits will be expelled and there will be no afflictions from monsters or curses. Tonight, when the moon is in the southern direction at the "Uma" (Horse) position, one should measure the length of the moon's shadow to predict floods or droughts. Using a measuring post (hyōboku) of one jō (approx. 3 meters), if the shadow measures one jō four or five shaku (approx. 4.2–4.5 meters), there will be heavy rain and flooding; if the shadow measures five or six shaku (approx. 1.5–1.8 meters), there will be drought. Try this method.

19th day: Keichitsu (Awakening of Insects, the seasonal node of the second month). The lingering cold will remain, strong winds will blow fiercely, and there may be occasional rain or snow. If the weather observations for this month prove accurate, subsequent observations will also all prove valid; if not, they too will be unreliable.

25th day: Pay attention. On the days marked "pay attention," sudden storms and torrential rains are unpredictable and may occur without warning.)