One should not engage in sexual intercourse [when ill]. One should not engage when having a slight fever. One should only engage when the mind is free from worries and the body is healthy. This is the proper understanding of sexual relations.

Understanding How to Raise Small Children
There are many important principles for raising small children, but first, from the time of newborns, if their skin is not fair, people say the child will grow up with dark skin and make them bathe and wash daily - this is greatly harmful. The darkness or fairness of facial complexion depends on the child's natural blood color, so washing will not necessarily make it whiter. If you frequently make newborns bathe, they will develop kan (childhood nervous disorders), and in severe cases, convulsions. Therefore, in China, they do not make small children bathe, but instead wipe them frequently with soft silk, and only allow bathing after they have had smallpox. Thus, during hot weather, one should refrain from frequent bathing out of concern for heat rash. Regarding breastfeeding, saying that the longer the period the more robust the child becomes and giving milk until age seven or eight is a great error. Originally, milk has cold properties and thus damages the child's spleen and stomach. Generally, one should nurse until age four, then provide food thereafter. Also, saying things like "children are children of the wind" and exposing them to cold is not good. If naturally weak children frequently catch colds, they will eventually become greatly sickly. However, excessive warming is also bad. While a little wind exposure is acceptable, water play should not be allowed. Both heat and cold are extremely harmful. Moxibustion treatment should begin from around ages three to four. Children particularly dislike this, but one should place the moxibustion fee nearby and thoroughly explain before applying it. However, today's parents constantly threaten their children saying "we'll give you moxibustion" as a threat, so when they hear "moxibustion" they think it's something frightening. When attempting moxibustion treatment, they become terribly afraid and cry loudly, and restraining them to apply it is very bad. The heart qi becomes agitated and heat qi moves throughout the body, so applying moxibustion in this state is rather harmful. These are things that parents should understand.