Such matters are important. One must not be overwhelmed by parental love and consequently lead [children] down the wrong path. When there is wrongdoing, even if the child is very young, it should not be forgiven, but one should strongly admonish and discipline them. Some say that strict teaching makes the child withdrawn, but no matter how seemingly harsh and strict a parent's instruction may be, the natural affection of blood relations makes it appear gentle to others' eyes. Now, even if one is a wealthy noble, one should give children simple food and not allow them fine cuisine. Originally, one should not dress them in beautiful clothes or silk fabrics. Even if the outer layer is silk, the lining should be cotton. However, looking at today's society, parents eat simple food while being overwhelmed by love, giving rich flavors to their children and dressing them in silk fabrics inappropriate to their station. Moreover, they take pleasure in adorning belts, headgear, and jackets with elegant and luxurious decorations. As a result, when these children grow up, they become picky about clothing and food, their bodies become weak, and furthermore, a heart of extravagance develops. Because they do not apply themselves to work, they naturally become sickly people. Noble children, when young, are sent to live in the countryside near the capital, then retrieved and raised when they reach six or seven years of age. This is so that from their tender years they may be nourished by the milk of wet nurses who work hard and eat simple food in the countryside, and also eat simple food themselves, naturally experiencing the hardships of rural life and observing people working and laboring with their bodies. Even if raised in a wealthy noble house, when overly pampered, such children become extremely sickly. One should consider this by observing how healthy the children of the poor are. Especially for girls, one should provide even simpler food and clothing. Even without this, loving fine tastes and splendor is women's natural disposition, so their upbringing should be even stricter than that of boys.

General Discussion
The Classic of Filial Piety states: "Our bodies, hair, and skin are received from our parents. Not daring to damage or harm them is the beginning of filial piety," and also "Establishing oneself and raising one's reputation is the end of filial piety," as Confucius also taught. Therefore, one should not carelessly damage even a single hair received from one's parents. How much more so the body, and also