○Japanese millet (hie): Although it supplements the spleen and stomach, it is not good for people with cold constitution.
○Buckwheat (soba): Eating too much becomes poisonous. It removes damp-heat from the spleen and stomach. Also, eating too much and then bathing is forbidden. Eating it together with pond snails is very bad.
○Red beans (azuki): They facilitate water passages, remove heat toxins, and eliminate alcohol toxins.
○Soybeans (mame): Not good for those with weak spleen and stomach or diarrhea. Black soybeans are generally the same.
○Black-eyed peas (sasage): Although said to supplement qi and kidneys, they are not good for various diseases.
○Green peas (endou): They facilitate urination and stop thirst, but should not be eaten in large quantities.
○Mung beans (ryokutou): They move qi downward and facilitate water. Not good for people with spleen-stomach deficiency.
○Corn (toumorokoshi): Said to regulate the stomach, but not good for various diseases.
○Sorghum (morokoshi): Warm in nature and facilitates urination, but not good for various diseases.
○Sango rice (hei): Not good for the spleen and stomach. Light foods damage the spleen and stomach and are ultimately not good.
○Wheat gluten (fu): Non-toxic and good for sick people. Removes exhaustion heat.
○Job's tears (yokuinin): Said to remove dampness from muscles and bones, but should not be eaten.
○Poppy seeds (keshi): Not forbidden for various diseases. Same as glutinous rice products.
○Sesame (goma): Nourishes the spleen and stomach and clarifies hearing and vision.
○Torreya nuts (kaya): Non-toxic. Moistens the skin. Eating too much produces phlegm.
○Sake (alcohol): Circulates blood vessels, moistens the skin, and disperses dampness. However, when drinking heavily, it instead damages the spirit and shortens lifespan. Regularly drinking before sleep is bad. It penetrates the organs and becomes edema disease.
○Shochu (distilled liquor): Toxic and removes cold accumulation in the stomach. However, should not drink too much.