New Grants, Increases in Stipends, Supplementary Stipends, Rice Allowances, Increases, and Role Payments

1. For new grants and increased stipends: When the lord is residing in the domain, these are announced directly to the individual. At this time, the senior retainers (karō) are seated in the lord's presence. For those in organized units (bangumi), their unit commander appears in the waiting room. For first-rank unit members, the unit commander performs the formal acknowledgment.

1. Similarly, when the lord is residing in Edo, the monthly duty senior retainer announces this at his own residence or at the council hall. For those in organized units, their unit commander is present. When the unit commander is accompanying the lord or is ill and cannot attend, the chief deputy of that rank appears.

1. Matters concerning increases in stipend rice allowances are announced directly by the senior retainers to members of the organized units.

1. Regulations concerning the distribution of stipends, rice allowances, stipend payments, role payments, etc.:
　1. Regarding new grants and increases: Whenever announced, the full year's rice yield is granted.
　　However, for some new grant recipients, depending on their status, that year's rice yield may not be granted, and payments may begin from the following year.
　1. When stipend recipients die: If death occurs on or after the 1st day of the 10th month, that year's full rice yield is granted; if before the last day of the 9th month, it is not granted.
　　However, for those without heirs who have no relatives such as mothers, wives, children, etc., and are wandering homeless, it has been decreed that regardless of when they die henceforth, one-fifth of that year's rice yield shall be granted. This does not apply to those who have parents, siblings, uncles, or nephews.
　This was decreed to all departments on the 11th day of the 8th month of Enpō 7 (1679), Year of the Sheep.
　1. Rice allowances: In spring (2nd month), one-third of the replacement rice amount is granted; in winter (11th month), two-thirds are granted. When serving attendance duty in Edo, half is granted in spring and half in winter.
　1. Those newly granted rice allowances upon appointment receive that year's rice allowance calculated on a monthly basis.