Regarding the matter of granting written appointments: Before the half-stipend system, official seals were granted, but from the half-stipend system onward, written appointments are issued.

1. The granting of written appointments is customarily done at the residence of the duty officer on December 19th each year as recent practice.
   However, for senior councilors, one duty officer wears formal attire, while stewards, magistrates, and inspectors wear hemp formal wear. The order of presentation is by seat order for those outside the regular ranks, and for guard units, by the order in which family headships were granted.

1. For those in Tosa domain, representatives are summoned to the accounting office for delivery. The same applies to increased stipends and retainer stipends. Also, when written appointments for increases or supplementary stipends are granted to middle-ranking elders, supervisors are summoned to the accounting office for notification. All of the above matters are handled by the magistrates.

1. For Edo, after the above procedures are completed locally, the written appointments are sent to Edo by courier, so sometimes they are granted in the following spring.

1. For those serving guard duty in Edo, appointments are granted to family representatives.
   [Marginal note: In the 16th year of Kyōhō, year of the boar, December 15th, since Tsuchiya Jūrōemon was on guard duty in Edo, a written appointment was granted to his son Mangorō as representative, at Yosanzaemon's residence]

1. On December 19th of the 3rd year of Bunka, child year, when a written appointment for supplementary stipend was to be granted to Yamaguchi Sakuemon, since Sakuemon was on guard duty in Edo, Sakakibara Moshaburō appeared as representative. However, Moshaburō was also supposed to receive a written appointment for family headship, but since no one else in Sakuemon's family was available, although Moshaburō had his own appointment to receive, he reported this situation and served as representative.

1. For those in mourning, even if a representative is presented, appointments are not granted until after the mourning period ends. However, this provision differs from the practice at the time and was issued later.

1. In the first month of the 4th year of Hōreki, year of the dog, a written appointment for hereditary stipend was to be granted to Yamagata Gunshirō, but he declined due to being in mourning. However, when told that a representative should be sent, Iwagami Kajidayū appeared, but there was no recent precedent for granting written appointments to representatives of those in mourning. Last spring with Ōki Yogoemon, and last autumn with Sakai Zen'ya and Kōzai Okaemon during their mourning periods, appointments were granted later after mourning ended. When these details were reported to Sakai Geki's office, they said that if so, the mistake should be explained to Kajidayū and he should be sent back, so regarding that matter...