Matters Concerning the Announcement of Seating Order

1. For high-ranking retainers (kōchi-chū), announcements are made through the senior councilors; for others, they are made through the court liaison officers (sōsha-ban).

1. The following was announced regarding guard duty assignments in Kyōhō 7, year of the water tiger:
　1. All samurai retainers promoted during the three generations of Lord Daian'in, Lord Tangen-shu, and Lord Seijōin are exempted from their seats.
　1. Among samurai retainers promoted during Lord Shōan'in's reign, those from five years ago up to the year of the rooster, including second and third generation members, are appointed to seats according to their appropriate status.
　1. Those promoted during the same reign who are still living, as well as second-generation members from the year of the dog onwards for five years, are not exempted from their seats this time and remain in their positions.
　　Above, 12th month　　Note: This should be considered together with the simultaneous announcement four pages later.

　　Memorandum
　1. Regarding the seating arrangement for samurai retainers not promoted at Matsuoka and samurai retainers not promoted at Fukui: they are arranged according to the number of years since inheritance or being summoned, gradually being integrated.
　　　Those with land grants (chigyō-tori) are arranged according to their stipend amount; those receiving rice stipends (kirimai-tori) and those receiving support stipends (fuchi-kata-tori) are arranged mixed together according to years of service, regardless of the amount of their assessed value (gisaku), continuing this practice in the future.
　　　However, among Fukui retainers who initially received support stipends when they inherited, and later received rice stipends with their seating order determined at that time, need not consider their years since inheritance but should be placed in the seats determined when they received rice stipends.
　1. Fukui retainers of successive generations whose seats have been firmly established need not have their seats revised this time, following ancient precedent.
　1. When Fukui retainers and Matsuoka retainers have the same years of service and similar stipends, Fukui retainers should be placed in higher seats.