Article 1: Regarding entry and exit through the service entrance to both the main castle and lord's quarters - If this is requested due to difficulty walking, it should be considered exceptional.

Article 1: Regarding fire incidents - Appearing before the residence is at one's discretion. I believe outside the dismounting area is now Sugita's house.

Article 1: Regarding presenting congratulatory gifts - When everyone presents them, they should be presented.

Article 1: Regarding son Tōichirō's seasonal greetings, inquiring after the lord's health, and congratulatory visits - When the eldest sons of □□□ [possibly high-ranking retainers] appear, he should appear. No need for irregular appearances. He should enter and exit through the main front entrance.
　　　　　　This should be understood accordingly.

I believe that appearing at the gate during fires was also inquired about when dismissed from office, so it was appointed accordingly. If it concerns illness, there would be no problem sending son Tōichirō as a representative. On the 25th day of the 6th month, there were instructions from Yosanzaemon's side, which were communicated to Kageyu.

Article 1: On the 1st day of the 6th month of Genbun 3 (1738), Gensatsu's son Hirano Gen'i, Yōshin's son Mabuchi Gentai, and Shūhaku's son Funaoka Ryōi were henceforth appointed to sit among the physicians and granted audiences. Isono Tamiya reported that this was communicated. However, while Ryōi was in Kyoto, he was appointed as stated above.

Article 1: On the 1st day of the 6th month of Kanpō 2 (1742), inspector Katō Buemon was appointed to magistrate role, and on the 18th of the same month, inspector Iwagami Kajidayū was also appointed to magistrate role. When appointed to magistrate role, though Buemon was the senior official, by the lord's will, Kajidayū was appointed above Buemon. However, during inspector service, Kajidayū was the senior official.

Article 1: On the 11th day of the 1st month of Hōei 3 (1706), Urakami Jūzaemon's seat was announced to be north of Yamakawa Uzen (however, a new seat arrangement), and caretaker Minagawa Tazaemon's seat north of Urakami Jūzaemon (however, previously up to north of Ōtani Sukeroku, the seating was thus elevated). However, during monthly attendance, Minagawa Tazaemon and Amagata Gorōzaemon sit together for ceremonies, so Jūzaemon should appear next to Gorōzaemon. The main seat was appointed next to Uzen as stated above.

Article 1: On the 25th day of the 5th month of Shōtoku 5 (1715), regarding the seating of all court physicians and those of physician rank, as they had been mixed until now, henceforth they should be reformed and seating determined by categories. The seating order was then recorded in writing and given to chief physicians Ariga Gentetsu and Okabe Genhaku, with instructions to inform everyone.

　　　　　Copy of the above
Court physicians: Ariga Gentetsu, Okabe Genhaku / Inner palace physicians: Bi Itō Sensai, Mashimo Sōen, Okabe Genjō, Mabuchi Kōan / Regular court physicians: Tashiro Yōgen, Tashiro Shūan, Ariga Genpo, Okabe Genchū, Nakarai Zuian, Tanabe Sōmin, Hirano Gensetsu, Oka Sen'ryū, Katō Genzō, Hirai Gensen, Funaoka Shūhaku, Tashiro Yōtetsu, Yamawaki Zen'an / Acupuncture physicians: Yasumi Juchō, Mori Eian, Yoshida Genmori, Motoyama Tamesen, Katsuzawa Ichijun, Miyoshi Gentō / Surgeons: Kurizaki Dōsatsu, Tsumaki Genshin, Hayashi Sōsetsu, Hashimoto Shuntei / Tea ceremony: Kojima Sōritsu, Nasu Hosai, Tada Kyūko / Children: Mabuchi Yōshin, Tanabe Koan, Hirai Gentan, Kurizaki Dōteki, Tsumaki Shihei-kō(?), Tada Kancha / Court painters: Kanō Senseki, Kanō Kōseki, Tsuruzawa Yōtaku, Kanō Eijun / End

Article 1: On the 5th day of the 11th month of Shōtoku 1 (1711), assembly member Sakai Takurō was granted his adoptive father Mozaemon's hereditary stipend of 850 koku without change. The next day, the 6th, seating was appointed next to Suganuma Yoichirō. As succession was appointed yesterday, seating was suspended, but as the above was announced, Honda Shirōemon conveyed instructions to monthly duty presenter Ōtani Sukeroku at the lord's quarters to communicate this. However, from this time forward, for succession of assembly members, guard captains, etc., seating should be appointed to the fourth position, three places down from their parent's position, as decided before the lord. However, if there are special circumstances, matters according to the lord's will are exceptional.

Article 1: On the 11th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 15 (1730), assembly member Makino Seibei was ordered to retire, and his son Tonomo was granted succession of 1,050 koku without change, with seating next to Tagaya Toneri. However, one place down, surpassing one person below the parent's name. Announcement head Matsudaira Gentayū was ordered to retire, and his son Gonshichi was granted succession of 500 koku without change, with seating next to Hanaki Gondayū. However, three places down, surpassing three people from below the parent's name to the fourth position. For succession and inheritance of assembly members, guard captains, etc., until now it has been two or three places down, but henceforth if there are special lineages, depending on examination at that time, ordinary people should be appointed three places down from now on, as announced by Okabe Sazen.

Article 1: On the 7th day of the 7th month of the 19th year (1734), Makino Tonomo and Nagami Umon were appointed as great guard captains. However, both were placed in seating next to Sano Matatarō, and henceforth people transferred from assembly to handover should be placed in their successive positions, as determined at this time.

Article 1: On the 25th day of the 2nd month of Enkyō 3 (1746), Sukeroku's eldest son Ōtani Motome was granted hereditary stipend of 1,200 koku without change and appointed as castle town fire brigade commander. Regarding Motome's seating, as he had served in office in recent years and inheritance matters had good seating appointments, it was inquired whether Motome's seating should also be appointed within the upper and lower positions of Ariga Kyokujin, and seating was announced next to Kyokujin. The seating of high-ranking retainers has been assigned according to the lord's will at the time.
　　　Note: Ōtani Sukeroku was appointed to senior councilor position on the 6th day of the 9th month of Genbun 5 (1740) with an increase of 200 koku, and died on the 6th day of the 1st month of this year.

Article 1: On the 5th day of the 4th month of the 2nd year (1741), regarding the handling of Tsuda Kuemon's caretaker role: Ōtani Ichiemon is the senior official, so it should be announced in that order. For government and other official business when colleagues sign jointly, this should be understood. For matters outside official duties, New Year ceremonies and documents for the entire retainer band follow the main seating of the messenger guards, so this should be understood, as communicated to Kuemon.
　　　Note: Kuemon was appointed from great guard captain to messenger guard role on the 1st day of the 6th month of Kanpō 2 (1742), and Ichiemon was appointed from temporary caretaker Teisuke to main role messenger guard rank seating on the 13th day of the 8th month of the 3rd year (1743).

Article 1: On the 5th day of the 7th month of Hōreki 1 (1751), Matsubara Konome was granted his adoptive father Saburōbei's hereditary stipend of 550 koku without change and appointed to assembly. Regarding seating, the rule is to appoint three places down from the parent's main seat, but as he was someone placed at the end of transfers by the previous lord's will, after examination he was appointed one place down, next to Isono Tamiya.

Article 1: On the 16th day of the 8th month of Kyōhō 7 (1722), due to the lord's entry into the domain, examination of guard unit assignments for retainer samurai of both Fukui and Matsuoka was completed in Edo, so today temporary guard assignments were announced at the council chamber for when they enter, as announced to all guard captains. Written notices regarding appointments, dismissals, and other matters for Matsuoka guard units should be communicated by Matsuoka chamberlains to the Matsuoka retainer band.

　　　　　Record of the above notices
　One: Regarding retainer samurai appointed during Lord Kenshōin's reign, their appointment seats are dismissed due to continuing previous merits upon this succession.
　One: For second-generation appointed retainer samurai of the current reign, those from five years ago up to the year of the rooster should be appointed appropriate seating according to their status.
　One: For both current appointees and second generation appointed retainer samurai of the current reign from five years since Kyōhō 3, they should be appointed to new guard units.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hanahakabe Ichikurō
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōkawara Sakuzaemon
　Though the above are current appointees, as they serve as secretaries, their appointments are dismissed according to house rank.