After consultation among the intermediaries, they were asked to communicate this to the senior councilors. When this matter was conveyed, it was communicated through Yosanzaemon that since this was relief from duties due to illness, he could use the middle gate at his discretion, and this was communicated to Shimono.
　However, due to his illness, for monthly ceremonies he was to wait at the veranda of the gun room and have audience when his lordship passed by.

Article 1: On the 16th day of the 10th month of Kyoho 17 (1732), ceremonial herald Matsudaira Gonshichi, having become obese and also suffering from pain, reported this and received gracious relief from duties.
《Marginal note: [In red ink] At this time there were frequent funeral processions, and given that he had become quite corpulent, it was thought that his current duties would become difficult, so he was relieved of duties out of consideration》

Article 1: 18th day of the 5th month of Genbun 5 (1740)　Having served as ceremonial herald since the previous lord's time, he had become obese in recent years, making distant escort duties arduous, so he was relieved of duties　　　　　　　　　　　　Murakami Kinai
　He was granted one ceremonial summer garment and one complete formal outfit, having served faithfully for many years　　Same person

△
Article 1: On the 22nd day of the 10th month of Kyoho 15 (1730), Sazen and chamberlains Sasaji Gonzaemon and Mizutani Oribe were sent to Koma Ise. The oral message was conveyed by the chamberlain, and other unit commanders were to continue as appointed, with important duties to be assigned additionally as needed, which Sazen communicated. Oral message: His lordship's words were that you have served in office since the previous lord's time, particularly being assigned financial administration duties since Lord Hosen'in's era, working diligently through various hardships, which brings great satisfaction. This summer, through Sakai Genba, you requested relief from financial administration duties, but were told to continue as before. Having particular thoughts on the matter, you are now relieved of duties and should rest. Furthermore, what was communicated to Okabe Sazen was that like former Sakai Genba, unit commander status remains unchanged, and for important duties you will be called upon additionally. This should be understood accordingly. Above　10th month 22nd day　This being completed, Ise immediately went to the audience hall to express gratitude, where he was granted audience and received attention from each of the senior councilors. On the 25th of the same month, Ise was appointed to main castle fire brigade.　Upon reflection, Ise's various petitions were handled through inspector intermediaries. Also, it is said that on the 16th day of the 2nd month of the following year of the boar, succession matters for retainer families were announced by written notice at the council chamber, and when various monthly duty officers appeared, Ise was invited to duty officer Inaba Uneme's residence before the senior councilors' session and received the documents.

○
Article 1: On the 23rd day of the 10th month of the same 17th year, senior councilor Ashida Shimono: You have been in poor health in recent years and duties would become burdensome, so permission is granted for you to recuperate at your discretion. When important matters arise, consultation will be sought.
　However, unit commander status remains unchanged, and regarding seating, you are granted the front seat as before your official duties. Since you are in poor health, when it is difficult to be seated in the front area, you may offer courtesy greetings while passing through the Tartar room. 
　However, it was declared to be the seat from before Shimono's official duties, and currently in the Tochi headship seating, Koma Ise has the upper seat. On the 1st day of the 11th month of the same year, after Shimono's relief from duties, when he came to the castle, he went from the middle gate to the gun room and offered passing courtesy greetings in the inner area. His eldest son Zusho was appointed to offer greetings in the front area next to Tochi, and his second son Takesaburo appeared at the head of the children's greetings in the gun room. On the 13th day of the 7th month of the same 19th year of the tiger, he was appointed to shrine fire brigade.

Article 1: On the 18th day of the 8th month of Enkyo 3 (1746), ceremonial herald Mizuno Zenzaemon, being advanced in age and funeral escort duties being arduous, was relieved of duties.