This is appropriate.
　　However, when changing to retirement names and such, it should be as it has been until now.

1. In Hōreki 5, 10th month, when Kanazu Magistrate Hiramoto Tadami and Mi-no-bangai Hori Jūbei were appointed to retirement, the Senior Councilors requested that they appear together with their sons. However, as both men were unwell and could not appear, their sons went to the monthly duty residence to report this. Although the official business was difficult to assess, they first greeted that each should attend as appropriate, and reported this matter to the Senior Councilors. The next day when official business was announced, only the sons appeared and received the announcement. The matter was concluded with no handling of representatives or substitutes.

1. On Bunsei 6, 4th month, 10th day, at Edo, the following was announced through a written notice to Inspector Nakamura Tarōzaemon at Honda Chikugo's residence, and Tarōzaemon conveyed this to both men:
　　Regarding Daidōji Katsunoshin: due to his naturally foolish disposition and sickly constitution, he cannot fulfill his duties, so he should adopt an heir and request retirement. This should be conveyed to Daidōji Shōzaemon and Daidōji Shichiemon, who share the same surname as Katsunoshin.

1. The following was announced in Bunka 15, 3rd month:
　1. Regarding internal requests for rest: since there have been many internal requests for rest from those younger than sixty-four or sixty-five years of age, this is not favored. Except for those who are unavoidably ill, there seem to be others making internal requests for personal convenience, but those capable of performing guard duty should avoid making internal requests for rest as much as possible, and the guard commanders should take even greater sincere care in this matter.

1. Regarding Takeda Yasaburō this time: he has been sickly for years and additionally suffers from eye disease, so it is unavoidable. Regarding Ōuchi Shichirobei: though he claims recent illness, it is not thought that he is incapable of performing guard duty. The guard commanders should keep this understanding in mind.

1. On Enkyō 3, 6th month, 11th day: Regarding Nakagawa Sōemon's father Chōu, since there had been prior consideration, he was appointed to rest, but henceforth he is appointed to retirement, so he should appear for audience at New Year ceremonies and such.

1. On Tenmei 8, 12th month, 8th day: Inoko Jūbei is granted retirement treatment through special consideration.
　　However, Jūbei was serving as magistrate when misconduct occurred, so on the 4th day of the 3rd month of last year, his stipend was confiscated, he was granted rest status, and his son Magojirō was given twenty-five koku and five-person rice allowance.

1. On Kanpō 1, 11th month, 11th day: Honda Gorōemon's father Toyota Iheiji was appointed to retirement status and was announced to appear at New Year ceremonies and such.

1. On Kōka 2, 12th month, 5th day:松平 Shōbei's father Shume and Ashida Takumi's adoptive father Zusho are henceforth granted retirement treatment.
　　However, Shume: Tenpō 11, 3rd month house arrest, 5th month family meeting, 8th month pardoned. Zusho: Tenpō 13, 6th month house arrest, 5th month family meeting, Tatsu 6th month pardoned.

1. On Enkyō 3, 8th month, 21st day: Regarding Great Guard Katō Tanemon's father Shigebei, who had been ordered to house arrest, he is pardoned, so this should be conveyed to Tanemon. The matter was conveyed to Tsunaoka Yasazaemon that this was announced as rest status.

1. Kyōwa 1, 2nd month, 2nd day:
　　Makino Shuzen is appointed to retirement, and this was conveyed today. Regarding this,
　　Shuzen should continue as before to occasionally　　　　　　　　Watanabe Jūrōzaemon
　　inquire after [the lord's] health and appear at the audience chamber, and should use the middle entrance for coming and going. This should be conveyed to
　　Shuzen. Future treatment should be understood to be the same as former Tsunaoka Josui.

1. Same 3rd year, 2nd month, 22nd day　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Ōmiya Hikoemon
　　Regarding Atsumi Shinemon's appointment to retirement, he should occasionally appear to
　　inquire after [the lord's] health. On such occasions he should use the middle entrance for coming and going, and in all matters he will receive the same treatment as Kobayashi
　　Goemon and Takeda Heiemon, so this should be understood accordingly.

1. On Bunka 3, 5th month, 24th day, [someone] went to Inaba Zusho's retainer Koma Takumi's residence and conveyed the following:
　　Regarding Takumi's illness, he is appointed to retirement as per his internal request, and to his son Chōkichi
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Koma Takumi