The family headship of 4,500 koku is granted without change. Regarding Takumi hereafter:　　　　　Same, Chōkichi
When appearing for health inquiries and such, he should continue as before to use the middle entrance for coming and going. He is advised to take his time in recuperation, as this is His Lordship's wish.
　Regarding the above, since all matters are to be handled in the manner of Hayashi Baiyū as announced, this was ordered through a written statement for reference to the audience hall gate.

1. Same 4th year, 1st month, 24th day, the following separate document to Tagaya Gonbei:
　Both men should occasionally appear for health inquiries through His Lordship's consideration.　　　Close relative: Saitō Tōō
　On such occasions they are ordered to use the middle entrance for coming and going.　　　　　Hayashi Mondo's adoptive father: Inaba Hachiemon
　　However, the same instructions were also given to monthly duty inspector Miyakita Chōzaemon.

△1. Shōtoku 3, year of the Snake: The circumstances of Matsudaira Shōemon's death from illness and the reappointment of Bakuō of the same family are recorded in the entries of the 23rd day of the 1st month and 28th day of the 5th month of the same year.

1. Kyōhō 13, 10th month, 21st day: It reached His Lordship's ears that deputy magistrate of the administered territory Kawasaki Niemon was diligently performing his duties, and the Senior Councilors conveyed that His Lordship was pleased. After this, since his adopted son Kinshichi was unwell and could not appear, [the matter was conveyed] to guard commander Mōke Magobei that since Niemon had grown old, he was granted rest status, and his son Kinshichi received the family inheritance of 23 koku and three-person rice allowance without change. It was conveyed that this matter should be reported to Niemon.

1. Same 15th year, 9th month, 25th day: Yoriai Shimada Uemon granted rest status. However, on the 21st he was dismissed from the role of private secretary and placed among the yoriai.

1. Same 16th year, 12th month, 21st day: Public works magistrate Hori Shinzaemon, who had his position revoked and was ordered to house confinement on the 11th day of the 10th month, today had his confinement lifted, was granted rest status, and his son Ichizō received 100 koku from his stipend and entered the Great Guard.

1. Genbun 1, 6th month, 13th day: There is a record that when Honda Shuri's retainer Naminokami appeared at the audience hall of the main castle, foot inspectors should provide escort, and at the audience hall he should be shown to the Senior Councilors' chamber, as conveyed by Matsudaira Shōbei's retainer.

1. Same 5th year, 5th month, 16th day: Miyakita Jūrōzaemon was granted retirement, his son Jūdayū received the family inheritance of 350 koku without change and entered the Great Guard. However, regarding Jūrōzaemon's case [text unclear]

Since he is well-versed in public affairs, he was granted a three-person rice allowance and should occasionally appear before His Lordship to respond when there are inquiries, as announced and conveyed by the Senior Councilors.

1. Kanpō 1, 2nd month, 15th day: Nakane Yukie reported that Suzuki Tajiemon's father Matazaemon wished to shave his head and wear [religious] robes. If it were merely the matter of shaving his head, there would be no need to report it, but since it involves wearing robes, he reported it. He said he thought it appropriate to tell him he could do as he pleased, and asked that this be noted.
《Marginal note: [In red ink] Changed name ■[kan?] mu, as recorded in the entry of the 11th day of the 7th month of the following Dog year. It appears that ■[kan?] is "kan." 
　　　　This was not a name change in the following year, but appears to be a name change at the time of head shaving》

1. Same 2nd year, 5th month, 25th day:
　Having served in office for a long time is considered admirable, and though he is still capable　
　and could continue serving, since he has reached old age, for gradual rest　　　　　Magistrate　　　　
　he is granted retirement and given a three-person rice allowance.　　　　　　　　　　　　Senbon Tōzaemon

1. Same 6th month, 16th day: The following was ordered again:
　Your long service until old age merited retirement through gracious consideration and you were granted rice allowance, but since misconduct during your service—the temple seal incident—has subsequently come to light,
　your rice allowance is revoked and you are granted rest status, so you should remain in discretionary confinement. End
Same day:
　Since there was misconduct in your official duties, your position is revoked and you are granted rest status. You should remain in discretionary confinement. End　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Magistrate Hikosaka Matahei

[Under Same 2nd year, 5th month, 25th day]
　　　1. Kōka 1, 3rd month, 29th day　　　　 　　　　　Head Falconer
　　　　Granted retirement, having served for many years,　　　　　　　　Kishi Gorōzaemon
　　　　he was given three pieces of silver for audience.

1. Bunsei 6, 6th month, 15th day, at Edo to Takada Hamon」《Marginal note: Request approved on Bunsei 3, 3rd month, 16th day, residing with relatives at Edo｜Takano Ichinosuke, though in rest status, through His Lordship's consideration was granted five-person rice allowance and appointed as attendant to the Young Lord》
　This matter should be conveyed to Ichinosuke. However, regarding quarters, for now he should report to the senior attendants' chamber」However, he was ordered to change his name to Sōzaemon
　　However, same 11th year, 5th month, 6th day」Though in rest status, he was appointed as attendant and served long duty at Edo. Considering his advanced age particularly admirable, he is therefore returned to the home domain
　　The five-person rice allowance previously granted is given for his lifetime　However, the two pieces of silver given yearly will no longer be provided

△1. Shōtoku 3, 1st month, 23rd day: The following was ordered at the residence of Sakai Tenzō: Memorandum to be conveyed to Matsudaira Bakuō
　　When Shōemon of the same family died of illness, though petitions had been submitted, since Bakuō remains in good health, it is thought he could serve in military affairs. He should direct his retainers in all matters. Since the return to the domain is imminent, he will be admitted and succession will be ordered. End, 1st month
　Same 5th month, 28th day: Shimada Uemon was sent as messenger to Bakuō's residence, and regarding the announcement, he arranged his hair and immediately appeared at the castle for audience before His Lordship, completed his respects, received dried abalone gifts and withdrew. The content of the announcement was as follows:　His name was also changed to Shume
　　Upon Shōemon of the same family's death, since his son Kinzō is young, the stipend of 3,000 koku is granted to you as before. Regarding seating, you are granted high seat position. When there is official business, you will be summoned according to circumstances. Though you have reached old age, since you remain in good health, it is thought you should serve despite the burden.

1. Kanpō 3, 1st month, 19th day: Kanazu magistrate Suzuki Hikodayū was granted retirement and Hiramoto Tadami was appointed to the successor position. Hikodayū reported: I am grateful to be granted retirement. Therefore I should immediately shave my head, but since there will be some time before transferring affairs to Tadami's office, in case of fires and such I can appear and perform official duties