Also, if succession occurs in the eleventh year, seat demotion shall not be decreed.
○1. Until the last day of the tenth year, seat demotion shall be decreed, but from New Year's Day of the eleventh year, seat demotion shall be pardoned.
△1. Even among those with sequential seats, those who have held sequential seats from a hundred years ago, or those who have served as御近習番 (personal attendants) or scribes are exceptional; others who have succession within ten years shall be appointed to相身体 rank.

1. In Bunka 12, boar year, Furuishi Sukegoro of the great guard sequential seat died of illness in the ninth year after succession, so his adoptive son during illness, Eigoro, was decreed succession on August 16th, whereupon according to the intent, he was demoted to the head of the preliminary相身体 rank. This was the beginning of succession seat demotion.

1. On the intercalary 4th month, 12th day of Bunsei 2, rabbit year, Toma Fukuma of the new guard died of illness. He had been granted succession on December 11th of Bunka 7, horse year, making this year exactly ten years. Although there was an internal decision that seat demotion would be decreed if less than ten years, seat demotion was not decreed. Therefore, an inquiry was made to Edo asking whether the usual procedure would apply when ten years were completed, and on May 25th of the same year, by express messenger, the inquiry was completed and word came from Edo that it should be decreed as such.
　　However, even on the last day of the 12th month of the ninth year, there would be seat demotion, but if it becomes the New Year of the tenth year, seat demotion does not occur.
　The above is the gist of Osaki Shichidayu's memorandum.

1. In the first month of Bunsei 11, rat year, what Inner Scribe Higuchi Teisuke conveyed was as follows:
　　The meaning of "exceptional" for those who served as personal attendants or scribes is that regardless of years, if there were those among the generations of that house who served in these two roles, seat demotion should not be decreed. Moreover, "a hundred years ago" means that if a hundred years have passed since being granted sequential seating, there should be no seat demotion.

　　　　　　　　　《Died on January 9th》
1. Kyoho 2, cock year, 2nd month, 8th day: Due to Honda Magotaro's recent death, since Okura-kata is also young, regarding governance matters, it was decreed that Honda Shume and Honda Minbu should consult together.
　The above matter is said to be temporary, with further details in records. However, at this time Okura-kata was 27 years old.

1. Same [year] 13th, monkey year, 10th month, 13th day: All senior councilors went to Honda Mannosuke's residence, succession was decreed without change, and since Fuchu was entrusted as is, matters of governance should be ordered, which was conveyed to Honda Nuinodono-kata. Being young, Honda Shuri-kata was appointed as guardian, which was also conveyed. The next day, Nuinodono-kata, the monthly duty officer, conveyed to Gizaemon that we should understand this matter. However, when Okura-kata died, there were matters conveyed to retainers, which are attached to the suspension clause.

　1. Bunsei 5, horse year: Chamberlain Watanabe Jurozaemon died of illness in Edo, with no temporary adoptive heir and house extinction. For name succession, Sasa Jihyogo's second son Kiyoshi was granted 200 koku and appointed to fixed guard external heir seat.
　　　The above was handled at the senior councilors' residences.
　1. Same year: Misawa Kumagoro was granted leave with house extinction, his younger brother Sukeijiro was granted 15-man stipend.
　1. Bunsei 13, tiger year, 5th month, 3rd day:
　　　Due to extremely improper conduct, granted leave　　　　　　　Ueda Gensaku　
　　　Since grandfather Manjun served faithfully in public service for years, granted 5-man stipend
　　　For name succession, appointed as court physician　　　　　　　Gensaku's son Ueda Yukichi　　　　
　　　　However, restraint was decreed upon inquiry