We humbly request that you show compassion and hold merciful deliberations. Above.
　　　　　February　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hosoi Senpaku
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Asano Kyosai
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Tsujioka Genjun
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Iwasa Genkei
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Mashimo Soen

If this petition is not accepted, all palace physicians would submit retirement requests—this being a serious matter, it was properly reported to the senior councilors. The key point in the petition was "not limited to adoptive or natural sons... we would serve even more faithfully." Based on this, after thorough deliberation, on the 7th day of the 6th month, the following official response was attached to the petition, and Yamada Keijun was summoned to monthly duty official Sakutayū's residence to be informed:

If there is no misconduct by the parent or successor, succession matters shall be decided by investigation according to previous precedent. However, if thereafter there is poor dedication to hereditary profession or misunderstanding, punishment shall be decreed more strictly than before, as per internal instructions.

[Fine print]
In Edo:
1. Tenpo 3, dragon year, 4th month, 11th day: As previously petitioned by Takahashi Dōjun, Chigusa Yūzō was made adoptive son of Ryōjun, granted succession with 5-man stipend unchanged, and appointed as court physician. However, since Yūzō had shown no dedication to medical practice, his succession should have been reduced, but due to his humble status, out of special compassion, succession was granted unchanged. He was ordered to diligently study his hereditary profession, as conveyed to Yamamoto Seihaku.

[Lower section in fine print]
1. Tenpo 3, dragon year, 11th month, 14th day, Edo　　　　　　Added by Asano Kyosai
Yasuda Sansetsu's petition for adoptive son during illness was not accepted and the family faced extinction, but through special consideration the family name was established, and his natural son Keijirō was granted 7-man stipend allowance and appointed court physician. Since Keijirō was a minor, this was conveyed through a representative.
Note: Sansetsu died on the 4th day of the 10th month, and on the 4th day of the 11th month his petition for adoptive son during illness was rejected and the petition returned.
This matter was to be conveyed to Sansetsu's household, as decreed to Asano Kyosai.

1. Tenpo 7, monkey year, 8th month, 5th day, in Edo: Confucian physician Hanaki Kyōsuke, having served diligently, was appointed to inner physician rank and the 2-man stipend supplement for one generation was discontinued.
However, succession matters would be decided based on hereditary profession as before, and this was to be conveyed to Kyōsuke, as decreed to Inspector Ōzeki Shingorōemon.

1. Shōtoku 3, snake year, 8th month, 29th day decree - Memorandum
1. For court physicians, horse keepers, falconers, and others in guard units who were recruited for their skills or granted favor, at succession the son's ability will determine increases or decreases in succession rank and status. This should be understood beforehand. However, not only training in hereditary profession but also performing public duties and maintaining proper conduct overall—those promoted based on these qualities shall be treated specially. Above.

1. Genbun 1, dragon year, 10th month, 5th day, the following decree:
1. Among those in minor official rank who were placed in New Guard, Castle Guard, Great Guard, or Palace Guard units, those previously appointed are unaffected, but henceforth those promoted to these guard units who die or are granted rest due to illness, when succession is granted to sons, they shall be removed from guard units and appointed to minor official rank.
1. If the successor son has hereditary profession or can serve faithfully, depending on circumstances and after investigation, some may remain in guard units.
This applies to those directly promoted from minor official rank to Palace Guard, Great Guard, or Castle Guard, bypassing New Guard—their sons shall be appointed to minor official rank according to these regulations.
1. Those promoted to New Guard who later serve in roles and are then appointed to Castle Guard, Great Guard, or Palace Guard units—their successors shall be demoted one rank to New Guard.

1. Reference should be made to the seal on the next page.
○× 1. Kanpō 2, dog year, 7th month, 7th day, revised decree: [Note: Today Katsuda Yatahachi was placed in Great Guard and Hori Kamenosuke was appointed to New Guard rank | Also appears in the Orders section]
Previously it was decreed that successors of those promoted to guard positions would be appointed as minor officials or demoted one rank, but considering their past meritorious service, henceforth when sons of those promoted by merit receive succession, their rank should generally match their fathers'. Of course, depending on the father and son's service and character, adjustments to rank and treatment may be made—this should be understood.