As decreed above.

1. Kyōwa 1, 2nd month, 13th day: Regarding Yoriai Makino Genzō, who was granted succession the other day (on the 2nd), it was inquired of the senior councilors whether he should be ordered to report to outside Urushi Gate during fires in the castle town, and this matter was conveyed to Genzō.
Note: When Genzō was granted succession, he was ordered to submit design drawings for his standard, but he stated he would use his adoptive father's standard as is. The matter of seating rearrangement was conveyed to Painting Magistrate Tsudzuki Saburōemon.

1. Hōreki 4, 12th month, 5th day: Ariga Jūjirō was appointed as follows:
20-man stipend allowance                    Ariga Ichirōemon, age 39
Died of illness on 9th month, 14th day

During parent's mourning period             Eldest son Jūnosuke, age 20
Died of illness on 10th month, 25th day

Appointed as eldest son, succeeding parent Ichirōemon    Second son Jūjirō
Granted 10-man stipend, entered Castle Guard

1. Kyōwa 1, 6th month, 11th day: As petitioned during illness by New Guard Sasaki Magojūrō, Kakehi Yasaemon's third son Katsuzō was made adoptive son, appointed to minor official rank, and granted fictitious stipend of 15 koku 3-man allowance. The circumstances are as follows:
Promoted 10 years ago                       Magojūrō's father (likely natural father) Sasaki Budayū

Served 3 years then died                    Same person's adoptive father's brother Sasaki Sōkurō

Though he took adult hairstyle at age 17 this year    Sasaki Magojūrō
Died of illness before serving as attendant

For such newly established families promoted within 11 years    His adoptive son Sasaki Katsuzō
where three generations changed with barely time to serve,
succession was demoted to minor official rank this time.
This differs from families of longstanding lineage.

1. Reference should be made to the seal on the previous page.
○× 1. Kanpō 2, 2nd month, 5th day, Council Chamber    Added by Castle Keeper Minagawa Tazaemon: Katsuda Yatahachi
His adoptive father Monzō's succession of 18 koku stipend rice and 3-man allowance granted unchanged, to be placed in New Guard unit.
Additionally, a document from Edo was conveyed through Inspector Iwagami Kajidayū:
Document:
Since Katsuda Yatahachi's adoptive father Monzō was a promoted person, according to previously issued documents he should be appointed to minor official rank, but since Monzō also served as foot-soldier inspector and was meritorious, after investigation he was appointed to New Guard.

This was because the extreme hardship of appointing Yatahachi to minor official rank at succession had been previously conveyed to the senior councilors, resulting in this appointment.

1. Same year, 10th month, 21st day: Castle Guard Mimura Matasaku's successor son Shinhachi was granted special consideration, reduced by 5 koku from his fictitious stipend to 15 koku 3-man allowance, and appointed to minor official rank. Regarding this, when Shinhachi inquired about self-restraint, he was ordered to refrain from duties.

1. Kan'en 2, 4th month, 26th day: Tōgō Niemon to Tanabe Gotadayū: "Recently Kyoto's Kawamura Gōemon died of illness, and his son Jūrōemon was in mourning when official duties arose, so mourning was lifted and he performed official duties. Normally there is no precedent for granting stipend allowance before succession is decreed, but since Jūrōemon had mourning lifted and performed official duties, after investigation he was granted 5-man stipend allowance this time, which should be conveyed." This was conveyed at Ashida Zusho's residence, and the matter was conveyed to Kawai Takiemon.

1. Genroku 13, 9th month, 11th day: Successor territory of 1,050 koku granted unchanged to Castle Keeper Assistant adoptive son Makino Seibei. However, he possessed bronze cannon and firearms from Tonomo's posthumous documents and wished to present them. This was submitted together with death notification on 7th month, 4th day of this year and reported to Edo, but since there was no precedent for those of Tonomo rank to present relics, they were not accepted. This was conveyed to intermediary Tagaya Gondayū and the document returned. On 11th month, 5th day of the same year, Seibei was appointed to Yoriai with seating above Mizutani Oribu. However, whether he should enter the succession process would be decided next year. Since succession was well granted this time, he wished to promptly perform appropriate service, submitting a document to his late father Tonomo's colleague Tagaya Gondayū. When this was reported to Edo and seating arrangements inquired about, the above was decreed.

1. Hōei 7, 10th month, 13th day: From Castle Deputy Sakai Yosōbei's successor territory of 1,550 koku, 1,350 koku was granted to his brother Kushima Sōemon. However, the 300 koku personal territory previously granted for serving as notification head was confiscated.
200 koku divided territory was granted to Sakai Uemon's brother Yosōbei's nephew Sakai Ukura.