reported, and after inquiring with the magistrate, succession was sometimes appointed through official documents. Since the classification was established, it is difficult to predict what mistakes might occur.
Regarding such replacements, succession is appointed based on the parent's distinguished service, and there should be deliberation on this matter, and moreover, there should be examination of the son's character. Therefore, henceforth when replacing deputy middle inspectors, after we (same as above) consult with magistrates and inspectors, we shall report to the senior councilors, and after deliberation, succession shall be appointed to us (same as above) through official documents. We should understand and handle matters accordingly, as explained by monthly magistrate Ichimura Kanemon and monthly inspector Tsuchiya Jūroemon.
This is a memorandum by construction magistrate Katō Shigeemon on the 16th day of the 2nd month of Tenpō 15, Year of the Dragon.
　　　　Addition
One: In the same manner, for those of accountant rank or below, after consultation with the magistrate, inquiry shall be made to the inspector whether there are any objections to the person. For those without objections, regarding succession matters, after thorough consultation with magistrates and inspectors, after the construction magistrate announces the succession, a letter shall be sent to the magistrates and inspectors informing them of the succession announcement. Also, to the inspector, in a follow-up letter, at an appropriate time, the gist of the main text should be conveyed to the senior councilors.
This was established on the 29th day of the 6th month of Kōka 2, Year of the Snake, during the succession of Henmi Jirōsaburō's adopted son, after consultation between magistrate Ichimura Kanemon and monthly inspector Yamamoto Genzaemon at the council chamber. Same person's memorandum.

One: On the 21st day of the 3rd month of Kaei 2, Year of the Rooster, regarding Masumura Jūzaburō, deputy middle inspector of accountant rank, due to illness making it difficult to perform official duties, a petition was submitted through written application and service records to the construction magistrates requesting that his adopted son Yūsuke be appointed as replacement. When this matter was reported to the senior councilors, the replacement was approved as petitioned, and the adopted son Yūsuke was granted a stipend of 10 koku and support for 2 persons and appointed to the main position of deputy middle inspector, as informed by Honda Hajime, and this was conveyed to the construction magistrates for announcement. The same was also conveyed to the magistrates.
　However, since Jūzaburō was of accountant rank, this procedure should not have been followed, but in this case, since the adopted son was appointed to the main position of deputy middle inspector with 10 koku and 2 persons, it was handled as above.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Monthly duty: Senmoto Tōzaemon

One: On the 11th day of the 12th month of Kyōwa 3, Year of the Boar, town magistrate Arakawa Jūemon made the following report. When this was conveyed to the senior councilors, they indicated it would be held in custody, and this was communicated to Jūemon.
　Formal document
　　My yoriki (assistant) Matsuda Seizaemon suffered from jaundice since this summer and died of illness on the last day of last month. Therefore, I wish to summon his son Genjirō as Seizaemon's replacement. Please kindly convey this matter to the senior councilors. Above.
　　12th month　　To Imamura Denbei-dono　　　　　Arakawa Jūemon
　　　However, on the 16th day of the 1st month of the following Year of the Rat, it was announced through official documents to Denbei that the petition was approved as requested, and this was communicated to Jūemon.

One: On the 25th day of the intercalary 10th month of Kan'en 1, Year of the Dragon, to the magistrate:
　　For successors of those of minor official rank, mature persons shall be granted provisional 12 koku and support for 3 persons and appointed as accountants, while young persons shall be granted support for 3 persons. This has been the practice until now, but henceforth, since the number of accountants should be reduced, even mature persons shall be granted support for 5 persons and first made assistants. When accountant positions become vacant, after examination of each person, they shall be appointed and granted the same as provisional appointments. Naturally, depending on the person's character, some may be directly appointed as minor officials. This has been newly announced. It should be understood accordingly.

One: On the 16th day of the 5th month of Kanpō 2, Year of the Dog, when accountant Yamamoto Jōemon was granted leave due to illness, considering his decades of service, his son Kihachi was summoned as an accountant and granted 10 koku and support for 3 persons. However, such petition matters shall be examined when the time comes, as was conveyed to senior councilor Hikosaka Matahei.

One: On the 21st day of the 8th month of Gembun 3, Year of the Horse, conveyed to Akashi Shōgen and Hikosaka Matahei:
　　When those of foot soldier rank or below who are not appointed to succession die of illness, in recent years their supervisors petition that the deceased's sons exist, or that adopted sons, younger brothers, nephews, etc. have been arranged, even if they are not of mature age and naturally unfit for official duties, requesting they be summoned as successors. This would contradict proper procedures. Henceforth, those who are naturally unfit for official duties need not be summoned first. If they reach maturity and petition, regarding sons of those who served as parents, and especially those who have dependents, examination shall be conducted when positions become vacant. However, sons and brothers of those with family businesses, and others appointed through special consideration from above, are separate matters. All supervisors should understand and observe these principles, as has been announced. Above.

One: On the 22nd day of the 11th month of the same 5th year, Year of the Monkey, when sons of those of minor official rank are appointed in the same manner as their parents, and the parent is ordered to retire, even if rank is appointed the same as the parent, regarding provisional appointments, henceforth they shall be reduced from the parent's level. If their performance of official duties is satisfactory, the provisional appointment may be adjusted later, as has been announced.