【Right Page】

Resolving: The sahā world is filled with defilement and evil. Even if the land is transformed three times and purity covers the defilement, the original land does not disappear. Wonderful Sound is a deep-level bodhisattva. Since the superior sees the inferior, he can know the original aspect of the defiled land. Therefore that buddha admonished him not to generate thoughts of inferiority. Hence the Xuanzan (first) states: "Due to this original defilement, fearing that Wonderful Sound might see both the original land's defiled aspects and generate criticism... the superior sees the inferior." When Wonderful Sound came to pay his respects, it was not that this land was not pure. That the divided bodies commanded attendants, and Mañjuśrī emerged from the sea with words about proceeding to Vulture Peak - all of this, even though it was pure land, was named "mountain" according to the original. Saying "earth, stones, various mountains filled with defilement" also points to the original land's characteristics in this way.

Question (Again): Other schools cite the text from this chapter "You should not look down upon that land and generate thoughts of inferiority" to prove the meaning within the Entrustment Sūtra. Should our school permit this? Answer: We do not permit it. Regarding this, according to other teachers, at the time of the Entrustment chapter, the divided bodies returned to their original lands, Prabhūtaratna closed the stupa, and after the three transformations of the land, the pure land suddenly returned to defiled land. Therefore when Wonderful Sound came to this realm, the buddha of his original land admonished that bodhisattva. If it were still pure land, even without the Tathāgata's admonishing words, why would Wonderful Sound generate thoughts of inferiority? Master Xuanfan's proof that "defiled land is not pure" seems most reasonable. How should our school counter this? (It should be resolved according to the above.)

The sūtra states: "At that time Pure Flower Constellation King Wisdom Buddha told Bodhisattva Wonderful Sound: 'You should not look down upon that land and generate thoughts of inferiority. Good son, that sahā world has uneven heights and depths, earth and stones,

【Lower Section】

various mountains filled with defilement. The Buddha's body is humble and small, and the assembly of bodhisattvas - their forms are also small.'"

The Xuanzan I states: "Seven: The difficulty of distinctions between pure and defiled. Also, because Wonderful Sound was admonished, it was not pure land. Therefore we know the divided bodies had already returned to their lands. On the day the divided-body buddhas assembled, why did each command attendants to hold lotus flowers in their hands and proceed together to Vulture Peak, carrying and scattering them above the Buddha? When transformed into pure land, all mountains disappeared, universally becoming Buddha-land, and the five destinies were also exhausted. What Vulture Peak was there to visit the Buddha and carry offerings? Also in Mañjuśrī's ocean assembly, about to arrive here, already present at Vulture Peak, suddenly flowers appeared. The eight assemblies' joy conflicts with sentiment - difficult to resolve. ○ But having first emitted divine power, therefore pure land was manifested. Due to this land's original defilement, fearing Wonderful Sound might see both the original land's defiled aspects and generate criticism, therefore he was admonished. It was not that when Wonderful Sound arrived, the divided bodies had already returned and the land was only defiled. Just as though it was pure land, one still saw Vulture Peak - though transformed, it was not only pure but also saw defilement. The superior sees the inferior."

The Śāstrābhidhāna I states: "The commentary's 'from Mañjuśrī's ocean assembly to flowers appearing' - this citation is mistaken. It mistakenly cites the text of Wonderful Sound coming here. Regarding Mañjuśrī it also says 'At that time Mañjuśrī' to 'proceeded to Vulture Peak.' The intention is to take proceeding to the mountain as proof. Even taking Wonderful Sound, why would it not serve as proof? Answer: Others say that when Wonderful Sound came here, this had already become defiled land. There should be mountains together - how can this serve as proof? Therefore it is not taken. The commentary's 'the superior sees the inferior, etc.' Question: Lower faculties do not know the affairs of higher faculties. Transforming the land is already Buddha's work - what does Wonderful Sound see? How can Buddha be considered lower and Wonderful Sound higher? Answer: Taking defiled land as lower was originally for śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas and ordinary beings. Hiding the inferior to make it pure. Therefore Wonderful Sound can see both the original. If

【Left Page】

so, why say it is for divided bodies and for pure land? Answer: To warn the two vehicles and make them aspire with longing. If not so, why constantly dwell in purity? Why would there be need to transform?"

The Doctrinal Decision states: "Four: The proof that defiled land is not pure cannot stand. If because Wonderful Sound was admonished, the land returned to defilement, then transformation buddhas should also be sent to Vulture Peak, and the land should not be pure. If one says 'Though speaking of proceeding to the mountain, this is based on original characteristics; discussing the land, it is actually pure, and Wonderful Sound seeing defilement is similar,' then if one says 'Though transformed into pure land, Vulture Peak still remains, therefore it does not serve as analogy' - Vulture Peak is not defiled, transformed to pure it still remains. Since it is earth, stones, and mountains, how can it exist? Therefore saying it exists refers to the initial time. Like Mañjuśrī emerging from the ocean, still speaking of proceeding to Gṛdhrakūṭa Mountain. The assembly all ascended to the sky - what would proceeding to the mountain accomplish? Therefore though proceeding to the jeweled stupa in the sky, based on the original, one still speaks of proceeding to the mountain location on earth. Sending messengers carrying flowers to proceed to the mountain. Therefore we know, based on the original, Vulture Peak cannot exist within pure land. The following text states 'At that time I and the assembly of monks together departed Vulture Peak' - this also speaks based on the original location. If one says the sūtra states 'only this assembly is retained, also retaining the mountain' - this is not so. Having the assembly hear the Dharma should originally be retained, but the mountain does not hear sūtras - what benefit is there in retaining it? Therefore saying 'the proof that defiled land is not pure cannot stand.'"

The Doctrinal Commentary states: "Question: Previously it was said 'The initial portion of the sūtra was expounded in defiled land, the latter portion of the sūtra was expounded in pure land.' When Wonderful Sound comes, he is precisely traveling in pure land - why admonish him? Answer: From beginning to end of this sūtra, the land has three differences. First, the initial portion of the sūtra was expounded in defiled land. Second, the latter portion of the sūtra was expounded in pure land. Third, from the Medicine King chapter onward, it returns to being expounded in defiled land. The reason we know this: to

【Lower Section】

gather the divided bodies, therefore the land was transformed to pure. The divided bodies having already dispersed, the land returned again to defilement. When Wonderful Sound came, he was precisely traveling through the five turbidities, therefore the Buddha admonished him."

Question: The sūtra text states "My body is 6.8 million yojanas" - what does this explain? Answer: It explains Pure Flower Constellation King Wisdom Buddha's body measurement. Regarding this, the body measurement of taught bodhisattvas is usually half that of the teaching buddha's body. Wonderful Sound's body measurement is already 42,000 yojanas. The teaching buddha's body should definitely be 84,000 yojanas. Otherwise, how could the teaching and taught bodies' measurements be proportionate? According to this, the Lotus Sūtra of the Correct Dharma states the taught body measurement is 42,000 yojanas, the teaching body 84,000 yojanas.

Resolving: In pure lands, the body measurements of teaching and taught are not necessarily half and reduced. That Amitābha Buddha's body measurement is 600 trillion nayutas of yojanas. Avalokiteśvara's body measurement is 8 billion nayutas of yojanas - this is what the Contemplation of Immeasurable Life Sūtra explains. How much does the Buddha's body surpass bodhisattvas? Moreover, most texts have body measurements with Ganges sand characters. If following this text, the measurements are also not definitively calculated. Then even if Wonderful Sound's body measurement does not reach half, what fault is there? Such matters are shown according to the time. It need not necessarily be like the original land's explanation of the assembly's spiritual capacity and intentions for what should be joyfully accepted. Amitābha's body measurement may also be of this type.

The Personal Commentary on Entrustment Meaning, Part Two, states: "Question: In the 22nd chapter, regarding Wonderful Sound's body measurement, both sūtras state 42,000 yojanas. Regarding Pure Flower Constellation King Wisdom Buddha's body measurement, the Wonderful Sūtra states 800,000 yojanas, the Correct Sūtra states