【Right Page】

Both schools permit this. Since he [Mañjuśrī] already did not bow, Wonderful Sound is likewise. Therefore the Yijue states:

The Yijue states: Third, the "proof of Wonderful Sound's lacking reverence" is unacceptable. Using the fact that the bodhisattvas emerging from below universally bowed to the emanation [Buddhas] while Wonderful Sound did not bow as proof that [the emanations] had already departed, then likewise Mañjuśrī's not bowing to the emanations should also [prove] they had already departed. The Devadatta chapter also states "having completed reverent conduct at the place of the two World-Honored Ones, he went to Wisdom Accumulation's place," not mentioning universal bowing. How could the transformation Buddhas have departed? Therefore it is deemed unacceptable.

『Inquiry: Regarding the first master of this treatise.

Question: Concerning the other-enjoyment bodies capable of transforming those in the ten grounds, within one ground's entry, dwelling, and exit phases, should the Buddha bodies capable of transformation have differences in size? If so, there are texts in various places about the first ground's transformation [manifesting] Buddha bodies on hundred-petaled platforms, and the second and third grounds [manifesting on] thousand-petaled and ten-thousand-petaled [platforms]. I have not yet seen [mention of] size differences within one ground's three phases. If following this reasoning, since the paths of the three times are each distinct and the obstacles overcome differ, why would the bodies expounded for them have no size differences?

Answer: There should be size differences. However, when the first ground sees the body on the hundred-petaled platform, within that body the three minds of entry, dwelling, and exit see it with size differences. This is not because the leaf numbers have more or less. The various teachings divide the ten bodies of Vairocana according to general meaning, not saying there are distinctions within the ten grounds. Therefore when the Buddhabhūmi-śāstra clarifies the other-enjoyment land, it states that what the ten-ground bodhisattvas see has size differences and superior-inferior [distinctions]. Within each ground, the initial, middle, and latter [phases] are likewise thus. Consider the text based on the above. Bodies should also have size differences. The thirty bodies of the accumulation [path] and those capable of transformation can be understood accordingly.』

【Lower Section】

One collation of manuscript completed

Twenty-fifth of twenty-eight fascicles of the Kasuga Shrine newly constructed building Kaiji Commentary
Paper materials supervised by Enzen-bō, Provisional Great Monk Administrator
Written on the fifth day of the third month of Eiroku 3 (1560), year of the metal monkey, at Matsuya facing east - Kiyotane
On the twenty-seventh night of mid-spring, Kansei 7 (1795), year of the wood rabbit, one collation of manuscript completed
　　　　　　　　　　　Tamate Kunieda
Copying completed on the second day of the fifth month of Ōan 4 (1371), year of the metal boar
　　　　　　　　Yugō (age seventy years full)
Stored on the fifth day of the third month of Eitoku 3 (1383), year of the water boar - not to be taken out to other places except from our temple's Fukujō-in

【Left Page】

Lotus Sūtra Kaiji Commentary - Twenty-sixth of twenty-eight fascicles

　　　Universal Gate Chapter

Should this chapter be considered the circulation section of this sūtra?
Should Avalokiteśvara Bodhisattva benefit those who do not think of sentient beings?
Inheriting immeasurable life
Do those with [Buddha] nature have a time of exhaustion?
Is Inexhaustible Intention Bodhisattva a great compassion iccantika?
Karma that must definitely be received
Establishing definitely receivable karma based on those not yet liberated
Can fixed karma be transformed before entering the incalculable position?
The sūtra and treatise contradict
Is Avalokiteśvara's attainment of enlightenment actual enlightenment?
Should Avalokiteśvara manifest a bodhisattva body?
Receiving these Dharma offerings of precious jeweled necklaces
Is Inexhaustible Intention a renunciant bodhisattva?
Revering stupas as proof of non-Buddha is unacceptable

【Lower Section】

The proof of uneven division is unacceptable
Manifesting the equality of birth-death and nirvana
Does this chapter's verse section have a Sanskrit original?
In the supplemented Lotus, is "Listen to Avalokiteśvara's practices, skillfully responding to all directions" Inexhaustible Intention's answer?
All are Samantabhadra
The activity of sovereignty

Above: nineteen fascicles