[Right Page]

and so forth.

The same treatise twelve says: "Having already explained the bodhisattva's five kinds of immeasurability, next it explains that bodhisattva teaching has eight fruits. The verse says: 'Arousing mind and gaining tolerance, pure eye and exhausted outflows, dharma dwelling, learning also ceases, enjoyment makes eight fruits.' The explanation says: If a bodhisattva encourages dharma teaching, they can attain eight fruits. First, various dharma listeners may arouse bodhicitta. Second, some may attain tolerance of non-arising. Third, some may remove dust and depart from defilement regarding all dharmas and attain pure dharma eye. This refers to what is included in the inferior vehicle. Fourth, some may attain exhaustion of all outflows. Fifth, causing the true dharma to abide long, etc."

Yogācāra Treatise 83 says: "Furthermore, regarding removing dust and departing from defilement: 'dust' refers to already-arisen but not yet perfected wisdom that can obstruct clear observation, where intermittent and continuous pride manifests. 'Defilement' refers to that category and all that is eliminated by the path of seeing, causing it to be permanently absent, hence called 'removing dust and departing from defilement.' Moreover, 'dust' refers to worldly pride and all afflictions eliminated by the path of seeing; 'defilement' refers to the subtle hindrances possessed by these two categories. 'In all dharmas' refers to dharmas dwelling in individual and common characteristics. 'Dharma eye' refers to truly manifesting realization, having only dharma wisdom. 'Seeing dharma' refers to truly seeing suffering and so forth. 'Attaining dharma' refers to following realization-attainment of śramaṇa fruits. 'Knowing dharma' refers to after realization, being able to understand by oneself regarding what was attained: 'I am a stream-enterer, I have already realized attainment, without dharma of regression.'"

Using one copy of the manuscript

[Lower Section]

Kasuga Shrine New Construction Hall Commentary Copy, 27th of 28 fascicles
Paper materials arranged by Enchan-bō (Jōshin-in) Authority Great Monk Administrator
Through brush merit creating connections, relying on compassionate myriad practices, encountering noble divine wisdom, if born one will surely realize the Land of Bliss and great equal awakening benefit, written at the shrine's Pine Hall east-facing room
Eiroku 3rd year (Kōshin) first day of the fourth month - Shunsin

Kansei 7th year (Ōtō) third month fifth day, completed using one manuscript copy
Tamade Kunae

Ōan 1st year (Boshin) seventh month first day, copying completed

[Left Page]

Lotus Commentary Copy, 28th of 28 fascicles

Encouragement Chapter

Whether the principle realized by Bodhisattva Samantabhadra and the principle of all sentient beings are one in essence
Whether Bodhisattva Samantabhadra first came to this sūtra assembly during this chapter
Whether Samantabhadra should pay respects to Tathāgata Prabhūtaratna when coming to this world
Whether Samantabhadra received reproach from his home buddha when coming to this world
The sequential stages of people who accomplish the four dharmas
Whether initial seeing of inferior form should be one seven-day period (two aspects)
Text not seeing the six teachers
Text abbreviated without results due to not seeing Buddha
What does the text about upholding, reciting and understanding the meaning explain among the three levels of cultivation
Giving to others etc. are easy practices, upholding etc. are difficult practices
Whether there is a Sanskrit original for the text about making prostrations and departing

Above eleven fascicles

[Lower Section]

Lotus Eighth Volume Commentary Copy (Encouragement Chapter) (Third of three fascicles)

Encouragement Chapter

Question: The Xuanzan clarifies the meaning of this chapter's appearance, saying: "The Dharma Protection Power Samantabhadra Chapter and the following chapter demonstrate this." What then is that following chapter?

This is excerpted in the Entrustment Chapter.

Question: In the Xuanzan's explanation of Bodhisattva Samantabhadra's name, it says "due to realizing the principle of universal goodness." Are the true principle realized by Bodhisattva Samantabhadra and the true principle possessed by all sentient beings one in essence, or are they separate? Considering both sides: if they are one in essence, then generally each individual sentient being differs from others by nature, with each one's faculties, mind, and aggregates mutually separated. Inferring the principle nature through characteristics and functions, the true principles of different sentient beings should definitely be separate in essence. Especially, if we don't allow distinctions of provisional self within dharma nature, how are the hierarchical differences of the three realms and five destinies determined, and how do the categories of three vehicles and five natures differ? We should understand that the real nature of provisional self is not without distinctions. If following this, then the Xuanzan quotes the Prajñā Sūtra: "All sentient beings are Buddha-nature. Because Bodhisattva Samantabhadra pervades his own essence." If the true principles of self and other sentient beings are each different, why say "because pervading one's own essence"? Moreover, if not depending on others' suffering, accumulation, and defilement