【Header Text】
When placing a large pot on a stove, since bamboo-handled ladles go on top, cooking is slow. Also, when placing a small pot on a large stove, the fire's energy leaks from the sides, wasting firewood. In either case, one should build the stove to match the pots and pans so they fit properly.

'On Quick Silver Exchange Calculations'
One piece of silver is fixed at forty-three monme, but one piece of chō-silver doesn't even reach that weight, and kodama silver is an even more unreliable partner in terms of weight. Such troublesome items should be handled roughly, and one should use nanryō, which is fixed at seven monme and five bu. This is the quick method for silver exchange.

'On Knowing the Number of Silk Thieves'
It appears there are thieves who divide and steal silk. When asked, if they take eight tan each, there are seven tan short; if they divide seven tan each, there are eight tan left over. From hearing this, one can know both the amount of silk and the number of people, but knowing this doesn't benefit us. This for our...

【Lower Section】
Even without them, it would be lonely, so one should keep only the parent mice and eliminate the offspring. The method is to set traps twelve times in one month, and the mouse offspring will be eliminated. Then, take the whiskers of those mouse offspring and sell them to brush makers, sell the fangs to carvers, and make the rest into fried tofu to sell for fox hunting.

【Shop curtain】Kadomachi-tatsu

'On Multiplication and Division Calculations'
To divide soba noodles into three portions, one uses "two times eight is sixteen, three times eight is twenty-four, four times eight is thirty-two" and applies what one-four knows when eating. For boiled noodles, one applies two-six.
○For dumplings, one applies black sugar and also applies soybean flour. For dengaku, one applies three-five.
○For thatch: four-six, five-six, six-seven, seven-eight, eight-nine - one hangs and applies any of these. For stirrups, one also applies five-six.
○To divide practice days: within one-six, two-seven, three-eight, four-nine, fifty - for archery one applies yugake (shooting gloves), for horses one applies rings, for iai one applies tasuki (cord sash), for spear and sword arts one applies menpo (face armor).

All other things should be known by following faithfully in accordance with these principles.