If you want to make this useful, first quietly peek and see, count the thieves as fifteen people, then hire thirty strong people, have two people attack each thief to bind all fifteen, then count the silk. There are 113 tan of silk, and since this silk was stolen from somewhere, make them confess, return it to its owner, and have the thieves apologize as well. At that time, the robbery victim will be greatly pleased and give at least

thirty ryō as thanks for recovering their goods. At that time, give one bu each to the thirty people as payment for their trouble, and give one bu each to the fifteen thieves to prevent future grudges. In total, with an expenditure of eleven ryō and one bu, there is a profit of eighteen ryō and three bu. By doing this...

【In illustration】
Kanpei's
　youthful
　　　indiscretion

【Lower section】
'On the Eight Calculations and Division Voices'
The eight calculations do not refer to sweating from hard work, but rather refer to the second level through the ninth level. There is no such thing as the first level. When one's fortune has become completely ruined, that is the first level. From the second level, one gradually repairs one's wealth. Upon reaching the ninth level, one's fortune is completely restored and one becomes a wealthy magnate.
The abacus diagram shown on the left represents a ruined fortune. No matter how skilled a person may be in calculations, if they do not know the method of these eight calculations, they cannot restore their own wealth - this is the lesson taught by this song.

The diagram shown on the right represents:
Boastful writing about sophistication
Selecting poetry and creating phrases
Annotating chronicles of various nations
Suffering from debt notes

What is diagrammed above represents how today's scholars, though versed in books and speaking with arrogance, suffer from their own poverty - this is a diagram of using abacus beads to flick the faces of such scholars.

The diagram shown on the left represents people who pay no attention to their own financial situation and live carelessly.

In the song:
Six beads
Two
Three ways
Four-less
Five
Nine crushing
A lifetime is
Seven
Eight matters