【Header】
What a quick way to calculate
this arithmetic is!
Ask anyone about it.
There is no error in this.
Though we say these coins are cheap,
they disappear in an instant. With the pretentious attitude
of when bunkin first appeared,
think of one bu as 750 mon,
and use two shu of silver
thinking of it as one bu.
As much as possible, seek out
things that were cheap from long ago
until now, and be mindful
not to buy things that have become expensive today.

『About Dividing Rice Fields and Farmland』
【In the illustration】
The annual tax is
three mon
　　per one chō【End here】
　For example,
when there are five chō, one tan, two se,
and one bu of rice field, ask
"How many ken long and wide is this field?"
The answer is: "Going back and forth to town five chō,
with one tan of courtesans..."

【Lower section】
For Ken-ni through Ken-ku, use respectively
the words from the two-times table through
the nine-times table of arithmetic.

『About Social Ranking』
This concerns those who have recovered their fortunes
and become wealthy. For example, if you possess
a thousand ryō, you should act in such a way
that people think you probably have
about five thousand. If you have five ryō,
make them think you might have about five hundred.
If you have 100,000 ryō, let them say you're worth 50,000【500,000】;
if you have 200,000 ryō, let them say you're worth
ten million. Generally, even if you have a hundred ryō,
people will think you have two or three hundred.
Never let your actual wealth be underestimated.
This is the social positioning of the wealthy.

『About Opening Square, Opening Cube, Circle Method, and Right Triangle Calculation』
【Diagram】Opening Square
Opening square is arithmetic
for examining square objects. Regarding square things—
the characters in classical texts, the conduct of Confucian scholars—
all are teachers too tough to bite into.
Occasionally they hold banquets at Gyūsho
and float small boats on Bokusui river to enjoy
the scenery of mountains and rivers, yet both bear the name of poetry guests.
The Ichimatsu dye pattern returns to the solid reputation of stone pavement,
Kaisan pottery exists only in name, and even servants don't put nail-pullers
on their crests. Currently, the only square things that don't go out of fashion
are the three-masu family crest and Marukado-ya, so this floating world
must be round to be fashionable. Though round coins sometimes
become winners and sometimes become small change, when accumulated
they become round koban gold pieces.