【Right Page】
In 1494, Spain (also called Hispania) invaded America (a large continent east of Japan, first discovered by Americus Vespucius of Spain, hence named America), plundered much treasure and many beautiful women, took them as captives aboard large ships, and all those who had sexual relations with them contracted this disease, which immediately spread throughout Spain. From there it spread to Italy, France, Germany, and other countries. Since it first arose in Spain, it was called "Spanish pox." (Pox is a barbarian word meaning "sores." It is also called Lues Venereae, meaning disease of lustful defilement. Another name is Morbus Gallicus, meaning affliction of the private parts.)

The above is recorded in the Dutch book "Chirurgia" (Heelkunde). (When I was studying in Nagasaki, I was able to see this Chirurgia while studying under Nakano Tadao and translating medical and astronomical texts. Nakano was unparalleled in Dutch learning and also proficient in mathematics, clarifying the profound principles of the Dutch astronomical text Natuurkunde. Though he has written translations, they have not yet been published, which is regrettable. That person has now passed away.)

Calculating the chronology, this corresponds exactly to the third year of Meiō, year of Kinoe-Tora (1494) during the reign of Emperor Go-Tsuchimikado in Japan. In China, during the late Kōji era under Emperor Xiaozong of Ming, this disease

【Left Page】
first appeared in Guangdong and spread to various countries, hence it was named Guangdong-sō (Guangdong sores) or Kō-sō (broad sores), as seen in books such as "Zoku Isetsu" (Continued Medical Theories) and "Baisō Hiroku" (Secret Records of Syphilis). It was called Yōbai-sō (yangmei sores) because some forms resembled yangmei fruit (Chinese bayberry). It was called Bai-sō (mold sores) because the way this disease penetrates the body is like things rotting with mold. There are various other names, but I omit them here. The late Kōji era of Ming corresponds to the early Eishō era under Emperor Go-Kashiwabara. The connection is clear: after the Spanish transmitted this disease from America, several years passed before it appeared in Guangdong, where Western merchant ships anchored, and was thus named Guangdong sores.

This was also transmitted to Japan, and its beginning likely occurred in Nagasaki. Until the Kōji era under Emperor Go-Nara, all foreign ships entered ports at harbors in Senshu territory, or Hakata in Chikuzen, Funai in Bungo, etc., but in the 12th year of Eiroku, year of Tsuchinoto-Mi (1569), they first began entering Nagasaki port.