【Right Page】
The reason one does not become infected is that by nature there is no such poison within the body. Such people are called "poison-free." Although smallpox and measles are diseases that affect everyone, the rare cases of those who do not fall ill are due to the absence of the toxic qi that would cause illness within their bodies. People who have this toxic qi within their bodies are like saltpeter catching fire. These are called "poison-bearing" people. The fact that the severity of illness differs from person to person is not different from the variations in concentration and thickness of the five musical tones - it is due to variations in the concentration and thickness of the innate toxic qi within the body. To take a close example: some people develop rashes from lacquer, some do not; some develop mild rashes, others severe ones. Some people get drunk on alcohol, others do not. Those who get drunk on alcohol have within them the qi that responds to intoxication and resonate with the qi of alcohol; those who develop rashes from lacquer have within them the qi susceptible to such reactions and resonate with lacquer. All of these are due to each person's natural endowment, and since they are born containing this qi from before birth, should this too be called fetal poison? The resonance with smallpox and measles is no different from that with lacquer and alcohol - it is due to innate

【Left Page】
qi that predisposes to illness, so they fall ill; those without this qi never fall ill in their lifetime. Some prostitutes who do not contract syphilis also lack this qi in their natural constitution. If this is the case, then should syphilis and scabies, which also depend on natural constitution, also be called fetal poison? If not only syphilis and scabies, but all diseases - whether one falls ill or not - depend on that person's natural constitution, should everything be called fetal poison? Since there are so many things that could be called fetal poison in this way, limiting the term "fetal poison" to smallpox and measles is a mistaken theory arising from ignorance of the true source of disease. However, the transmission of parents' diseases to their children and illness in children due to poor maternal diet during pregnancy might properly be called fetal poison. Nevertheless, children of sickly people may be healthy, and children of healthy people may be sickly. Foolish children may be born to wise parents, and brilliant children to foolish parents. Those with poor conduct may live long and healthy lives, while those of upright behavior may be sickly and short-lived