【Right Page】
manifested in the throat, nose, or body, naturally expelling the constitutional qi there. What common people call "the pox broke out here or there" refers to this. This also never recurs. Even with scabies, once the constitutional toxic qi is fully expelled and exhausted, never suffering again is no different from this. For this reason, the brothel quarters of today call the period of illness with syphilis or scabies "house closure," and the time after illness "relief," because there is no concern about reinfection - just like how people feel relieved after children complete smallpox and measles. This means that once constitutional smallpox toxin is fully expelled and exhausted, smallpox toxin ceases; once measles toxin is fully expelled and exhausted, measles toxin ceases, and one never suffers again in their lifetime. Syphilis and scabies are no different - occurring once in a lifetime, but because vital qi and toxic qi harmonize, the constitutional qi cannot be completely expelled and one suffers repeatedly. Not limited to these four diseases, after all diseases completely expel

【Left Page】
and exhaust the constitutional toxic qi, even if one encounters toxic qi from outside, there is no toxic qi in the body to respond, so there is no way for disease to arise. To use an analogy, this is like the firing power of a musket. Even if there is gunpowder in the musket that could ignite, without fire qi responding from outside, no flame will be produced until the musket rusts and rots. This is an analogy for how all diseases will never occur in one's lifetime if they do not receive that qi from outside. However, if even slightly touched by fire qi, there is force enough to penetrate metal and shatter rocks. This is an analogy for manifesting constitutional toxic qi. Once saltpeter ignites and flame arises, after the bullet flies away, no matter how close one approaches fire qi, there is no opportunity for flame to arise. This is an analogy for all diseases - once constitutional toxic qi is exhausted, one illness per lifetime. If there is much gunpowder but the vessel is thin, the musket breaks with the flame and can no longer be used. This is an analogy for when vital qi is weak and toxic qi is strong, the body perishes along with the disease. Vital qi and toxin