【Right Page】
　　　　A Discourse on Avoiding Smallpox

Since the human body is the spiritual essence of all things in heaven and earth, it inherently contains within itself the qi of all myriad things between heaven and earth by natural endowment. Therefore, it responds to various toxic qi from outside and develops into various diseases, as explained in detail previously. The principle is clear that those who come into contact with toxic qi fall ill, while those who do not come into contact with it do not become ill. However, while people know to avoid syphilis and scabies and thus avoid becoming ill, they do not know that smallpox and measles can easily be avoided and escaped. Instead, they actually rejoice in falling ill as soon as possible - what is this about? When I carefully observe their behavior, it is not that they are unafraid, but why do they become accustomed to and approach such evil diseases? This is because common households believe there is a smallpox deity and consider it a disease that one must suffer once in a lifetime, while medical practitioners understand it as this epidemic naturally spreading according to the atmospheric influences and seasonal orders of that year, causing fetal toxins in the human body to manifest - this is due to ancient and modern folk customs being

【Left Page】
misguided. People worry about this disease from the moment a child is born, and especially when it spreads in the neighborhood, they pray to gods and buddhas, use unreliable preventive medicines, and earnestly wish to receive this disease lightly. However, praying to gods and buddhas and using medicines without avoiding this highly contagious evil disease is the same as drinking heavily while praying to gods and buddhas not to get drunk, or taking anti-intoxication medicine beforehand - it is an incomparably foolish practice. When this disease strikes, it kills children as easily as turning one's palm over - children whom parents would not trade for their own lives - and cuts off irreplaceable heirs. For people, this is a more immediately fearsome evil disease than thunder and earthquakes. Moreover, since the toxic qi attaches to clothing, toys, food, etc., and spreads even to distant places, it is unthinkable for households with this disease to send food or toys to others as gifts, nor should people be pleased to receive such things. The toxic qi of this disease attaches to objects and spreads even to distant places