【Right Page】
This is most fearsome, and in the first month of Tenmei 7 (1787), the year of the sheep, a peasant named Kōsuke from Kashidate Village on Hachijōjima was playing by the seashore when he picked up something like a pillow box that was floating in the waves. When he opened it and looked inside, there were brocade prints and clay dolls, so he was greatly pleased and took it home to give to his children as toys. Immediately they began to suffer from smallpox, and it spread to the entire household without exception. The whole village fell ill uniformly and many died. It also spread to a place called Nakanogō, so the patients from Nakanogō were immediately moved to Kashidate Village, and thus Nakanogō cut off the toxic qi with only seventeen people affected. That pillow box-like object must have been the toy of a smallpox patient from the mainland, which is why it brought about such disaster. Since then, even when such drifting objects are found, it is said that people pass down the warning and do not pick them up. Also, in Shōtoku 1 (1711), the year of the rabbit, and Kansei 7 (1795), the year of the rabbit, when smallpox epidemic occurred in both Mitsune Village and Ōgagō Village, it is said this also spread from smallpox patients on drifting boats. Since it is toxic qi that spreads easily to such distant

【Left Page】
places, all the more one must not send items from smallpox patients to nearby areas, nor should people be pleased to receive such things. Generally, the transmission of disease is the same as being affected by lacquer - those who receive a little of that qi become slightly ill, and those who receive much of that qi become very ill. Following the same principle, children who have not yet had smallpox should not be allowed to approach the side of smallpox patients. In China, it is not that they absolutely do not know how to avoid and escape this disease - books such as Zhang's Yitong and Yizong Jinjian record the technique of variolation. This technique involves taking smallpox scabs and placing them in the nose of a healthy child, and within ten days they will develop smallpox (there are various methods, but I abbreviate them here). This technique originally came to China from Western barbarian lands, and now in Japan there are occasionally those who practice this technique. When I was in western provinces, I also tried this, but it was no different from falling ill naturally. Even though one deliberately causes illness when healthy, the harm is said to be less