【Right Page】
Even so, not all variolation doctors are necessarily skilled physicians, and in this world where many do not know in the morning that a fatal disease will arise by noon, it is difficult to distinguish between the presence and absence of disease. Particularly, even children who appear chronically ill and dangerous in daily life may experience smallpox lightly, while it is hard to determine whether it will be severe necessarily due to existing illness. Generally, the arising of disease in the human body is like mold growing on objects - if you place things in damp ground they become moldy, but if in dry places they do not mold. Disease is no different from this: even if one has a body prone to illness, if one distances oneself from the causes of illness, one will not fall ill. To force illness upon a body prone to disease is the same as placing something that molds in damp ground, and the harm is immediately apparent. Rather than engaging in such troublesome practices, how wonderful it would be if one never contracted this disease at all. Smallpox is not an epidemic of atmospheric conditions or seasonal timing, but originally

【Left Page】
it is not something that arises from the climate of Japanese soil. That it is a contagious disease no different from syphilis or scabies can be understood by observing that there are now many lands that avoid it and do not suffer from it. In ancient times, there were many court nobles who went abroad as envoys for studying in Tang China sent by successive imperial courts, and there were also many who came to reside here from foreign countries as naturalized citizens. Moreover, in turbulent times there were those who traveled privately, and thus diseases that should not exist in the land were naturally transmitted. Originally, diseases that arise from toxic qi present in the land - since people live within that qi, no matter how well they conduct themselves, it is difficult to say they will necessarily escape it. When people of good conduct naturally fall ill, this is heavenly fate. All those who die from contagious diseases like smallpox and measles meet unnatural deaths. Even when people die from illness due to excess in sleeping, eating, pleasure, or hardship, the sages say this is an unnatural death. All the more so, to die from a disease that could be avoided is the most extreme form of unnatural death.