【Right Page】
avoiding it is an extremely easy matter.

　　　The Method of Avoiding Measles

While there are lands that avoid smallpox, I have never heard of lands that avoid measles. Measles in particular is understood in medical texts as an epidemic of heavenly influence and cosmic fortune, and throughout history no one has explained that it is a contagious disease. If one clearly understands the causation of its toxic qi, it is the same kind of contagious disease as smallpox, and there should be no doubt that if avoided, one will never contract it in one's lifetime. I have devoted many years to this matter, and the evidence I record is as follows.

In the fifth year of An'ei (1776), the year of hinoe-saru, a daughter named Fusa of a man called Goemon from Kanō Village in Kamo District of Izu Province was pregnant and, due to certain circumstances, was residing in Shimoda. At this time measles was epidemic in Shimoda, and pregnant women were universally miscarrying. Fearing this, she fled to the hot springs of Rendaiji under the pretext of taking a cure, and stayed there for a while.

【Left Page】
During this time, measles also came to spread there, so she fled to acquaintances in Shimokamo Village. But Shimokamo also had many patients, and having no choice, she lamented this situation and returned to her parents' home in Kanō. However, soon measles spread to Kanō as well, making it difficult to remain. At this time, hearing that measles had completely subsided in Nagatsuro Village, she moved there and stayed with acquaintances. After the epidemic subsided, she returned to her parents' home in Kanō and gave birth safely.

Also, in the third year of Kyōwa (1803), the year of mizunoto-i, many died from measles, and among pregnant women there were none who remained unharmed. At that time, the wife of Takamuro Gorobei from Takamuro Village in Kōshū was pregnant. The entire household feared that she would suffer harm. I earnestly explained that "smallpox and measles are not heavenly epidemics but spread from person to person like syphilis and scabies" as well as "the errors in medical texts throughout history." The master, being originally from a medical family, agreed with my explanation and, taking his eldest daughter, entered a separate room to avoid that qi.