【Right Page】
for about three months. Around that time, since the Naitō family of Nishihanawa Village, her parents' home, had experienced measles and many days had passed since its conclusion, she moved there. In autumn she returned to Takamuro and gave birth safely, with mother and three children all being spared. In the same year, a person from Edo named Hagiwara Ichizaemon was cutting timber from beneath Akaishi-ga-take in the depths of the Ōi River in Suruga Province. Most of the lumberjack workers were young men who had not previously had measles. Considering that if this disease entered the lumber camp it would be disruptive, he stored food and various supplies and did not let the workers leave the mountains. After passing the autumn and finishing the lumber work, everyone came out from the mountains. At this point, fifty-three people had avoided measles. This is something I know intimately, and it is clear proof that avoidance prevents illness. There are many others who avoided it and did not fall ill, but I omit the details as they would be tedious. Further evidence that it is not due to cosmic influence or seasonal timing is that the measles of Kyōwa 3 did not spread to Hachijō Island. This was not because that year's cosmic influence differed from the mainland, but because it was an island that did not allow indiscriminate ship traffic,

【Left Page】
and was thus fortunately without opportunities for contagion. Similarly, the fact that there was no epidemic for fifty-three years from Manju 2 to Shōryaku 1 was not due to different foreign toxic qi being transmitted, just as Hachijō Island did not transmit the Kyōwa 3 measles. If future epidemics were to reach Hachijō Island, since years would have passed, even the elderly would all fall ill. According to reports, measles now occurs annually in China. This too is not because the cosmic influence differs from Japan, but because it is a large country with many provinces and numerous people, so without everyone falling ill, it occurs yearly—the same as how smallpox is constantly present in Edo now. Even in China, in remote places with few people, once people have been ill and there are no more who should fall ill, there is no way for this disease to spread annually. The claim that it occurs yearly must necessarily refer to large cities and major administrative centers.