【Right Page】
increasingly severe with many deaths—is this not logical? When I carefully observe how people worship the smallpox deity in society, I see that the method of worship differs from the spirit of worship, showing no distinction. What do I mean? If smallpox is truly caused by the actions of the smallpox deity, then this is certainly evil qi and an evil spirit. It should be swiftly expelled. Generally, when we purify our bodies, sweep our homes, and worship deities, is it not to dispel the curses of evil qi and evil spirits and pray that there be no misfortune or disasters? Yet it is not proper to enshrine in one's household an evil spirit that causes people to suffer from terrible diseases like smallpox and kills them. Generally, when epidemics spread, people beat gongs and drums to expel the epidemic evil, recite purification prayers and chant sutras to drive it away. This necessarily has its efficacy. This is an ancient teaching—the toxic qi of epidemics dissipates because we worship righteous deities and expel evil

【Left Page】
spirits. If so, the smallpox deity should also be expelled like epidemics, yet there are villages with the custom of prohibiting even candy sellers who play flutes from entering their territory, saying that if musical instruments are played, the smallpox deity will retreat elsewhere. Should I call this foolishness or ignorance? If the deity retreats elsewhere even at the sound of a candy seller's flute, then according to ancient teachings, should we not swiftly expel the smallpox deity? If it is said that this is not a deity that causes smallpox but rather a deity that protects smallpox patients, then it is not a disease caused by the smallpox deity. If it is not a disease caused by the smallpox deity, then there is no need to make such elaborate decorations of deity shelves and hold festivals specifically for smallpox. If decorating deity shelves makes one suffer smallpox mildly, then since epidemics are also life-threatening diseases, one should decorate deity shelves in the household and hold festivals for them just as for smallpox—