【Right Page】
This is likely what happens. Since it is a common custom to think that mild smallpox is mildly contagious, when congratulatory gifts for mild smallpox are offered from below, or when [nobles] approach cases of mild smallpox, they become infected. There is absolutely no reason to contract this disease without a source of contagion. If one could become ill without any source of contagion, then there would be no lands where people could avoid the disease and remain healthy, and like other diseases, people would constantly fall ill here and there at any time. However, during epidemics, like silkworms eating mulberry leaves, the disease spreads from one end [of the population], and when an entire country has been afflicted, it gradually moves to other countries, then returns again after years have passed. The evidence for contagion is so abundantly clear that there is no need to elaborate further. Since this is such an obviously contagious disease that is easy to avoid and prevent, when noble persons become infected, it must be either because they do not know it is an easily avoidable disease, or because there has been negligence in protective measures,

【Left Page】
or because they welcome smallpox like the common people do - it cannot be anything other than these three reasons.
Even if there is smallpox within their domain, if they strictly forbid celebrations for smallpox and severely prohibit sending food and other items to other households, there should be absolutely no reason for noble persons to become infected. Without heirs among noble persons, even the most distinguished families with great merit will have their domains confiscated and their lineages severed - this has been the great law of governance in both Japan and China since ancient times. Smallpox and measles are great calamities that children must inevitably suffer, and being evil diseases that relate to the crucial matter of succession, they should be prevented with the utmost strictness. Yet from ancient times until now, it is truly lamentable that there are still occasional instances where noble persons experience problems with succession due to this disease. According to reports, after the noble of the Takeda clan, Anayama Baisetsu-sai, died unexpectedly in Kusauchi village, Uji district, Yamashiro province in the sixth month of Tenshō 10 (1582), his legitimate heir Katsuchiyo