【Right Page】
was said to be young, but as the heir to the Anayama house, retainers such as Hosaka Hitachi and Izumi Daigaku were assigned to assist him at the residence in Shimoyama, Kai province. This was entirely due to the deep benevolence of [the lord] who regretted that the legacy of the Takeda house might come to an end.
However, on the seventh day of the sixth month of the same fifteenth year, he contracted severe smallpox and passed away.
How regrettable! The bloodline of the Takeda house was severed due to smallpox. Also, the eldest son of Gamō Ujisato, called Gamō Hida-no-kami Hideyuki, held a domain of 630,000 koku in Aizu. After his death, his heir called Tadazato became the family head and was appointed to the positions of Sangi (court counselor) and Jūshii-no-jō Shimotsuke-no-kami (Senior Fourth Rank Upper, Governor of Shimotsuke). However, on the fourth day of the first month of Kan'ei 4, year of the Fire Rabbit (1627), at age twenty-five, he contracted the calamity of smallpox and passed away. Having no heir, his domain was confiscated. On the tenth day of the second month of the same year, his second son, who had held Kaminoyama in Ushū and was called Tadatomo, was made lord of Matsuyama castle in Yoshū,

【Left Page】
and was granted a total of 230,000 koku by combining it with 30,000 koku of land in Hino, Gōshū, and was appointed to the positions of Jijū (chamberlain) and Nakatsukasa-no-tayū. He too, on the fourth day of the eighth month of Kan'ei 11, year of the Wood Dog (1634), at age thirty, died of smallpox, and having no heir, his domain was confiscated. At this point, the bloodline of the Gamō house was also finally severed. How lamentable! Both the Takeda house and the Gamō house - such distinguished families - had their bloodlines severed due to smallpox and their domains perished, which is truly sorrowful. Reflecting on these matters, those who rule provinces and domains should strictly avoid this evil disease that represents a great calamity imminent for their heirs. The lowly common people have cramped dwellings and no wet nurses or ladies-in-waiting to care for them, and when smallpox epidemics occur, even neighboring houses have sick people, making prevention more difficult than for nobles.
However, by prohibiting children from visiting such houses and forbidding bringing items from those houses,