【Right Page】
then one will definitely not be infected. Moreover, noble persons have no contact with anyone other than wet nurses and ladies-in-waiting, and since they constantly grow up within the domain residence, there is no opportunity for them to be infected. If even the attendants understand that smallpox and measles are diseases that can be easily avoided and escaped, it would be much easier than preventing other diseases. When prevention of other diseases alone is conducted strictly, how could there be any reason not to avoid smallpox, whose life-and-death dangers are incalculable?
This must be due to being influenced by worldly customs. The source of those customs probably arose from the error in medical texts that explained foreign toxic contagion smallpox in the same way as epidemic pestilence of heavenly seasonal qi.

　　　　Methods of Preventing Smallpox

When I was young, I heard people say that on Hachijō Island, there were absolutely no people who suffered from

【Left Page】
smallpox. This was said to be due to the valiant divine spirit of Chinzei Hachirō Tametomo.
Every time I heard this story, I simply thought that even smallpox feared and trembled before Tametomo's valor. Later, I heard stories that places like Kumano in Kishū and Ontake in Shinshū also had no sufferers, but I dismissed these as well, thinking they might be the work of some rare divine spirits or that there might be other reasons for not falling ill. In the early Tenmei period (1781-1789), when I traveled to Nagasaki and studied Dutch surgery under Master Yoshio, I often went to Ōmura and Amakusa in place of my teacher. When I observed these places, I found that this region too had no people who suffered from smallpox since ancient times. Their freedom from the disease was, as recorded in the beginning of the previous volume, simply through avoiding and detesting infection, not through the use of medicine nor divine protection. Moreover, I have since observed many other regions that avoid smallpox. Their methods of avoidance are all different from those of Ōmura and Amakusa.