【Right Page】
There are none. Considering this matter, according to the theory stated in ancient and modern smallpox medical texts that smallpox is a heavenly epidemic pestilence that manifests fetal poison, it is suspicious that while other epidemic pestilences also spread to places like Ōmura and Amakusa, only the smallpox pestilence does not spread to Ōmura and Amakusa. This would also mean that people in Ōmura and Amakusa have no fetal poison.
Since this doubt arose, I have investigated and researched ancient and modern medical texts for thirty years, and finally discovered the principle that the four diseases of smallpox, measles, syphilis, and scabies are foreign miasmas with malevolent poison from the disorder of yin and yang, and because they are diseases transmitted from foreign countries, they can be avoided and one need not fall ill. I wrote this book for the first time with the hope that the disaster of people in the world dying unnatural deaths from smallpox and measles would cease. I named this book "Treatise on Cutting Off Poison" because, as explained in this book, following the example of those regions like Ōmura and Amakusa and other smallpox-avoiding lands

【Left Page】
when each province prevents smallpox, immediately
the smallpox poison in Japan would be cut off at its roots and there would be no one who dies from this evil disease for a long time. Fortunately, since foreign shipping is strictly controlled, once customs are established to avoid and not fall ill, there will be no recurrence of smallpox poison transmission and spread throughout the country as in the old days when foreign shipping was unrestricted. Even if there were people with smallpox poison on drifting foreign ships and rare cases of transmission occurred, it would not spread beyond a single village or bay. If this were the case, just as the Christian heretical sect was destroyed during the Kan'ei period (1624-1644) and there has been no such disaster since, even after countless generations, there should be no suffering from smallpox poison. In the autumn of Bunka 7 (1810), after writing the previous volume and reflecting on it, I realized that anything not tested by oneself is mere empty theory and not worth considering. Therefore