【Right Page】
When I was thinking of testing this personally, the following year, the year of Kanoto-hitsuji (1811), smallpox spread throughout the country, and in my village of over a thousand households, the toxic miasma gradually spread and many children died daily. At that time, my children - a six-year-old boy and a four-year-old girl - easily avoided smallpox and were not affected by the affliction at all. Particularly since my household practices internal medicine, surgery, and ophthalmology, I visited smallpox patients' homes daily, and children with eye diseases and swellings from smallpox came and went daily without cease from spring to autumn.
Even though smallpox patients constantly entered my household, if one has knowledge of prevention methods, one will not be infected by the toxic miasma. Much more so, avoiding smallpox in households that are not medical practices is very easy. This year, ten households that believed in my theory and avoided smallpox, with sixteen children in total, all safely avoided the disaster of smallpox without a single mistake.

【Left Page】
They were spared and remain healthy to this day. Having thus tested and confirmed that smallpox is easy to prevent, and having personally mastered all the knowledge of prevention methods, I desire to make this public and widely eliminate the suffering from smallpox. I add this supplementary volume to record the knowledge of smallpox prevention methods as follows:

1. There are three ways smallpox transmits. First, when one approaches a smallpox patient and the heated air enters the nose, even if one does not smell the odor, one will certainly be infected by the toxic miasma.
Second, transmission occurs through touching toys of smallpox patients and all objects that were in the sickroom during illness. Third, transmission occurs through food from smallpox households. This is extremely rapid. I believe that since the toxic miasma is so strong that it can infect and transmit even through utensils, the heated air from cooking food and the heated air from smallpox have the same nature and mutually