In the same year, at the deputy office of Lord Ina Hanzaemon in Kanagawa, Musashi Province, a farmer was cultivating his vegetable garden when he dug up a small pot. Inside were 170 ryō of gold, which was presented to the government.

On the second day of the twelfth month of the same year, Lady Hōjuin passed away. 《Marginal note: Mother of the Shogun's family》【Addition】《Marginal note: Jōson says: Mother of Lord Ietsuna》

1. In the second year of Jōō, it was announced that the succession of Lord Matsudaira Etchū-no-kami 《Marginal note: Sadatsuna》 of Kuwana in Ise Province would pass to Lord Settsu-no-kami, and henceforth a transfer of Kuwana domain would be ordered.

Linked verse of the first month of the same year: "Firmly I think, the pine shows spring's color of eight thousand generations" - Shōkei
"The country rich, mountains and rivers hazy"
"Under heaven, waves and wind calm, the year passes" - Genshō

In the second month of the same year, according to popular rumor, in the fields between Nasu and Ōtawara in Shimotsuke Province, white and red flags appeared inexplicably in the year of the boar, and the red flags disappeared quickly, which became the talk of the town.

In the same year, there was a quarrel at Kambara on the road between the retainers of Lord Sanuki Ukyō-no-daibu 《Marginal note: Mito family》 and the retainers of Lord Honda Naiki. The details are as follows: Ōkubo Jindayū, a retainer of Lord Ukyō-no-daibu, was traveling down as an official messenger when his horse knocked over and damaged a palanquin of a physician from elsewhere at Tenryūgawa bank. When the physician's attendants beat the horse handler, Lord Naiki saw this and said, "A man cannot remain a man if the horse handler I rode is beaten like that." Taking this as a grudge, Jindayū followed them to Kambara, knocked him down from horseback with a cross-shaped spear, killed two young attendants, and withdrew. However, he dropped the scabbard of his cross-spear, so he returned to retrieve it. When Lord Naiki heard of this, he pursued and caught up at Nyūzan in Kōshū, where with a large force he surrounded and killed five of Lord Ukyō's retainers, high and low.

In the same year, in the household of Lord Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami, Kawate Mohei (700 koku, flag magistrate) and his son Jūrōemon (500 koku stipend) employed a rōnin whose name was also Jūrōemon. The house elders suggested that Kawate's son change his name since they shared the same name. Jūrōemon replied that it was his ancestor's name and he would not change it, asking "Would it not be proper to change even by lord's order?" To which he replied, "Even by lord's order, I will not change it."

【Right page addition】
《Marginal note: Jōson wonders: How is it that we do not hear of residence changes during Lady Kōtokuin's time?》

《Marginal note: Jōson notes: Regarding the popular tale of white and red flags appearing between Nasu and Ōtawara in Shimotsuke, this still exists today. There is a plain called Usuba-no-hara west of Ōtawara and Sakuyama. Here, the forms of military maneuvers faintly appear in the sky. The locals say it is the spirit of Usuba Bitchū-no-kami who perished during the Tenshō era. This is what is called koro (mirage). In the commentary on the Dadai Li, koro is described as shinkhi (mirage vapor), which refers to fata morgana, as Master Mōsai also said. Also, someone else...》

【Left page addition】
《Marginal note: If what appears over the sea is called kaishi (sea market), then what appears in Shimotsuke might be called sanshi (mountain market) - this too is an interesting theory, it was said. Recently, a monument recording this matter was erected at a place called Yagisawa, but it is greatly in error. The popular tale mentioned in the main text must refer to this matter.》