One gate guard was wounded, in the second district one lantern bearer was wounded, in Hinoki-mono-cho two people were attacked with one death. At the same location, of four gate guards, three died. One death in Minami Kifune-cho, one wharf guard in Nagamochi-cho Riverbank, in Minami Kaji-cho three people with one death, two deaths in Naiki-cho, four wounded in Sa'uchi-cho, one in Maruya-cho. The identity of this attacker was unknown and he disappeared without a trace. It is said he cut people down one by one with a single sword. Later, after an official investigation, it was discovered that this was the act of a masterless samurai named Yamanaka Hanzaemon who had gone mad.

In the same year, the insignia for the New Guard Corps had not yet been decided, but this time it was announced that they would use fukibuki banners.

In the same year, for the construction of the Buddhist hall for Daiyuin-sama at Momijiyama, various daimyo petitioned to donate plants. For this project, since Matsudaira Dewa-no-kami-dono's domain had good iron, he was ordered to contribute 1,000 kan of it. From Matsudaira Chiyokuma-dono's domain, 1,000 kin of verdigris was contributed.

In the same year, the Lord of Mito went to Kamakura.

In the same year, the Chancellor of Kishu went to Ono in Kai Province for the memorial service of Yoshuin-dono.

Nanryuin-dono's mother passed away on the twenty-first day of the eighth month of last year.

In the same year, in the tenth month, there was a vendetta killing in front of the Mito mansion. The Horigoshi Denemon brothers, retainers of Sakai Gaku-no-kami-dono, carried out the killing. The one who was killed was said to be a man named Kobayashi Chubei. Mito-sama had him detained at the checkpoint, but he was handed over after Sakai Hyuga-no-kami-dono made a request.

In the same year, for assistance at Nikko, Okudaira Mimasaku-no-kami and his retainer Kuwana Nizaemon:
Fifty pieces of silver, summer kimono, four unlined garments, haori jackets each - Ikuta Naiko

Twenty pieces of silver, summer kimono, three unlined garments each - Sakata Jinemon, Shiina Heizaemon, Ikeda Shigeemon, Okudaira Kazaemon

In the same year, on the fourteenth day of the seventh month (or seventh month?), [the Emperor] passed away from smallpox at the Imperial Palace.

In the same year, on the fifteenth and twentieth days of the seventh month, there was a flood in Matsudaira Shintaro-dono's domain in Bizen Province, with water rising three ken above normal levels. Water entered even within the main castle compound, affecting 443 samurai residences, 573 ashigaru walking attendant residences, and foot soldier residences...