443 buildings, 443 townhouse lots, 165 people drowned in the town area, 220 cattle and horses lost.

In the same year, eighth month, when Naito Tatewaki-dono was appointed to Osaka garrison duty, his procession (70,000 koku domain, but treated as 50,000 koku in Osaka):
(However, this count includes only those on guard duty)

Two curtain boxes, one flag box, one flag general on horseback, ten flagpoles, one flag general on horseback
125 matchlocks (one mounted warrior per 25 guns), 50 bows (one mounted warrior per 25 bows), one mounted warrior with hand cannons (30 guns)
One mounted warrior with hand bows (20 bows), one mounted spear-bearer commander (20 spears), seven pack horses, carrying boxes (10), palanquin for changing (1)
Long storage boxes (3), one straw raincoat box, two long storage boxes, armor stand, one standing umbrella and sedge hat, matchlocks (50)
Two bows (standing upright), sword tubes (2), attendants (50 people), mounted guards (about 20 people), one palanquin
Tea lunch box (with monk attendant), additional forces (about 20 escort spears, placed at half-block intervals), 72 mounted warriors (placed about half a block from the main force, mixing high and low-ranking samurai)
Five palanquins (including one 2,000-koku physician), pages (11 mounted escorts, all with distinguished records), escort riders and additional escort riders (in formation)
2,000-koku physician (on horseback with palanquin following)

Five bows, ten matchlocks intermixed, one long-handled weapon, two pack horses, one bow (standing upright), matchlocks (2), sword tubes

Corresponding carrying boxes, attendants (about 20 people) with one mounted warrior, escort riders (5 people), pages (1 person). The total number of samurai and all personnel was 4,300 people.

Meireki 1st year (1655), second month of the year of the sheep: the Shogun suffered from smallpox.

In the same year, ninth month, there was a dispute between Kyogoku Anchi-ro and Hida-no-kami-dono. Ii Kambe-no-kami-dono, Hoshina Higo-no-kami-dono, Matsudaira Izumo-no-kami-dono, Inoue Kawachi-no-kami-dono, and Mizuno Dewa-no-kami-dono mediated. The relationship between Anchi-ro and Hida-no-kami-dono had always been poor, and this time both parties filed complaints regarding land construction and lot allocation. Through the aforementioned mediation, the matter was temporarily settled.

In the same year, tenth month, Koreans arrived. Items sent to Korea:
20 swords, 20 sets of armor, 20 long swords, 20 pairs of folding screens, 2 sets of silver tea utensils

They arrived in Edo on the second day of the tenth month, had an audience at the castle on the eighth day, and departed Edo on the first day of the eleventh month. During their stay in Edo, they visited Nikko. At a banquet held at the residence of So Tsushima-no-kami Yoshinari, at the Koreans' request, the monkey trainer Tonaichi performed juggling acts.

(Joo 3rd year, year of the horse, eighth month, twenty-ninth day)