Same year: Lord Nagai Iga-no-kami was relieved of his position as Kyoto Shoshidai, and Lord Toda Yamashiro-no-kami was appointed to the position.

Same year, 12th month: Fire broke out from the Hiroshoin hall of the Retired Emperor's palace, and the Empress's palace was consumed in flames.

1. Enpo 4 (1676), Dragon year: Fire occurred at Zojoji Temple and the main hall burned down, but the mausoleum was unharmed.

Same year, 9th month: Fire occurred at Ise Inner Shrine and the entire town burned down.

Same year, 8th month: Regarding Lord Hotta Kazusa-no-suke, who had been placed under the custody of Lord Sakai Saemon-no-jo in previous years, this summer he was transferred to the custody of Lord Matsudaira Awa-no-kami. It was reported that under Saemon-no-jo there had been unauthorized outings and such, so Saemon-no-jo was ordered into house confinement, and Kazusa-no-suke's 48 male and female retainers were placed under the custody of Lords Matsudaira Oki-no-kami, Matsudaira Etchu-no-kami, and Wakisaka Nakatsukasa-shosuke.

Same year, Dragon year, 3rd month, 30th day: Fire broke out in Takada castle town in Echigo, burning down 240 samurai residences and about 3 blocks of townspeople's houses.

Same year, 3rd month: Floods in the Kamigata region. Kujo Bridge was swept away, embankments broke for 7,000 ken, and water flooded into Kyoto.

Same year, 5th month: Nagasaki deputy Suetsugu Heizo and Uchi Heibei (father and son) were handed over to Lord Matsudaira Dewa-no-kami's retainers and exiled to Oki Province. Additionally, youngest son Sanjuro and Shimoda Yazaemon's adopted son - these two were handed over to Lords Okubo Dewa-no-kami and Matsuura Hizen-no-kami's retainers for exile. Retainer Kageyama Kudayu and interpreter Shimoda Yazaemon were crucified, Yarutome Kuroemon and Kageyama Kudayu's son were gibbeted, clerk Yoshino Tobei was banished, Shimoda Tazaemon was placed under custody, Heizo's son Heizaemon was banished without crime, Heizo's daughter was pardoned, and she and her mother were taken in by their uncle, townsman Hisamatsu Kichibei. Heizo's confiscated property was placed under the custody of Takagi Sakuzaemon. This was because of their extravagant wealth and also for sending military equipment to China, resulting in punishment as described above.

Same year: The Dutch presented two donkeys in addition to their regular tribute.

Same year, 6th month, 2nd day: Great earthquake in Iwami Province, Tsuwano. 130 houses collapsed, 7 deaths, 35 injured. (Joson's note: There was also a Tsuwano earthquake on the 2nd day of the 6th month of the previous year - this may be a duplicate entry)

1. Enpo 5 (1677), Snake year, spring: Imperial linked verse:
"Growing still, through generations the custom of young leaves on pine - Shoriku
Bamboo brings order to the garden's spring wind
Morning birds raise their voices at the deep stone well - Shojun"

Same year, 10th month, 9th day, night: Tsunami struck the bays of Izu, with waves 2 jo 5-6 shaku high. Eight villages were swept away by the waves, over 200 people died, and cattle, horses, fishing equipment, and salt kilns were carried away by the waves. The same night, tsunami struck the bays of Iwaki domain in Oshu, and many people and horses died.
(Note written above "same year 8th month")
(Joson's note: Should be Kozuke-no-suke)
(Red ink notation above "same year 10th month")
(Same 5th year, Snake, 2nd month, 12th day: Earthquake in Nanto, tsunami swept away 20 houses. Note: Nanto is not coastal)