He was someone who knew the inside details, so after investigation it reached the Shogun's ears. However, since his entry into the castle grounds violated the regulations, he was placed under the custody of Lord Matsudaira Shuri-no-suke. Being a person of good lineage, he was granted a stipend of twenty men, and it was declared that his wife and children in Shinano Province would not be subject to punishment.

○ Same year, night of setsubun in the 1st month: Thirty-six stone lanterns at Kasuga Shrine fell down. Thirty-two of them were said to be erected by our house.
Also, at the New Year offering place, a deer [fell into?] the water basin, and the river water for preparing offerings dried up.

○ Same year, 8th month: Fire broke out from the Goma Hall of Hachiman Hōzōbō at the hour of the Ox on the 6th day. All of Hōzōbō temple complex burned, as well as Naka-no-bō, Matsu-no-bō, Tamon-bō, and Kiku-no-bō. The main shrine was unharmed.

○ Same year, 6th month: Lord Kuwayama Mimasaku-no-kami. Due to his recent improper conduct in Kōzuke, his domain was confiscated and he was placed under the custody of Lord Makino Suruga-no-kami.

○ Same year: Lord Matsudaira Yamato-no-kami was placed under house arrest, his domain confiscated, granted 70,000 koku in Bungo and Hyūga, and ordered to relocate.
This was due to poor handling of the Echigo domain disturbance. Similarly, Lord Matsudaira Kōzuke-no-suke had half his domain confiscated and was granted 10,000 koku.

○ Same year, official proclamation - Memorandum:
　　For tribute clothing, Date-dyed, mon-jima, silk, and shusu shall be considered unnecessary. Henceforth, men's clothing shall be
　This is to be reformed starting from this spring's clothing　　　　　　　　　　　　submitted

○ Same year: Lords Honda Izumo-no-kami and Honda Echizen-no-kami - both had poor administration of their retainers and domains, and moreover had improper conduct during their provincial tours, so their domains were confiscated, they were relocated, and each granted 10,000 koku.

○ Tenna 1, 10th month: The current First Prince (age 13), son of a daughter of Lord Ogura Dainagon. There was imperial intention for him to become a disciple at Ninnaji Temple, but the prince was unwilling to take Buddhist vows, so it was postponed. Imperial messenger Lord Kōno Saisho came three times, but the prince still would not consent. Even when Lord Ogura remonstrated, he would not agree, causing imperial anger.
On 9th month, 12th day, imperial messengers Lord Tenpōrin and Lord Kanroji came again, accompanied by palace guard warriors, to Lord Ogura to demand the prince be handed over by imperial decree. Under warrior guard, the prince was moved to Lord Asukai's retirement residence, and Lord Ogura and his two sons, plus four or five other court nobles, were ordered into house confinement.

[Written above Tenna 1]
《Jōson's note: From this section down to the Tenna 3 section, there appears to be confusion. There was disorder in the binding, and this appears to be a copy transmitted as it was.》