Lord Nagai Iga-no-kami, Lord Itō Izumo-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Tosa-no-kami, Lord Hirata Izu-no-kami (deaths occurred),
Lord Matsuda Rokurōzaemon, Lord Obama Magosaburō, Lord Matsudaira Shuri-no-suke, Lord Shibue Shōken, Dōbō-machi, Ryū-no-kuchi,
Lord Seki Bizen-no-kami, Lord Tsuchiya Chikara, Okabe Kakuzaemon, machi-yoriki residences, near Zōjō-ji temple,
two gatekeepers at Kanda-bashi died, Himono-machi, Kayaba-machi, Bairinzaka Tamon - lightning struck all these places as described above.

1. Tenna 3rd year (year of the Boar), New Year's imperial renga (Pines standing tall - beneath heaven all green, Shōkei / The voices of cranes so peaceful in the mountains / Spring sun shines on the sea surface, snow cleared, Shōjun)

○Same month: Nagata Tōbei (palace guard) and Tsuji Hanemon (shell official) - both men were at the front of Lord Matsudaira Echizen-no-kami's
Hama-chō residence, where Tōbei waited for Hanemon returning from guard duty, killed Hanemon and tried to flee,
but Hanemon's sandal-bearer chased after and killed Tōbei.

○Proclamation issued in the same month:
1. Gold gauze, embroidery, and overall tie-dye patterns - these items are henceforth
prohibited as women's clothing. All novel weaving and dyeing innovations should be discontinued. Kosode outer fabric
costing more than 200 ryō per tan should not be bought or sold. First month

Memorandum
1. Festivals and Buddhist services should be conducted even more simply. All temple and shrine vestments, yamabushi robes and ceremonial dress should be simplified in all respects
1. Townspeople's dancers and sarugaku performers, even if they are stipend recipients, shall not wear swords henceforth
1. Farmers and townspeople's clothing should be silk, pongee, or hemp cloth according to their means, for wives and children as well
1. Dancers and sarugaku performers likewise. However, those performing official duties may wear noshi-me without problem
1. All maidservants and elderly women should wear cotton cloth and similar materials. The same applies to sashes
The above was communicated by the ōmetsuke to all daimyo lords who submitted written reports.

○Same year, 3rd month (These two men were under custody but were pardoned in previous years and are currently in Musashi Province) (Lord Kōriki Iyo-no-kami, Lord Kōriki Uemon)
Regarding Chika Sakon's case: although he was placed under custody in previous years for misconduct, since his sons were unaware of this, on the occasion of the current Crown Prince and
Empress proclamations, both men were summoned, as announced to Lord Kōriki Sakyō-no-suke at Lord Abe Bungo-no-kami's residence.

○Same month (Kanze Shinkurō, Kanze Gonkurō): These men were summoned by Lord Kaishō Hida-no-kami and
sentenced to banishment. The offense occurred on the 22nd day of the 3rd month during a Noh performance at Ninomaru, when Gonkurō was assigned to perform Dōjō-ji. On that occasion, Shinkurō