Ikoma Saburo Zaemon <<1,500 koku stipend>> was ordered to be killed by retainers. Both men's children and brothers were also ordered to be killed. Since Saburo Zaemon was one who had audience with the shogunate, this was reported to the monthly duty elder, and afterward he committed suicide. 【Uda Collapse】

○Same year: In Lord Satake Ukyo-no-daibu's domain in Akita, Dewa Province, at Noshiro, Morioka, Hiyama, Komagata, and Tobine - forty-two villages in total - there was a great earthquake from the 27th to 28th day of the 5th month. About 400 people died, about 200 were injured, about 20 cattle and horses died, and 2,508 residences collapsed. At that time there were also accidental fires causing extensive burning. In addition, the castle, samurai residences, townhouses, etc. were also extensively damaged.

○Same year: It was proclaimed that abandoning puppies was prohibited under the animal protection laws, and ball games commerce in Edo was also prohibited.

○Same year: Mizuno Sadayu of Lord Katagiri Shuzen's group, a senior guard on remaining duty for Osaka service, was traveling to Osaka when he stopped to rest his palanquin at Hashimoto in Enshu Province. A servant spear-bearer stabbed Sadayu to death through the palanquin with his spear and fled, but local people pursued and captured him.

○Same year: Domain transfer to Kawagoe in Musashi Province, Lord Matsudaira Mino-no-kami; 10,000 koku increase each <<Lord Abe Bungo-no-kami, Lord Toda Yamashiro-no-kami, Lord Okubo Kaga-no-kami>>

○Same year: 100 koku of shrine land donated to Imamiya in Kyoto; came down to Edo to express gratitude <<Head priest>> Sasaki Takumi
This was due to Lady Keishoin's religious devotion.

○Same year: Revision of mourning period regulations was proclaimed.

1. Genroku 8th year, Boar year: Summoned as page with 500 hyō stipend - Lord Kuroda Buzen-no-kami

○Same year: 10,000 koku increase, transferred to Takasaki in Kozuke Province, total 52,000 koku - Lord Matsudaira Ukyo-no-daibu

○Same year, 9th month: Gold and silver recoining ordered. Content of the written notice - Memorandum:
　1. Since the gold and silver hallmarks have become old, recoining has been ordered. Moreover, since gold and silver coming from mines in recent years is not abundant, gold and silver in circulation will gradually decrease, so to correct the standard of gold and silver and increase the gold and silver in circulation, this has been proclaimed.
　1. Regarding the gold and silver recoining, gold held by people in society will be requisitioned by the government.