...received gifts and other improprieties, and for various misconduct was placed under the custody of Lord Naitō Kii-no-kami.

○Same year　A fire broke out from Yotsuya Ishikiri-chō and burned to Shiba waterfront.

○Same year　To Lord Kishū Sakyō-dayū was granted the former residence land of Lord Hasegawa Gobei at the end of Aoyama Hyakunin-chō.

○Same year　Lord Makino Bingo-no-kami fell ill, and when reporting to the government, although all could serve, it was communicated to the rōjū and ōmetsuke that henceforth this would not be necessary, as there seemed to be some arrangement in accordance with circumstances.

○Same year　Lord Hagiwara Hikojirō was appointed to oversee the gold and silver recoining project.

○Same year, September　Chisoku-in was appointed to the newly established position of Sōroku Dai-sōjō of the new sect, renamed Goji-in, and granted an increase of 500 koku, making it 1,500 koku total.

○Same year, October　At Kyoto, Kuon-ju-in passed away. Since this temple was connected to the master-disciple relationship with the Head Priest of Nikkō, the Head Priest observed fifty days of mourning.

○July　200 koku of temple land was donated to Sendagi Seson-in, as it was the bodaiji (family temple) of the Lord's mother.

○Same year, July　Lord Mori Hōki-no-kami's adopted son Tonomo went down to his domain. During two investigations, Mori Naiki and Hōki-no-kami's senior retainers appeared at the hyōjōsho. Although Tonomo's adoption should have been approved as requested, Naiki claimed he could not send him down due to illness. However, even if ill, Tonomo was ordered to come down, and there were two investigations.
《Duplicate entry》
Regarding Tonomo's original matter, although he had requested to become Mori Hōki-no-kami's adopted son, due to increasingly improper conduct, he was placed under Mimasaka-no-kami's custody. Furthermore, Hōki-no-kami's improper adoption request was deemed inexcusable, and he was not granted succession to the family name. This decision was to be communicated to Mimasaka-no-kami.

○Same year, November　Lord Hōki-no-kami died. From his allocated domain, 20,000 hyō were returned to Mimasaka-no-kami, but there was no succession to the family name.

○Same year　With an increase of 3,000 koku, making it 10,000 koku total, <<wakadoshiyori>> Lord Yonekura Tango-no-kami.

○Same year　Sakai magistrate Lord Sakuma Tango-no-kami was relieved of his duties. From this time, Sakai administration came under Ōsaka town magistrate control, and the same was ordered for Fushimi.