Those who are to be assigned to respective departments, as well as those with organizational supervision responsibilities, should have their existing supervisors compile and submit the required documents.

1. Regarding the provincial maps in the shogunal library: they should be temporarily lent out for viewing and returned afterward. The above, April.
[Marginal note] <<Jōson speculates this was Genroku 10, year of the ox>>

○Same year, July: New two-shu coins were produced.

○Same year: A strong earthquake occurred, causing the collapse of stone walls at Hirakawaguchi, Bairinsaka, and Tamon.

○Same year: For Gokoku-ji temple, Lord Sōma Danjō-shōhitsu, and for Goji-in temple, Lord Sengoku Echizen-no-kami were ordered to assist with construction projects.

○Same year: 20,000 koku increase granted to Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami.

○Same year: Memorandum issued
1. Regarding punishment of those guilty of treason  1. Regarding punishment of arsonists
1. Regarding punishment of those who injure living beings or cause them harm

When such criminals are found, after conducting an investigation, if the matter is contained within one domain and one household without external complications, henceforth there is no need to seek approval - punishments should be carried out according to one's own judgment following Edo's precedents. However, if other territories are involved, the matter should be reported to the monthly rotating senior councillor. For crimes warranting exile to distant islands, if there are no islands within the domain, permanent imprisonment or strict custody by relatives should be implemented. Furthermore, regarding compassion for living beings, the previously issued edicts should be followed ever more strictly with careful attention. Ox 6th month [Marginal note] <<Tiger year?>>

○Same year: Regarding the exchange of old and new gold coins, although it was announced last year that the deadline was the third month of Genroku 11, year of the tiger, since the exchange has not yet been completed in distant provinces, it was subsequently announced that the deadline is extended to the third month of the coming year of the rabbit.

○Same year, August: Due to poor governance of Lord Ogasawara Shuri's household, he was placed under the custody of Lord Ogasawara Ukon-shōgen. Since Lord Kyūnai has hereditary connections, he was granted half of the 80,000 koku domain.

○Same year, September: Dismissed from office and confined to house arrest <<Nagasaki Magistrate>> Lord Suwa Shimōsa-no-kami. This was because while smuggling was prohibited in Nagasaki, his retainers and subordinates engaged in smuggling, constituting misconduct.