Although orders had been given beforehand and ships were dispatched from various harbors, they could not approach due to severe winds and waves. In general, Korean ships differ from Chinese ships in that they use no iron nails and are held together only by stitching, making them more fragile than Japanese ships. At this time, the two old escort ships had been scattered by previous storms and suffered some damage, but safely drifted to a place called Waki-Ōura about six ri away, and all the crew survived. The sea between Korea and Tsushima is extremely rough and treacherous, making sea crossings very difficult.

○November 22nd of the same year: Great earthquake. The castle's inner and outer baileys, checkpoints, gates, and stone walls in various places were severely damaged, and various daimyo were ordered to assist with repairs. Those who assisted with castle repairs received thirty sets of ceremonial robes each as thanks on April 29th:
Lord Matsudaira Daizen-no-dayū, Lord Tachibana Hida-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Hyōbu-no-dayū, Lord Nabeshima Settsu-no-kami, Lord Tozawa Kazusa-no-suke, Lord Nagai Hyūga-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Uneme-no-kami, Lord Katō Tōtōmi-no-kami, Lord Koide Ise-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Bitchū-no-kami, Lord Arima Settsu-no-kami, Lord Itō Yamato-no-kami, Lord Inaba Noto-no-kami, Lord Kuroda Ise-no-kami, Lord Akizuki Nagato-no-kami, Lord Rokugō Iga-no-kami, Lord Sakai Yukie-no-suke, Lord Toda Noto-no-kami, Lord Mōri Suō-no-kami, Lord Date Tōtōmi-no-kami, Lord Mizuno Kenmotsu, Lord Naitō Suruga-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Uemon-no-kami, Lord Niwa Sakyō-no-dayū.

In addition to their personal awards and gifts to their retainers as usual, Kikkawa Katsunosuke received six sets of ceremonial robes <<one with the shogunal crest>>.

○Same year: The Kishū lord's mansion was damaged by fire, as was the Sakyō-no-dayū lord's mansion.

One: On February 4th, Genroku 17, year of the Monkey, Lord Matsudaira Echigo-no-kami Mitsunaga presented three swords <<by Aoe Yoshitsugu>> in two loads for his ninetieth birthday celebration <<presented privately from within>>. He died on November 17th, Hōei 4, year of the Boar, at age ninety-three.

○October of the same year: A veterinarian named Hashimoto Gonnosuke killed a dog and was executed. An official notice was issued regarding this matter.

○In Genroku 15, it was proclaimed that growing brushwood mixed in with regular rice fields should not be done, but as people continued to grow mixed brushwood, from the coming year of the Sheep, only half of the current year's crop should be grown. After this, it was proclaimed that the amount grown each year should be reduced, and this was also proclaimed in Hōei 1, year of the Monkey.

○December of the same year: Lord Kōfu Chūnagon Ienobu was proclaimed as adopted heir and entered the West Palace. They are respectfully called "Both Their Lordships." Ichii-sama, Odai-sama, Omisuchū-sama. Daimyo presented gifts in December.

<<West Palace assistants: Matsudaira Daizen-no-dayū, Mōri Suō-no-kami, Itō Yamato-no-kami, Akizuki Nagato-no-kami, Toda Noto-no-kami>>
<<Jōson's note: perhaps Nishi-ue-sama>>