Due to this succession, the family crest was also changed to a left three-tomoe with three necks, and in the Echizen house, one person bore the name Yūki. In previous years, Lord Matsudaira Yamato-no-kami sent Shirai Gon-dayū to Mito, inquiring about a person called Lord Yūki Shichirō in that house, noting that the common name "Shichirō" should only be used by the heir. At that time, the lord was Kōmon Mitsukuni, who replied: "That is quite right. Regarding Shichirō, when we took in the father and son, since the Oyama clan, descendants of the legitimate grandson of Fujiwara, Tawara Tōta Hidesato, had become extinct, Shogun Yoritomo made the male child born from Samukawa-ni, daughter of Hatta Musha-dokoro, the heir, renamed him Yūki Shichirō, and sent him to the Oyama house with 1.2 million koku. During the Taiheiki period, they were called 'Sangi Issō' by the world" (Sangi refers to Yūki Hōki and Kusunoki; Issō refers to Chigusa Chūjō). However, the genealogy on brown-dyed paper handed down from Tawara Tōta, along with Emperor Go-Daigo's imperial decree and commendations from Nitta Yoshisada and Shogun Takauji, were held by Yūki Shichirō's elderly father Kōshitsu (50 documents), second son Sagara Shichirō Uemon (40 documents), and youngest son Nakahata Shichirō Dayū (19 documents). Therefore, even retainers called him Shichirō. Moreover, while Yamato-dono claims to be a descendant of Yūki, since Matsudaira is currently established, there should be no investigation into Yūki matters."

Now, when the Shirakawa clan fell as described above, a young child of Nakahata Kōzuke-no-suke, lord of Sanjōme Takanashi castle, named Kamejirō, aged four, was left behind in the castle. When the peasants of Sanjōme gathered to drown him in Kamaga-fuchi below the castle, Nakahata's retainer Sagara Magouemon stopped them, took the child in his arms, ran to Sukagawa and raised him. When Lord Katō Samanosuke was granted Shirakawa, Magouemon came forward when Kamejirō was fifteen years old and petitioned about these circumstances. He was granted a perpetual stipend of 100 koku and made a country samurai. Kamejirō changed his name to Jizaemon. Jizaemon had two sons: first Shichirōbei, second Jinzaemon, who is the grandfather of the present Sukagawa Jinzō. (The detailed genealogy of Yūki should exist in five or six volumes of copies with Jinzō or his cousin in Asakawa. This document was compiled by Jinzaemon's efforts, and I also viewed it in my youth.) While it is certain that Jizaemon had two sons, there seem to have been one or two others, as the genealogy shows a daughter named O-Ruri who served Lord Tatebayashi Saisho. Also, in Shimotsuke Sano there is an old place called Kasugaoka, which is a branch temple of Nikkō-san.

[Margin note]
(Jōson notes: The statement that Lord Harutomo of Echizen succeeded to the Yūki house is incorrect. Since Harutomo had no children, Lord Hideyasu succeeded to Yūki Harutomo's house.)