There was an imperial seal for fifty koku, and the mountain's third patriarch, Monk Sankai, was revered by the Divine Sovereign (Tokugawa Ieyasu). Due to this connection as well, Sagara Jinzaemon climbed the mountain and gained his respect. When viewing the various items bestowed by the Divine Sovereign, he received a saddle and still possesses it to this day. (This was related to me fifteen or sixteen years ago from Myōgen-ji temple at Ushijima in Edo. When I served as caretaker at Myōken-ji temple in Sano, I visited Harutaoka and spoke with the chief priest, inquiring about stone monuments, whereupon I discovered Monk Sankai's memorial stone. This should be revered.) There was also O-Ruri, also known as Yoshida Koemon, who was a hatamoto with a stipend of one thousand koku in the page corps. This was because in previous years, when Yūki Gakuzaemon Shichirō and his son were rōnin, they were taken in and cared for at his residence, and later summoned to Mito.

Now, regarding how the Yūki clan came to be summoned to Mito: when I was seven years old, my late father Shichirō Dayū was residing as a guard at Sanjōme. Lord Mito Saisho (during Lord Kōmon's time, he was still Saisho) appointed Tomo-no-suke Saburō from his retainers, saying there should be many Yūki descendants in the Ōshū region, and to go search for them. An investigation was already conducted at the residences of the two headmen of Nakahata village, Kohari and Okazaki, whereupon both village heads immediately guided them to the old castle. The eldest son, Yūki Gakuzaemon, was a rōnin aged sixty-two, his younger brother Sagara Shichirō Uemon was living as a dependent. The third son, Nakahata Shichirō Dayū, a rōnin, was being cared for by the peasants of Sanjōme because he was their ancestors' master. Therefore, both village heads guided Assistant Saburō to Sukagawa Shichirō Uemon's residence for a meeting with the brothers, where the Yūki genealogy and documents were examined, and messengers were dispatched. When Shichirō Uemon and Gakuzaemon traveled together to Mito, Shirakawa was the domain of Lord Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami. When this was reported, Shichirō Uemon was told to maintain the appearance of having a stipend of two hundred koku.

In Mito, they attended the castle and met with Lord Mitsukuni, who even had sand spread on the castle road for them. Moreover, he bestowed jackets of tea-colored silk with the family crest of dancing cranes upon the three men: Shichirō Uemon, Kakuzaemon, and Shichirō Dayū. Kakuzaemon was given the Buddhist name Kōshitsu, made a non-active middle-rank member of the council, and granted a stipend of twenty men's rations. His son Shichirō was made a page with thirty-five ryō and five men's rations. After coming of age, Shichirō advanced through the ranks of sword keeper, foot soldier captain, page captain, magistrate, and group captain. Initially he was called Shichirō, or changed his name to Ōkura, or Kazuma, and later was called Takatoki Kazuma. Kazuma's father Kazuma had a son with Lady Osuyo, daughter of Elder Hida Izumi-no-kami.