...should have handled matters properly, but his conduct toward his adoptive family was also dishonest. Due to these various and repeated acts of misconduct, severe punishment should be imposed, but in consideration of generations of meritorious service, out of compassion it has been decreed that while all his stipend shall be confiscated, his branch family member Ina Heijūrō's heir Ina Kosaburō shall be newly granted 1,000 koku and allowed to continue the family line. Since Kosaburō is not being treated as an adopted son, you are to live in confinement at your birth family, the Itakura Suō-no-kami household.

The above was announced this evening at the Council Chamber by Senior Inspector Matsuura Echizen, with Town Magistrate Ikeda Chikugo-no-kami and Inspector Yabe Hikogoro in attendance.
Ina Heijūrō, under the command of Kondō Sakyō of the Reserve Corps
Ina Kosaburō, Heijūrō's heir

Regarding the head family's Ina Ukon-no-shōgen, due to his repeated misconduct, severe punishment should be imposed, but through merciful decree, all his stipend has been confiscated and he is ordered to live in confinement at his birth family, the Itakura Suō-no-kami household. However, considering the generations of meritorious service since his ancestors, and since this concerns blood relations, Kosaburō has been newly granted 1,000 koku to continue that family line and has been assigned to the Reserve Corps. Under these circumstances, Ukon-no-shōgen is no longer considered in an adoptive father-son relationship. Furthermore, Heijūrō shall make his second son Kōnosuke his heir.

The above was announced this evening at Izumi-no-kami's residence, with Senior Councilor Danjō-no-daihitsu in attendance, Senior Inspector Andō Yamato-no-kami, and Inspector Hori Shuma present.

Tenth day of the third month
Appointed concurrently as Kantō Regional Governor: Finance Magistrate Kuze Tango-no-kami
The above was announced by Izumi-no-kami in the Fuyō Room with Senior Councilor Danjō-no-daihitsu in attendance.

Norimura's note: The aforementioned Ina Ukon-no-shōgen was initially known as an extremely talented individual, and already...