at that moment, kicked through Narihira's chest with his foot. At that time Narihira said, "How regrettable! That I should be killed by you
is endlessly vexing. When I die, within seven days I shall
kill you!" and then died. Indeed, Umewaka was killed by Narihira as predicted.
Umewaka's corpse was buried at present-day Bokuboji Temple. Bokuboji at that time was a hermitage of a Buddhist monk who had renounced the world,
which was gradually expanded. Since Umewaka's grave was there, they divided the characters and
named it Bokuboji (木毎寺, "tree-every-temple") and made it into a temple. Now it is written
as Bokuboji (木母寺, "tree-mother-temple"). Now as for Narihira, he was buried near that wrestling ground, but afterwards Narihira's spirit appeared and
brought curses upon the townspeople around Honjō. The local people, fearing this, enshrined him as Tenjin, and the spirit
ceased to appear and stopped. Now for some reason, it is said that Umewaka-maru was the eldest son of a court noble.
As for Narihira, he came to be spoken of as if he were the spirit of Middle Captain Ariwara no Narihira.
This too is a variant account.

The above account differs slightly from what Senshū wrote in "Edo Kanazukoshi." Now, the story in the Noh play about Umewaka being
passed through human traffickers' hands and drowning in the Sumida River is probably complete fabrication, but in our Shirakawa
Castle, two ri to the northeast, in a village called Izumisaki, there are the remains of where a human trafficker named Sōta lived,
which even now is called the Sōta estate, uninhabited and turned into wasteland. This is said to be the human trafficker who
lured away that Umewaka-maru. Due to this connection, even now the villagers of Izumisaki say that if they go to the Sumida River,
misfortune will surely befall them, so they do not go. This is the story of those villagers. In Iwasaki within Izumisaki,
there are said to be descendants of this Sōta, who tie unknown objects to the roof beams, I hear.

One: When Lord Aoyama Inaba no Kami was castle administrator of Osaka Castle, among his retainers was a man named Ishii Uemon, about fifty years old,
who understood all matters well and whose character and conduct were so admirable that even his fellow samurai respected him.
However, in the western provinces there was a ronin named Akahori Gengoemon, over twenty years old, who had been seeking
employment for some time but without success. A certain acquaintance of his suggested, "By all means, through your relatives