from his back to his waist there were traces of extraordinary wounds. Moridaira said, "What kind of wound was this?" 
To which [Mizuemon] replied, "Then you are indeed an exceptional person. I shall tell you. When I was young, due to such and such circumstances, I killed a man named Ishii Uemon. His son Sannosuke tried to
draw me out by killing my parent Yūsai, so I hid and watched for forty or fifty days in the great thickets of such-and-such place in Mino Province. When Sannosuke was taking a cold bath, I leaped at him and struck him a great blow,
but he was quite skilled, so he had his page carry a wakizashi and struck me as I was fleeing - that is
this wound. He had two younger brothers, but they were just children of four or five years, so I don't know whether they're alive or dead.
Even if they're alive, since I wouldn't recognize them, it would be impossible to think of killing them now. However, since I too am someone with enemies,
how much I must treasure my life. Also, since my lord knows of this matter, he protects me considerably.
Never speak of this matter to anyone," he earnestly warned. In his heart, Moridaira
thought "This is surely an arrangement by the gods and Buddha," but showed nothing in his expression and responded admirably before depart-

ing. Thereupon Moridaira wrote a detailed letter and sent it to his elder brother Hanzō in Edo, saying "Please somehow
come to this castle," so Hanzō also made inquiries here and there, changed his name to Kichisuke, and found a position with
Natsume Hachibe, a drum-player retainer of Lord Suō, and came to serve at Kameyama.
The following year in March when the time came to change posts, he took leave and through Moridaira's introduction became employed with
Suzuki Shibaemon, a close attendant with a seventy-koku stipend. From this time on, Moridaira, Mizuemon's retainer, and the third person
met frequently and made secret plans, saying "Somehow we must accomplish our purpose before his lordship's trip to Edo." Mizuemon's
retainer said, "My father accompanied the eldest son Sannosuke-sama, but died in vain in our home province without accomplishing his purpose. At that time he said, 'You are a hereditary retainer, so somehow please find the second and third sons and
have them take revenge for their parent and elder brother, and clear this grudge. I think only of this matter even unto the grass-covered
grave. Make sure not to let this end in vain,' and so he died with these final words. I beg that you
two gentlemen assist me," he said repeatedly. The two replied, "No, in our home province there are important