Right: Regarding Imperial Sumo Viewing - In the autumn of Kansei 5 (1793), year of the Water Ox, a book called "Sumō In'un-kai" (Hidden Clouds of Sumo Revealed) was published, but it was not permitted to be sold widely to the public. In order to inform those who favor this way about the meaning of sumo, key points have been extracted and recorded below.

Origins of Japanese Sumo
According to the abbreviated history of the origins of Japanese sumo, the techniques of sumo in our country began in the remote age of the gods. In ancient divine times, the deity Amenotajikarao-no-mikoto took the stone door at the rock cave and hurled it a thousand ri away. If that is so, then sumo, which also uses strength, may be recorded in this manner. Therefore, the sumo of the age of gods is not clearly known.

The Beginning of Imperial Court Sumo
Japan is fundamentally a country of the East, superior to all nations in its yang energy. The temperament of its people is likewise the same. During the reign of the 51st human emperor, Emperor Suinin, Nomi-no-Sukune of Izumo Province and Taima-no-Kehaya of Yamato Province were summoned to the imperial court to engage in kakuryoku (wrestling combat). This was the beginning of Japanese sumo. Sukune's strength prevailed, and he seized Kehaya, threw him down, trampled and broke his hip bones, and won. As a result, he was granted territory in Taima village of Yamato Province and made to serve the imperial court permanently. This is the ancestor of the Sugawara clan, and his descendants still exist properly today. However, they have long served in the capacity of sumo rōnin, relying on connections for their position. Kakuryoku involves injuring one's opponent or even trampling them to death, and is different from sumo. According to the abbreviated history, kakuryoku consists of killing techniques. Because of this, hand techniques were prohibited in wrestling. This is what the Shiga clan established and what the Yoshida clan transmits.

The Beginning of Saite-yaku (Chief Officials)
Thereafter, although sumo was practiced exclusively, the ceremonies became extremely confused and opened the way to disputes. Therefore, during the reign of the 45th human emperor, Emperor Shōmu, in the third year of Jinki (726), all provinces achieved abundant harvests and the practice of sumo arose exclusively. There was an imperial edict that it should also be performed at court, and placards were erected throughout the country to summon wrestlers. Saite-yaku were appointed for the left and right sides. "Saite" means the "sai" of "taking hands most evenly," the "sai" of "supreme," and the "sai" of "beginning." The next rank was sai...