19th generation Magistrate of Sumo of Our Court
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Yoshida Oikaze (seal)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Vermillion seal)

Regarding the issuance of the above licenses and certificates, there was discussion, and in response to inquiries from Temples and Shrines Magistrate Makino Bizen-no-kami-dono,
　Copy of reply document by Yoshida Zensaemon, retainer of Hosokawa Etchū-no-kami-dono

　　　　Yoshida Oikaze Ancestral Records (Submitted in response to inquiry)

The origins of sumo began in the time of Amaterasu Ōmikami. At the imperial court, sumo ceremonies were held during the reign of Emperor Suinin, but the procedures were still crude and it was difficult to determine the judgment of matches. During the Jinki era of Emperor Shōmu, in the capital of Nara, a person called Shiga no Seirin from Ōmi Province was summoned and appointed as magistrate, and from then on sumo ceremonies were properly established. While his descendants continued the position, many years of military conflicts continued, the seasonal ceremonies were no longer held, and the Shiga house naturally became extinct.

1. During the Bunji era of Emperor Go-Toba, when sumo ceremonies were to be held again, since the Shiga house had become extinct, there was a broad inquiry for someone who could serve as magistrate. My ancestor, called Yoshida Bungo-no-kami Ienaga, was in Echizen Province and had inherited the traditional practices of the Shiga house and served as magistrate. This reached the imperial hearing, he was appointed to the fifth court rank and granted the name "Oikaze," and received an imperial command to be established as the house of sumo magistrates for the imperial court. At this time, he was granted the Shishi-ō fan used in summoning matches, and generation after generation served the ceremonial rites of sumo. When the Jōkyū Disturbance occurred, the ceremonies were also suspended.

1. During the Eiroku era of Emperor Ōgimachi, when sumo ceremonies were held, the 13th generation Oikaze appeared and served as in the old precedent.

1. During the Genki era, Nijō Kampaku Kiyoyoshi declared that there should be no two schools in Japanese sumo procedures, and bestowed a fan called "Ichimi Seifū" along with court cap, hunting robe, Chinese robe, and four-panel hakama. Thereafter, during the reigns of Lord Nobunaga, Lord Hideyoshi, and Gongen-sama [Tokugawa Ieyasu], sumo ceremonies were performed many times. On the 17th day of the 4th month of Genna 5, at Wakayama in Kishū Province, Tōshōgū festival magistrate Asahina