The *Spring and Autumn Annals* attached events to days, days to months, months to seasons, and seasons to years, and recorded in full the anomalies of heavenly disasters, earthly upheavals, insects, and plants, thereby showing warnings [to rulers]. There was no sage of antiquity who did not follow this Way [of astronomical and calendrical learning]. From the Three Dynasties (Xia, Shang, and Zhou) onward as well, among such Confucian scholars as Dong Zhongshu, Liu Xiang, Cai Yong, Guo Xiang, Cheng (Yi), Zhang (Zai), Shao (Yong), and Zhu (Xi), there was none who did not discourse on astronomy and measure the numbers of the calendar. After Qibo, the great physicians such as Yu Fu, Leigong, Bian Que, Canggong, Liu (Wansu), Zhang (Zhongjing), Zhu (Danxi), and Li (Shizhen) were all versed in astronomy, studied the calculation of celestial movements (*tuibu*), and deeply investigated medicine, acupuncture, and medicinal preparations.

This being so, the two schools of Confucians and physicians must above all devote their minds to this learning [of astronomy and calendrics]. How much more so for a ruler who governs the world by following the patterns of Heaven. Now, with a sage and enlightened ruler reigning above, the seas raise no waves [the world is at peace], the Seven Wefts (the seven planets) move in their proper courses and inauspicious vapors have dissipated, the Five Chronograms are in harmony and rain and sunshine follow their proper times. Even military officials, in the intervals between archery and horsemanship practice, all honor culture and love learning, and there is none who does not diligently pursue the teachings of filial piety, fraternal respect, loyalty, and trustworthiness. The excellence of the scholarly spirit of the time may truly be said to surpass that of all previous ages. At this time, the calendar (*rili*) was particularly esteemed, and officials were charged with dividing the hours and recording the seasonal nodes. Therefore, scholars were not confused by the [reading of] weather and seasons... [continued on the next page]