【Right Page】

For the purpose of commerce during the Tenpō era, new judkin coins have been newly minted and ordered to circulate at the rate of 5 ryō of gold per piece. It was proclaimed that silver coins should also be exchanged at the same rate as koban, ichibu-ban, and nishu-kin without delay. However, since this currency is valued at 5 ryō per piece, it seems inconvenient for price transactions, and it has been heard that its circulation in society is rare.
If this is the case, there would be no point in having this currency, and it would go against the original intent. Therefore, the circulation of silver currency will be suspended until October of this year of the Tiger. Those who possess them should promptly present them to those currently engaged in the recoining and exchange service in Edo, Kyoto, Osaka, and other distant provinces and rural areas for exchange.
The above matter should be proclaimed.
　　　　7th month
As stated above, a written directive has been issued from the government, so it should be proclaimed throughout the town.
　　　　Intercalary 7th month

【Left Page】

Regarding the suspension of circulation of old gold and silver coins including genuine character nishu-ban, old nishu silver, Bunsei-era character gold and silver cursive character nishu-ban, nishu silver, and old isshu silver, it was proclaimed in the previous year of the Ox that they should be exchanged by October of this year of the Tiger. However, since many still remain unexchanged, the exchange locations will continue to operate as before until October of the coming year of the Rabbit. All matters should be understood as previously proclaimed, and exchanges should be made within the specified time limit.

1. Regarding the circulation of goryō-ban, although it was previously proclaimed that circulation would cease as of October of this year of the Tiger, since there are still some remaining even after complete exchange, they will be left as before until October of the coming year of the Rabbit. However, after that time, circulation will definitely cease. Those who possess them should promptly present them for exchange.
The above should be carefully ordered by magistrates for government lands and by lords and district heads for private domains.