**A Sworn Written Agreement**

Regarding the borrowing of the sake brewery in your possession for the purpose of conducting sake brewing operations, the various terms and conditions are agreed upon as follows:

Item 1: One sake brewing license (for a production volume of 900 *koku*), all brewing equipment, one waterwheel building, and all fixtures and tools attached to the property, as detailed in the accompanying separate document.

Item 2: Regarding rent, from this July through July of the Year of the Boar, the annual sum shall be fixed at eighteen *ryō* in gold, to be paid without fail before the Bon festival each year. Moreover, should you be in need of funds at year's end, we will lend up to approximately half of that amount at an interest rate of one-tenth (*ichiwari*), to be repaid before the following Bon festival. Furthermore, if there are any outstanding payments for goods or other items that you have advanced on our behalf, these shall be deducted from the aforementioned rent and settled accordingly. This is hereby mutually agreed upon.

Item 3: The costs of the *godenma* household levy, roof replacement, and repair of various equipment shall be borne by our side. In the event of major structural damage, we ask for your assistance. For example, construction work, renovation, and other building repairs shall be carried out at your expense.

Item 4: The *unjo* (licensing tax) on sake brewing shall be paid to the authorities by our side, one *bu* at a time.

　Regarding the land rent and the waterwheel tax, these shall be paid by your side. This is hereby mutually agreed upon.

Item 5: Even if you should request the return of the brewery because you require it for your own use, we shall not vacate the premises for five years from that year. Given the nature of the business, an abrupt cessation would cause difficulties in collecting outstanding accounts receivable; therefore, this condition is agreed upon as stated. Should we on our side decide to cease operations, we shall notify you the year prior. Regarding rent and all other matters, no matter what circumstances may arise hereafter, there shall be no increase or decrease from the terms set out above.

Having established the terms of each of the above articles, we hereby declare that no matter what circumstances may arise in the future, we shall not deviate in the slightest from these terms. As proof thereof, we provide this written document accordingly.

Year of Bunka 13, *Hinoto-Ne* [1816]　　　　　Onoya
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Seventh Month　　Borrower: Jiuemon
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Otaya
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Guarantor: Moheiji

　　　　　To: Ōmiya Heiumon