Washing with bean curd lees is also good. After wiping away moisture, wrap walnut meat in cotton cloth and polish with it, then rub with yellow or pale blue cotton cloth to make the patterns clear and create luster.

○Generally, for shell types, those that are naturally large in character are prized when small in form, while those of small nature are considered excellent when large in form. Also, due to color intensity, patterns, etc., even among the same species there are those that vary in value. Various shells with clear luster are treasured as fine specimens. Even those without brilliance, like the Satsuma tsuburi, have excellent specimens. Generally, this cannot be definitively stated.

○Regarding the nomenclature of various shells, the careless naming by famous people has become accepted names in later generations, sometimes called ancient names or dialectal terms. Therefore, shells known to the public such as hanahamaguri, asari, hamaguri, tsukushi-gai, and tansu have multiple names - Japanese names, Chinese names, ancient names, dialectal terms - many names for one species.

○Among various shells, red, vermillion, cinnabar, purple, blue, green, and black colors are considered desirable. Black, green, and blue colors result from shells lying in seabed sand or mud for many years, with rust penetrating them. Yellow, brown, and white are ordinary colors. However, depending on the species, shells of these colors may be considered rare.

○Since the patterns, spots, and various colors of countless shells are extremely numerous, names are given to each type and colorations are made to help later people distinguish forms, patterns, and colors.

○Pure white (refers to whiteness like gofun powder without luster) ○Snow white (refers to moist white with brilliant luster) ○Water white (refers to color like jade in stone or tokoroten jelly) ○Dull white (refers to whiter than ash-white)

○Ash white (refers to pale mouse color) ○White (refers to white with no other color) ○Red (refers to glossy deep red color) ○Purple-red (refers to rouge color)

○Water red (refers to pale peach color) ○Dull red (refers to red with blackness) ○Purple (refers to color like iris flowers) ○Dull purple (refers to purple with blackness)

○Vermillion-black (refers to soot bamboo color) ○Black-brown (refers to black leather color) ○Brown (refers to birch color) ○Red-brown (refers to birch color with redness)

○Yellow (refers to color like yamabuki flowers) ○Tea-brown (refers to pale white tea color) ○Green (refers to fresh green color) ○Blue-green (refers to fresh green with yellow and blackish tinge)

○Generally, "dull" refers to colors lacking luster. "Water" refers to extremely pale colors. The distinctions of intensity and paleness in myriad colors are extremely numerous. There are various types of intense colors and numerous pale colors as well. There are also several types of black. White, brown in various intensities, and ash-white are ordinary. Men-gai, hinoki-ōgi-gai, and men-gai are white-colored