○The Story of a Drummer Who Could Predict the Future

It has been traditionally said that in ancient times there were those who could know future fortunes and misfortunes, and could also predict natural disasters and strange phenomena. These were called divine persons. This likely refers to the likes of Abe no Seimei of our imperial court and the Great Virtue of Koshi. In China during the Ming period, there was an art called kanyo-rokumei for knowing people's fortune and regret. There was also one called Reki Dōjin who could tell about a person by looking at the clothes they wore next to their skin. None of his predictions failed to come true. What kind of magical arts were these? Since they have not been transmitted to the present world, no one knows. However, those who can predict the future in today's world are people called renowned monks, with perhaps two or three out of a thousand being accurate. While it is said that the study of divination (易学) is the art of knowing future events, what is studied lacks precision, and how can those whose minds are filled with worldly concerns possibly discern such things? Here in Kyoto, on some street, there was a blind monk called Shihodō. Having learned from someone unknown, when he met people and heard their voices, he could immediately know their fortune or misfortune. However, whether this was the monk's natural gift or if there were others who had transmitted this knowledge to him...

Nevertheless, this person's skill became more precise year by year, and while it benefited others, he himself only regretted it. Having learned such trivial knowledge, every time he met someone, that person's fortune and misfortune would come to mind, causing endless annoyance. Though he wanted to forget, he could not, and this was the suffering of his lifetime, he said with sighs. Now, on the second day of the seventh month of autumn in the thirteenth year of Bunsei, year of the Metal Tiger, twenty-seven years ago from now, around the hour of the Monkey on that day, a great earthquake struck Kyoto. There was no place in Rakuchū where storehouses and earthen walls did not collapse, most houses were crushed and damaged, and many people were injured. People were greatly frightened, ran out of their houses, spread bedding along the main roads, and set up temporary shelters, staying there for two or three days. Some moved to the precincts of large temples to avoid the aftershocks. However, even after three or four days passed, the effects had not completely subsided, with small tremors occurring from time to time. Initially there were about twenty tremors day and night, but later they gradually became less frequent, ranging from seven or eight to four or five times. That...