It is not such a thing. Such phenomena occur due to the irregular qi (vital energy) of heaven and earth.

There are already examples of this in China. In the 8th year of Xiantong during the Tang dynasty, in the 7th month, boiling water rained down in Xiapi, killing birds and sparrows. In the 3rd year of Duanping during the Song dynasty, in the 7th month, blood rained down. In the 24th year of Zhiyuan during the Yuan dynasty, earth rained down for seven days and nights, reaching a depth of seven to eight shaku, and all cattle and livestock were buried and died. Besides these, raining of meat and grain are frequently seen in old histories - why would hair not rain down as well? Originally, there is nothing strange about it. The fallen hair happened to enter people's sleeves, he argued matter-of-factly. Indeed, citing ancient examples from Japan and China, his arguments seemed well-founded, and listeners believed him. However, he did not exhaust the matter. Regarding the hair that rained during the previous Tenpō era, a certain person investigated it using Western books and also observed it carefully with a microscope, learning that it was not hair. He printed his explanation on a sheet of paper and gave it to his acquaintances. I also obtained a copy, but have now lost it and don't have it at hand. Therefore, I will cite from memory. Essentially, when the weather was irregular and summer skies were covered with dark clouds for several days without seeing sunlight, unseasonable cold occurred, making it difficult for rice and grain to ripen. At this time, insects were born in the dark clouds. Their form was like hair. Their length ranged from over one sun to two or three shaku. However, when blown by wind and falling to the ground, they would suck up all the vital essence of plants and trees. Consequently, rice, millet, and vegetables would not ripen, and the land would suffer famine. This phenomenon occurs in the Western regions, where these insects are called "Gossamer." The "hair" that fell this time was indeed this Gossamer. When observed through a microscope, there are seven or eight black spots on the back, like a lamprey eel, and there appears to be something like a mouth. It is definitely not hair. Probably the overall color is not fixed; mostly yellow with black, having spotted patterns, but being minute, its form is difficult to discern, etc. If this is the case, it greatly differs from what was said to have been in people's sleeves this time. We await the consideration of future scholars.