"Life's Maiden Voyage"
Shochiku Cinema Kamata Super Special Modern Drama
Inspired by the representative masterpiece "Over the Hill" 
recorded by Columbia Records

・Screenplay…………Fushimi Akira
・Director……………Sasaki Tsunejiro
・Camera………………Tanaka Takeji

……Cast……
Yokota Shunsaku…………Takeuchi Ryoichi
Father Zensuke……………Takeda Haruo
Murai Kyohei…………Fujino Hideo
Son Tatsuo…………Himori Shinichi
Miyata Setsuko…………Kawasaki Hiroko
Fujita Junzo…………Nara Shinyo
Hattori Minzo…………Arai Jun
Fumiko……………Idate Satoko

◇Synopsis◇ Tatsuo, son of bank president Murai Kyohei, is a profligate who spends money like water. Seduced by the modern girl Fumiko from town, he devises various pretexts to extort money from his father. One day, when he visits his father at the bank demanding money and is refused because his father is busy, he takes advantage of bank clerk Yokota Shunsaku being distracted while calculating with ledgers and banknotes on his desk to steal a bundle of bills and escape. Shunsaku is arrested by detectives on charges of embezzlement, but when Kyohei learns of Tatsuo's misconduct and intervenes, Shunsaku's innocence is proven and he is released, though he is dismissed from the bank. Finding himself in daily hardship, he succumbs to the temptation of his neighbor, the vagrant Kuroda, and breaks into the bank where Shunsaku used to work to steal bundles of money from the vault. But while fleeing pursued by gunfire, he is struck down by a truck at a street corner. Eventually he is helped up by a young woman and taken to her apartment, and when he regains consciousness he is surprised. She, Setsuko, had been working tirelessly to earn her brother's school fees, but her brother had died in the same place as Shunsaku, struck by a car in the same way. Now she works as a waitress. After his wounds heal, the two go to a lakeside hot spring resort with the money he stole from the bank... Eventually when they return to Tokyo and settle in a modest new home, detectives arrest him. After several days of his absence, it was Murai who visited Setsuko and told her the truth. Setsuko, learning this for the first time, was stunned with shock and sadness, but Shunsaku returned after receiving a lenient sentence. As the two embrace joyfully, a notice of employment at "Murai Industrial Company" arrives from Murai Kyohei.

"Kamiyui Shinza" (Shinza the Hairdresser)
Shochiku Kyoto Shimogamo Special Period Drama

・Original Story………………Kawatake Mokuami
・Screenplay………………Otsuka Minoru
・Director………………Nikawa Buntaro
・Camera……………Ito Takeo
・〃…………………Kataoka Kiyoshi

……Cast……
Kamiyui Shinza……………Hayashi Chojiro
Yata Gorozaemon……………Hori Masao
Mimata Jirozaemon…………Nakamura Yoshimatsu
Tavern keeper Sanuemon……Shiga Yasuro
Katsuyakko…………………Koizumi Kasuke
Clerk Tadashichi……………Takada Kokichi
Shiroki-ya Okoma…………Inoue Hisae
Chono-ya Koume…………Iizuka Toshiko

[Synopsis] The one who woke up tavern keeper Sanuemon in Edo's Saga-cho and came lumbering in with a soaking wet girl under his arm was the hairdresser Shinza. Okoma, the only daughter of the well-known lumber merchant Shiroki-ya, was to be given an arranged marriage by her mother to the ugly, skinny clerk of Echigo-ya for the sake of restoring the family fortune, with a dowry of 500 ryo in mind. But Okoma has a beloved clerk named Tadashichi. When she and Tadashichi, thinking they could never be together in this world, attempt a lovers' suicide by jumping into the Sumida River, only Okoma is rescued by Shinza who happened to be passing by.

Okoma was confined in Shinza's house in Tomiyoshi-cho. Meanwhile, Shinza, being a petty villain, is overjoyed when he learns she is the daughter of Shiroki-ya. When he meets his mistress Koume, who performs water acts at a show in Ryogoku, he quickly changes into respectable attire and goes to Shiroki-ya, pretending as if by chance that Okoma has been rescued by an evil man named Shinza, offering to mediate for money. But this doesn't work because of the worldly-wise Zenpachi, so he returns home. In Shinza's absence, Katsuyakko tries to have his way with the beautiful Okoma, who escapes and is being chased when she is rescued by Tadashichi, who had been saved by night fishermen. Just as she thinks with joy, Tadashichi is beaten down by Shinza returning from Shiroki-ya. He confines Okoma in a closet and waits, when Oshiroki-ya's mistress Otsune arrives accompanied by Zenpachi and Yata Goro Genzaemon, who frequents their house. Though somewhat troubled by Genzaemon's appearance, he steels his nerves and successfully gets 100 ryo in exchange for Okoma into his pocket—up to this point Shinza was quite sharp, but he suffers terribly at the hands of Genzaemon and has Koume taken by Jirozaemon, thoroughly losing face. The hard-up Shinza suddenly learns that Okoma is finally going to welcome an adopted son-in-law, and knowing that the hateful Jirozaemon is at Shiroki-ya, he sets out to assassinate him. When the pressed-for-time Okoma and Tadashichi attempt their second escape, Shinza happens to encounter them, takes Okoma and flees to Sanuemon's house, but when surrounded by Genzaemon and knowing there's no escape, he helps Tadashichi and Okoma escape by boat from the back and plunges a kitchen knife straight into his own belly—meeting a villain's end...

"Namiko"
All-Talkie
Paramount Pictures Special Presentation
Oriental Pictures' First Sound Film

・Original Story………………Tokutomi Roka
・Scenario…………Mori Iwao
・Director………………Tanaka Eizo
・Sound Recording: Western Electric System

……Main Characters……
Namiko…………………Mizutani Yaeko
Takeo…………………Obinata Den
General Kataoka……………Shiomi Hiroshi
〃 His Wife………………Mizumoto Kazuko
Kawashima's Mother……………Hayashi Chitose
Chijiiwa………………Terashima Shin
Yamamoto…………………Sumikawa Hisa
Toyoko…………………Okamoto Tsuruko
Oiku…………………Tsuzumi Haruko

Special Appearances……………Otsuji Shiro
〃……………………Matsui Suisho
〃……………………Furukawa Roppa

Costume Coordination……………Mitsukoshi
Beauty…………………Hollywood Beauty Salon
General Affairs…………………Nishimoto Fumi
Photography…………………Mimura Akira
〃……………………Machii Harumi
〃……………………Iketo Yutaka
Musical Direction……………Matsuyama Yoshinori

Synopsis—In contrast to the gentleness of her deceased mother, the second mother Namiko welcomed was all too cold. Days of being treated as a nuisance and scolding continued for Namiko, but the gentle-hearted girl patiently endured it all. Her father General Kataoka knew this well, but out of consideration for his wife, he could only secretly comfort Namiko. The servants and wet nurse of the Kataoka house sympathized with Namiko and tried to blame the general and rebel against the stepmother, but Namiko tearfully stopped them. However, Namiko's dark life changed with the appearance of the bright, thoughtful young Navy Lieutenant Kawashima Takeo. Happy days of newlywed life flowed for the united couple. But how unfortunate she would prove to be. Chijiiwa, who had long been in love with Namiko, took advantage of her gradually failing health and lung disease to plot to estrange Namiko from the Kawashima family. Takeo's mother, who doted on her son and valued bloodlines, was threatened by Chijiiwa about Namiko's illness and finally divorced Namiko while Takeo was on a long ocean voyage. Even to this cruel act, Namiko offered no word of protest, simply waiting for her beloved Takeo's return. When Takeo returned, she died calling his name continuously before she could even meet him, ending her unfortunate life.

・Ghost stories from talkies...burning flames of resentment, breathtaking interwoven tales of shudders and grotesqueness!!

◇Dobashi-style Shochiku Phone All Sound Version

About next week's screening of "New Yotsuya Ghost Story"

・Original Story………………Seto Eiichi
・Director………………Nomura Hotei
・Camera……………Oda Hamataro
・Sound Recording…………Dobashi-style Shochiku Phone
・Accompaniment………………Shochiku Japanese-Western Orchestra

With the above special production staff, the New Yotsuya Ghost Story, which cuts ahead as the pioneer of ghost story talkie films, demonstrates Kamata veteran Nomura Hotei's unrivaled technique for grasping mass audiences. His artistic intention, combined magnificently with sound effects, creates the ultimate eerie ghost story shudders and grotesque elements, with the trembling flames of burning resentment truly compelling...

With production members including Oka Joji, Yakumo Emiko, Tsukuba Yukiko and others, this is one episode of human tragedy arising from a world of passionate love and desire...

◇Mysterious sounds!! Women's startling screams!!
And the terrible blue flames of curses and hatred approach!!

◇Main Cast◇
Geisha Minekichi……………Yakumo Emiko
Otomi…………………Tsukuba Yukiko
Traveling actor Senjuro………Oka Joji
Costume shop proprietress…………Iida Choko
Minekichi's sister geisha………Hanaoka Kikuko
〃……………………Fuji Ryuko

Especially appearing in this film are Tokyo Yanagibashi geishas:
Izumiya Yaetaro, Toyo-no-ya Kotaro, Oei-ya Suzuko
Matsu Chiyoda Takayakko, Taketoku-no-ya Takematsu, Izumiya Katsuko
Hatsudama Toku-no-ya Uoko, Chiyoda-ya Choko,