【Header】Classification of Natural Products Volume One ○1

Wild rose flowers are considered the finest. Li Dongbi says, "In foreign countries there is rose water that is extremely fragrant." Whether this is dew water from flowers or not, I do not yet know the truth. Also, under the entry for Rosa multiflora it states, "In the southern foreign countries there is rose water." This is the dew water of these flowers, with exceptionally fine fragrance. Upon current examination, the distillation apparatus (ranbiki) originates from the ingenious ideas of foreign peoples. Since Li also did not know this method, he spoke thus. This water has many beneficial effects when used as external medicine. The red-haired people regularly bring it to Nagasaki. In recent times, people of our country have also obtained this knowledge and

manufacture it. However, since their manufacturing method is not precise, the water spoils and cannot withstand long storage. When manufacturing, if a small amount of sal ammoniac is added, the water will not deteriorate even after several decades. Taking dew from plum blossoms and other flowers follows the same principle. The method for storing this is to place it in a flask, cork the mouth, and seal with paper. When cork is unavailable, it should be

sealed tightly with wax. Sal ammoniac and cork are detailed in their respective entries.

　　Earth Section
White clay　This is white-colored earth used for scrolls. There are several varieties. Those with hard properties are called glutinous rice earth, and those that are soft are called non-glutinous rice earth. Both appear in the "Exploitation of the Works of Nature."

○Glutinous rice earth　○The product from Imari in Hizen is extremely hard like stone. Imari ware, Karatsu ware, etc., all use this earth. It represents the finest pottery of our country. ○The product from Koichi village in Minochi district, Shinano is superior grade with extremely pure white color.

【Header】Classification of Natural Products Volume One ○2