【Header】Classification of Natural Products Volume One ○3

The ink craftsman of Kobai-en, Matsui Izumi's family workshop, applies great care and achieves extraordinary precision. Among the guest items of the Mizunoe-uma year, they have assembled several dozen varieties. Below I append several types that his family currently manufactures.

○Pine soot　Zongshi said, "One must use pine soot ink, which can be properly added to medicine." Dongbi said, "Superior ink uses pine soot, employing ash tree bark juice (tonerico) to dissolve and blend it." In China, they manufacture exclusively with pine soot. In our country too, the ink made in ancient times at Fujishiro in Kii was made from pine soot, as recorded in the Kokon Chomonjū, Volume 3. Lord Reizei Tameshige also composed a poem: "The encounter likened to pine - Fujishiro's ink of great renown, letters on mulberry paper." Even now, pine soot is burned and extracted from the mountains of Fujishiro. Ink makers seek this to manufacture ink. It is called

Taihei soot. If so, then the form of the ancient Fujishiro ink would likely be the form of the Taihei ink transmitted in the present world, as seen in Matsui Genyasu's notes. Since the medieval period, in our country superior ink uses oil soot, while pine soot serves as material for inferior ink. Moreover, since ash tree bark juice is not used, its effectiveness in treating eye diseases and the like is limited. For medicinal use, one should use superior Chinese-made pine soot ink. However, the method used by Kobai-en in manufacturing with ash tree bark juice and glue does not differ from Chinese production. It is suitable for medicinal use. ○Chitose Pine　Considering the Song dynasty Chao family's ink manual and other various theories, this is ink made by collecting soot from thousand-year-old ancient pines in the mountains of Kumano.

There was an imperial decree bestowing the title "Chitose Pine," it is said. ○Imperial Ink　Matsui Gen[yasu]

【Header】Classification of Natural Products Volume One ○4