【Header】Classification of Natural Products Volume One ○5

○Mixed soot　Generally, when various oils are used for lamps, there is soot. When this is collected and made into ink, each has a different color, which connoisseurs enjoy. However, it should not be used for medicinal purposes.

○Stone oil ink　This is made from the soot of stone brain oil (petroleum) produced in Echigo Province. Zong Shi said: "In Fuyan there is stone oil, its smoke is very thick, its soot can be made into ink, with a black luster like lacquer, but should not be used in medicine." This refers to that.

○Hemp oil soot ink ○Torreya oil soot ink ○Safflower seed oil soot ink ○Paulownia flower soot ink ○Whale oil soot ink ○Pine seed soot ink　The above twelve types are included among the Mizunoe-uma guest products manufactured by Kobaien. The remaining twenty-plus types have no relevance to medicinal use and are omitted.

Kettle navel soot　Japanese name: Kama no heso no sumi, or Nabezumi

Hundred herbs frost　Japanese name: Kudo no sumi, or Kamado no hitai sumi. The three types - kettle navel soot, hundred herbs frost, and hundred herbs ash - are easily confused and should not be mixed up. Kettle navel soot is the soot attached to pots and kettles, while hundred herbs frost is the soot attached to the front of stoves. One should collect and use that from places in the countryside where various grasses have been burned. Hundred herbs ash appears in the miscellaneous herbs section. It is made by collecting a hundred types of grasses on the fifth day of the fifth month, drying them in shade, and burning them to ash.

Soap　Japanese name: Shabon (soap). It is a kneaded product. There is no domestic production. ○Foreign product. In Dutch it's called "zeep," in Latin "saboune." "Shabon" probably derives from the Latin word. It is much used by Dutch New School surgeons. Also, when a small amount is added when washing clothes, it is extremely effective.

【Header】Classification of Natural Products Volume One ○6