【Column】Butsuruihinsitsu, Volume 3, ○24

○White Tribulus (Bai Ji Li): Also known as Sha Yuan Ji Li, Japanese name Kusanemunoki. The leaves resemble those of the silk tree and fold at night. In autumn, it forms pods shaped like mung bean pods with fine thorns. When ripe, the pods break easily at the joints.

Earth Bayberry (Di Yang Mei): Japanese name Himesuge, abundant in various locations. According to Zangqi, "The sprouts resemble sand grass, and in the fourth and fifth months bear fruit resembling bayberries." When this plant has not yet produced ears, it easily confused with sand grass. The stem grows to about 2-3 inches. The fruit shape closely resembles bayberry but is blue in color. The error of earlier scholars in identifying earth bayberry as susumenoyari is incorrect; susumenoyari is the kanbakuniang of the Kyukoyafu (Famine Relief Plant Guide).

Purple Flower Violet (Zi Hua Di Ding): Also known as Jin Jin Cai, Japanese name Sumire or Sumotorikusa. There are two varieties.

○There is an upright-growing type. According to Dongbi, "Found everywhere, its leaves resemble willow but are fine, blooming purple flowers in summer and bearing fruit. Those growing on flat ground send up stems." These are now abundant in fields. Flower colors number over a hundred varieties.

○There is a creeping type. According to Dongbi, "Those growing in ditches and valleys send out vines." This is what the common people call yabu-sumire (wild violet). The leaves are short and produce thin vines. The flowers are small. This also has dozens of flower color varieties. ○There is one with deep yellow flowers, which is a rare variety. I documented this thoroughly in my principal works of the Tsuchinoto-u year.

Tumor-Reducing Plant (Jian Zhong Xiao): Japanese name Suizensou. According to Su Song, "Grows in Junzhou, sends up sprouts in spring, leaves and stems are purple, 1-2 feet high, leaves resemble mulberry but are glossy, with blue-purple-red colored surface." This matches that description. The shape considerably resembles sanqi (Panax notoginseng). The back of the leaves is deep purple, and in winter small white [flowers appear].

【Column】Butsuruihinsitsu, Volume 3, ○25