【Right Page】
Kannon-sō (Kichijōran - Aspidistra)
The Seika Sensetsu-roku states:
　　　Kichijō-sō (Auspicious grass)
　　　　Also recorded as Kannon-sō

【Upper Section】
Examining Genju's lower entries further, Kannon-sō and Kichijō-sō are similar but different species. Kannon-sō has leaves broader and shorter than Yūran. Large specimens reach two to three feet. True Kannon-sō is called Ryūkyū-fūran, with long upright leaves bearing white flowers. Upon examination, its form lacks the character of Fūran. It is Ryūkyū-bakumondō. The roots lack pearls. This requires further study. ○ Kichijō-sō has leaves somewhat narrower and longer than Kannon-sō, greatly different. ○ There is also a species called Noshi-ran, and these three plants are so similar they are difficult to distinguish. ○ There is also Okina-ran, which belongs to the Bakumondō family. ○ There are two types of Kannon-sō: one type has large leaves and is from Ryūkyū, one type is small grass found in mountains and fields, which is illustrated in the lower entries. Both species are described in detail in Volume 6 of the Autumn section.

【Middle Section】
Yamato Honzō states:
The leaves are like those of large-leafed Bakumondō but thin. They also resemble orchids but have no flowers, and also lack Mondō, etc.
What is recorded in the annotations of Kichijō-sō in Honzō Shii resembles this. However, saying it blooms purple flowers forming spikes in summer does not apply to Kannon-sō, etc. I say:
The explanation of Kannon-sō in Yamato Honzō matches this plant well. However, how can it state there are no flowers? Kichijō-sō must be an alternate name. Nevertheless, there are no flowers in summer months, and rarely blooms at winter solstice.
The Wakan Sansai Zue lists Kannon-sō ○ Kichijō-sō separately. Both illustrations and descriptions match well.
The Sōmoku Kashi-fu states: the flowers are purple buds that do not open easily. When planted at home, if flowers appear, it is called auspicious. Should we consider each as two species? There is also something called Kichiji-sō, which differs greatly in flowers and leaves.

【Lower Section】
Drawn from life in the garden courtyard, early winter of Mizunoe-mi year　　【Red border】Garden grass

The same book's appendix states:
　Kichijō maintains the same color through all four seasons, growing among springs and rocks
　Mountain villagers insert it in vases to honor ancestors. Although in shaded dwellings, it remains lush green without withering. When present in homes, auspicious events are assured and flowers naturally bloom, hence the name Kichijō. Zhangzhou Prefecture Records

21st day of early winter, Boshin year, Kenhōshi
Broke off a branch to send for true copying
　　　　【Red border】Grass category