[Continuing from previous page about the Utsunomiya family]

...engaged in numerous battles with Kuroda Nagamasa and Mōri Terumoto, with father and son Shigefusa achieving victory. In the same 17th year [of Tenshō], by order of Lord Hideyoshi, they made peace and gave Shigefusa's daughter in marriage to Kuroda Nagamasa. However, Shigefusa was ultimately killed at a banquet in Nakatsu Castle, and Tomofusa committed suicide in Higo Province at Oni(?)ha-shuku when Katō Kiyomasa surrounded and attacked from all four directions. Utsunomiya Shimotsuke-no-kami Kunitsuna, a clan member who had been stationed at Utsunomiya Castle in Shimotsuke Province, was sentenced to exile for acting willfully after the destruction of Shigefusa and Tomofusa. Thus the Utsunomiya house was completely destroyed.

Daizen-no-dayū Tomofusa's only son, Utsunomiya Jibuzaemon Tomasue <<childhood name Daisuke, mother was daughter of Akizuki Nagato-no-kami Tanesane, grandfather of Shinshin>>, was born at Mount Hiko in Buzen Province after Tomofusa's death and lived in hiding within the former domain. During the Battle of Sekigahara, being young, he sent a retainer named Haga Gonnosuke to serve under Lord Ieyasu's banner, and this man died in battle. After Tomasue grew up, he went to Kyoto, where Konoe Nobumoto served as his patron, and Lord Tadamasa also acted as patron. In the 19th year of Keichō, he was granted an audience with Lord Ieyasu and received 300 ryō of gold and a sword <<Kunitsuna>>. Thereafter, he presented hereditary bows, arrows, spears, and arrowheads, had an audience with Lord Hidetada in Edo, was appointed for archery service for the Osaka campaign, and received two horses and various other items. That same year, during the journey to Kyoto, having a total of 700 men, he was granted provisions for 700 men.

However, Tomasue suffered from a toxic swelling illness and could not accompany the Osaka campaign. The following year, by Lord Ieyasu's command, he presented ritual bows again to Lord Hidetada <<made in the style of ancient sacred offerings>>. In the same fifth month, upon the fall of Osaka Castle, he presented a ceremonial sword in celebration, also presenting one to Lord Tadamasa, and received from the government 1,000 koku of rice, 50 sets of court dress, 300 pieces of silver, and silver and court dress for two retainers, also receiving various gifts from Lord Ieyasu. Tomasue went to Sakamoto for ten years to recover from his illness and eventually died there. During this time, he was granted 1,000 koku of rice each spring by the government.

Tomasue's only son, Utsunomiya Sakon Tanefusa <<childhood name Yasaburō or Daisuke, father of Shinshin>>, was two years old when Tomasue died. Although he continued to receive the customary stipend rice from the government, a retainer named Yasutake Ichirōbei collected it in Kyoto and immediately absconded with it. Moreover, he stole Lord Ieyasu's certificate and hereditary documents before fleeing. As a result, understanding that the stipend had been revoked at that time, he went down to Buzen Province with his mother and was raised by retainers to adulthood. Later he went to Edo, submitted petitions to the senior councillors, and served in various positions before dying of illness. As for Shinshin, he was summoned to service in your domain during his father Sakon's lifetime.