was invited with that [previous stipend], and he received a domain of 600 koku and served, but that house also
　　　soon became extinct, so they scattered from Unshū and went to Bushū, where
　　　they were summoned during Lord Tadamasa's reign. His son Namikawa Heiemon Okukatsu, in Kanbun 8,
　　　was granted family succession during Lord Mitsumichi's reign. His son Namikawa Matarokuarō Katsuhisa, in Tenna 3,
　　　year of the water boar, was granted family succession and served during Lord Tsunamasa's reign, but in Jōkyō 3, year of the fire tiger, during the
　　　administrative reform, he was granted leave. The current Namikawa Ichikurō Hisanaka's mother is the
　　　legitimate daughter of Namikawa Heiemon Okukatsu, so he inherited his maternal grandfather's title. Therefore, he does not
　　　receive the Namikawa family stipend, but the genealogy of the title is as described above.

　　　　△　Kajikawa
Summoned during Lord Yoshishina's reign in Genroku 11, year of the earth tiger (1698)
　　Present Kajikawa Tōbei Shigeyasu (home province: Mino, birth province: Echizen, family name: Tachibana, father: Mizoguchi Ichizaemon Takashige)
　　　Regarding his ancestors, a man named Kajikawa Heikurō Nobutoki was a member of the Oda family and
　　　resided in a place called Ikejiri in Mino Province, as seen in the genealogy. His great-grandfather Kogure Tō-
　　　bei Masatake served Hōjō Ujinao, and during Ujinao's campaign at a place called Koizumi,
　　　he killed a man named Kanai Sensuke and still possesses the commendation
　　　letter he received from Ujinao. There are still other memoranda and stamped documents from various battles.
　　　After the fall of the Hōjō house, he was summoned by Lord Hideyasu and appointed
　　　as an attached retainer to Tabuse Kenbutsu's group. Later, during Lord Tadamasa's reign, he was appointed as a direct retainer and
　　　received a vermillion seal, which is still passed down today. At that time he was called Kogure Umanosuke. His son Ko-
　　　gure Tōbei Katsuie, later called Kajikawa Tōbei, succeeded and served, but
　　　afterwards he was appointed as an attendant to Lord Yoshishina, went to Yoshie to serve, and died of illness.
　　　At that time, his son Sukegoro was two years old, but was granted succession, and when he reached ten