four years old when he died young, so the succession was terminated. Sukegorō's mother was a cousin of Mizoguchi Ichi-
zaemon Takashige, so she took him in and raised him. Since the Kajikawa name had become
extinct, she petitioned that one of Takashige's children should inherit the Kajikawa name,
so Tōbei Shigeyasu was made an adopted son from childhood. Regarding this matter,
since Takashige had previously informed Lord Yoshishina during his lifetime and received his approval, in Genroku 11,
after Takashige died, Shigeyasu was summoned at the age of fourteen. The Kajikawa title was
an alternate name for Kogure. Although Shigeyasu does not receive the Kajikawa family stipend,
since he inherited the name, the lineage is as described above.

　　　　△　Nishiwaki

Summoned during Lord Yoshishina's reign in Jōkyō 4, year of the fire rabbit (1687)
　●Nishiwaki Jingodayū Shigetake (home province: unknown, birth province: Echizen, family name: unknown)
　　The ancestor Nishiwaki Ōkura Takashige, when young, was raised in a place called Nishiwaki in Shinano Province
　　under the care of his uncle Asahi Tamba, and after growing up, went to serve Kurita
　　Gyōbu of the same province, receiving a stipend of fifty kan and being entrusted with twenty-five dōshin
　　retainers. In Tenshō 7 (1579), when going to assist Kurita Gyō-
　　bu at Takatenjin Castle under Ogasawara Yohachirō, he died in battle there. His son Nishiwaki Shōsuke Shige-
　　ichi served under Kurita Gyōbu and died in battle during the attack on Tsukida Castle in Echigo.
　　His son Nishiwaki Buhei Shigeyoshi, after his father's death in battle, became a rōnin while still young
　　and stayed as a rōnin with Kondō Jūrōzaemon under Lord Kazusanosuke, but after Lord Kazusanosuke's misfortune, when Lord Tadamasa received the domain of Taka-
　　da in Echigo Province, he was summoned as an attendant to Nagami Shima's group and came to Echizen. His son Nishi-
　　waki Genemon Tsuneyuki had previous connections with Lord Koide Izumo-no-kami and served