He resided in Sakai-no-tsu. His eldest son Hanihara Hachizo and second son Sanjuro both served Lord Hideyori, and when Osaka fell, the brothers committed seppuku together. After that, the retired Ruisen once went to Nagoya in Owari, where he was granted a residence by Lord Yoshinao (Lord Owari Dainagon) and stayed there. However, after Lord Yoshinao made proper notification to Itakura Iga-no-kami, the Kyoto Shoshidai, he took up residence in Kyoto. Ruisen's third son, Hanihara Jiroemon Kiyomasa (born in Yamashiro, father of Kiyokatsu), was still young during the Osaka campaigns and stayed with his father. He lived as a masterless samurai (ronin) his entire life and died of illness in Kyoto. Kiyokatsu went to Edo and was with Oda Sadaoki, and was summoned to service at Sadaoki's request.

△ Niwa

Summoned in the 10th year of Genroku, year of the Ox, during Lord Yoshishina's reign.
●Niwa Yozaemon Yoshifusa (home province Owari, birthplace unknown, family name Fujiwara)

His ancestor, a man named Niwa Samanosuke Muneshige, served Lord Nobunaga. He was appointed as guardian to Hasegawa Otake Shuichi and stayed during the time when he was lord of Togo domain in this province. Later, during Lord Hideyoshi's reign, he accompanied the Korean campaigns, served as a warrior commander (musha-gashira), and died in battle at Puzhou in Korea. He was granted a domain worth 3,000 koku. His son Niwa Zenemon Munetora accompanied his father Samanosuke to Korea and was appointed to succeed his father's position after his death in battle. However, after Lord Hasegawa Togoro died of illness in Hizen province, his son Lord Takenosuke inherited the headship but died young shortly after, causing the line to be discontinued, and all the retainers became masterless samurai. Since there were family connections with Niwa Gorozaemon Nagashige, lord of Komatsu castle in Kaga province, he went to Kaga, and later went to serve under Niwa Kanbei, who served Lord Hideyasu. During the Osaka campaigns, he borrowed troops from Honda Izu-no-kami Tomimasa and was active in battle, killing Makino Jirozaemon, a foot soldier commander under Fukushima Masamori's command, along with his standard, achieving military distinction. He then served Lords Tadanao and Tadamasa.