Taitokuin-sama (Tokugawa Hidetada) also bestowed similar rewards. Afterward, he was assigned to Echigo-no-kami-sama (Tadanao) and proceeded to
　　　Echigo Province. Masanori's family headship was granted to his eldest son Shōgen, and Shōgen's headship was granted to his son Ukon.
　　　However, when Echigo-no-kami-sama was abolished, Ukon was ordered to be banished by the
　　　shogunate, died in Kameyama in Tamba Province, and the main family line was extinguished. The late Ukon Masanori's youngest son
　　　Nomoto Shōemon Masataka 《Native province: Echizen｜Buddhist name: Shōnyū》had served Lord Tadamasa from the beginning, but
　　　in Echigo, when his father Ukon aged, he petitioned to attend to him, so he was granted leave for care and went to Echigo.
　　　After his father Ukon passed away, he was granted a stipend in Echigo, but since he was one who had received great favor
　　　in Echizen from his youth, he petitioned to return and serve. However,
　　　Echigo-no-kami-sama was displeased with this matter and he incurred punishment. Nevertheless, after returning to Echizen,
　　　he died while a rōnin. His eldest son Nara Inoemon Takafusa 《Native province: Echizen, father｜Shōemon incurred》
　　　　《punishment, so he used his maternal｜family name》was summoned during Lord Mitsumichi's reign and served until Lord Tsunamasa's reign.
　　　After His Lordship's death at the Torigoe residence, he died as a rōnin. His son, the current Genzaemon,
　　　also served at Lord Tsunamasa's side, but father and son together became rōnin and entered the service of Honda Hōki-no-kami
　　　-sama 《Masanaga》. Later, during his son Tōtōmi-no-kami-sama's time, he took leave and returned to Echizen,
　　　whereupon he was summoned to service.

　　　　　△　Akashi

Summoned in the 5th year of Shōtoku, Kinoto-Hitsuji year (1715) during Lord Yoshikuni's reign
　●Akashi Tōdayū Sadahiro 《Native province unknown　Birth province: Echizen｜Family name unknown》
　　　The ancestors are unknown. It is said by tradition that he was from the same family as
　　　one called Akashi Minbu who served during Lord Tadamasa's reign. Sadahiro's father was Akashi Tōta-
　　　yū Yoshikatsu, a yoriki retainer of Sakai Yozaemon. Sadahiro also served for many years as a yoriki of Sakai Genba, but
　　　his diligent study of military science for many years came to His Lordship's attention, and he was summoned as a direct retainer to
　　　serve. He died of illness in the 1st year of Kyōhō, Hinoe-Saru year (1716), and his eldest son Akashi Tōdayū Masahiro 《Original name｜Tōemon》was granted succession
　　　and served, but died in Edo, and the line was extinguished.

Summoned in the 5th year of Kyōhō, Kanoe-Ne year (1720) during the same reign
　Current　Akashi Gonnosuke Yoshihiro 《Native province: Echizen》