Tajima-no-kami (Takatomo), Honda Hōki-no-kami (Masanaga), and Ōkubo Kaga-no-kami (Tadamasu), along with the wakadoshiyori (junior councilors), visited.
The goryūsui (deputy) went out to the gate, and the karō (chief retainers) and other officials assembled at the goshirasu (white sand courtyard).
On this occasion, they were received at the thin matting of the main entrance, guided to the shoin (reception hall), dressed in long hakama,
and after the ōshaban (masters of ceremonies) and other officials assembled, Noh performances were presented, cuisine was served, and a sake ceremony was held.
Afterwards, Tajima-no-kami bestowed sake cups upon Sakai Tenzen (Tomofusa), Hagino Magoemon (Masafū), Sengoku Gonuemon (Takaharu),
and Murakami Santayū (Masamine). Hōki-no-kami bestowed sake cups upon Inaba Tamon (Masakata), Ōtani Sukeroku (Shigeteru), Nishio
Jin'zaemon (Muneshiku), and Hori Jūbei (Hisaritsu). Kaga-no-kami bestowed sake cups upon Takaya Zen'emon (Nagahide), Okabe
Matajirō (Okitaira), Matsudaira Gentayū (Masayoshi), and Ōseki Shinzaemon (Naotaka). There was an announcement by Kagatsume
Jirōemon (Nobumasa) of the advance guard.

Note: On this occasion, those serving wore long hakama.

1. On the 14th day of the 11th month, since the Ryukyu people who came to court this time were to visit the Buddha hall of Tōeizan, there was a request from the temple administrators to Myōjōin to repair the bronze lanterns to be presented. Accordingly, the repair was ordered.

1. On the 18th day of the same month, the lord went to the castle (wearing naoshi court dress) as the Ryukyu people came to express their gratitude.
Note: Yesterday, the 17th, a kirigami (official note) came from the rōjū (senior councilors).

1. On the 23rd day of the same month, since the Ryukyu people were granted leave and came to the castle, the lord went to the castle (wearing naoshi court dress). Thereafter,
messengers were sent to the goyōban (duty councilor) and goyaku goyōnin (chamberlains) to celebrate this occasion.

1. On the 26th day of the same month, due to the cold season, to inquire after the health of goyōban Inoue Kawachi-no-kami (Masamine)