【Right Page】
　Since they use the same character and are of the same type, one fears eating them by mistake. They should be carefully selected for use.
Bracken starch (warabinoko)　If mixed with rice flour or wheat flour when eaten, there is no harm. If the additives are not good, 
　there is great harm. Also, if one eats only bracken starch for a long time, the eyes become dim and hair falls out. If children eat it for a long
　time, their legs become weak and they cannot walk. If poisoned, grind white rice, cook it into thin porridge
　like hot water, mix with salt or grilled miso, and give frequently to drink.
Snake gourd root (karasuuri no ne)　Also called tenkafun. Take the root, scrape the skin, cut the extremely white parts into small pieces and soak in water,
　changing the water once daily for four to five days, then remove and pound smooth.
　Put in a silk or cloth bag, clarify and strain to make it extremely fine like powder, or take the root,
　bleach and pound into noodles, soak in water and clarify and strain over ten times until it becomes like
　white powder. Without this water purification process, it is harmful. Make into grilled rice cakes or into rice crackers,

【Left Page】
　cut finely into noodles. All can be eaten. Do not mix with bracken powder when eating. If poisoned,
　treat as previously described.
Horse chestnut (tochi no mi)　Called tochi no mi in Japanese custom. Mix with rice flour to make steamed cakes and eat. Especially good for children.
　Change water and boil fifteen times to remove toxins, then steam and eat. If soaked in running water
　overnight, it can be boiled just once, it is said. If well-boiled and soaked in running water, it would be even better.
Acorn tree fruit (ichii no mi)　The kyōjitsu of Chinese herbology refers to ichii no ki no mi (acorn tree fruit). Prepare as described above for eating.
　Though using the same character as tochi no mi, due to differences between Japanese and Chinese usage, the varieties are different.
Oak acorn (donguri)　Weak people, elderly, and children should not eat this. Change water and soak and boil fourteen to fifteen times to remove astringency,
　steam until cooked, mix with rice flour to make cakes and eat. Where running water is available, boil well,
　put in a bamboo basket and soak in running water for two to three nights, and both astringency and toxins will be well removed, it is said.

【Red square mark　Special 1　2555】