【Right Page】
　The seeds are wrapped and connected like pearls. The white grains inside the shell are like fish eyes. Harvest in July and August to
　prepare food for famine years. The roots can be boiled and eaten like potatoes. Make the seeds into powder,
　mix with lotus seeds and rice flour to make dumplings for eating - this supplements the body and is very beneficial.
　The stems and leaves can be eaten in March and April. After that, the thorns become hard and difficult to eat. When the thorns are soft,
　boil them well in lye water until cooked before eating. They are non-toxic and have good properties. They help with hunger in famine years.
　Plant many in places with ponds and embankments.
Ryukyu potato (sweet potato)　This is the sweet potato. This plant came from Ryukyu to Satsuma, and now is
　widely cultivated in many provinces, serving as a great help for supplementary food. Moreover, it is not difficult
　to grow. Now, during the intense heat, many rot, but if well stored, fresh ones can be harvested around the Bon festival, with only brief periods of shortage.

【Left Page】
Bitter greens (nigana)　Bitter greens, lettuce, thistle - these are abundant even by roadsides. When stems and leaves are slightly torn,
　they emit white sap, and they grow even on house rooftops. In summer they extend and open yellow flowers.
　They blow in the wind like cotton fluff. Boil in hot water, soak in water to remove bitterness, and prepare as pickled vegetables
　like green vegetables. Recently, some people use these as food.
Bindweed flower (hirugao)　Commonly called rain flower or twining flower. The Sancai Tuhui states that steaming and
　boiling the roots makes them edible and very sweet. The flowers resemble morning glories and are pale red or white in color.
　They are called hirugao because they don't wilt during the day. The Jiuhuang Bencao describes harvesting the roots, steaming them
　for eating. Alternatively, sun-dry them, pound and crush them to cook with rice for eating, which is also good. Or grind them to make noodles,
　make into grilled cakes and steam for eating. In famine years, the poor should dig up the roots, mix with salt and boil for eating.
　This helps with hunger. Remove the skin, chop finely, boil well and bleach, mix with wheat to make porridge for eating, which is also good. The leaves
　　　　　　　　　　　Four