【Right Page】
　　　　　　　Four
　Also boil until cooked and use as food. If eaten for a long time, it causes dizziness and stomach upset, but eating it occasionally is
　said to be acceptable.
Tokoro (Dioscorea tokoro)　Beneficial for the poor living near mountains and fields. To relieve famine, slice tokoro horizontally,
boil well and soak in running water overnight to remove the bitter taste well. Also boil thoroughly in lye water,
　change the water and soak for about two nights to bleach, then mix with wheat, rice and similar grains to cook into rice for eating, which
　helps with hunger. However, since its nature is cooling and causes diarrhea, sick people and the weak should not eat it. If
　constipation occurs from long consumption, grind white rice and boil into thin rice gruel to drink frequently, which will cause diarrhea and
　neutralize the toxin. When I was young, during the Tenmei era, someone manufactured tokoro powder and sold it in the town
　in front of Shingetsu-in Temple in Asakusa, Edo. They petitioned the authorities and were granted permission to operate as the sole
　seller within Edo. It resembled soybean flour and was a very pale yellow color. It was sold in paper bags.

【Left Page】
　I certainly saw it being sold, but after some years it was no longer seen. Since I have reached old age,
　this was more than fifty years ago.
Lily　Wild lily (Himeyuri)　Harvest the roots, boil until cooked, and add salt for eating. The leaves should also be boiled until cooked for eating.
　Tiger lily (Oniyuri) has a slight bitter taste. Adding sake when boiling gives the best flavor.
Arrowhead (White water chestnut)　Boil in lye water until cooked, remove the skin and eat - this eliminates astringency and doesn't irritate
　the throat. Young stems can also be roasted for eating. This plant governs all poisons. For postpartum blood stasis causing near-death suffering, difficult birth, or retained placenta, the juice obtained by pounding and squeezing is said to be effective.
Black water chestnut　Should be boiled for eating.
Yellow yam (Kashuu)　Also called keimo. Remove the skin, boil well to eliminate bitterness before eating.
Chinese yam (Jinenjo)　Should be boiled for eating. Mountain yam and wild yam are the same thing.

【Red circle stamp: Imperial】
　　　　　　　　　Five