【Right Page】
　Boil and mix with wheat and similar grains to cook as food, which is also good.
Water dropwort　Preserves blood vessels, nourishes essence, stops bleeding, increases qi, and makes people fat and healthy. Red
　dropwort harms people so should not be eaten. All dropworts after March have leech eggs, so they
　harm people. Wash very thoroughly before boiling and eating.
Stinking ash leaves　This is changshan (Dichroa febrifuga). Its leaves resemble stinking clerodendron and taste pungent. Zhenquan says they are bitter with slight toxicity.
　People with spleen-stomach deficiency should not eat them. Boil and soak in water overnight to rinse before eating.
　Soaking in flowing water is even better. Shuqi refers to stinking ash, which is like tea leaves, while stinking clerodendron is clerodendron with
　large leaves. These two plants are different.
Cirsium thistle　Also called flea-catching flower or mountain thistle. Removes wind-heat and is good for women's red and white vaginal discharge.
　Has the effect of stabilizing pregnancy. Boil thoroughly in lye water, change the water to rinse, then eat.

【Left Page】
Small thistle　Same as above. Preparation method is also the same.
Swamp thistle　Grows abundantly in wetlands. All methods for preparing and eating are the same as above.
Safflower seedlings　Nature is the same as safflower. Method of boiling and eating is like mugwort. It breaks up blood.
　Pregnant women, postpartum women, those with traumatic wounds, and people with spleen-stomach deficiency should not eat it.
Chickweed　Benefits people as a vegetable. Zangqi says it breaks up blood and promotes milk flow.
　Good for new mothers. Should be boiled before eating.
Dandelion　Dongyuan says for women's breast abscesses and edema, if you boil and drink the juice, it disappears immediately.
　Danxi says it neutralizes food poisoning, disperses stagnant qi, and transforms heat toxins. The method of boiling and eating is as mentioned above.
Goosefoot　Mukai Gensho's "Kitchen Japanese Materia Medica" says it has no nature of supplementation and nourishment. "Ichihondo
　Yakusen" says it far surpasses the Four Substance Decoction with Cnidium, Angelica, Peony, and Rehmannia. Which is correct?