【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　Nine
　Which is correct - each person should try and use accordingly. Boil and mix with rice or gruel to cook and eat. Always dry and
　store as provisions. Those with large red leaves are called red goosefoot, and those with small blue-green leaves are called blue-green goosefoot.
　Country people were once satisfied with goosefoot, but in years of poor harvest, obtaining this made it a fine grain. In China, it is commonly stored
　and used as food for the poor, as can be seen. This is recorded in the "Rescue from Famine Wild Manual."
Amaranth　Supplements qi and removes heat. Should be boiled and eaten. Mix with wheat or millet to cook with rice, or also
　mix with gruel and boil to eat. Should not be eaten together with soft-shelled turtle. There are various types of amaranth: white amaranth, red
　amaranth, spotted amaranth, and wild amaranth, all of which can be eaten.
Purslane　There is mercury between the nodes and leaves. Elder Kagetu Gyuzan says that according to Japanese folk belief, there is mercury,
　so it is prohibited for pregnant women, women, and children. The "Rescue from Famine Wild Manual" says to eat the stems and leaves.
　There are red and white varieties. Gather in summer, blanch in boiling water, dry in the sun, and use in winter eating gradually, which is also good. In Chu customs,

【Left Page】
　this is eaten on New Year's Day. To rescue from hunger, boil and add salt if there is no miso. Should not be eaten together with bracken
　powder. Seeing this, the mercury theory is hard to believe.
Shepherd's purse　Benefits the five organs, and the root cures eye pain. In spring months, take the stems and leaves, which can all be eaten raw or cooked.
　It is best to boil and eat. False shepherd's purse resembles shepherd's purse but has hair. Tinglik is also a type of shepherd's purse. Both
　can be eaten, says Elder Kaibara. Dog shepherd's purse - eat the stems and leaves, grows in the twelfth month. Both raw and cooked can be used. During flowering
　time it is not good. However, it should be made into pickles, as seen in the "Rescue from Famine Wild Manual." Should be boiled and eaten.
Japanese spikenard　Stems, leaves, and roots can all be boiled and eaten.
Beggartick seedlings　Pick the leaves of young seedlings, boil and soak in water to remove bitterness, wash thoroughly, and season with salt and soy sauce
　to eat. In places with flowing water, soaking overnight is said to remove both bitterness and toxins well.
Cogon grass roots　In materia medica texts, this is called "mao gen" (cogon root). Extremely pure and also very sweet. The young shoots of cogon grass