【Right Page】
　　　　　　　　　Sixteen
　Growing out gradually, if you dig this up and plant it, it will multiply immediately. Within six to seven ken in all directions, it grows where the roots
　extend. In famine years, eat them steamed and boiled regardless of whether they are green or red.
Chestnuts　For supplementing staple food, nothing is better than making pounded chestnuts and storing them. If the harvest is poor, cut away many lower branches
　and leave the top branches, then they will surely bear fruit, according to the "Complete Book of Agriculture."
Persimmons　There are many varieties. Among common people, persimmon cakes are considered good as famine year food. Like glutinous rice flour,
　they are pounded and steamed for eating. This is the finest preparation method; for poor people's food, it is good to mix with roasted barley flour
　and pound together. Astringent persimmons pounded with roasted flour of non-glutinous rice and barley are also used. Also,
　for string-dried persimmons, when they have colored, collect the shaved persimmon peels, boil them, put in a mortar and pound well, then pound together with roasted flour of non-glutinous rice and
　barley - this is also good for famine year food. However, if eaten together with crab,
　there is the worry of stomach pain and diarrhea.

【Left Page】
Mulberries　Good for the five organs, joint pain, blood and qi, and calms the spirit. Dry the black ones in the sun
　and make into powder; taking three gō dissolved in water three times daily prevents hunger, according to the "Expanded Meaning of Monthly Ordinances."
　《Note: Three gō in Tang China equals one gō five shaku in Japan》Well-ripened black ones are best, but for relieving hunger, choose neither red nor black; wash
　clean, steam until cooked, mix with rice and boil to eat. Since they have insects attached, wash repeatedly before steaming and eating.
Radish, carrot, burdock, greens, potatoes and such that are commonly eaten need not be mentioned, so I do not list them in detail.
Among these, radish, potatoes, and sweet potatoes greatly help supplement staple food. We simply
wish that, feeling grateful for the thick benevolence of the authorities, we exhaust our own frugality so as not to further trouble our superiors,
and that the merchants under the direct rule may continue their business for a long time. Of the three necessities - clothing, food, and shelter - having discussed food which is most important,
the methods of using clothing, building houses, and maintaining frugality and economy in all matters beyond meeting daily needs will be shown next to supplement the essentials of economics.