【Right Page】
Minamoto no Raikō
【Within Corner-Cut Frame】In the autumn of Eien 2, when Lord Raikō was falling into deep sleep, a shadow-like figure descended from the sky. When he looked, he saw a beautiful and elegant woman carrying a bow and arrows in her hands. She said, "I am Shōka, daughter of Yōyūki of Tang China. I have received the secret teachings of archery from my father. Wishing to transmit these to future generations, I have been searching for a disciple. Seeing that you possess the necessary qualities, I shall bestow my techniques upon you," and then departed. When he awoke from the dream, there were bow and arrows and a hitatatare robe.

From this time onward, there was no one in the realm who could match his archery skills. Later, when demons took residence in Mount Senjōgatake in Tanshū Province and tormented the people, Raikō was summoned to the imperial court due to his martial prowess, and an imperial decree for demon subjugation was issued. First, he made vows at the three shrines of Sumiyoshi, Hachiman, and Kumano, and then he and his five retainers disguised themselves as mountain ascetics and set out for the campaign. In the deep mountains, the path finally came to an end, and as he wondered what to do, three men of strange appearance came forth. When he asked them to guide the way through the mountain paths, they replied, "It is natural that you do not know the way. We shall guide you," and led the group over peaks and across valleys. Afterward, they said to the group, "In the shadow of this mountain we have our humble hut. Please enter and rest your fatigue."

【Left Page】
They invited the group in and entertained them in various ways. One of them said, "Your appearances suggest you are no ordinary men. Therefore, there is something we must tell you. Beyond here, at a place called Mount Senjōgatake, there are demons. If you follow our instructions, the demon subjugation will proceed as you wish. Demons by nature love sake and drink to excess. When that happens," he brought out a helmet and a sake flask, "serve this sake in this flask. When they are drunk and collapsed, take this helmet bowl and use it to defeat them."