From "Zōho Tashiki-hen" (Supplemented Encyclopaedia of Knowledge), listed under shrub plants:
　　　Mokutenryō (Actinidia polygama)　Japanese name: Watatabi, now
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　upon investigation: Matatabi

　　　Fujittenryō (Vine Tenlyo)　Of Tenryō there are two kinds:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　woody and vine varieties

From "Wamyō Ruijushō":
　　　Mokutenryō　As stated in the Nahanron: Mokutenryō　Japanese name: Watatahi (わたたひ)

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　【Grasses】
　　　　　　　　　　　　From "Wakan Sansai Zue," Shrubs section:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Fujittenryō　Now called Matatabi (またたび)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　[Matatabi]　There are three varieties; among them, Mokutenryō and
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kottenryō are not common

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　In the third and fourth months, white flowers bloom, resembling
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　plum blossoms, most fittingly so

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Year of Wood Rooster (Kinoto-Tori), 5th month, after the day of medicinal dew collection
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Illustrated from life at Zuikoen
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　【Vine plants】

From "Yamato Honzō":
　　　Fujittenryō　Also called Natsume (summer plum)

　　　Regarding Matatabi: In the "Honzō" (Materia Medica), citing Su Gong's explanation, Mokutenryō is a vine resembling boxwood (tsuge), with white flowers, fruit roughly the size of a jujube with no fixed shape, the inner flesh (pulp) resembling that of an eggplant, with a pungent flavor—eating it serves as a substitute for ginger and knotweed. There is no doubt that this refers to Matatabi. Su Song also stated that what Su Gong described is indeed the Fujittenryō (vine variety). Therefore, what Su Gong described is not Mokutenryō (the woody variety) but Fujittenryō (the vine variety). Chen Cangqi and Li Shizhen both stated that there are three kinds of Tenryō: 〇Mokutenryō, 〇Shōtenryō (small variety), and 〇Fujittenryō. It is not known whether the other two varieties exist in Japan. The Japanese variety is Fujittenryō. The reason it is listed in the shrubs section of the "Honzō" is that Mokutenryō and Shōtenryō are woody plants. The Japanese variety, however, is not woody but rather a climbing woody vine, and thus it is Fujittenryō. Mokutenryō will be discussed in a later volume.