The "Tobacco Collection Commentary Front Continuation Index" (Yamato Honzō) states:

The "Honzō Dōsen" states:
　　　Tobacco　One name is Sōshi-sō (lovesickness grass)　It says that when people consume it, they constantly think about it
　　　　　　and cannot separate themselves from it, etc.

The "Zhangzhou Prefecture Records" states:
　　　Tanbako　The seeds originate from the Eastern Ocean　Recently much is sown　The stems are all like
　　　　　　large chrysanthemums, flowers like dandelions, seeds like plantain seeds

Kaibara states:
Now examining, the tobacco recorded in the "Honzō Dōsen" is also the same thing as tanbako. Now in Nanjing it is called en (smoke),
in Zhangzhou and Fuzhou it is called bun. Cut tobacco is called setsubun. In Korea, tobacco is called Nanjing.
Now the Western people and Siamese who come to Nagasaki call it tobacco and chew and eat it. They also smoke it. Now
the common practice of reading henbane as tobacco is incorrect. Henbane has existed in China since ancient times. Since
henbane is recorded in the Engi-shiki, it must be a grass that has existed in Japan since old times. Neither China nor Japan had
tobacco in ancient times. It is said to have come from foreign countries in recent times. It is not recorded in the "Bencao Gangmu." Its first
arrival in Japan was probably in the early Tenshō period. Some say it first came in Keichō 10. Initially it was cut and sold in Hanayama, called Hana-
yama tobacco. After planting in Yoshino, it was cultivated in Tamba. Chinese in Nagasaki all call it tobacco,
not henbane. From this we should know it is not henbane, etc.

Chokkyaku states:
All theories are appropriate for tobacco. However, Chen Fuyao of the Kangxi period states in "Flower Mirror":
It resembles Harufu-rō with large leaves. This theory somewhat matches. However, it greatly differs from
"blooming purple-white fine flowers." There is also purple-white flowered tobacco called rock tobacco. This corresponds to that. Common tobacco
mostly has red-white flowers. Also, the tobacco in "Zhangzhou Prefecture Records" with stems all like large chrysanthemums, flowers like
dandelions, seeds like plantain seeds has nothing to do with tobacco at all. Which flower
does it refer to? This should be examined. It is probably the small cart flower. Those with large stems resemble
leaf tobacco.

　　　Not the rock vegetable
　　　spoken of by common people
Rock tobacco
　　Abundant in the mountains of Ise Province
　　Said to grow between rocks
　　The name "rock tobacco" is probably
　　Ise dialect. This plant
　　is also recorded in Western Travel Tales

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Kinoto-Tori year, 6th month, final day, friend
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　artist sent one pot during travel
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One stem, joy seeing it on the desk, drawn