"Tashikihen" [Polyglot Compilation], section on marsh plants, states:
　　　Hollyhock - Japanese name: kara-aoi (Chinese mallow) - Also called: according to research, aoi - Alternative name: barbarian mallow - In Erya: Wu mallow

　　　　　　　○"Huainanzi" states: "The sage in the Way is like the mallow following the sun" and so forth
　　　　　　　　Its flowers begin to bloom from the bottom in the fifth month,
　　　　　　　　gradually opening completely up to the top branches,
　　　　　　　　marking the end of the plum rains

○"Wang's Garden of Compilation" states: "In the Chenghua jiawu year, Japanese envoys came bearing tribute and saw
　hollyhock flowers but did not recognize them, asking what they were called. Deceiving them, someone said 'This is called ichimongō.' The person drew
　the flower on paper and wrote: 'The flower resembles the mukuge flower, the flower is like hibiscus leaves, even a five-foot
　railing cannot completely hide it, still showing half to people.' At the end they
　wrote: 'In foreign countries too there are those who can compose such poetry.'"

○"Xiyangzazu" states: "Hollyhock can be spun into cloth, and when it withers, if burned to
　ash and fire is stored within, it will not extinguish for many days"


　　　　　　　　　　　"Makura no Sōshi" [Pillow Book] states:
　　　　　　　　　　　The kara-aoi should be viewed
　　　　　　　　　　　with special attention, as it leans
　　　　　　　　　　　following the sun's shadow—
　　　　　　　　　　　it seems to lack the heart of ordinary plants and trees

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　I say:
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　What the "Pillow Book" says about the hollyhock is
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　wrong. "Following the sun's shadow and leaning" refers to the sunflower
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(himawari). This plant has tall leaves and stems, and
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　blooms yellow flowers in the sixth month that resemble chrysanthemums but are very large.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Therefore "Hanashi" calls it "bunkiku" [literary chrysanthemum]. Its flower
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　has just one bloom atop the stem that follows the sun around.
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Commonly called "himawari" [sun-turner]. "Following the sun's shadow and leaning" does
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　not apply to hollyhocks. Hollyhocks do not follow the sun.

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hinoe-inu year, Zuihin month, 10th day - copied

　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　"Yamato Honzō"
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　records this among flowering plants