became lighter and more infrequent.
The earthen wall on the east side of the garden collapsed, creating a passage to the neighbor's bamboo grove, which gave us freedom of movement. We had prepared ourselves to flee to the grove if we heard that "gichi-gichi" creaking sound again, but we did not need to escape.

From the morning of the third day, though the intervals became longer, there were still four or five medium to strong tremors and fourteen or fifteen small ones. Having grown accustomed to them, on the third day we gathered in the main house, planning to go to the bamboo grove if the shaking intensified, but this proved unnecessary. Though there were frequent small tremors at night, we were able to rest in the sitting room from around midnight. On the fourth day there were again light tremors at intervals, but there were also medium ones, causing unease. The fifth and sixth days were the same. Though I thought it had mostly quieted down on the sixth day, it had not. On the seventh day it seemed mostly quiet with only two or three tremors, and during the night as well.

At dawn there were one or two stronger small tremors, and since there had been no shaking from this morning of the eighth day, I thought this was a good sign. However, around the hour of the horse there were frequent medium and small tremors. This is truly endless! From then until now as I write this letter around the hour of the monkey, there have been no tremors, but since it has not settled down during this period, small tremors will likely continue for another day or two. It is truly difficult to feel at ease.
However, the major shaking was only that first time. I do not think there will be any more major tremors, so I am not entirely without relief. News will gradually reach you there, so I imagine you must be quite worried. I have ordered that a letter dated the eighth be sent tomorrow on the ninth, so please be assured of our general safety. Please convey this to both parents.
I think Todayu and Ume especially must be very worried. Please give them my regards. I humbly request this of you.