【Right Page】
Mita, Tsunasaka (with subsidiary notes: Tebikisaka, Ubuyunomizu spring | Komatsunagi pine, Tsunazuka) Koyama Shinmei Shrine

Kasuga Myōjin Shrine, Gepparo pavilion, Mita Hachiman Shrine, Hijiri slope

Koun-ji temple, Saikai-ji temple, Former site of Takeshiba-ji temple and its ancient legends

Kamezuka (turtle mound), Grave of Master Sorai, Gyoran Kannon Hall, Shiomizaka slope

Isarago Yakushi Hall, Ushigoya (cow shed), Takanawa Ōkido (great gate) (with subsidiary note: Illustration of night vigil on July 26th)

Takanawa plain, Sengaku-ji temple, Nyorai-ji temple (with subsidiary note: Garyū hill), Taishi Hall, Kōshin Hall

Inari shrine, Jōkō-ji temple, Hōzō-ji temple (with subsidiary note: Koyasu Kannon | Benzaiten), Shakujin shrine

Takayama Inari shrine, Tōzen-ji temple (with subsidiary note: Ukisu | Hachiman shrine), Yatsuyama

【Left Page】
Musashi Province belongs to the Tōkaidō circuit. According to the Wamyō Ruijushō, it is written as "Musashi," and the provincial capital is located in Tama district.

(Subsidiary note: Musashi Province was originally included within the Tōsandō circuit in ancient times. In the winter, tenth month, day kinotō of the second year of Hōki (771) during Emperor Kōnin's reign, the Daijōkan petitioned to transfer it to the Tōkaidō circuit, as recorded in the Shoku Nihongi.) Kuraki, Tsuzuki, Tama

Tachibana, Ebara, Toshima, Adachi, Niikura, Iruma, Koma, Hiki, Yokomi, Saitama, Ōsato, Osuma

Hara, Hanzawa, Naka, Kodama, Kami, Chichibu, Katsushika and others - a total of twenty-two districts (Subsidiary note: The Shūgaishō lists | Ōagata, Tōkai)

(Subsidiary note: Adding the three districts of Naka and others while removing Katsushika to make twenty-four districts is not clear. In the third month of the third year of Jōkyō (1686), the west side of the Tone River was divided and made to belong to Musashi Province. In the past, around Honjo and Kasai, with the Asakusa River as the provincial border, the land east of the river)

(Subsidiary note: Was entirely part of Shimōsa Province, but as mentioned above, now half of Katsushika district has been divided so that west of the Tone River belongs to Musashi Province's Katsushika district, while the eastern part belongs to Shimōsa Province's Katsushika district. The Wamyōshō lists twenty-one districts under Musashi Province's jurisdiction without Katsushika district)

(Subsidiary note: Now this is added to make twenty-two districts. The Wamyōshō reads Katsushika as "kashishika." The same book also reads Tama as "taha.")

The Kojiki writes it as "Muyashi." The Kyūjiki writes it as "Munasashi." (Subsidiary note: The Man'yōshū writes it as "Mu|sashi") All are pronounced as "Musashi."

Its meaning is explained in the Fudoki-shō. The peaks of Chichibu in Musashi Province have a force like that of brave warriors rising in anger.

Prince Yamato Takeru offered prayers at this mountain for the conquest of the eastern barbarians, and after the eastern barbarians were completely pacified,

he stored his weapons at Mount Iwakura in Chichibu, which is why this province came to be called "Musashi."

Later, in the second year of Jingō Keun during Empress Shōtoku's reign, when Musashi Province presented a white pheasant, the court nobles' memorial stated it was an auspicious sign of "storing away weapons and revering culture," thus this province was given the auspicious name using the characters for Musashi.

The Shoku Nihongi, in the Shōtoku chronicles, states: "Second year of Jingō Keun, sixth month, day mizunoto-mi... A person from Tachibana district in Musashi Province, Asukabe no Kishi Iokuni, at..."