9th day, Day of the Metal Sheep, clear weather. Keiki makes his New Year's visit to the shrine. Keikei was delayed due to yesterday's festivities, so he accompanies him today.

12th day, Day of the Wood Dog, clear weather. The first formal report ceremony of the year is conducted as usual.

14th day, Day of the Fire Rat, rain. Of the four tan of rice for the sacred purification ceremony, one tan is sent to be delivered to the deputy. One tan is provided by Gonshichi from Sanno-Ikenooshiri, and two tan by Yamasaku from Jūya, each sent to their respective deputies with receipts brought back. For Mutsu-no-suke's portion, two tan are provided to the deputy, and 200 mon are provided to the administrator. However, one to of cedar wood from Nishi-Kamo and eight shō of three-pronged rakes are included in this.

15th day, Day of the Fire Ox, rain. The imperial family's ceremonial streaming is bestowed as in previous years.

16th day, Day of the Earth Boar, clear weather. Invited by the new fourth leader Hossei, Shutō goes from morning. Tajima-no-suke does not attend. From the evening meal, Kiwaka goes, and I go after the evening meal for congratulations. I send two shō of first-fruit rice and three shō of sake. Also, the new second leader Kishin invites me for the evening meal and I go. I send two shō of honorable sake.

18th day, Day of the Metal Dragon, clear weather. The western middle group gathering begins, but all three members do not attend.

21st day, Day of the Water Sheep, rain. The clerk Kurō, who had been going to Echizen-no-suke Shigesi's place for calligraphy practice, discontinues this arrangement. Additionally, Takakura requests Keinei to teach reading, and he begins going today. I send two momme of silver for fan fees. This is for the Book of Songs.

23rd day, Day of the Wood Rooster, clear weather. There is a general assembly of elders and youth, and it is my turn to serve. I request Kōsei to serve as substitute. The matter concerns a notification of family expulsion and disinheritance for Miyake Sazen-no-suke; his rank certificate is returned and he is expelled from the shrine family roster, which is announced.

26th day, Day of the Earth Rat, clear weather. The mother of retainer Kameshirō dies at age eighty-six. I send one piece of silver as incense money.

27th day, Day of the Earth Ox, cloudy. From before the hour of the Tiger this morning, the abbot's quarters, main hall, bell tower hall, etc. of Seigan-ji Temple burn down. All three of us attend the imperial family to inquire about their well-being.

Second Month (30 days)

5th day, Day of the Fire Monkey, clear weather. This is the Kasuga Festival. ○For the imperial family's 100-momme religious association's 21st meeting, I serve at Sanbongi as usual.

6th day, Day of the Fire Rabbit, clear weather. Kida Shōzaemon's clerk comes to pay New Year's respects. Since a thousand-ryō investment association is to be organized this time, the clerk Ushichi is granted his first audience in recognition of his meritorious service, and afterwards is bestowed celebratory sake and food.