Six people wore white upper and lower garments (kamishimo) with hana-da-colored (light blue) single robes, serving as umbrella-bearers, shoe-bearers, and other roles, with the vermilion parasol as customary. Saba-zushi (mackerel sushi) in one lacquer box and vinegared stems in one vessel were sent to Ekonoman's rest area. Saba-zushi in one lacquer box was also sent to the rest area of Horikawa Uemon Gonno-jō. At around half past the Hour of the Monkey (approximately 4 p.m.), all the sacred rites were completed without incident, which is truly auspicious.

25th day (Kanoe-inu/庚戌), Cloudy. Five shō of rice were sent to Kiyonobu's household as compensation for serving as a proxy at the transfer of divine offerings (tensō), and we inquired how this suited him. However, he firmly declined, so as a gesture of courtesy, one block of yōkan (sweet bean jelly) was sent.

Fifth Month (a long month of 30 days)

1st day (Kinoto-u/乙卯), Cloudy. The horse selection for the horse races (kiba no ashitate) proceeded as in previous years.

5th day (Tsuchinoto-hitsuji/己未), Clear. The sacred rites and horse race meetings proceeded as in previous years. ○ Tsunenori (経寛) visited. He had been prohibited from attending duties due to matters concerning household affairs for some time, but from today he was pardoned and ordered to resume his duties. However, he would stay overnight today, and tomorrow would attend his duties as Yamashiro no Tsukai (山城使) without fail and visit the shrine to pay his respects.

8th day (Mizunoe-inu/壬戌), Clear, with a sudden evening shower and thunder at the Hour of the Monkey (approximately 3–5 p.m.). This was the 59th meeting of the Mitō-kō (御燈講, lantern confraternity). Due to illness, I did not attend.

9th day (Mizunoto-i/癸亥), Clear. The end-of-session accounting of the Mitō-kō was held at Hitsuaki's residence, and members gathered; all matters proceeded as in previous years. ○ On the following 10th day, the second-session performance of sacred dengaku (田楽, ritual music and dance) was to be offered from the Seikō-tei pavilion as per custom, with an evening meal to be provided. However, since both I (Tsunechika/経千) and Tsunenori (経紀) were ill, we did not attend. The dancer Yasutoshi (保歳) was to attend, and Tsunehiro (経啓) was prepared to serve as a substitute, but as the feverish symptoms of the seasonal illness had not yet abated, he also did not attend. The matter of a substitute dancer was entrusted to associates. Yasutō (保當) also did not attend.

15th day (Tsuchinoto-mi/己巳), Cloudy. The hundredth-day memorial service for Emperor Ninkō was scheduled for the 17th, two days hence, but it was to be conducted at two temples on the 16th and 17th. Notice of fire precautions was circulated. His Lordship the Dainagon (of the Omiya/御家門 family) was to take his seat at Senzan (Sennyū-ji Temple/泉涌寺) and pay his respects on the 16th. Tsunenori (経紀) was to accompany him in attendance.

16th day (Kanoe-uma/庚午), Cloudy, later clearing. His Lordship the Dainagon paid his respects at Sennyū-ji Temple.

19th day (Mizunoto-tori/癸酉), Cloudy. This was a day of solemn observance (shōki). As I was ill, Yasuko (保子) visited the grave on my behalf.

22nd day (Hinoe-ne/丙子), Rain, later clearing. Today there was a gathering of the regent-family representatives (摂家方). [They discussed matters] concerning the following autumn.