【Right Page】

vehicles. Among them, the fourth is śrāvaka, the fifth is pratyekabuddha vehicle, which are collectively Hīnayāna. The latter five are Mahāyāna. Other-dependent and enlightened-mind are Three Vehicle teachings; one-path and extreme-non- are immediately One Vehicle teachings. The tenth is the Diamond Vehicle teaching. It is the most revered and ultimate true teaching. The nine types of mind-stages are all provisional vehicles and are all causal stages. Only the tenth mind-stage is true fruition. Mahāvairocana Tathāgata is the mind-king enlightened essence; the dust-mote number of saints are mind-functions and retinue, accomplished by the five wisdoms. The two rewards of dependent and primary are the originally-existing Diamond Realm, the sovereign great samaya. In manifesting the enlightenment of all dharmas, they are primordially non-arising. The great bodhi-mind is the indestructible diamond, the luminous mind-palace. (This is the dependent reward.) The thirty-seven honored ones in nine assembly maṇḍalas, thirteen great assemblies, four-layered maṇḍalas are layer upon layer like Indra's net, with dust-realm numbers of sage-assemblies. (This is the primary reward.) Dependent and primary are inexhaustible, sovereign and perfect, towering high above all schools, broadly encompassing all scriptures in vast expanse. Therefore, even the great fruits of exoteric vehicles have not yet ascended this hall; how could the small saints of transcendent attainment enter this chamber? Thus the four Mahāyāna schools regard emptiness and quiescence as true principle, but the emotional attachments of the nine fruits cover the mind-realm without yet being opened and manifested. Only this esoteric teaching clearly sees true principle and deeply enters the mind-realm. In the secret-adorned Lotus Treasury, dust-mote numbers of honored ones dwell in array, and all sentient beings clearly possess myriad virtuous wonderful functions. Therefore all sentient beings are all Vairocana. All characteristics are all the realm of the enlightened king. This school establishes the six great [elements] to comprehensively clarify the Buddha-essence. The four types of maṇḍalas are the characteristics and appearances based on this; when the three mysteries correspond, this is immediately their karmic function. Among the six great [elements], the first five great [elements] are principle; the sixth, consciousness-great, is immediately wisdom. Above principle and wisdom, each has characteristics and functions; the four maṇḍalas and three mysteries are therefore established. Wisdom

【Lower Section】

is immediately the Diamond Realm; principle is the Womb Realm. This is called the two realms, two divisions of Mahāvairocana. What thus constitutes the six great [elements] is immediately Mahāvairocana Tathāgata. All dharmas do not separate from the six great [elements]. The dharma-nature of the six great [elements] pervades all dharmas. Therefore, among all dharmas, none is not Mahāvairocana. Mahāvairocana Tathāgata pervades the dharma-realm. One should know that the two divisions are the virtues of principle and wisdom of Mahāvairocana Tathāgata. Because principle-virtue is immeasurable, the Womb [Realm] has four layers of sage-assemblies; because wisdom-virtue is immeasurable, the Diamond Realm has thirty-seven honored ones. The two divisions are non-dual, constituting the mysterious union of principle and wisdom. In this school, Buddha establishes four bodies: svabhāvakāya, sambhogakāya, nirmāṇakāya, and naiṣyandakāya. These are called the four types of dharma-body. The five directions and five wisdoms accomplish the four bodies. [Through] becoming Buddha in this very body, great enlightenment is immediately realized, ascending to Vairocana enlightened king reaches the ultimate. Immediately in phenomena is truth; the luxuriant various characteristics and distinct various dharmas are all suchness. Exoteric teaching is Śākyamuni's exposition; esoteric teaching is immediately Mahāvairocana's exposition. Therefore the teaching-masters of the two teachings are clearly and distinctly different.

If one attains the true meaning, then the two Buddhas are non-dual. Apart from this Śākyamuni, there is no separate Mahāvairocana. Therefore in the ten abodes' hierarchical stages, abandoning the inferior to attain the superior are all the divisions of negative [description]. The ten minds' dharmas being equally constant is immediately the meaning-gate of positive [description]. Constantly the gate of differentiation, constantly the gate of equality—non-dual yet dual, dual yet non-dual. Because of positive [description], not one speck of dust is abandoned; all are Vairocana's wondrous virtue. Negative [description] is common to exoteric vehicles; positive [description] is specific to esoteric vehicles. In this teaching's meaning, all dharmas are all Mahāvairocana. Suchness is immediately my body; Buddha-dharma is immediately my essence. The four levels of secret interpretation are layer upon layer, profound and wondrous; the three mysteries' karmic functions are secretly secret and mysteriously profound. If one separates from this teaching, there is eternally no path to Buddhahood. Seeking to transcend sentient existence, how could one not

【Left Page】

practice with faith? The general outline of the mantra secret teaching is like this.

Zen School and Pure Land School

The principles and meanings of the various schools are remote and profound, difficult to fathom. Now [I] moisten with one hair to benefit beginning minds. What Japan has transmitted, from ancient times until now, what is commonly acknowledged and studied, is only these eight schools. However, outside the eight schools, the Zen school and Pure Land teaching flourish and are widely propagated.

That Zen school [teaches that] the mysterious depths of Buddha-dharma are extremely profound and subtle; originally there is not one thing, originally no afflictions, fundamentally this is bodhi. Bodhidharma came from the west, not establishing written words, directly pointing to the human mind, causing [people to] see their nature and become Buddha. [This is] not the same as other schools' luxuriant myriad dharmas' contradictory doctrines [which they] repeatedly debate and discuss. The twenty-eight patriarchs of India transmitted mind with mind. That twenty-eighth patriarch, Great Master Bodhidharma, in the Liang period transmitted this to the Chinese lands. Up through the sixth patriarch they successively inherited [the teaching]. However, under the fifth patriarch, the southern and northern two schools first divided. At the end of the sixth patriarch's southern school, [it] gradually divided into five houses. Vinaya Master Dōsen inherited the northern school's Zen and transmitted it to Japan. Great Master Dengyō from the great Tang country transmitted this school, naming it the Buddha-Mind School. Recent worthies have also transmitted it from the Song dynasty. [It] flourishes and is transmitted throughout various places in Japan.

Also, Pure Land school teaching is widely practiced in Japan. Generally, this teaching's meaning is that ordinary beings bound by [afflictions] joyfully desire the Pure Land and, with their cultivated practices, are reborn in the Pure Land. The Western Pure Land has deep connections with this land; mindfulness of Buddha practice is especially easy for those of inferior capacity. After being born in the Pure Land, [one proceeds] up to becoming Buddha. Speaking broadly, dedicating all practices to the Pure Land is called the Pure Land gate. Cultivating myriad practices, expecting to achieve [Buddhahood] in this [world]

【Lower Section】

is called the Path of Sages gate. All teachings and schools are all the Path of Sages. Joyfully seeking rebirth is the Pure Land gate. The source emerges from the Treatise on Awakening Faith, continuing in Nāgārjuna's treatise teachings. Bodhisattva Vasubandhu, Bodhiruci, Tanluan, Daochuo, Shandao, Huaigan and others, extending to Japan, all composed commentaries and competed in propagating [the teaching]. In Japan from recent times, this teaching has been especially flourishing. If these two schools are added, it becomes ten schools. However, what is commonly relied upon is merely these eight schools. The sequence of the various schools listed above is not a sequence of shallow and deep; [I] only listed [them] following the words. What to list cannot be determined. Therefore [I] have just listed them as above. Human birth and the sacred teachings are difficult to receive and difficult to encounter. Having fortunately received and encountered [them], how could one remain silent? Therefore [I] raise [my] limited view to form connections for the future. If [this] small merit does not decay, [I] will surely realize bodhi.

Eight Schools Essential Points, Volume Two

On the twenty-ninth day of the first month of Bunei 5 (1268), year of the earth-dragon, recorded this at the western valley of Enmyōji in Iyo Province. I have not yet made even my own school's ritual teachings my standard, and regarding other schools' doctrinal contemplations, there is not one that I know. [I] only raise the names and topics, briefly stating [my] limited views. Therefore errors are extremely numerous and correct meanings are entirely lacking. Those who have knowledge and insight should examine this.

Kegon School Monk Gyōnen (Age 29)