"Tōkaidō Earthquake and Tsunami: Tales for Future Generations"

【Upper section, from left】
Kyoto
Though this earthquake and tsunami caused great devastation throughout the provinces, this capital city of Heian (Kyoto) remained calm. We should look up to and revere the imperial virtue of His Majesty the Emperor.

Ōtsu
The great earthquake caused houses to lean slightly. The waters of Lake Biwa had rough waves, but there was no damage.

Kusatsu
The great earthquake caused 3-4 houses to collapse, with many damaged houses.

Ishibe
The earthquake was severe, causing 5-6 houses to collapse, with many damaged houses.

Minakuchi
Same as above. 6-7 houses and one temple collapsed, with 3 deaths and 18 injuries.

Tsuchiyama
Same as above. On the night of the 3rd, Mount Suzuka was somehow restless.

Sakanoshita
The earthquake was severe, causing great damage to houses. Like Tsuchiyama, Mount Suzuka was restless from the previous night.

Seki
Same as above. Houses were greatly damaged, 3 houses collapsed, 4 people injured.

【Lower section, from left】
Kameyama
The castle was slightly damaged, about 20 townhouses collapsed, and there was a fire but it was quickly extinguished.

Shōno
The earthquake was severe, about one-third of houses collapsed, 3 deaths, many injuries.

Ishiyakushi
Same as above. Houses were greatly damaged, about 20 collapsed, many injuries.

Yokkaichi
On both the 4th and 5th days, the earthquake was severe. 50-60 houses collapsed, over 30 storehouses crumbled. About 200 deaths, countless injuries.

Kuwana
After the great earthquake, a great tsunami swept away all of the waterfront area, with an enormous number of deaths and injuries.

Miya (Atsuta)
Same as above. One-third of houses collapsed, and after the earthquake, the tsunami swept away all of the waterfront without exception.

Narumi
Great shaking and tsunami destroyed more than half the houses, with many deaths and injuries.

Chiryū
Great shaking caused all houses to warp, and the tsunami left them half-destroyed.

Okazaki
Same as above. Amid the chaos, the tsunami caused many deaths, with countless injuries.