lowered, cut bamboo into cylindrical sections to make tubes, thread them through ropes, sandwich the corners of the shelves between two ropes, and make them freely adjustable up and down with the tubes.
This is extremely convenient for use in cramped houses. Rather than during silkworm rearing, prepare spare shelf constructions nearby, and when changing the bedding, move silkworms from the upper side shelves to the lower shelves, repeating this process up and down with each bedding change so that the silkworms develop evenly without delay, all climbing up together. The spinning frames are the same as climbing onto platforms. The adjustable shelves should be made as high as possible, leaving space underneath. The spacing between shelves should be according to the platform measurements. Although it's better to leave more space, it's sufficient if the distance between shelves allows the debris from the spinning frames to scatter and reach. ○ Also, reducing the number of shelves and hanging them, mixing straw or wheat chaff to make standing spinning frames

　　　　However (Note: This construction method involves making small bundles of straw, standing six or seven parts on one mat, with the top of the shelf)
Second line　　(Note: Split some straw and sandwich it into the bamboo on the back of the shelf, hanging it down in the country style. This method should leave one shaku two or three sun between shelves△)
is even better△ Also, using footboards and step extensions to make them high enough to reach the second floor ceiling, with many closely hung shelves, during south winds when even stones sweat, there are many rearing failures. The spinning frames become even more humid as if water had been poured on them, the cocoons become scattered, and cannot become silk or cotton. When setting up spinning frames, reduce the number of shelves more than usual to improve air circulation, and if there are no wind windows in the second floor ceiling, this should be avoided. ○ Also, when there's a major climbing and you can't manage everything, for silkworms that should climb in the evening, as time permits, remove the bedding from morning, and while feeding mulberry leaves, when you think it's time to let them climb, even if bedding accumulates, smooth it toward the center, clear the edges of the mats, place one bundle of straw lengthwise at each end, and also place short bundles crosswise