There will inevitably be barren land where even miscanthus grass and lawn grass barely grow, where proper cultivation is impossible. Planting on such land as previously instructed to serve as flood control and waiting for flooding is a long-term strategic plan. In every province and village, there are people with wisdom who densely plant pine seedlings on such land to attract soil accumulation. When the land is later opened as farmland after soil has settled, the pines are cut down, but second shoots do not emerge. Since the soil originally depended on the pines for stability, without the pines it flows away and returns to its original state of stony riverbed. Seeing such fruitless labor, few people attempt planting. There are also many who, without consideration and without evidence, put in their hoes to cultivate, achieving no harvest and annually throwing away the profits from their main rice fields into the abyss, falling into working poverty. However, the virtue of mulberry trees is that they can be arranged perpendicular to water flow, and like a carpenter's square, serve as flood control. Considering the patterns of the land's east-west orientation, rivers, hills, normal water levels, and flood levels, and according to the width and narrowness of the location, ropes should be stretched and trees planted in rows like hedging, one tree per foot intervals, with about two ken spacing between rows, then stretching ropes again. In this manner, multiple rows should be planted throughout the entire area. Once planted and established, they will thrive together with the grass. Most importantly, cutting by horse keepers during summer months should be prohibited to let both grass and trees flourish. Even when winter winds blow, the soil remains stable, and when flooding deposits more soil and the land is opened for farming, deeply buried areas should be dug up and cultivated, resulting in abundant harvests and mulberry trees that are dramatically transformed from before.