On the Good and Bad Qualities of Lu Mulberry and Jing Mulberry

The matter of harvesting mulberry fruits is detailed in the Agricultural Manual (Nōgyō Zensho). Seeds produce varieties that change characteristics. In the first year, it is difficult to distinguish clearly, so one should discriminate and thin out the inferior ones during the summer and autumn leaf picking of the second year. However, {those with purple-colored roots are called bad mulberry}. The matter of fertilizing seedling beds is detailed earlier. Those that grow exceptionally fast are inferior and should be pulled out initially.

For the rest, one should make regular inspections and prune branches as when growing chrysanthemums. This is also detailed earlier. Lu mulberry has leaves arranged alternately in a cross pattern. This is commonly called "cross mulberry" or "Sakuzaemon mulberry." I do not know from which province this person called Sakuzaemon came. There are also various types of jing mulberry, with superior varieties detailed earlier. This is commonly called "thistle mulberry." It also resembles chrysanthemum leaves in some respects, and also resembles red maple in some ways. Because it resembles thistle leaves, it is called thistle mulberry. While various books state that this variety is inferior because it bears many fruits, it is a tree that lasts for many years. Even trees that grow small from bird droppings on mountain slopes and embankments, though small, last for many years and bear abundant fruit.

When layering is done from this stock, since it comes from old tree branches, it is the same as grafting. Even when planted in fields and prospering again, it will bear abundant fruit. When cultivating fruit trees, if one uses seeds and provides good fertilization and care, they grow rapidly. Only the leaves flourish while no fruit forms. Even after years pass, most do not bear fruit. Therefore, trees for fruit production should be limited to layering and grafting. Also, when mulberry bears abundant fruit, it should be picked...