【Right folio】

(From the petition of the 9th month, Meiji 3 / 1870:)

As this is a year of great hardship, we humbly beseech you in your benevolence to overlook this matter, and we would consider it a great blessing. Respectfully submitted.

　Meiji 3, Kanoe-uma year [1870], 9th month　■■bu Village
　　Up to ■　　Same as above　　Group head　　Same as above
　　　Banemon　Kichiemon　　Magoemon　　Magoshichi
　　Same　　　Same　　　　Same　　　　Yorinori
　　　Kyūsuke　　Sōemon　　Zensaemon　　■man
　　Same　　　　Same　　　　Caretaker　　All together
　　　Yumi■■　　■Koko　　Denemon　　Masuzō
To the Office of the Toiya [wholesale merchant/post-station authority]

---

(Main petition, 1st month of Meiji 5 / 1872:)

One item: In the past Kanoe-uma year [Meiji 3, 1870], those among the charcoal burners who came forward as a group with a petition stated that, continuing from previous years, they would duly submit thirty ryō of gold per year, and having submitted a formal written pledge to that effect, they returned to their village and consulted with the charcoal burners. However, contrary to expectations, the mountain [forests/charcoal production] fell into extreme difficulty, and in this particularly distressing year, even the payment of ten ryō of gold by the officials has become uncertain. Accordingly, on the 21st day of the 9th month of the Kanoe-uma year [1870], we presented a humble petition to the officials through proper channels and submitted a written appeal, though we understand with great trepidation that it was acknowledged that the matter could not be resolved exactly as stated in that petition. Nevertheless, as the condition of the ■■■ mountain has reached such a state, the matter was of such gravity that we, the three village officials and the caretakers, all affixed our seals to petition [the authorities]. We humbly beg your special compassion to extend relief to the charcoal burners, and in accordance with the petition from the 9th month of the Kanoe-uma year [1870] as granted by the toiya [office], requesting that the annual payment be set at ten ryō of gold per year — we hereby submit this renewed petition. Furthermore, we respectfully enclose the petition submitted in the previous Kanoe-uma year as a separate attached document for your inspection, and we humbly beseech you to grant relief to the charcoal burners through your [authority/benevolence]. We would consider it a great blessing if you would give this matter your sympathetic attention. Respectfully submitted.

　Meiji 5, Kanoe-uma year [1872], 1st month　Ko■■ Village
　　　　　　　　　　　　　■■
　　　　　　　　　　　　　Hamajirō