【Right folio】
...travelling around and along the eastern shore, we had three companion vessels accompanying us, but from past midday, clouds and fog suddenly arose, and even the lead companion vessels became indistinguishable. Frantic not to be separated from the companion vessels, we had our crew row with desperate urgency through the gaps between rocks and small islets, but the companion vessels became utterly invisible, and the fog grew ever deeper. As the wind had also risen, we hurried on persistently, until finally dusk began to fall. At that point, I inquired of an Ainu man among the crew (kakо) about the lay of the land, but he said that this stretch of coastline was one through which he had never before sailed. Therefore, there was no means by which to seek a guide, and with the fog growing ever denser, the wind ever stronger, and the waves ever higher, we drew the vessel close to a cliff face to look, but found only sheer, precipitous rock walls with great waves surging and swirling high, the very seawater standing upright. We had entered into such conditions that there was no place whatsoever to land the ship, and with no other choice,

【Left folio】
...we headed out toward the open sea, but the sun had set, the fog was deep, and darkness closed in on all sides; it seemed we had nothing left to do but await the capsizing of the vessel. However, among those aboard our ship, there was an Ainu man who possessed skill in divination, and he commenced his reading. The manner of this divination was as follows: the diviner placed a fish bone atop the Ainu's forehead, chanted an incantation, bowed his head, and allowed the bone to fall to the ground before him; he would then observe the manner in which it fell and pronounce upon the outlook of the situation. Following the directions given by this divination, we rowed in what was judged to be the direction of the shoreline, and drawing the vessel toward it, we found a small anchorage among the rocks, and were able to bring the ship in to land. Having truly escaped with our lives by a hair's breadth, we disembarked, climbed up to a mid-level ledge on the rocks, and took shelter in a cave among the crags. There was no food whatsoever; we did nothing but light a fire and settle into a feeling of relief. There, the Ainu among us, with regard to their meal as well... (continues on next page)
</translation_ja>