【Right folio】
(Continued from previous page) ...they would begin to voice loud complaints and demand recompense. Therefore, when there is someone who has died, the proper reply is: "I wonder whether so-and-so might not be here" — this is in fact the customary expression for conveying that someone has died. At that point, one should respond with an air of solemnity, saying "This was something I did not know," which is the established etiquette of Ezo. However, I will omit the details here, intending to record them more fully when the occasion arises.

**On the Matter of *Tsukunai* (Recompense / Compensation)**

Item: Among the retainers of the Matsumae domain, there is a post called "*jōnori*" (overseer aboard ship). The principal duty of this post is to levy and collect items such as sea otter pelts, hawk feathers — *(marginal note: in Matsumae, eagle feathers are referred to as hawk feathers)* — seal skins, *efuriko*, bear pelts, and bear gallbladders (*kumanoii*) as tribute. When the officer holding this post, one Matsui Mohei, received orders and proceeded to Atsukeshi (Akkeshi) as *jōnori*, there was in the vicinity of that place a settlement

【Left folio】
...known as Hibashei (Bibase) village. The village elder (*otona*) submitted one bear gallbladder as tax tribute. An inspector (*kantei-yaku*) was present to examine its authenticity, and it was conclusively determined to be a counterfeit. Accordingly, the officer Matsui Mohei was greatly incensed, summoned the chief elder (*sō-otona*) of Atsukeshi, Ikotoi, to undergo examination, and upon thorough scrutiny ruled that it was indeed a fake. He declared that this failure was the result of generally lax oversight in the day-to-day handling of tribute matters, and roundly rebuked and intimidated Ikotoi. Ikotoi thereupon investigated closely the provenance of the bear gallbladder in question, and it was clearly established that it was a bear gallbladder that the elder of Bibase had acquired through trade during a sea crossing to Kunashiri Island. It therefore became evident that this was the doing of the Ainu of Kunashiri Island, who had deceived the elder of Hibashei, and that the error lay in the failure of the inspector's appraisal. Ikotoi offered a detailed apology... (continues on next page)