【Right folio】
(Continued from previous page) ...having made this appeal, the interpreter (*tsūji*) Hayashi Uemon of the Atsukeshi fishing grounds duly conveyed the full account to Matsui Mohei. Matsui Mohei heard out the entire sequence of events, yet declared: "While the account may have some plausibility, what these Ainu say cannot be trusted. They are no doubt simply concocting a clever story using their own quick wits and silver tongues." With this, he had the interpreter Hayashi Uemon arrested. However, as there was no prison (*rōya*) at Atsukeshi, there happened to be a wooden storehouse (*itagura*), which was fitted out as a makeshift jail, and Hayashi Uemon was confined within it. For three days from that day, he was left without even food being provided. Upon hearing of this, the watchmen (*bannin*) of the nearby fishing grounds gathered in great numbers and offered various apologies, but the officer Matsui Mohei refused to relent. As a result, the chief elder (*sō-otona*) Ikotoi, along with the other elders (*otona*), minor functionaries,

【Left folio】
...and *shimochi* (lower-ranking subordinates) gathered together to deliberate. Their conclusion was: "The duty of an interpreter is to manage dealings with the Ainu people — to convey reason upward to the officials and to make it known downward to the Ainu. Since the interpreter's current predicament arose from an incident originating with the Ainu, it cannot simply be left unaddressed. This is a matter in which we must uphold our obligations as fully as possible." They therefore resolved that a large number of Ainu, through the mediation of the watchmen, would present themselves to Matsui Mohei with a formal apology, and that as *tsukunai* (recompense), a penalty payment (*karyo*) should be offered. Their deliberation reached unanimous agreement on this point. Accordingly, each of the elders brought forth items they had hidden deep in the mountains and secretly stored away — buried treasures such as ceremonial (*jin*) tachi swords, short swords (*aikuchi*), *sayamaki* tachi swords, and various other secretly treasured precious articles. Upon receiving these, Mohei finally relented and acknowledged their appeal. He had Hayashi Uemon released from the wooden storehouse and reportedly pardoned him of his offense. To this day, the events of that time (continue on next page...)