【Frame 4】
【Right page: No text】

【Left page】

【Header Note】
In the ninth volume, sixth section of the *Azuma Kagami* [Mirror of the East], it is recorded that in the twelfth month of Bunji 5 (1189), on the day of Kinoe-Ne, Hiroakira, the former governor of Inaba Province, went up to the capital as an envoy. Regarding the three districts of Iwai, Isawa, and Esashi, it states that seeds and other provisions should be sent from the northern side of the mountains to the agricultural districts (of Dewa Province).

Furthermore, the tenth volume of the same work states that in the first month of the year Bunji 6 (1190), Kōjutsu year, on the sixth day (辛酉), the retainers of the late Yasuhira of Ōshū — led by Ōkawa Jirō Kanetō and others — had been plotting rebellion since the previous winter. Some assumed the name of Yoshitsune, the Governor of Iyo Province, and appeared in the Kaibe-no-shō of Dewa Province; others claimed to be Asahi Kanja, the eldest son of Yoshinaka, the Head of the Left Stables, and rose up in the Yamakita district of the same province. Each gathered rebellious forces, driving out Kanetō along with his eldest son Tsurūtarō, second son Kinaijirō, and over seven thousand cavalry of villainous troops, and set out toward Kamakura. Their route passed through Kawakita and beneath Akita Castle, and so forth.

The "district of Yamakita" referred to here is presumably a collective name for the three districts of Ogachi, Hiraka, and Yamamoto, together called Yamakita district.

【Main Text】
　　○Moon-Rising Path of Dewa (Tsuki no Ideha michi)　《marginal note: Section on Senboku District》

"Senboku" was not originally a district name; it may have been a place referred to as Yamakita (north of the mountains) and Kawakita (north of the river), positioned opposite one another from east to west. "Kawakita" likely referred to areas such as Noshiro and Hiyama. The characters for "Kawakita" (河北) are carved on ancient Buddhist statues and old vessels, and also remain in written records. Upon reflection, the *Sandai Jitsuroku* [True Records of Three Reigns] (Volume 37, leaf 5) contains the passage: "Yamakita — the three districts of Ogachi, Hiraka, and Yamamoto." In the present age, these three districts are commonly called "Senboku," using the Sino-Japanese (on'yomi) reading of the characters for Yamakita.

In the *Wamyōshō* [Japanese Names Glossary], a place called "Yamakita" also appears in the Ikuha district of Chikugo Province, and similar examples likely exist in various other regions. At some point, the Yamakita of Dewa Province came to be pronounced "Senboku" in the Chinese-influenced reading, and this was further rendered as "Sen-..."

[Text continues on next page]