【Right page】
【Main text】
...also written as 乏（Boku), and since the character 乏（tōshiki, "scarce") was deemed inappropriate in sound, it was changed to 千福（Senfuku), though this revision does not appear to be from a particularly recent era either. This can be seen in the Azuma Kagami and the Shasekishū as well. The term Yamakita (Mountain-North) likely referred to the mountain shadow (yamakage) of Komagatamine Peak 《enshrined at Komagatayama, a Shikinaisha [imperially-registered shrine] of Mutsu Province》. The current characters for "Senboku" were probably mostly written from the Tenshō era onward. Now it has become predominantly the name of a district, and the ancient Yamamoto District has been called Senboku District and absorbed into the district administration. There are likely many more matters to be investigated and corroborated, but documents are scarce and my own talents are limited, so there is nothing to be done.

○ In the "Amakasu Monogatari," a person called Yamakita Saemon Kurō Yoshisada appears...

【Left page】
【Header notes】
In Volume 12 of the Nobunaga-ki, regarding the execution of Hatano, etc.: likewise on the 18th day, from Daishouji in Dewa Province, five fine horses were assembled and presented, along with eleven swift hawks, including two white hawks sent up to the capital. To the Daishouji side were sent two hundred ryō of gold, twenty tan of dull silk, and five tiger skins. Also, Tōno Magojirō of Mutsu Province presented one white hawk. Senfuku of Dewa Province, and Maeda Satsuma no Kami came up [to the capital] and offered three swift hawks and expressed their gratitude, as recorded.

【Main text】
...a person who lived to over one hundred years of age and passed away around the Jōhei era, as recorded. This is described in detail in the section on Sugino Miya in Ogachi District. ○

In Volume 5 of the Shasekishū: In the middle ages, at a place called Tanaka Manor in Jōshū (Hitachi Province), there was a mountain ascetic (yamabushi) called Kōkanbō. He was secretly conducting an affair with the wife of a farmer called Fujio in the neighboring house. Perhaps he had intended to father a child with her. When this matter naturally came to light and became known, he felt regret, yet on the other hand there was the relationship of teacher and parishioner, and since he was a renowned leader of Kumano pilgrimages, he thought there must not be any shameful conduct, and so when traveling to Kumano on pilgrimage, he brought the wife along with him to a place called Senfuku in Mutsu Province 《this is likely an error for Dewa Province》...