【Frame 8】
【Right page】
【Main text】
It is said that there was a divine immortal (kami) on Mount Komagata, and because this divine immortal dwelt there, the north of the mountain was rewritten with the characters for "Senpoku" (仙北, "north of the immortals"). It is said that even now there is a divine immortal on Mount Komagatake, and that place is also called Sennin Gongen (Immortal Avatar Deity), and that the deity is enshrined by being moved to various places. This immortal (deity) is said to be Hitachi-bō Kaison, and it is told that woodcutters in the mountain forests have occasionally seen him. Also, according to the "Seietu Monogatari," regarding the final fate of Yoshitsune: the funeral was held at Numakura within Sambō-no-Hasama, the residence of the Lord of Ōkura, and Yoshitsune's remains were placed in a palanquin while Yoritomo attended on horseback in solemn procession as far as Kamakura, accompanied by Benkei, the Suzuki brothers, Satō Saburō Yoshinobu, Satō Shirō Yoshitada,

【Marginalia (top)】
In the Nanbu region of Michinoku there is a mountain called Sennin-tōge (Immortal's Pass), and in the mountain village of Ikada in Hiraka District of Yamato Province there is a shrine to Sennin Gongen, but the reason and origin are not clearly known.

【Left page】
【Main text】
and Kanefusa — the remains of these ten individuals were all given funerary rites equal to those of Lord Hangan (Yoshitsune), and Yoritomo then departed for the capital. On the ninth day of the seventh month he made his procession to Kyoto, where Yoritomo was appointed Seii Taishōgun (Shogun). He returned on the twenty-fifth day of the tenth month. Then on the nineteenth day of the seventh month in the fifth year of Bunji (己酉), Shogun Yoritomo again set out for Hiraizumi. His forces numbered over 284,000 horsemen — this was to punish the descendants of Hidehira. Nishikido Tarō was executed on the third day of the ninth month, and the lord of Senpoku (was it perhaps some meddlesome person in more recent times who changed the writing of "Yamakita" to "Senpoku"?) was taken prisoner. By the Shogun's decree, he inquired through a messenger why this military force, the faction of Oku, had met with Yoritomo but had not launched an attack within thirty days——