【Folio 12】
【Right page】
[saying] that he would not look to [the domain] at all" — and he appeared to have absolutely no intention of ever accepting a domain. (※ The reading "teirebbe" is likely an error in the original.) Even after that, though summoned several more times, it seems that the matter of the domain was never raised again. Thus it is written, and so forth. There also exists an alternate version (in two volumes) of this Seietsu Monogatari. Seietsu's old burial mound is located near a village called Usukinu. Furthermore, the place name "Sanboku" is exceedingly ancient; in the middle ages it appears also as "Senboku" (山乏) or "Senboku" (仙乏). Moreover, the grain deed of Gentaji temple is said to have been written by Yoshiie Ason at the hand of Kamakura Gongorō Kagemasa, and in that deed the characters "仙乏" appear. The name "Senfuku" (千福) is also found in the brushwork of National Preceptor Mujū, and is likewise seen on the sacred mirror of Sugi Shrine. Regarding the longevity of Seietsu and Kaison — the story goes that they went fishing at the Koromogawa River, and on their return journey,

【Left page】
at the dwelling of a mountain ascetic (yamabushi), they ate a food called "nimukamu," and it is said this is what allowed them to live to such extraordinary ages. Furthermore, in a book called Yoshitsune Ezo Gundan (The Military Tale of Yoshitsune's Campaign in Ezo), it is written with great plausibility that all those who had fallen at Hiraizumi had in fact gone into hiding and crossed over to Ezo (Hokkaido). In that book, in the passage entitled "Hitachibo Kaison Meets Yoshitsune," it is written as follows: Yoshitsune returned to his main camp, and so on — set fire to the fortress, slipped out in the confusion of the smoke, and headed toward Tsugaru, intending to catch up with his lord. When passing through the peak of Komagatane, he encountered a single old man. This man's appearance was most unusual and deeply impressive. The stranger, upon seeing [Kaison], said: "I shall teach you a certain art. Come, follow me."