Transfers in Meireki 4 (Year of the Dog, Manji 1)
　60,000 koku from Tatsuno in Harima Province to Marugame in Sanuki Province - Lord Kyōgoku Gyōbu
　22,000 koku to Funai in Bungo Province within Bungo Province (as written in original) - Lord Matsudaira Shōgen

Same year, 1st month, 18th day, from the Hour of the Snake to the Hour of the Horse - From the Manpō Zensho:
"When the sun has a single halo around it, it indicates that military conflicts will arise throughout the realm from multiple locations. This will be observed within half a year."

In Manji 1, a rōnin residing in Shiba-chō had a lodging placard reading: "Dharma Shakyamuni, martial prowess and martial arts are mine. In heaven above and earth below, I alone am honored. Japanese warrior-monk Yamauchi Jitō Bukyū Ichiraku Koji's lodging."
This concerns an investigation into the lodging placard of the great rōnin named Yamauchi Bukyū.

Same year, 8th month: At Lord Ōmura Inaba-no-kami's domain, 603 Christians were arrested, executed at Nagashima, and an additional 300 were placed under village custody.

Same year, 12th month, 5th day: The Inner Shrine at Ise burned down, with all subsidiary shrines completely destroyed.

Same year: New coins were minted. At this time, a man named Gorōzaemon from Aoyagi village in the Mito domain was arrested for counterfeiting coins. Eight others were also arrested in town.

Same year: Restoration of Hōdai-in in Suruga.

Manji 2, Year of the Boar - Proclamation regarding the number of attendants to be brought from the dismounting area to the inner dismounting area:
　One: Six, five, or four samurai　One: Four attendants　One: Two box-carriers
　One: One sandal-bearer　　One: One umbrella-bearer during rain
This should be observed accordingly. Even if one is a province-holding daimyo, having more than specified in this document is not permitted.
Lords Kii, Mito, Owari, Sauma-no-kami, Uma-no-kami, Kii Saishō, Mito Chūjō, and Owari Uhyōe-no-suke - horses are not to enter the resting areas except for these.

Same year, 8th month, 29th day: Moving to the Main Castle

From the same year: Noh theater rice stipends to be paid in money, at the rate of 1.5 koku per ryō