In that case, even without meeting [Kamon-no-kami] in person, please convey that he came on business as before, said Lord Ichimasa, remaining outside his palanquin.
　However, there was no word from inside the gate, and as it finally became late at night, thinking it would be inappropriate if people came from Ichimasa's mansion to fetch him,
　his retainers suggested it would be best to go quickly to the Gate Master of Tōei-san, so he went to Gokoku-in,
　conveyed his thoughts to the Gate Master as intended, had the details heard, was first lodged at Gokoku-in, and
　private instructions were sent to Lord Nakatsukasa-shōyū. There was consultation among the clan members, and at Gokoku-in, Lord Ōkubo Kaga-no-kami had lodgings there
　and had connections in that regard, so Lord Hotta Chikuzen-no-kami made a private request, and through Kaga-no-kami's mediation, [Ichimasa] was placed under the custody of Lord Sakai Yuge-no-
　suke. Lord Ichimasa's thoughts were that while he had been staying at the lower residence until now, it was decided through consultation according to Nakatsukasa-shōyū's intention
　to send him to his domain in Harima Province. Since Ichimasa's mother and one daughter would also have to
　go to Harima and be confined there, which would be troublesome, and since there were connections with Lord Ii Kamon-no-kami regarding this matter,
　he wished to ask for his help and wanted to convey this intent. Due to the above circumstances, he unavoidably
　conveyed this to the Gate Master. Nakatsukasa-shōyū's wife also found this matter particularly troublesome, and although Ichimasa was her stepson, since he was
　in poor health, she pleaded that he be allowed to remain at the lower residence, but Nakatsukasa-shōyū would not agree, saying that if so,
　his wife should also withdraw to the lower residence together with Ichimasa. There were various negotiations,
　but since confining his wife to the lower residence would damage their reputation with others, she declared she would divorce him,
　conveyed this intent, and as there was also private communication with her family, she divorced and returned to her family home recently. As a result, Lord Ichimasa
　fell into even greater difficulty and revealed unexpected inner thoughts, according to gossip. Nakatsukasa-shōyū's wife was
　the sister of Lord Matsudaira Suō-no-kami. The notification to Lord Ichimasa was:
　Wakisaka Ichimasa committed improper conduct toward his parent Nakatsukasa-shōyū, therefore he is placed under the custody of Sakai Yuge-no-suke.

○Same year, 7th month: Severe lightning struck various places in Edo. It was the first day of the month. Edo Castle's Shiomizaka, Bairinzaka, Lord Mito's residence,
　Lord Kōfu's residence, Lord Doi Suō-no-kami, Lord Ishikawa Wakasa-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Tango-no-kami, Lord Mori Naiki,
　Lord Honda Shimotsuke-no-kami, Lord Matsudaira Shimōsa-no-kami, Lord Toda Samon, Lord Ōzeki Shinano-no-kami, Lord Akita Shinano-no-kami,
　Lord Ishikawa Tonomo-no-kami (one servant died), Lord Honda Iyo-no-kami, Lord Hotta Shimōsa-no-kami, Lord Akita Awaji-no-kami, Lord Sugiura Kuranosuke