He was assigned to play the drum, but ultimately did not perform in other houses' Dōjō-ji, however this time it was by superior order so he
performed his duty. He petitioned that henceforth when performing other houses' Dōjō-ji, he be pardoned from drum assignment,
but this was deemed improper conduct and he was punished as described above.

○Same year, 5th month, 6th day: A vendetta at Yotsuya. Previously, a man called Kurihara Shōemon had killed Saitō Jūrobei, the younger brother of Oyama Yahei, by cutting his throat while he slept. The elder brother Yahei had been watching for several years and today successfully carried out his revenge. Yahei was also slightly wounded. The aforementioned Kurihara Shōemon had by this time become a physician and was calling himself Yoshikawa Gentoku. This man was formerly a retainer of Lord Naitō Taitō. Regarding Yahei's case, he had connections to Lord Sugiura Kuranosuke who regularly employed him, and Lord Kuranosuke petitioned to take custody of him.

○Same year, 5th month, 24th day: Great earthquake at Nikkō. From the 17th day onward there were daily repeated earthquakes with rain and great thunder. On the 24th day there was an especially severe earthquake - the nine-ring spire of the sacred pagoda fell, and stone walls and bamboo barriers collapsed greatly. The main hall suffered no particular damage. In Edo as well, the 24th day brought a severe earthquake that caused about twenty ken of the castle's music hall to collapse. This year

there was a memorial service for Lord Taiyū-in. ○Same year, 6th month: Kajō rice portions totaled 2,254 servings.

○Same year, 1st month, 11th day: Lord Kitami Wakasa-no-kami received an increase of 6,800 koku, making his total 10,000 koku.

○Same year, 7th month: Regulations were issued. ○Same year, 3rd month: Summoned to service - Fukushima Sukuroku
The aforementioned Lord Sukuroku is the son of Lord Shuzen, grandson of Lord Kamon-no-kami, and younger brother of Lord Saemon-no-taifu. Lord Shuzen died as a masterless samurai, and at that time Lord Sukuroku was two years old. [Saemon-no-taifu refers to Fukushima Masanori]

1. ○Same year: This year the era name was changed to Jōkyō 1st year. The mountain of Izu Ōshima began erupting on 3rd month 16th day and continued until the 27th day without stopping. The manner of burning was such that it burned upward from within the mountain to the peak, flowing like wax, with the burning earth flowing into the sea and piling up, forming mountain-like masses 7-8 chō above the sea surface, 4-5 chō wide, or sometimes 2-3 chō. The sound of the eruption was like thunder, and it is said that pots and kettles in nearby farmhouses were shattered.

○Same year, summer: Lord Toda Higo-no-kami, lord of Ōgaki castle, died from an injury. While descending from a cooling pavilion, he missed his footing and fell, piercing his side and dying from the wound.