田口是心 (Taguchi Zeshin) possessed certain writings, and when people desired them, he gave out copies. If he had authored them himself, severe punishment would have been imposed, but since the above circumstances were established, the person in question was not penalized. However, it was ordered that such unusual matters should not be spread in the future. If there were unavoidable circumstances, one should consult with magistrate officials and obtain their guidance. This was to be strictly announced.

○Same year: In Lord Tsuchiya Chikara's domain within Enshū Province, a peasant dug up a jar containing gold worth eighty ryō. It was presented to the government, and in return, eighty ryō in gold was granted.

○Same year: Regarding the break-in at the gold storehouse within the northern drawbridge of the castle where gold was stolen, after investigation, it was determined that three palace guards were responsible and punishment was imposed.

○Same year: Exile to Hachijō Island - Lord Nakanejima Chikara
He had treated courtesans as disposable goods, which was unprecedented misconduct. Although he should have been sentenced to death, by imperial mercy he was sentenced to exile. His adopted son Denzaburō was placed under the custody of Lord Mōri Kai-no-kami.

The details of this matter: Around that time, there was an informant reporting that arsonist criminals were residing in the pleasure quarters. They were arrested at that location and imprisoned, and those brothels were ordered closed. It was later discovered that the courtesans kept there had been treated as disposable goods, which led to the aforementioned punishment.

1. Genroku 3rd year, Horse year: Domain increase and transfer to Sanuki in Kazusa Province - Lord Yanagisawa Dewa-no-kami

○Same year, 3rd month: Great fire in Kaga castle town - Over 1,400 samurai residences and ashigaru quarters, over 5,200 townhouses and rural homes, 7 temples, 56 bridges; 6 deaths

○Same year, 7th month: Nikkō restoration completed, shrine relocation ceremony, celebratory Noh performance held on 12th day of 8th month

1. Genroku 4th year, Sheep year: The Confucian Hall was relocated from Yushima to this location and construction was completed promptly <<Originally located near Sannō Shrine in Ueno>> Books of various philosophical schools and ritual vessels were donated by various daimyo

○Same year, 5th month: Regarding the prohibition of the Nichiren sect's "non-receiving, non-giving" doctrine, Kominato Tanjō-ji Temple, Himonya Hokke-ji Temple, and Yanaka Kan'ō-ji Temple changed their designation to Hiden sect and were heard to be spreading their doctrine, leading to imperial [continues...]