The other retainers were placed under the custody of Lord Mizutani Mondo, and there was official deliberation. All chief retainers and vassals were pardoned without exception the following Dog year.

1. Genroku 7th year, Dog year, 4th month: Domain increases granted in the Shogun's presence <<Lord Okubo Kaga-no-kami, Lord Abe Bungo-no-kami>>
　　　　　　　　　　10,000 koku each　　　　　<<Lord Toda Yamashiro-no-kami, Lord Tsuchiya Sagami-no-kami>>

○Same year: 10,000 koku increase granted on the occasion of the Shogun's visit　Lord Honjo Inaba-no-kami
　　　10,000 koku increase, total 30,000 koku　　　Lord Matsudaira Kazusa-no-suke

○Same year: New stipend of 200 koku granted　Konchi-in Temple　<<300 koku increase, total 600 koku granted>>　Gokoku-ji Temple

○Same year: 7,000 koku increase granted　　　　Lord Akimoto Tajima-no-kami
　　　New temple domain of 200 koku granted　Asakusa　Seigan-ji Temple

○Same year, 5th month: Great earthquake in Akita domain, Dewa Province, within Lord Satake Ukyo-no-daibu's territory <<3,000 houses destroyed, 394 people died>>

○Same year: When the elders were invited to Mito-sama's residence, Suruga-machi magistrate Lord Oshima Unshiro attended. In the reception room, he became deranged and appeared before the elders speaking madly. His relatives came and put him in a palanquin to take him home, but he broke through the palanquin, so they changed to another palanquin with a retainer riding together to support him and returned to the residence.

○Same year, 3rd month: Paraded through Edo and executed　Ronin　Chikushi Sonouemon
This person had been spreading false rumors about "talking horses" since around summer last year, and disseminating unfounded claims about charms to ward off epidemics and medicinal methods, for which he received this punishment.

○Same year, 4th month: Ordered into discretionary confinement　Inspector　Lord Makino Hansaburo
This was because when Lady Keishoin recently visited Gokoku-ji Temple, laborers killed a wounded boar, then hid and buried it. When it was dug up and sent to Muen-ji Temple, both hind legs were missing. Upon official investigation, this was deemed due to negligence, hence the above punishment.

○Same year: Lord Oda Izu-no-kami executed by his own hand his chief retainer Tanaka Kuroemon <<stipend of 600 koku>> at his domain.