That is not the case. When the government's gold and silver are recoined and ready to be released into circulation, various matters to be announced - Boar year, 8th month

Memorandum
1. This time gold and silver recoining has been ordered, and the recoined gold and silver will gradually be distributed to the public. The existing gold and silver and new gold and silver should be treated the same. Until all old gold and silver is recoined, new gold and silver will be mixed in circulation, and usage, receipt, and exchange should proceed without delay. Tax payments should also be handled in the same manner.

1. New gold and silver from the gold mint and silver mint will be exchanged for old gold and silver in circulation. At that time, both gold and silver will be distributed in increased quantities.

1. Since gold and silver exchange will be handled by merchants, samurai and others may exchange their gold as they wish through direct dealings with merchants.

The above provisions should be understood throughout all provinces and localities - Boar year, 9th month
However, it was proclaimed that the exchange deadline is the 3rd month of the Tiger year.

1. There was an official notice stating that counterfeit gold and silver from the recoining should be reported.
The above original-character gold was in circulation until Shotoku 2nd year, about 23 years.

○Same year: 8,000 koku reduced from the total of 38,600 koku - Lord Oda Iki-no-kami
His father Izu-no-kami Nobunaga killed a retainer with his own hands and then committed suicide, so a reduction in the family inheritance was ordered.

○Same year: Tennōzan Temple [Honjo Itsutume] Rakan-ji was built, with Gingan Oshō as the founding priest.

○Same year: A dog shelter was built on farmer's land beyond the Yotsuya Ōkido, and dogs from throughout Edo were moved there. Their owners provided dog stipends. Dog shelter assistance - Lord Matsudaira Hida-no-kami

○Same year, 12th month: 10,000 koku increase each <<Lord Tsuchiya Sagami-no-kami, Lord Akimoto Tajima-no-kami>> <<from Iiyama to Iwatsuki>> Lord Nagai Izu-no-kami <<from Kakegawa to Amagasaki>> Lord Matsudaira Tōtōmi-no-kami <<from Iwatsuki to Kakegawa>> Lord Ogasawara Yamashiro-no-kami <<from Amagasaki to Iiyama>> Lord Aoyama Daizen-no-suke