Due to this, the matter that Yoshichika had been entrusted to present to His Lordship was not disclosed, and he returned to Sendai. Now, during the Taikō's inspection tour, Naganuma Niikuni (Hikuni) offered lodging to the Taikō in his castle in Kazusa Province. The Taikō was in good spirits and declared that he should be granted the land visible from within the castle. Kazusa was under the supervision of Nakahata Kōzuke-no-suke, but he was part of a rebellious faction. If they had traveled just one more ri, Nakahata Daigaku, the eldest son of Kōzuke-no-suke, was lying in ambush at Seishidō Uma-no-o Falls, intending to attack the Taikō. When the Taikō inquired about this, [Kōzuke-no-suke] replied, "The intent of your will - alas, this matter is not a dream." When the Taikō departed from the castle, he said, "The castle lord seems to be a fool," and had the palanquins arranged while traveling on foot. Daigaku, unaware of this, hid in the thickets of Uma-no-o Falls and shot through the empty palanquins with his gun. When the Taikō arrived at Seishidō, a man named Kashiwagi Hayato received him respectfully, offered lunch, and made preparations for the large retinue. The Taikō was pleased and said it was "a most grateful occasion."

The Taikō then said with a laugh, "In this realm there are two who understand land division: myself, who has inspected as far as Ōshū, and those who allowed me to pass peacefully through Kantō and Ōshū," and then proceeded toward the northern provinces.

According to this old document, Shirakawa Yoshichika withdrew to Kinoe, Nakahata Kōzuke-no-suke relied on Tamaru Nakatsukasa of Miharu and became a rōnin. Nakahata Daigaku relied on either the great lord of Aizu, Ashina Moritaka, or Gamō Ujisato (I cannot clearly remember which of these two lords) and became a rōnin. When the lord he relied upon went to war, he joined the soldiers and was killed in battle at age twenty-eight. It is handed down that this man was an exceptionally brave warrior. His younger brothers, Hata Hyōsuke and Hyōkichi, after some years entered service with Sendai. Their lineage was then extinguished. A document granting five hundred mon of Eiraku coins to the widow was passed down through the Wakamizu family and should still exist. Since Nakahata Kōzuke-no-suke was extremely wealthy, Tamaru coveted this and killed him at the age of over eighty when he could no longer function, seizing his treasures. In addition, all of the Seven Knights of Shirakawa scattered and wandered. Shirakawa Shichirōbei, and the peasants of Ōtagawa, Odagawa and others petitioned with their grievances and were summoned to Sendai. It is heard that Shirakawa Yashichirō entered service with the Satake clan.

Furthermore, since the Kantō Yūki line had no descendants, Lord Harutomo of Echizen from our domain succeeded to the Yūki house.

[Margin notes]
(Jōson says: to Sendai and Satake)
(The Shirakawa family still serves; many old documents are preserved)