My illness worsened further, so I returned to Sanjōme for recuperation. When I recovered, as you know, I went to Yabuki. From there I fled to Kominato in Bōshū Province. The head priest Nichikō of Kominato was initially the chief priest of Zuirin-ji temple in Yanaka, and later served as the superior (nōka) of Iitaka Danrin in Shimōsa Province. His lay surname was that of a son of a rōnin of Lord Oda Nobunaga, later adopted as the posthumous child of Matsuba-ya Chōzaemon in Kyoto, and became a disciple of the venerable Nitaku of Echizen Province. At sixteen, he became a disciple of the venerable Genpolitsu at Zuikō-ji temple in Fukakusa, Kyoto. This monk Genpolitsu was a retainer of Lord Ii Kamon-no-kami, took the tonsure at twenty-seven, and later became a disciple of the venerable Nichihō, head priest of Ikegami in Musashi Province.

He was the first in the sect to establish the ritual discussion of 250 precepts, mastered both Japanese and Chinese learning, and regarding his writing, even by the standards of modern students, it is said that since the founding of Japan, the pillars of literature have been the Kan family, and for the author of the Genkō Shakusho, the Zen monk Kokan, but there is no literary elegance surpassing that of the venerable Genpolitsu. Indeed, Genpolitsu wrote thirty volumes of literary works called "Sōzan-shū" and dozens of other Buddhist texts. His taking of orders at twenty-seven and death at forty-six showed mysterious virtue. The venerable Nichikō was his disciple.

He received financial support from Lord Mito Kōmon, and also achieved prominence through patronage from the Sendai lord's Gedatsu-in family and the Matsuba-ya. Kominato in Bōshū is the sacred birthplace of the patriarch Nichiren Daibosatsu, so the temple is called Kominatosan Tanjō-ji (Kominato Mountain Birth Temple). He resided there for eight years and passed away at sixty-seven. Of his lifelong work "Suiun-shū," several volumes of the initial printing were published, of which two volumes circulated in the world - these were poetry and prose. Regarding the "Shakushi Mōgyū" or the writings of the sect founder, among the total 148 letters, he translated the five major works from katakana to Chinese characters. His calligraphy was considered the finest in the sect throughout history. Though he was meant to enter Mount Minobu, his lifespan fell short by a year or two, and he passed away at Kominato.

From the age of eleven, I received his great kindness, which is impossible to express in words. Even now, if tomorrow I should die, I would certainly ask about you - though you might speak such words, I humbly thank you for your kindness and make this request. Regarding our matter, after his death, when Nogi Iemon's son made a request to the dharma successor Nichitei, he agreed to it. Moreover, through Iemon's patronage, I gained entry to the temple community of Kyūshō-ji in Mito and received formal acceptance. During Nichikō's time...