Whether it would be difficult to carry out the six daily services at Fukakusa, day and night - I entered the secular world and the seminary as was customary, and when I reached forty years of age, it was deemed appropriate that I might retreat to Mount Fukahara once I had found peace of mind, so I was sent to Iitaka and remained a secular monk for a long time. However, now that I recall, with my frail health I cannot speak of serving at Fukakusa. Master Nichikō took leave, and Master Nichichō became the previous abbot Nyoman of Kōshō-ji in Sendai - all became distinguished monks of the Kantō seminary lineage. However, I harbored no evil intentions, neither went to Fukakusa nor sought advancement, but I studied the great principles of our sect to the extent I was able, and when summoned to the temple administrator position at Mount Minobu, I was granted even a purple robe and the title of jōnin (high priest), so I achieved a kind of half-advancement. As for preaching, eighty or ninety years ago I completed the eye-opening ceremony for a thousand sermons at Honkomi-ji temple and erected memorial tablets. Since then I have continued with sutra recitation, scriptural study, and daimoku practice, waiting for my final moment.

This year, the year of the boar, at seventy-five years of age, in my old age and illness, I have been slightly unwell for a day or two, forgetting characters and being quite inadequate, but I have managed to write this down for your consideration as a precaution.

I began writing on the eleventh day of the eleventh month of Kan'en 4, year of the metal sheep, past the fourth hour of the day, and finished at half past the sixth hour of the night. I should properly make a clean copy to present, but thinking that my own handwriting would be better in any case, I present it as is. For details, please consult Sagara Jinzō. Please examine the manuscript copy of the writings left by his grandfather, the old man Jōei, and have it copied for Hikuroku. As I have also submitted to Uenaka, the "Four Houses Comparative Study" written by a student of canon law appears to have been very thoroughly investigated. However, describing Nakahata Kōzuke-no-suke as a retainer of Shirakawa is probably an error.

1. Copy of Nakahata's fief records and retainer registry (Matsukura village, Sunori village, Shin-yashiki, Nakamura, Kanda village, Furuhata village, Matsuzaki village, Denshin-den village, Akioka village, Nakanome village, Tsutsumi village, Nakahata village, Sanjō village, Narita village, Kukuraku village, Kasaishi village, Yabuki village, Ōwaraku village, Fumise village, Ōtagawa, Odagawa - I do not recall clearly)

1. I have forgotten most of the samurai registry. Among the farmers of Sanjō-me and Nakahata, many had connections as retainers to Nakahata. After Nakahata retired to Sanjō-me, he supposedly had holdings worth over forty thousand koku. I have forgotten the names of chief retainers and family names. As for samurai, one was employed as a retainer by Lord Sagara Magosaemon of Sukagawa, and knowing his loyalty, Lord Jizaemon took the name Sagara, which remains the family name to this day. At Sanjō-me...