There is a farmer who takes the name Sagara. The ancestor of Izumikawa Magoemon from the same place was supposedly a samurai general. The ancestors of Itō Jūgorō and others were of course present, but since there were those who remembered the circumstances, the previous lord also does not speak of ancestral tales. The former headman was called Shichiemon or such - I have also forgotten this family name. Besides these, I have forgotten the family names of samurai from various places like Kanda and Tsutsumi. The ancestor of Ōta Gizaemon was of course included. The chief retainers of the four Shirakawa houses were Haga, Funada, Wachi, and Hanme.

In previous years, when he was called Mito Shichirō Ōkura, a farmer came from the countryside of Shimotsuke seeking employment and possessed a letter of commendation: "Unparalleled merit on the current battlefield, fief of such and such amount, etc."
Year, month, day - Yūki Ōkura-no-Taifu (seal)
To Lord Tamba-no-Kami

When the Yūki father and son saw this, they took him into service as a chūgen (servant). Later, when he went to serve Lord Tōtōmi-no-Kami, he was employed and called Ichizaemon. Such things also occurred.

1. I also submit this: Regarding this ancestral record, there are the usual poetic compositions, but convenience has become urgent and I am displeased at not forgetting their whereabouts. I shall present the above in due course.

Ōno Village, Isumi District, Kazusa Province
Kan'en 4, year of the metal sheep, 6th month, 11th day - Kanro-in Nichijō (seal)

Long ago, at Kōtoku-an hermitage of Kenchō-ji temple, there was a monk called Jikyū Zōsu, a man from Shinobu in Ōshū. While making a hundred-day pilgrimage to Enoshima, Shiragiku, a young acolyte from Yukishita Sōjō-in, was also making pilgrimage to Enoshima when Jikyū Zōsu encountered him. Though he sought some means to approach him secretly, there was absolutely no response. When he continued speaking to him in various ways, Shiragiku, having no choice, visited him one night and then went again to Enoshima, where he wrote a poem on a fan and asked the ferryman to show it should anyone come seeking him:

"If someone from Shinobu village asks for Shiragiku, answer that he has entered Enoshima in his thoughts"

And: "Thinking of sorrowful things, I cast away my life in the shadow of Enoshima inlet - seaweed beneath the waves"