"Since meals are being ordered step by step from above, there is no need to prepare expensive cuisine. Now, everyone should pay attention to today's grilled dishes. This red sardine is difficult to grill. I took great care and grilled it myself. First of all, depending on how you grill it, the head falls off and the belly splits open. If you don't devise ways to grill it carefully as I always do, this will happen. When you all grill at home regularly, if you grill carefully so the head doesn't fall off when you're in a hurry, the flavor will be even better. You should keep this in mind," he said. This was because the yoriki had been particularly extravagant, borrowing gold and silver from townspeople and eventually not repaying it, with various misdeeds occurring from time to time, so he acted in this manner, according to rumor. When Shinano-no-kami visited Sakai, he brought no attendants, traveled to Sumiyoshi, and rode in a street palanquin. He asked the palanquin bearers about the Sakai magistrate's administrative methods. The bearer at the front said, "The current magistrate judges well" - his reputation is good. "It's especially good for common people," he said. The rear bearer replied, "Indeed, if it's as you say, he has a very good reputation as a magistrate, but

when one becomes lax, things gradually worsen, so with this magistrate too, based on precedent, one cannot tell." Then they carried the palanquin to the entrance of the residence, and the palanquin bearers were quite startled. He summoned a steward and gave the palanquin bearers one kanmon of copper coins.

One: On the eighth day of this month, Lord Sakakibara Shikibu-no-taiyu visited Takao at the Miuraya in Shin-Yoshiwara. This became the talk of all society, was published in woodblock prints, and sold throughout Edo. He left Yoshiwara at the hour of the monkey (3-5 PM) on the sixth day of the sixth month and entered the middle residence at Muenzaka after the hour of the cock (5-7 PM). He brought fourteen accompanying women. Day laborers were dispatched from Arimaya Seiemon's establishment in Mikawa-chō. The meals for these women were handled by rice merchant Kyūemon, who rented townhouses below Muenzaka to provide the meals.

One: 100 pieces of silver, One: 50 rolls of silk gauze, One: 50 rolls of silk crepe
These were presented to Lord Shikibu-no-taiyu as stated above.
One: 800 ryō - Takao's ransom money, One: 400 ryō -礼金 for all retainers