"There is an elderly mother, so hurry back and report this matter. If you should fail by any chance, take my place and care for mother. If you betray this, you shall be disowned for seven lifetimes," so [they said] "Then there is no other way. Well then, about one ri from here, that place where pine trees grow thickly and it would be difficult to be seen, I shall take provisions and wait there. After accomplishing our purpose, first come to that place. Without fail, without fail." Since this seemed reasonable, he requested leave from his master Mizuemon's household for a day or two and departed.

On the early morning of April 9th, Kichisuke said to Shibaemon, "As I requested last night, this morning at the hour of the cock, someone from my home province passed through this post station, so please give me a brief leave." [Shibaemon] said, "It's probably not too late yet. Get your hair and forehead shaved before you go." So he prepared everything as usual, showing nothing of his thoughts in his expression, performed his duties, and then hid in the shadow of pine trees at the edge of the moat, wearing a dark blue unlined robe and a large wakizashi, waiting impatiently for Mizuemon to pass by.

Moridaira had been repeatedly told by his master that he should become a retainer, but had never accepted. However, for some reason, recently he expressed his gratitude, so his master gave him a sword and he changed his name to Tsuemon. When he told his uncle about this, how delighted he was! He gave him a hereditary sword, and when he showed it to his master, it was a two shaku three sun blade by Seki Izumi-no-kami, like ice, which chilled one to the bone. Well, on the 8th he asked Mizuemon's maidservant to hem two white underbands, and on the early morning of the 9th, he went out supposedly to prepare his master's aloes oil and hair ties, when he happened to meet Mizuemon. "This is unusual - you're going back with only one page, how unreliable," he said, so Mizuemon replied, "Well then, this morning I had an extraordinary headache, so I couldn't wait for the five o'clock shift change. I told my colleague and am going home, fortunately the page brought medicine." So [Tsuemon] said jokingly, "Then I shall give you a massage and provide treatment," and accompanied him.

Mizuemon said, "That Kichisuke, the Shibaemon household retainer you recommended, has a wakizashi that makes no sense at all. If there's any more rudeness, I'll strike him down." Tsuemon replied, "Lower-class people are all the same. Please just overlook it." Just then, Kichisuke leaped out from behind the pine trees and declared, "I am Hanzō, son of Ishii Uemon!"