[Someone] died of illness, so they stayed temporarily. On the 18th day, a banquet was granted to Iehisa and Chūzan King Shō Nei, and they were made to observe sarugaku performances. Yorinobu (ancestor of Kishū) and Yorifusa (ancestor of Mito) performed dances, and during this time there was a drinking banquet. Tōshō-gū bestowed upon Iehisa a sword and short sword by Sadamune.

On the 19th day, Iehisa and Shō Nei were granted leave with gifts. On the 25th day, Iehisa arrived in Edo bringing Shō Nei with him. On the 26th day, by order of Taito-kuin-den (Shogun Hidetada), acknowledging Iehisa's labor in bringing the Chūzan King from a distant place, an envoy was sent to Iehisa's residence in Sakurada. On the 27th day, there was another envoy to Iehisa's residence, and one thousand bales of white rice were bestowed.

On the 28th day, Shō Nei climbed to the castle and had an audience with Taito-kuin-den. He presented one hundred bolts of damask, one hundred bolts of banana fiber cloth, and two hundred bolts of cotton cloth, made obeisance and withdrew. He presented one hundred bolts of damask, one thousand pieces of silver, and a sword by Nagamitsu, and presented one sword, one horse, and one hundred kin of thread to Daiyū-in-den (Shogun Iemitsu), with obeisance.

On September 12th, entertainment was provided for Iehisa and Shō Nei, after which an envoy was sent to the Sakurada residence, a horse was bestowed upon Iehisa, and permission to return home was granted. On the 20th day, Iehisa returned to his domain via the Kiso route, bringing Shō Nei with him.

When Shō Nei first had an audience with Taito-kuin-den, the command given was: "Since Ryukyu Kingdom has been the hereditary seat of the Chūzan Kings for generations, it should not be said to belong to people of other surnames. Return to your home country and continue the records of your ancestors." This command was also given to Iehisa, and he was granted the tribute from Ryukyu. Iehisa returned to Satsuma accompanying Shō Nei, and the Chūzan King and others...