1. Ōhiroma (Great Hall) - The Shogun's entrance wearing court dress (hitatare)
   Attendants preceding
   Ceremonial long sword
   Short sword
   Upper platform 《Note: Three thick tatami mats stacked and wrapped in Chinese brocade, with large tassels at the four corners, ceremonial cushion, and sword rack》 - Takes his seat

1. The bamboo screen is hung

1. In the rear seating area, the御側衆 (close attendants), the bearer of the ceremonial sword, and the bearer of the short sword are in attendance

1. In the western section of the lower platform, from the third tatami mat passage from the top, Matsudaira Higo-no-kami, Ii Bitchū-no-kami, and the senior councillors take their seats in order

1. The若年寄 (junior councillors) are in attendance at the western veranda eaves

1. On the western veranda side, tatami mats are laid out, and those of the fourth court rank and above from the high families assigned to the Kari-no-ma are lined up

1. Next to the southern wooden veranda, the hatamoto of various ranks assigned to the Kari-no-ma, their eldest sons, the御奏者番 (ceremonial announcers), their eldest sons, those assigned to the Kiku-no-ma veranda, their eldest sons, the番頭 (guard captains), and officials from the Fuyō-no-ma are arrayed

1. In the second room, from the northern side, from between the second pillar to the sliding screen area toward the east, hereditary daimyo of the fourth rank and above are lined up

1. In the second room are the hatamoto of various ranks who are hereditary daimyo and their eldest sons; in the third room are officials of court dress rank and above, and physicians with the ranks of hōin and hōgen

1. Satsuma-no-kami sits facing south outside the sliding screens of the waiting room

1. Gushikawa is guided from the jōdan room to the ōhiroma by two ōmetsuke, and seated facing toward the front of the hatamoto hereditary daimyo in the second room

                                    Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami
As described above, he attended and within the threshold of the lower platform
Had an audience, with the ceremonial announcer making the presentation. Summoned to the middle platform, there was an imperial message stating "This time you have taken great trouble to bring the Ryukyuan envoy from such a distant place, for which we are grateful." The senior councillors acknowledged this.