1. The senior councilors (toshiyori) came to the jōdan room, exchanged greetings with Gushikawa, and immediately withdrew. After that, the ōmetsuke gave instructions and Gushikawa departed, with two ōmetsuke escorting him to the top of the entrance hall stairs. The attendants had already withdrawn in order beforehand. However, the senior councilors did not escort him.

1. Fifty men selected from the pages' guard (okoshōgumi) and attendants' guard (oshoinban) served at the attendants' guard station
1. One hundred men selected from the great guard (ōban) served in the fourth room of the great hall

　　　　　Proceedings for the Ryukyu Musical Performance and Farewell Audience
　　　　December 18th
1. The Ryukyuan musical performance was heard by His Lordship, and they were granted farewell audience and came to the castle

1. When Prince Gushikawa reached the top of the entrance hall stairs, two ōmetsuke came out to guide him and he took his seat on the lower level of the jōdan room. His attendants lined up in the adjacent room of the same location, while the lower-ranking retinue gathered in the courtyard in front of the entrance hall

1. Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami came to the castle and took his seat at the upper position of the lower level in the jōdan room

1. All those in attendance wore hitatare, kariginu, daimon, hōi, or suō court dress

1. The sliding screens of the waiting room adjacent to the lower level of the great hall were removed, and hereditary daimyo of fourth rank and above lined up from the second and third wooden floor sections on the north side of the second room toward the east side of the sliding screen area

1. In the second room, hereditary daimyo of shoshodaibu rank and their eldest sons; in the third room, officials of hōi rank and above, and physicians in hōin clerical robes were lined up

1. On the western veranda side, high-ranking families (kōke) on tatami mats and those of fourth rank and above from the wild goose room (kari-no-ma) were lined up

1. Next to the southern wooden veranda, shoshodaibu from the wild goose room and their eldest sons, ceremonial announcers and their eldest sons, those from the chrysanthemum room veranda and their eldest sons, captains, and officials from the hibiscus room were lined up

1. From before His Lordship's entrance, Satsuma-no-kami took his seat on the east side along the fifth tatami mat from the upper part of the lower level of the great hall, Gushikawa with tatami mats on the opposite veranda waited on the east side of the veranda threshold, and the Ryukyuan musicians were lined up on the opposite side

1. The great hall [text breaks off]