Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　One retainer
　The above paid respects to His Lordship's countenance on the wooden veranda, and after the ceremonial presenter announced the ceremonial sword catalog and withdrew,
　the sliding screens of the lord's chamber {{marginal note: Oki-no-kami | Tajima-no-kami}} opened them
　Standing at the threshold, the hereditary daimyo and all others completed their audience
　and [the shogun] entered
1. For the offerings to Ōgosho-sama (the retired shogun), Oki-no-kami had an audience
1. The elders proceeded to the jōdan room and exchanged greetings with Gushikawa, then immediately withdrew. After that, the chief inspector gave instructions and Gushikawa departed. Two chief inspectors escorted him to the top of the entrance steps. The attendants had withdrawn in order beforehand.
　　　　　Note: There was no escort by the elders
1. Fifty men from the page corps and shoin guard were assigned to duty at the shoin guard station
1. One hundred men from the great guard were assigned to duty in the fourth room of the Great Hall
　　　　　At Nishinomaru, through Gushikawa Prince, envoy of the Ryukyu King of Chūzan
　　　　　Sequence of offerings to Ōgosho-sama
　　　　　　Twelfth month
1. In the second room of the Great Hall, beginning with Oki-no-kami and Ukon-shōgen, Hotta Kaga-no-kami and Kobori Izumi-no-kami were positioned against the northern sliding screens and seated in order toward the east. In the third room, officials of ho'i rank and above from both the main castle and Nishinomaru were present, and inspectors were stationed on the wooden veranda of the carriage entrance
1. The various items offered by the King of Chūzan were arranged beforehand from west to east on the wooden veranda of the second room of the Great Hall. Gushikawa's personal gifts were placed withdrawn to the east on the wooden veranda of the third room
　　　Note: The offered horses were led out to the courtyard by two horsemen under Suwabe Hachijūrō's supervision,
　　　with Hachijūrō accompanying them
1. Gushikawa was guided by two chief inspectors from the jōdan room to the Great Hall, in the same rank as Matsudaira Satsuma-no-kami. Gushikawa proceeded to the second tatami on the southern side within the threshold of the second room of the Great Hall and [addressed] the year[s]...