Court robes: 10　　　　To the King of Chūzan
From Dainagon-sama:
　　　　　Same　　　　　　　　To the same person
The items to be bestowed as stated above were arranged in rows in the lower section of the Great Hall before the assembled officials, with the sliding screens left open for Gushikawa to view. After the viewing was completed, two chief inspectors directed Gushikawa to withdraw to the fourth room, and the sliding screens were closed from the inside by two head attendants.

From Ōgosho-sama:
　　　　　Cotton: 100 bundles　　　　To Prince Gushikawa
From Dainagon-sama:
　　　　　Same　　　　　　　　To the same person
These items were brought out by the gift officials from the western veranda and arranged in long rows running east to west in the central passage, separated by one tatami from above the third room of the Great Hall. Guided by two chief inspectors, Gushikawa immediately came out to the center of the second room. At this time:

Oki-no-kami and Tajima-no-kami conveyed that these were bestowed by Ōgosho-sama and Dainagon-sama. After bowing once, [Gushikawa] withdrew to the third room, completed the ceremonial reception, and withdrew to the fourth room as directed by the two chief inspectors. The bestowed items were taken by the gift officials toward the carriage entrance. Gushikawa withdrew to the jōdan room, guided by the two chief inspectors.

1. Satsuma-no-kami bowed once to the elders and withdrew to the jōdan room.

1. In the jōdan room, two chief inspectors brought and presented to Gushikawa the catalog of items to be sent to the King of Chūzan as well as reply letters from Oki-no-kami and Tajima-no-kami.

1. Gushikawa departed, with two chief inspectors seeing him off to the top of the entrance steps.
　　　　　Note: There was no seeing-off by the elders.

1. In the third room, officials of cloth-garment rank and above from the main castle and Nishinomaru were present, and they remained on the wooden veranda of the carriage entrance.

1. Fifty men selected from the page corps and guard corps were assigned to serve in the guard corps.

1. One hundred men selected from the great guard corps were assigned to serve in the fourth room of the Great Hall.