A daughter-in-law should behave filially even if her mother-in-law treats her harshly. The mother-in-law should also show considerable compassion for her daughter-in-law. A mother-in-law like the mother of Yaoya Hanbei in that joruri play may chant Buddhist prayers or the Lotus Sutra with her mouth, but in the mirror of her heart appears a terrifying figure with shoulders bared, wielding a wood-splitting axe and threatening her daughter-in-law. When one harbors such evil thoughts in their heart, no matter how much they pray for salvation in the afterlife, how could it accord with Buddha's heart? This should be called hell from this very world.

[Daughter-in-law's line in the illustration]
♪ The mosquitoes will feast

♪ In the daughter-in-law's heart mirror appears the wicked figure wishing "If only the mother-in-law would be away for just one day so I could sleep in with deep feeling and drink some tea-bowl sake." How frightening, how deplorable.

[Mother-in-law's lines]
♪ I vow with this merit to equally bestow upon all, when one part important, small allowance peaceful land

♪ Look there, the fire under the kettle has died out, be careful! Ah, Namu Amida Butsu, Namu Amida Butsu. The chopsticks fell! Ah, Namu Amida Butsu, Namu Amida Butsu, Namu Amida Butsu.

[From here begins the middle volume]
When giving something to someone, my true intention is to offer it even if it costs half my fortune, but since I'm always short of funds, while I say with my mouth "my humble offering is like pine needles," in the mirror of my heart appears the figure calculating on an abacus, thinking "Ah, giving this much is such a waste. Even if I reduced it by half, it would probably be fine." This is commonly called mental calculation. The recipient also says with their mouth "This is such a bother. Since I have accepted it nonetheless, please excuse me as I return the favor," but in the mirror of their heart appears the shameful figure quickly examining the money pouch to see how much is inside.

○ These are all delusions of greed and desire. Giving things to people is proper etiquette - one should not be stingy. Accepting someone's goodwill should not involve calculating profit. One must be careful, one must be careful.

[Person with a heart mirror on his back, handing over a thank-you envelope]
♪ With his mouth: "Yes, yes, it's too little"
In his heart mirror: clicking the abacus - click click click

[Doctor or medicine seller]
♪ This is truly a great nuisance - if I were a quack doctor, I wouldn't have to deal with such unpleasant situations

For people facing backwards, the heart mirror is attached to their back like a family crest on a haori jacket. This appears to be an unprecedented device even the author had not thought of.