In general, distortions of the human heart cannot be corrected by others' opinions. They can only be corrected when one admonishes one's own heart oneself. In the mirror of the heart of such a person with a distorted mind, the image of one's own heart leading one's heart astray is reflected. Therefore, as the poem says:

♪ The heart is what leads the heart astray, do not let your heart trust your heart

This is a good admonishing verse.

♪ Shall I go home or cry, shall I go home or cry ♪♪ While saying the same thing over and over and walking about one block, the heart binds the heart in passionate attachment.

♪ Ah, what dark judgment, could it come to this

♪ When you hear the voice of a red puppy in the dark night, beware of stepping in excrement before being stepped on

♪ To human ears it sounds only like "woof woof woof woof," but in the mirror of the dog's heart is reflected the image saying "Hello, there are suspicious people coming and going. Please be careful." This is because even though they are beasts, they do not forget their respective duties.

The mirror of a dog's heart is like the pieces of Sixteen Musashi.

【Lower Volume begins here】
Even though we fear the demons that come on New Year's Eve and scatter beans saying "Fortune in, demons out," if we don't notice that in the mirror of our heart the demon of our own mind is leisurely lying down smoking a pipe, and have no intention of driving away the demon of our own heart, this is a shameful state. One should be prudent and mindful.

♪ The voice saying "Fortune in in, demons out out" sounds to the ears of Buddha and gods like "Greed in in, compassion out out"

As they say, many words mean little substance, so especially women should not chatter incessantly. However, even if one stays silent like a cat that stepped on an old woman, when there is jealousy in the heart, a woman becomes worthless. Behold this picture in the mirror of this wife's heart.

Look, how unsightly it is! It's good to think about it. In the candlelight of the ushi no koku mairi (midnight shrine visit), even her face can be seen very clearly. And then, observe carefully.

♪ Hey you, once you're done scattering the beans, I'll arrange some New Year noodles, so don't keep following me around like that.